 P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P You don't know what he's up to. Nope. No idea. Just retirement activities. Retirement activities. What is up, YouTube? Doing some rehab day today, not a very exciting day to film. So I'm going to mix in a Q&A to make it a little bit more interesting. I'm not going to ramble for long because it's the story of my life. Jump right into it because I hate intros. First question is from Blake over at the office. He says, what's one thing that competing this year has allowed you to realize? I think my best answer to this is that physically and emotionally, you don't feel as much until you slow down. And I was thinking about my injury of this. As soon as my body was going through prep, going through Olympias, going through everything, going forward, forward, forward, and building momentum, and I was fighting through it. And I had these three tears in my shoulder for years. And until I retired and my body was like, okay, we actually have time to recover right now, my shoulder just gave out and started to really hurt. And there was a lot of other emotions, good and bad, that I also wasn't really feeling because I was just in the mix of getting on to the next thing. I have to get ready for prep. I have to get ready for my offseason, for this trip, this, that, or the other. And until you slow down, you can't really feel what's going on in your life. And even now, looking back at my career, I have more optimism and more gratitude and more joy for everything I did and I accomplished. Where in the mix of it, you're just thinking of getting it done and trying to accomplish it and trying to win. And there's a lot I did enjoy still because it was something I really worked on. But I didn't realize how much of being in it was stopping me from being able to feel all of it. And even my relationship with Courtney now that I have, I don't have this like pressure and this stress on the back of my mind of this huge goal that I'm chasing after, like all year, every single year. I find myself being able to like think about myself less and think about her more, think about Bradley more, think about others more, be more empathetic and understanding different aspects of my life. And I truly don't think that when you're like gunning towards something, you can truly embrace and feel everything that's going on in your life. And not that that's a bad thing for a short period of time, but if you do for too long, probably not a good thing. So people who like started a career in their 20s and don't retire until they're 50 and miss that whole aspect of their life, like that sucks. So if your career is that long, you need to find gaps in between to truly slow down. Luckily for me, I retired at 30 and it showed me this. And I still ramp up and I'm really busy with business, but I know now that there's times where I need to really pull back and play in intentional times to slow down and not have too much stuff on my plate so that I can connect with myself, what I'm feeling and the people around me. So kind of a cool analogy of physically injuries come out. Even when people have like a lot of work that they're working towards for like an extended period of time, a really big project, really big presentation or event, they have to get sick the day after. It's because your body's full of cortisol and it's just fighting off everything it can. And then the second your cortisol drops, it's like, okay, it's time to heal. And that's what like inflammation is in the joint or a sickness is. It's your body healing. So you feel like you're taking a step back, but it's actually finally healing. So I don't know, cool perspective. But do a set, another question. All right, next question is, how do you teach yourself to sit and process your emotions? Great question. First and foremost, I guess for me, it was understanding why I don't want to sit and process with my emotions. So kind of like understanding at a young kid that like I didn't often feel like there was space for my emotions to express them, to share. No one really checked in on me or helped me do them. So I just naturally learned, okay, it's easier for me just to kind of suppress them, repress them, and just hold them to myself because that's normal. So I guess first and foremost is understanding why I was doing that, understanding that that's not necessarily normal, and believing that sharing them with others and expressing them is actually helpful. It's not bad. It's not a burden to others to share them. It doesn't make them bigger than they are. Admit that they're true. But admitting them and letting them out often helps you let them go. But from a more concrete standpoint, because it's very subconscious, at least myself, I wasn't consciously choosing to suppress them. I was subconsciously repressing my emotions a lot. So for me, stuff that helped was, the biggest thing that helped me was like reading books or listening to audiobooks that were in that theme. So if every morning, car ride, before bed, I'm reading and thinking about something emotional or deep or philosophical or self-improvement or something, then that's constantly on my mind. So when it comes up, it's front of mind. Rather than if I'm just watching anime every day, which I still would love to do, I'm not thinking about it. So like, I'm reading a book right now called Letting Go, and it's talking about when an emotion comes up. Not being able to try and analyze it or think about it, but just to sit and feel where it is in your body. Don't try and process it or get rid of it, but just feel it physically and just sit there with it. And so now when stuff comes up with me, I'll literally be getting upset or annoyed or frustrated or this, or that, and I'll literally be like, oh wait, I just listened to that 10 minutes ago in the book. This is the moment right now to practice it. So it brings it in front of mind. So things like that, whatever can cue you. I think that's why a lot of people love journaling as well, because when you're writing down your thoughts consistently, you're putting it in your brain and you're getting reps in. But anything that can physically bring it to mind, whether it be little notes to remind you of books, a wallpaper on your phone, all these little things. But the biggest thing for me was reading consistently and listening to audiobooks in my free time. All right, next question. Did you ever use a logbook in your programming? And can you show the structure? So I didn't use a logbook for the longest time. My life was bodybuilding, so I would just remember things. If I'm at my gym, I know where my weights are and what to do. But that was kind of my excuse that I had to myself. And then I started working with Justin. And his line he always said to me was, what isn't measured isn't managed. And he was huge on that, and he's huge on logging. And so I started tracking my weights a little bit more specifically with him. And then he would do progressive overload with weights like two and a half pounds. He made me order these one-pound plates, which I didn't really use efficiently. I think 2.5 was kind of my bottom point that I would use. But if you're doing everything absolutely perfectly, and you nail something until failure, and you're aiming for 10 reps, you get 10 reps, and then you put one pound on, and you get another 10 reps, that's still technically a progressive overload. So there's a way to overthink it and stress yourself out. And then wherever you can find that works best for you, is the best way to do it. But if you're tracking your weights consistently, then you show up to the week, show up the next week, and you're able to do better than what you did, you're making progress. And there's no way to fight that. So it's an easy way to fight plateaus and not get in your head and be like, I'm a little tired, I feel weaker. Well, you did it last week. You can do it again this week. Maybe you're doing a little bit more. So I have become a huge proponent for logging, and I think it makes anyone better in anything you do. Nutritionism is an absolute. You know, I've tracked my food my entire career. Why not? My weights are equally as important. The structure I use is just literally in an app. He had a random app before that I used, and now it's in the standard app. It's why we made it so specific to be easy and obvious to track. Brain's losing you right now. But when you look at the workout, it's like, what's your weight? What's your load? How many reps? And then you hit check mark. And that's like the main part of the workout program because it's so important to do. So we make it easy. And there's a little tracker in there that you can look at your last week's reps when you're doing the same exercise, and it holds that forever. So if a year from now, you haven't done bench in a year, you get back on bench, it will remind you a year ago you did X. This is where you could be at right now. So I think it's super important. Didn't always do it, but it made me better when I did. This is all still focused on kind of like rehabbing and like strengthening the shoulder and around the shoulder? This is like easing back into my ability to do exercises. So like I haven't done like a chest exercise in, I don't know, like four months. So being able to get the scapular retraction, protraction, and a little bit of chest activation at a range that doesn't hurt me. Doing a load of my triceps. Because you stabilize your shoulder a lot. Like that movement right there was right on my rotator cuff that would hurt it. So being able to control with the band on a lighter weight. Same with back. I haven't trained back. So being able to do an isometric hold in a range where I'm in no pain right now, just strengthens it in a capacity which doesn't hurt myself right now. Rather than when you do like full range of the motion, like that's where you can retweak an injury if you do it too soon. How would you approach bodybuilding differently if you were just starting with the knowledge you have now? Just before we did the video we were talking about like the beauty of a beginner's mindset and being able to just have like a like a childlike approach to things of looking at things through a new lens and experimenting with things and even like when you see Bradley and everything is so interesting and new and you want to analyze it and see what it means you like it, do not and learn about it and I think what I'm trying to say is I would wouldn't want the knowledge I have now when I started because when you're following a step-by-step process that someone tells you to do there's a lack of understanding in what you're doing versus like a trial and error of doing something that doesn't work. It might not have worked but the experience that you gained from understanding what doesn't work and understanding why you didn't like something and just going on the journey that you have is the only way to truly become a master of something like if someone did exactly what I did and had all my exact knowledge and followed it step-by-step to try and be a good bodybuilder it wouldn't help them as much as it would help them to go back and just take in a bunch of knowledge that they learned try new things fail new things and just kind of figure it out the way you go it's also a lot more fun that way like the whole like journey of a process of something of trying to become a master at something is way more fun when you're uncovering the knowledge along the way rather than just being given enough to start and I think it's a fool's approach to want to have all the answers at the beginning or even to think you have all of them and I still have far from having all the answers maybe there'd be a way where I would start with their knowledge again and go on a different path and end up better or worse I never know but I would still rather go along the journey without the knowledge to begin with and be able to have fun on that approach because I truly believe even if like myself or if like Tiger Woods had an exact replica of how to do exactly what he did when he started he wouldn't be as good as him starting without that step-by-step plan there's something like in the creative act of being good at something where you're just experimenting and figuring out learning about yourself and the journey along the way so long answer to saying I wouldn't want the knowledge I have right now so preferably I would do nothing differently than I did and I would enjoy the process along the way learning as I go the way bands are giving you the work bands are giving you the work bands are tough especially when you're doing 20 reps I'm not used to doing that many reps like cardio for me a mile run didn't help me out that much oh yeah is that alright yeah yeah okay okay alright so continuing on this Q&AI only saved one other question and the rest are gone so maybe chat to you do some questions maybe we'll put Courtney in here to ask some questions but for now the last question I have saved was what's one of the prices of success that people don't see and I would say from when I was competing specifically around bodybuilding I would say the difference of being someone who does something versus becoming something so instead of doing bodybuilding I work out I work out a lot I spend a lot of time in the gym I'm a bodybuilder it becomes I am a bodybuilder I am Mr. Olympia and people start to attach your identity and literally say oh you're Mr. Olympia you're that bodybuilder guys people start to see you as such and because you start to also view yourself as such you start to attach more of your identity to a thing or an outcome or result or something you're doing rather than something you are and I feel like it's really just like limiting on yourself and why people get attached to things for too long and too strong of a boy and I have this huge belief that like attachment versus love are drastically different and to be attached to something is like you're grasping and you need it and you're like holding it close and you're scared to lose it and your identity is attached to it and it's not good whereas love for something is just pure love if it's gone because the best thing is for it to be gone that's alright because if you love something you let it go kind of that kind of thing so I would say that's one of the biggest things was starting to identify at a time with bodybuilding more than just being something I do and it just really limits who you are and starts to put you in this box of thinking you need to act a certain way or be a certain type of person or all these things and that was never me and I never wanted to be that so I did it I fell into the shop for a while and I weaved in and out of it throughout my career but as a whole I feel like the reason I was able to retire with a lot of peace was because I battled that while I was in it rather than after so I was able to walk away from it and feel like I wasn't losing myself just something I did for an extended period of time that was beautiful but now it's behind me so I feel like it really helped me retire what's your most what's your biggest guilty pleasure food that will ruin your prep in 10 seconds cinnamon buns cinnamon buns are incredible who cooks better you or Courtney absolutely Courtney without a doubt weirdest food combo you swear it tastes amazing cream cheese and eggs on a bagel remember we didn't get it because they didn't have eggs there we went back the next week and got one it was fire have you ever walked into a gym saw the crowd and walked straight back out I had done this so many times it's not even funny especially when I'm traveling and now that like I'll see like a bunch of kids and they'll like look at me recognize me I'm like I'm leaving I'm not even gonna be able to get a workout in but even when I was younger I walked into like my college gym or the local gym when I was younger and they're just so crowded I'm like no not today and I've walked out and then I ended up coming back at like 9pm at night and the gym was empty which is I didn't like people when I was younger I did not like talking to people so I had to wait at them at all costs when I was really anxious when I was young I would drive to Costco and get in the Costco parking lot see how many people were there park overthink it and then leave and then I would go to the Sobeys this like little grocery store like a public style thing at like 9pm at night when no one was there because I was too stressed out to be around that many people I was fucked up what's your toxic trait when it comes to online shopping this is a very new thing for me I've bought 40 pairs of shoes probably this year and I've returned 39 of them because I have like wide feet and I'm starting to care about the structure of my feet and my toes so I don't want a shoe that's too squishy but I want it to be comfortable I want it to be wide enough I want the toe box to be big enough so my toes are okay I want to be able to walk in it stay in the middle I'm trying to find like the perfect shoe and it doesn't exist so I ordered a fucking lot of shoes and I just order them and then I return every single pair because I don't end up liking them the only pair I've kept is like a pair of Vans and I got a free pair of on running shoes when I was in New York and then I donated them because they were really uncomfortable so it says that who wins more arguments you are for me and what's your go-to move when you know you're wrong that's a funny question it was really good when it comes to like just fun debates of like who's right who's wrong I'm always right but when it comes to like actual arguments I usually lose them to be fair and when I'm wrong it's a great question I'll usually if it's a genuine argument and I'm wrong it is what it is I'm pretty good at accepting defeat to be completely honest I'm not that horribly stubborn but if it's something that's like more like comical or like just less serious I'll go in my grave before admitting I'm wrong have you ever lied to your coach about how you stayed on plan 100% I had plenty of times where I was like I knew my body and I was like super depleted and I'm like fuck that I'm having a muffin before the gym or I'm having the extra carbs or this it was usually a cookie or muffin and I knew I was fucking I needed it and every single time I ended up losing more weight and getting leaner in the process and having a better workout so luckily I was right but I've had some stubborn coaches honey Ian you know who you are what reality show would you want to go on the challenge is that an MTV show the challenge have you heard of that the challenge have you heard of that the challenge yeah yeah that'd be sick yeah I remember watching that but I could do this one day asking questions so I'm judging him who's more likely to cry during a Disney Disney movie you you yeah okay what do we got what's your ultimate gym X what was it what's your ultimate gym X um gym X I don't know what's yours is it like you're not rewacking your weights you never rewack rewack your weights I do it at a couple of gyms not at his own gym so that I'm stuck taking off like 20 plates on the leg press machine true ultimate gotta be stinky people that's just like etiquette though you know don't be stinky at the gym okay if you could change one core personality trait what would it be if I could change one core personality trait yeah myself yeah that's hard because I feel like it wouldn't make me who I am my like ego wants to say like my overthinking of like anxiety is like people thinking about me but like it also makes me who I am you know that's true okay when is the last time you felt lost lost lost yeah I'm gonna say there's been periods since Bradley was born and adapting to life figuring out our relationship as parents and not just being us anymore and we're being retired from bodybuilding yeah but also I feel like the most loss was before competing last year like before deciding to compete and then when I started prep like I was in I was not into that prep until like 6 or 7 you know I was super like didn't know if I should be doing it or like you know yeah super in and out of that what is the secret about yourself you've never shared with anyone this is from countryliving.com I'm not gonna share that on the air if I've never shared it with anyone why not these people wanna know give them what they want um um uh what fictional character would I be oh wait what fictional character would be my gym partner oh Batman Batman yeah we were just talking about Batman that's pretty dope Batman or Jim Burnham Naruto Naruto I don't know I feel like it would be someone like more eccentric you know like an Eddie vibe you know I don't know who that is in the character like who would Axel be as a fictional character Naruto sure yeah he's Axel's the guy who got me to watch Naruto and he's my best training partner ever how do you actively try to achieve personal growth have you actively try how do you actively try to achieve personal growth I know he reads and he listens to podcasts he's listening to a book called Letting Go he's obsessed with it he's reading it and listening to it 10 out of 10 recommend right babe I would definitely I would definitely say on the top end reading or listening to audiobooks just to keep it like top of mind especially audiobooks every time you're in the car if you're like queuing yourself of something you like audiobooks you like podcasts yeah audiobooks more if your top three podcasts you listen to uh a four guests like I listen to all the Peter Crone podcasts Peter Crone Chris Williamson podcasts Chris Williamson the OGs I listen to other than that there's not like podcasts I follow I like Diary of the CEO he's got some good ones Steven yeah do you like any called podcasts like Ben Greenfield or Huberman I've never listened to a full one they're long but they're detailed I like those guys I listen to all the health podcasts so she can make me healthy and I listen to only mindset podcasts so I can help her mindset exactly uh Chris doesn't believe in love languages but a question on here is what's your love language and he says acts of service quality time I thought you said you like didn't believe in that there's a book called the five love languages and he was like I don't have any remember that conversation yeah well I had to think for a while of what I actually like because they're all kind of neutral you know do you ever feel like a failure yeah definitely mostly in relationships more so than life I wonder if that's like I feel like that's a distinct thing people often feel different in like their self image of like career and then like relationships you know do you think people feel one or the other no but I feel like it's normal to feel different yeah you know a lot of people do you feel like a failure be like no I have all this going on for me it's like well like what about within our relationship you know oh this is a good one if you could time travel what is the one piece of advice you would give younger you like say like like teenage Christopher before he started like competing and all that what don't be an idiot no just like the first answer is as I was going through like my like a few things I would think of to avoid like getting sick or like all these things I wouldn't be who I am if I weren't for all those things I wouldn't have won the Olympics I had if I hadn't gone through that or like been like seeking the growth of my mind and trying to take accountability and change things so the only thing that I care that's funny is the the hairline they drew in Turkey I wouldn't want to change anything else because it would change who I am just your hairline just your hairline wow okay look at her she's fat oh baby do you want to go to her daddy want to go get her oh yeah okay oh mommy if you're too sweet look here want to go to daddy I love daddy daddy daddy daddy there you go you little shit oh no oh your teeth you hurt go on to mama's oh you just want okay let's go ask daddy some questions so we're gonna go straight from here okay so he changed his hairline that's what he would tell his younger self mwah here he's down mwah okay what should we ask him um oh this is a good one babe what is the one thing people misunderstand about you what do you think the world perceives that's like that's here I can know maybe that I'm calm and level headed all the time and like feel like I have it all figured out you know I'm calm I'm like that's true but like I'm stressed out more than people think I am I bet at times even me what do you mean no yeah sometimes like you're so good you have it all together and he's like I'm literally a fire inside my brain you know I'm like sorry I'm pretty chronic overthinker I'll wake up now at like 5am with like 12 thoughts on my brain just like spraddling as soon as I get out of bed it's like thinking of this or that or something or the other it's like alright I wish I could just like I also don't know if it's normal with how much I've gone on in my life or not but you don't have it together all the time I don't know if people think that though or not but some people joke about it say I'm always so like at peace in my own mind sometimes there's a lot of shit going on in there what's your personal rule for when it's okay to skip leg day babe personal rule for when it's okay to skip leg day like when would I when would I say it's okay to skip leg day yeah oh if you break your legs what that's hardcore that's hardcore like the only way you are skipping leg day is if you break your legs ah no that's not true I skip leg day a lot I don't know come back to me I can't think of one I can't skip up a body day actually I used to skip it when I was really hungover if I was really hungover like in college I'd put it to the next day that was that one leg day is not a hungover but if I was hungover two days in a row nah you gotta go for it oh I got one I got one I got one what's your definition of healthy this is good healthy give me like pillars what makes someone healthy not just physical not just physical no jeez that's like such a long answered question alright just name off of English talk about mentally physically like everything I think energy makes someone healthy because they have energy how do you get the energy you live in alignment with who you are what you want you say no to things and people that don't align with you or serve you you do something you truly love I think that's how you cultivate like some deep energy how about what else you got I was talking about this earlier I would say radical acceptance and a lack of resistance for things in your life like if you have like cancer and people are like just like think positively if you don't think positively oh I'm healthy sorry hold on wait sorry intermission intermission wait I'm coming back to the cancer giving her to my mother we have no questions so this will be a 40 minute video this video is evolving a lot yeah okay I'm back I'm back talk to me intermission over intermission over go um alignment what do you think radical acceptance and a lack of resistance for the way things are like we were talking about this um you're sick you have cancer instead of being like oh I think I'm healthy I'm okay like I'm healthy I'm like instead of putting a fake happy thought in your mind just be okay with the reality of things like I have cancer but I'm okay with it I've made peace with it I can still be okay with anything else going on in my life be able to have acceptance for just the way things are and understanding that circumstances aren't good or bad but just your perception of it is you have to truly understand that and like feel things but like get through them for sure for sure okay now name some physical things that make someone healthy in your opinion good range of motion low blood pressure good digestion the healthy gut the healthy life clear mind no brain fog low inflammation okay do you have any more I'm gonna keep going on country living country living dot com that's quite quite a few good ones oh my angel okay all right guys I'm out it was so fun talking to you finish strong Henry Christopher yeah good test so we're going inside thanks for watching hi daddy oh no we're done you were so sad you didn't want us out there no you want to go swimming with daddy again yes you already went swimming today aww you're so tired your teeth hurt it's okay sweet girl