 wgggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg Oh rip it Give it to me Give it to me Bye Gu One in every ten times she'll wave Oh Bye Gu It would be amazing if it could open up like with your face Like cause she's like you Yeah that would be scary You think your phone Dad's not coming to work ever again Yeah What is up YouTube? We are still home right now Heading to Miami a little bit late Because that's how we roll right babe? We're bringing Bradley, this is her first road trip technically? We've been to Vegas with her But that's really the only time we brought her anywhere else So we're going to Miami this weekend We're also going to Mexico next week which will be crazy But it's going to be an adventure So Courtney's packing everything And this is why I would never pack for a baby Because if you ask me what she'd need I'd be like well she doesn't need all these things for this two days So I'd bring diapers and food Formula and bottles And I'd probably rinse the bottles in the sink That's bad thing She'd probably be okay though You know what probably but that's not how we roll We have a full suitcase for Bradley But then I still have to put like I have to get her food still And like just put to Marsa So that's what's going on We're going to Miami for the Gymshark event We have an athlete dinner tonight I believe and then the event all weekend So I don't even know exactly what I'm getting through A little meet and greet, a little talk with Ben and Noel I think Tomorrow evening And then just enjoying the life So we'll bring you guys along for that But we gotta hit the road so we miss traffic So we'll see you guys there Alright so we just made it into Miami Brutal drive Bradley pissing the car there And Gymshark always does like crazy shit in your hotel when you get there And they absolutely went above and beyond this time And it's actually a lot better because we have a baby And you can spoil a baby more than you can spoil me But we walk in our room We have a little playpen This is one of my favorite things, this is hilarious A little baby Stanley A backpack It literally has Bradley's name written on things here A dumbbell She broke that one, so she got another one Bunch of treats, snacks, bond treats Wait the champagne babe Champagne was less exciting You come in the room We got geared up for the event Bunch of shoes Custom Gymshark athlete stuff And then you have custom Bradley bum set Fits Got little hats She got herself the first pump covers All of it Little baby Gymshark socks Little outfits Turn big I got some outfits in here To wear at the event But beyond that Damn Bradley's got her own outfit here with mom So mom and Bradley can match in Gymsharky We are showing up tomorrow Pretty hilarious Hard Absolutely hilarious What do you think? This is amazing What do you think? Oh, I need to sit there The bathroom I don't care about the Bradley stuff Actually, that's the cutest The little Bradley wardrobe Absolutely hilarious Babe, look over there What do you think Gymshark too? What? Gosh, Gymshark does not play Insane Look Bradley This is all her baby stuff This is Yours Mine Are you smelling her? Yeah, I think she pooed Awwww Is your poopies? That's for a cheer Okay Let's go Alright, so Saturday Headed to the event right now Like I think they said there's 40,000 or so people going to this thing So it's like more of an expo than it is a Gymshark event now Which is insane They're literally becoming their own expo So Super impressed with like their ability to have built these events They created this whole system and they're just continuing to grow It was a bit of a hectic night But I've had two coffees this morning and we're ready to roll I used to hate public speaking And I started doing it more and I got better at it And like built the confidence up But then after I haven't done it now for like a year and a half Because they've done less events And now I get anxious again before I do them It's like something you have to train and then I lose it I feel like I went through phases though Because my I didn't used to love meet and greets Because I was really antisocial And it was more of like a fear or anxiety thing Like meeting 200 people, 300 people And now that I've gotten a lot more comfortable with that I have less like anxiety I guess Yeah And dislike towards the meet and greets You get some really cool moments for sure And some of the things that make me feel like the most like fulfilled in my life right now Is like those conversations when people come up and share something like vulnerable Or connect with something in the past that I shared Or part of my story how I inspired them That kind of thing makes me feel like fuck Like what I'm doing is special you know More than like paychecks or all the kind of crazy cool shit Well they're fine, obviously great But like it really feels like what I'm doing is special When I hear those stories Yeah Excuse me I'm taking you to the wrong address It's Northwest 23 You know how to get? No, it's not right I guess that's not right It says 14 minutes away There you go Just a little detour through the beautiful Miami Just sightsee Let's see ... ... ... I'm going to go straight to the green room. I'm going to go straight to the green room. Strength. Regardless of what you do, you can be strong. It means strength. You can be an angie-cout and be strong in what you're doing. Yeah. It's a sign of strength. Depends on what you do, it depends on what you believe in yourself, but you can also be strong and believe that you're strong. It's a proof of strength. Good to know. Alright, next time. Next time, I got it. Ready? Give me an awesome time. I want a five-run. Hi! Hi! This is the biggest celebrity here. Oh my gosh, look pretty! A little gym shark fit. There we go. It's pretty this way. Bradley, right? Yeah! I know! I know! Hi, cute girl! I like buggin'. Daddy! Daddy! Daddygggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Are you ready for that? Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Yeah, I'm gonna do that. Yeah. Oh my God. Yeah. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Get ready! Get ready! Let's get Christmas! Go, go, go! Absolute chaos! Good job! You could be a linebacker! We need to give up for Stanley! Stanley was the f***ing MVP! Stanley's the boy! Stanley's the boy! I got you! Right! Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome to the stage 6 times the Olympia the corner of the f***ing round Chris Jackson! The player's the player The player's the player There are periods of my life where I started to like A lot of voices came out of my head Do this, do that, this is what's important That's not what's important It's kind of like getting in my own head And when I was younger, I was influenced a little bit by that So, any mistake I made was From listening to outside influences rather than my own heart I want to be a brand that lasts longer than I did. I want it to be a hundred year brand. I want it to be a globally-eyed product brand. I want it to be a brand that I love. I want it to be a brand that I can answer after. You can think a little bit. It makes it a lot easier. I want it to be a brand that I love. I want it to be a brand that I love. I want it to be a brand that I love. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I got no gas in my tank right now. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. But, uh... I think side stroke is really good. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We're at... see you later. We're huge now. Thank you, bro. Your legs are already coming. Oh my God! Viva! Viva! Viva! Viva! Viva! Viva! Viva! Viva! Viva! Viva! Viva! ... Oh Yep Another day, you know Another day in Miami Just chillin Oh Oh Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Let's go Back up Back up Yo, I've got the phone I don't fucking know Gymshark What are you getting here? You're hitting him right in the head with the phone A plus throw Mark It's a start It's over there right? Yeah Let's get you to the Thai cross What do I do with this? Let's go Someone threw their phone over the border Yeah Come to the phone Come to the end of the container Yeah go When you're looking at the computer go to the left of it Can you get there? Hold your hands on the air Hold your hands on the air All right, so it's gonna be a wrap on the lift event here in Miami. My brain is not working, so I'm not even going to try and say anything philosophical or deep right now because my brain is a little bit fried. I was just telling Carly, it's not that fried, but it's fried. I'm not all here right now. But it was a good time. I'm glad I got to do a couple meet and greets. I did one more than I was going to do. I just appreciate meeting you guys. You know, it's tough now that, like, when I was young and I was only meeting, like, 80 people, I could have time to communicate and talk and hear your stories. But now if I want to see as many people as possible, we kind of got to move through it. But I just want you guys to know that I appreciate you. I love all the support that you guys give me. It's so fucking fun for me to, like, come out here. You guys chanting my name, lining up to meet me, taking all these pictures, want me to sign shit. It's truly a privilege to me, and I appreciate it from the bottom of my heart. So I love you guys. Thank you guys for supporting me and showing up. Yeah. I got nothing else to say. That's a wrap on this weekend. Got a bunch more chaos coming up this year, so we're going to have a good time. Bring you guys along for all of it. Comment below anything you guys want to see on my YouTube going forward. And that's it. So until next time, thanks for watching. So.