 nagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagagag The idea of signing up for something or committing to something, creating a plan, a structure, a deadline, community, all these different things are something that help hold you accountable to actually hit your goals so much more than people understand. I think it's scary to commit to something because then you're leading yourself to failure and self-disappointment. And if you have like limiting self-beliefs of not being able to do something, you're like feeling you're going to reinforce them. But the actual idea of committing to something, putting it out there makes you more likely to succeed. And I was just thinking about that concept of how much it affected me after not having the Olympia as my thing I was committed to. And then having this transformation challenge where we have these weekly calls that we're getting into. I have a YouTube channel I'm uploading all the time. I'm going to be doing a physique update at the end of this, which is fucking scary for me because I haven't looked at myself in a while. But all these little things that are like, okay, well, if I'm doing it, I'm saying I'm doing it. I'm talking to people every week on the standard plus calls and I'm going to have eight weeks from now another physique update. I'm holding myself accountable and that drives me to be better. And in doing so, I build the momentum and the excitement and the passion, the love to continue to do so. So anyways, the points that I wrote down, commitment equals buy-in. Exactly what I was just saying. Being able to say something publicly, to actually commit to something, to write it down, to agree to something, to decide on an end date. To do that, it creates buy-in in your mind that you're actually doing something. And then you can commit to actually putting in the work. In an old video I did when I was talking about like changing your life, it was the idea that you create your identity and being leads to doing leads to having. So when you create an identity around someone, first of all, who commits to something, that person who commits then commits to the actions that it takes to achieve the goal they've committed to. And then you start doing the actions and then you get the thing that you want. So kind of first identity shift being commitment, doing the thing, starting it. And then from there you're like, okay, fuck, I need a plan and a system to start doing that. You start to get specific, move forward. And then you're actually going to hit some goals. Second thing, structure removes guesswork. So once you commit to something, creating structure in something is so important. When I was competing in Olympias, it was like, okay, I'm eating five meals a day to start. By the time I'm eight weeks out, I need to be at six meals a day. So if I can nail this now, then it's good. So I started building structure. Every day I'm eating at the same time, the same thing moving forward. Every week I have a check-in. Every couple days I'm calling honey. I'm training at the same time in the gym all the time. I created this structure around my life, which allowed me not to have to think about things. And I just knew it would work. So if you go day to day without having proper structure or system, you're just going to end up falling off and not know where you're ending up. So having the proper specific plans of what you need to do is so important to help yourself moving forward. Next thing is community equals accountability. I see this so big right now in our office right now. I'm the last bodybuilder up there. Everyone's evolved into a runner. And because they're all running and doing the same thing and they have a community where they're like talking about their miles, talking about the new shoes they got, the new treadmill, X, Y, and Z, all these different things. They're all like pushing each other to get better because they know when they come in on Monday, they're going to be like, how many miles do you run this weekend? They don't want to be that bitch that didn't run any miles. So I mean community is so big. When I was training for Prague and I was training with Brett and Martin in the gym and I was exhausted and these fucking tanks are in there pushing every day. I'm like, I got to show these guys that classic with you guy can push harder than a bodybuilder. And that held me accountable. Can't always do that, which kind of sucks. But having friends, people online, online community, this is something really big. That's why when we built the standard challenge every Wednesday, there's a weekly call. Justin's on all of them giving sick advice. I'm on most of them. And we also have an actual community like a forum on the Circle app that's private. All these people are on the same challenge and the same thing are in there so they can talk to each other and hold each other accountable. And that's so important because I feel like communities, I could dive way deeper into that, but we just fucking suck at community. I was listening to a book on anxiety. It was talking about how many friends do you have that would call you to help them move out of their house? If they had to move from house to house, would they call you to move? Or would they call a stranger and pay them when they probably couldn't afford to do it? And I was like, fuck, probably none of my friends would because my community has shrunk. Like that sucks. You know, I want to expand that. I want to be there for people and I want us to have like-minded goals helping us progress and get better. So lost the community. That was kind of random, but that thought was like, it all ties in. Tracking reinforces discipline. I think Justin always says, what isn't measured isn't managed. And this is so important. I think if I could give one piece of advice for people who are trying to diet, it's just track your food. Don't even think about what you're doing other than tracking your food. And just having that conscious awareness of what you're putting in your body consistently allows you to progress so much better. And beyond that, tracking stuff like physique updates. I'm going to look at my physique right now. I'm like, ooh, like I still look good. Again, I'm still jacked. But like compared to what I was or where I want to be, I'm not there. Having consistent weekly check-ins where I'm doing that. Consistently tracking my food. Consistently tracking things. It's the biggest thing to reinforce discipline rather than just saying, I know how to eat healthy. I'll just do it. Like, no, you're not. Fuck off. You know, even I can't do that shit. I tell myself I'm going to do it. And then I don't. Unless my meal plan's written down. I'm tracking my macros. I know what's going on in my body. Keeping up with my physique, my weight. Logging your weights has been one of the biggest changes I've made in the last couple of years for driving progress. Because on those days where you come in and you feel like shit, like, well, last week I did 110 for six. I better do it again at least this week if I feel worse. Pushes you to be better. Reinforces discipline. Second last point. Short-term focus equals long-term habit. To be able to create something with a short-term goal is so important. Like, if I meet someone and they're 17 years old, 120 pounds, and they're like, my goal is to win the Olympia. I'm like, what else? I'm like, no, I'm going to be Mr. Olympia. It's like, that's too far away. It's too far away. It's a goal. You need a short-term goal. Like, that's why we made this a six-week challenge. Or Gymshark has their 66-day challenge. I think it's not 66 weeks. That'd be long. But that idea of, yes, our transformation challenge is six weeks. But the goals that the habits you build within those six weeks will carry on forever. The progress you'll see and the momentum will keep you driving forward. I've spoken about that a lot in my Olympia preps. A momentum is absolutely everything. If I can ride a wave of momentum to the point where I'm four weeks out and everything starts to suck, I'm just falling forward at the end. If I have a shitty day, well, I've been moving so fast, so forward, so consistent that nothing's going to stop me in one shitty day. They keep falling forward. So sometimes you've got to grind it the fuck out for a short-term period, six weeks, whatever it may be. And then once you realize how much better you feel, you're like, wait, I can do another week. I can do another week. I can do another week. Next thing you know, it's who you are. It's part of your life. The lifestyle. Now it's just a short-term goal. Number six, most important rule of all. That's it. Time to work out. Time to work out. All right, last week, last week or last two weeks? Last week was aiming for six reps. So a little more weight, getting good volume. But because I'm at like the beginning of a training phase where I was off and now I'm back, I'm progressing really fast. So the goal was to do six reps last week and then jump up to eight to 10 reps with the same weight so that I'm getting more load. But that's the goal. I even bought these plate mates, which are supposed to be like, do smaller, smaller, smaller increments and put them on. But they don't work on the dumbbells. So I guess I'm going to be skinny for life. Six reps is a lot more fun than 10. But in all seriousness, I always talk about really specific things like tempo, 2.5 pound weight increases, specific progressive overload, periodization, training, all this shit. Because it works and I love it. But at the end of the day, for 90% of you, you just have to get in a fucking lift hard. If my 2.5 pound don't fit on the dumbbells, it doesn't fucking matter. I'm going to push myself heavier with more weight, get a little bit less reps. But if I'm pushing myself progressively harder and harder, I'm still making gains. Like no doubt. You can still win Olympias like that. I'm just passionate about learning about more nuances of how to continue to drive progress. Same thing with picking the best program. The best program is the one that you're going to adhere to the best. If I'm going through a phase where I'm like, I've been training for 10 years. I want to try very specific things that are proven to drive progress more. And that keeps me interested in training harder. Then it's working for me better than just doing, focusing on just intensity. And eventually intensity is more likely to hit you with a plateau. If you're doing the same shit over and over and you're trying to do it harder and harder. So number one way to make gains is to train hard. Don't be a skinny bitch. But these little nuances in between can be fun and drive more progress. So don't overstress it. Do what you can. Just don't let it ruin the fun of the workout. Because getting jacked can be fun some days. Unless it's LinkedIn. It takes strip away like all the crazy like systems and science back exercises and programming and shit. And if you're not sleeping, like none of those matter. Sleep is such a more important thing. Nutrition, consistency, effort is all such a bigger pillar than these little things. They're all fraction. But when you stack fractions, they're important. So when you have the pillars and you're stacking fractions on top of it, that's when you become elite. And we're trying to be elite out here. Not skinny bitches. Not skinny bitches. Moving up to the big boy saddle weights. Moving my way back up to the 150s. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. That was the same way as last week. About four more reps. I call that progress. Four sets of ten is a lot of reps. It's like 80 reps between those two. This is like a big day to really fucking force build my stabilizer press motion. Like stabilizing with a neutral grip all the way down. I can feel like the part where my shoulder is still weak. It's healed but it's weak. But doing four sets of incline and then three sets of flat dumbbell like this, it's a lot of stability shit. So I'm just like rebuilding that positioning and strength. And if I pull back on the kind of pressing volume and just focus on progressing and load, then I have the stability to not get injured. Fucking check. Hopefully. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. maybe it's also the fact i dumped a liter of blood this morning don't they tell you not to work out yeah she was like this is the most vials i've ever taken anybody how much you weigh she like she looks me up and down i'm like 300 pounds i'm like 250 she's like you're good sweetie you're good i was like all right sick thanks so i take that as i'm superhuman so i can do whatever i want and i can still work out after even though i've only had a smoothie chilling week by week it's very small but i definitely do even like what i noticed is like i would slowly feel like an increase of like the stability which feels like strength but now like from my first set to my last set i still feel better going through it which means i'm not like fully neurologically trained yet like my mind muscle connection isn't quite back yet because normally optimally your first set you can expend the most amount of energy push the amount of load and reps and then you get worse but i'm kind of like getting better like even that last set i came down for that first wrap and i was just in the perfect motion where i loaded my pecs right and it just like bounced off and it felt way more fluid versus like the first rep my elbow was a little too bent so i'm fighting a little bit here and i felt like a little like not in the right place so just being in the right system and being trained like for form makes you feel a lot stronger which is why i always say when you're starting training focus on form first and foremost because if you have perfect form when you start and then you get strong from there so much better than doing it the other way trust me i've been through fucking multiple shoulder surgeries to talk about it in the midst of that set i was like oh it feels kind of weird but it also feels kind of good then i remembered i really haven't done like a fly like this since my shoulder injury so the fact i just jump on there and it definitely feels like iffy like stretching here and being a bit high stress is like i don't know if it's in my labrum up in my bicep here or something but one of the things is still tight but it doesn't hurt like pain anyways feels good to be able to do a kind of fly again and i'm at the point where like that slight pain isn't enough to like hurt me and i'm gonna have to work through it eventually so i'm not gonna go super crazy but adding this new fly motion into my arsenal of movements that i can do now post-injury to really strengthen that muscle at every length that it needs to so do three sets of this a little bit of trap three postural raises and get the fuck out of here so Alright, so we were just talking about how Hanna used to give me shit because I hated setting my progress pics, especially at the beginning of my prep. My physique changes so much from like off-season fluffy to shredded, so I just didn't like taking pictures like that. And this is something where even now I'm like, oh, I haven't posed since Prague. I haven't done like a progress picture since I was in Prague, and I was on a fair amount of good supplements back then that do the trick, you know what I'm saying? Training a lot harder, I had no injury, way different position than I am now considering retired, half natty, sebum, just fucking coming back from injury, all these things. I'm putting myself out there right now. If you guys roast me, you're going to create huge self-image issues, and I'm going to be fucking shredding back on the Olympia stage in six months, so do what you will with that. No, but seriously, I feel like it's a big thing of like, people talk about like the Olympic athletes who get hella depressed after if they don't come back and find a goal, and that's why like I'm still pushing myself in training. I'm driven when it comes to being the best father I can in my family. That's like a huge like goal of mine that I'm actively working on rather than just being in. I have business, I'm still training, all the things going on to keep me progressing because I came from such like an elite world of bodybuilding, and then it was just gone, and it was so revolved around how I look, and then that's gone too, that just fades. So as much as I never wanted to attach my self-worth or anything to like how I looked and my appearance, it was kind of inevitable that I did because I was in a sport that required that to some extent, and I still was conscious of it as I was within it so that when I was pulling away from it, I was aware of why I was feeling like things, and I knew what I had to work through, but still, I'm human, and that shit kind of happens. So progress, update right now, first time since like Prague really, and I've been like training my ass off to be back in shape for this too. So I should have done this like right when I was injured because I put on almost 10 pounds of muscle, and then I got a little bit leaner recently. So I've been like back on diet for four weeks, training hard again for like a couple months, and this is where we're at. I didn't even remember how to pose. Of course, I chose to do this after chest day too. I don't even know what a back jaw is, but I can't shave my back right now. So... That's a plastic pose for old Tim's sake. There you have it. I'm honestly lightheaded right now. Damn, I haven't posed like that in a minute. But this is a pretty sick starting point for me coming off an injury. Like I said, I should have done this, taken progress pics when I was like 10 pounds lighter post injury because I didn't look like just flat even if I had lost all my muscle, I was way flatter. So this is the starting point of me now ramping things up really seriously. My goals, I tell everyone you have a goal to get very specific with it, and I'm struggling to get specific myself because I really want to get shredded. But I also haven't been training to build my strength back enough that I don't want to sacrifice my strength. So I'm not leaning into a bulk phase. I'm like trying to get leaner without the sacrifice of strength is my goal. So I'm going to keep feeding myself to which that I can perform in the gym to the level that I want where I'm progressing and load every single week and getting stronger and stronger and stronger and I can recover from the right amount of intensity and volume that I want to. But I'm not just like jamming carbs down my face where to the point where I'm just like trying to bulk and get as strong as possible as fast as possible because I don't want to put on any more body fat that I am right now. So the goal probably would be to be, I'm 250 right now, the goal would probably be to be like three to four percent leaner than this at the exact same weight and stronger by the Olympia. That's probably what my like specific goal is for my physique to do right now. So that's what I'm going to be working towards. Be talking about what my diet's like doing a bunch of full days of eating. I'll be showing you guys my training. I'm going to be doing a different style of cardio now, probably some steady state, some interval training because I just get bored doing steady state and I want to like really get my heart in good shape so when I'm going to bed my HRV is better and I'm just better conditioned. So a lot of cool stuff is coming. Yeah, that's it I guess. I feel like I could have rambled deeply about my ego death that I've gone through of my Mr. Olympia bodybuilder being like I'm not attached to how I look and my identity is not attached to my competing or winning or being a fucking 250 pound shredded freak. And then when that started to fade, I was like, like this doesn't feel good. I feel kind of like stressed. What was leaving me right now? You know, and I had this like conscious awareness of like that's what that was an ego death. I'm experiencing like a prolonged ego death of like letting go of the life that I used to live as a man that I used to be and kind of like expanding that where I'm not like attaching my identity to a thing and I'm just becoming who I am. You know, I'm taking what I learned from that season of my life to become the man that I want to be. But my character of which I'm always in control of, but it's not attached to my performance or a trophy or a fucking 250 pound shredded gorilla, silverback gorilla. But yeah, so maybe I'll fucking ramble deeply into that another time. But for now, I got to get some food in me. So this little physique update on a hot summer day. This is gonna be a thumbnail. Thanks for tuning in. Good shit.