 c-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m I'd rather look like I could arm wrestle someone than actually have to do it, right? Because in an aesthetic battle, you know, someone like, you know, just a typical bodybuilder versus, say, a Devin Larrant-style character. I mean, he's got some sprawling strength, but that's not the point, right? It's like having a scrappy garage, like, beater car with a crazy engine and super quick. You'd rather have a car that looks better. Even if the performance is slightly lower. So that's kind of how I look at it. What's the plan? I don't know. How about you lead? We have some greats in the mist. The infamous David Lidd. He's a 600-pound deadlifter. At least, yeah. We haven't gotten seven plates. You deadlifted seven plates in your heyday, right, David? Yeah, I deadlifted seven plates. Seven plates. It's a casual seven honest strapless semi-on-honest sumo. Sumo reps. But what was the squat like? Squat was shit, dude. It was 465 is the most I got. At least it was high bar, though. At least it was high bar. For one? Yeah, for one. You got long legs. We can... I benched 390, but I invented the unethical cheat code of dealing it with a deadlift bar. Because that bar literally fucking... Oh, shit. Like, literally warps on you like that. Then it unwarps. And then it just, like... Bouncy gravity momentum action. You deadlifted with that? No, I benched with it. You benched with it. Oh. You drop it on your chest. It turns into a rainbow. It acts as a slingshot, and then you launch it back up. A lot of memories on this very specific lat pulldown. You have PTSD right now. Okay. There's, I feel like... It's one working set done. Okay, we're in working set time. This is working set... It's hot in here. I think that was enough. I'm pumped. All right. We're going to humble ourselves. We go a hair lighter. Uh-oh. We'll start at the 120. Don't work too hard. How do you feel about the two cables connecting to one versus one? It doesn't change anything. I like one. You like the... Yeah. How do you feel about it? I don't know. You seem to feel a way. I feel a very specific kind of way. So in your mind, it's two cables. That means the weight is doubled. Yeah. A little bro math. David, if you're going a little more strength specific, shouldn't you get limbs shortening so you can have proper leverages? Like shorten my limbs? If you shorten your limbs, you'd be able to pull way harder if you lock in with someone. Arm wrestling? Yeah. You guys... Dude, your limbs are so long, you're like way out of here. No, dude. Longer limbs are way better for arm wrestling. You think so? Way better. For sure. You need a lever. I don't know, man. Because it's like if we're on the same table, right? Yeah. So like, see how I have like more... Not really against you, but like if I was crazy to like longer arms than you, I'd have like more height. So I have like a higher spot. So it's like I have like all leverage. I can imagine. What's this underhook? I was about to say, when did that come into play? We're going to do a mechanical drop set. Yeah. So warming it up. Nice. Nice. Are you the author of this workout? Nope. We could be collaborative, but he's picked the movement number one. Do you guys need more warm-ups? Overhand, Chris. Overhand. Do both. I'm ready. But what's first? You got to break it down. So wide grip, four second negative, medium grip, AMRAP, underhand grip, AMRAP. Done. Okay. Wide grip, four second negative, eight reps, then AMRAP, closer grip, and then last AMRAP like that? Yeah. So it's as many reps as possible, not as many reps as pleasurable. Oh. That feels so pleasurable. He told me that before you've been doing AMRAP training to pleasure. To pleasure. Not exactly. Sounds like a David Lane thing. We're in the same spot right now. This is just not a good spot for you. Yeah. This is bad. Bad. Therapist told me to avoid this area. See how good my acting skills can get. Can I fake failure? Can I do it? We'll find out. Well, you said the same way, AMRAP, so you got to be Sam, too. I've seen fake failure before. Because I know what the guy lifts normally. Struggling there, Chris. Seven. Eight. Oh, man. Same weight AMRAP? We decided to do this. He's not going to hold it now, see. Oh, is it that much easier for your post-grid? What the fuck? Demo. Oh, my God. Fuck. This is going to cook me. This shit is going to cook me. I haven't went this hard since I was, like, 18. Come on. That's good. That's good. Reasonable act to follow. Hydrate in the corner. You popped my elbow when you turned armist. I want to see that thing that you said where you just close your eyes and you just visualize the growth. I think that's the cutting edge of science right there. You just visualize you got a pump and then you can go home. Two more. Come on. Seven. Eight. Eight. Oh, shit. We're going for extra credit. Fuck. Ten reps. Come on. Rip it down. Eight. Two more. Okay. Chris, you hit 200 or 220? I got it at 200. All right. Okay. That's good. Oh. I don't know about that underhand. I'm like, this is a natural angle. This is, like, a little tight. Fuck you up? Well, I'm not. Let's see how this feels. Well, it doesn't hurt. It's different. If it's tight, then it's a little stretch. Yeah, that's true. I got hit with the same tip twice. I was rowing, and then Erz told me elbows in. Yeah. And then when I was gold to Darnold, he was doing pullovers. Elbows in. Get your elbows in line. Now I'm feeling it everywhere. Good. Just asking for a friend, right? Is this our last set, or are we going to do more sets? It's not for me. I'm asking for a friend. Just in case your friend needs to hold back. Yeah, for him. He's a loser. He's not me now. Who is? Is this the last set? No. No? Okay. Looking back, I feel like that's what fucked my shoulder. That was the same. Every row, every press was up, like, here. Yeah. And then, like, it would stress my shoulder. I was... Is he water enough? Here at a time. Yeah. Yeah. Well, shouldn't it be water for you with your arms? He should be water. He should be water. He should be water. Come on, David. Come on. No, four seconds. Come on, keep it going. Oh, yeah. Pops at the bottom. Slow. Just rip it. Come on. Get in the flow. Yeah, they can. Come on. Keep going. Come on. Come on. No stop. Burn it down. Burn it in the shoulders. Yeah, come on. Oh, yeah. Quick. Stretch it up. Come on. Keep going. Yeah, ten more easy. Come on, pull. Grab your elbows down. Oh, yeah. Come on. Holy shit. I'm watching your right hand go from here to here to here. Yeah, shit's gone. Come on, you're supposed to set the example for the youth. How many of you guys have been doing this for a little while longer than me? Yeah, I'll pass it towards the youth. It's all you. You take care of that. Are you older? He's way older. How old are you? You're like 26, right? I'm 27. You're 23. Shit. I'm retired. You're retired? What the hell are you talking about? Only I can say that. He's retired. So what do you think? What's your average set number per movement? Like if you're doing back. Like right here. Would you want to do two and leave or three or sets? Yeah. Or something like this too. Because we're doing so much volume in between. Yeah. I feel like if I'm doing chest or something, unless I'm... Like if I really love dumbbell that day, I'll do like... I mean, I've had lifts where I had like six sets of dumbbell bench. Yeah. And like finish with a fly. Yeah. But just because it felt so good. But usually probably like two-ish. Because it's so average. On average, yeah. Because I want to change it up. Depends on my phase of training. I used to just go random, but... Yeah. I've been in those more strategic in the last couple of years. I feel like. What would six-time Olympia Champion do after two sets of these pull-ups? You got a supported dumbbell row? Oh, I don't know. I'm not a dumbbell row fan. You're not a dumbbell row guy. I'm getting... I get so much like weird cross-abdominal like flexing that it makes me feel like I'm thickening up my waist. So what about like that back grip thing on the seated cable or something? I like that. Yeah. We'll do that later. It's more control movement. Yeah. So you want some movements. No dumbbell row. Well, it's... You know, if you want to do them, you do them. I normally would not do them. Why not? The seatbelt row. Did you think your waist is going to get bigger? What? Did you think your waist is going to get bigger? It could happen. You're loading yourself sideways. Like when I see guys do... They've got A-50-pound kettlebell and they're doing side bends. How different is this than this? It's different. Well, you're trying not to rotate your truck. Yeah, but if you're trying not to... Rotate, that means you're holding yourself steady. Right, right, right, right. That's a... Plus, I get... Do you like machine? Yeah. Playloaded, chest supported? That'd be cool. Yeah. Rows, I've been doing more chest supported. Yeah. Seated cable is different. Like I don't get so much erector. Yeah. But I used to try to like... Like I could move it. Like three plates bent over was like a real actual good set. But I'm hitting my lower back so much. Let back at the cup. I'm trying to get wide up top. Yeah. I want this to stay the same or shrink. Yeah. But mine grew over the years for sure. It's inevitable, but as little as possible. Yep. I land those on a regular basis. That's me. Yeah, that's one thing I never understand. I'll hit... You know when guys say, if you take two weeks off, you'll come back stronger. Have you ever experienced something like that? Absolutely. Yeah. Absolutely, yeah. Not two weeks, but if I take like a week off. Yeah. You think so? But if I do absolutely nothing for two weeks, then I'm too like... I guess that'd be different. The only time I would take real time off was if I really was screwed or like I had a knee surgery or something. Yeah. It's not like I just said, okay, two weeks of like active cardio. Yeah. So that's a little different. If you went in for two weeks and did like 25% of the weight, 50% of the weight, to like 50% failure, then you'd probably be rocking. You're saying that... So that's a different situation. Yeah. I should be looking at it like that. Oh. Yeah. Come on. Come on. Now I gotta take a second. I'm doing... Yeah, you're doing your deadlift workout. I'm doing fucking deadlifts over here. You kept going, so I'm gonna stop. Call it a comeback. Six months off the gym, back in a month. I see. Yeah, speaking of recording yourself working out, it took me a while to like figure out if that made me act differently or lift differently. Because it's like if it's just you, nobody's gonna know if I just did three reps and said screw it. Yeah. But then is it like, are you only going hard because you're on camera? Eventually, I've realized, I'm like, okay, no, I think I'm good, but it took me a while to get used to it. I mean, either way, it's a level of accountability. It's making you train harder, you're still training harder. It's like, fuck, I know these guys are gonna watch me do this set of squats. I better not fall over and crush myself. Maybe it actually led to more gains. If it was because of that. That's what I would hope. But it's a spine line. I think a lot of physiques got destroyed because they tried to present it and post it. Yeah. Too early. Yeah. And it threw them off. Me, year one through four, I was a fitness influencer hater. I'm like, these guys, they're just lifting because they're recording it. And I'm doing something crazy like 2 a.m. no one in the gym. Yeah. I'm like, yeah, that's where it's at. But then there's the guys who are like, oh, well, I just didn't record it. You just what? I didn't record it. I did it, but I didn't record it. I don't have it on camera. There's no video. I train for myself, not for the camera, so. Yeah, yeah. I would never videotape a workout. Narcissist. Come on, last day here. and then, Oh, yeah. Come on. Come on. Oh, yeah. Come on. Another one. Come on. Oh, yeah. Oh. These are kind of working hard now. Disrespect to your equipment, Chris. Yeah, right, right. Feels a little bit better training, a little bit harder though, right? A little bit more satisfied. Maybe two or three more units of endorphins, but you know. All right. All right. Chris, what do you think about the Cybertruck? What do I think about the Cybertruck? Mm-hmm. I don't want to drive an electric car. Why? EMFs. Oh, really? Maybe. I don't know. I don't want to take the risk. Oh, you've never seen anything? It's just your intuition? Do you have a microwave in your house? Yeah, but I hide from it when it's on. All right. Well, at least it translates. We're going to do pullover, cable row, dumbbell row. Dumbbell row. He snuck in the dumbbell row. How do you get your dumbbell row? We couldn't get away from it. You're talking two-arm? Neutral two-arm. Okay, that's good. Standing or on the bench? Chest support on the bench. That's good. I like that. Dust the lats up. Should we just all go in a line? So I do this, I move on there, next person goes here, then we... Well, then you could kind of hide away your set while we're busy, and you could sneak a scrappy rep. That's what he... You kind of have to do. That's what he was thinking. You have to do one at a time. I'm not eating my fucking mind. I'm supposed to be the mind reader. Don't do that. All right, come on. I'm not like dusting myself on that. I'm trying to just do a pause, three second negative pause down, and then push it more on this. Oh. No. No. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Yeah. Oh. Yes. Yes. Yes. Come on. Eight more. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Six. Seven. Seven. Two more. One. One last one. Pull, pull, pull, pull. You're welcome. Okay, now you're done. I did that strategically to get you to stop doing all this shenanigan shit. That would move. Yeah, you're cooked. I was telling David, okay, yeah, one of these will be good. Okay, I'm going to do this. I'm going to do this. I'm going to do this. I'm going to do this. I was telling David, okay, yeah, one of these will be good. I want a fucking third one. Not anymore. Not anymore. Oh yeah, get it moving. Ten more. Oh yeah. Two. Three. Come on. Four. Come on, five more. Five. Six. Seven. Seven. Come on. Nine. Nine. Nine. Ten. Ten more. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Is that what it's going to feel playing Magnuson chess? Yeah. I doubt much of it. Oh. Oh. You started it. That was good. Alright, now one more. Fuck that. No, I'm just kidding. Now we're going to do a quad set. No. Yeah, you ever hear shocking the muscle? Now we're going to do some pins. You've been hanging around Dev and Lara too long, man. You're like usually going to... Oh my god. Some pronating crack head. Like people who fight, they're always like sitting there like doing that. David's just all day just getting ready. Yeah, man. If I got you in the lock, dude, you'd be gone. If I got overhand on you, dude, you'd be done. That's why I got to fight you with a set up. He cheats heavily on the grips. Dude, Chris... As soon as you grab your hands, it's feeding. Nah. Yeah. Nah. Well, what the arm wrestlers will do, they sit there and they just kind of test each other's strength. Who wants to go hang out over here? He's like, oh, Sam, let's see how strong you are. He's like grabbing my arm. He's like getting his whole body on top of it. He's like, yeah, I think I got you. Look at you. He's sitting. He's ready for it right now. You guys want to come hang out over here? It's really nice at this altitude. Your elbow hurts because you just go like that. I know. Stop pushing this way. Hammer curled, like lean your butt here and hammer curl towards you. Keep it on your muscles. But then I'm fighting your lever, which is longer than mine. Chris, I have little like... You have long levers. Little boy biceps and shit. You got like some weird cross-sectional like Olympia-ry in your thing. You're fine. I don't have a lever. Chris, you're like 6'1 on a good day. We're the same height. You got the levers too. You're orangutan. All right, Chris. This is harder up, man. No matter what happens, we're still going to be friends, okay? I'm going to take the L on purpose. See, because his forearm's longer than mine. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'd have to be up here to match it. Chris, go like this. Go like this. Let's see. Let's measure our heights. Yeah. It's the same shape. You need like a microscope to tell the difference. I don't know about that. Should I go whenever? Are you ready? Yeah. Ooh. You're just sweating. What the fuck is this? What? I'm going to call the Arbiter. What is this setup? What? I don't know. Let's look at this. He's very normal. You're totally off the corner. Normal. Look at this guy. He wants to start here. I didn't see that. And if anything right now, I'm reffing. Oh, he's got it. He's got it. Well, you just converted that to a tricep pushdown. You did. You did. You did. That's good. That's good. You got it. Let's see. Let's see. Love. It's good. It's good. We'll let him have it today. I brought insurance though. Sam? That was a lot of form and skill and technique talk from David. There was a whole bunch of just witchcraft and cheating. You saw what happened. hero-shot and then turn the camera back and then drive-back. that yeah yeah the p-word let's do it again we're not using the p-word in the car i think it matches i did say it you don't in that car i've said it in my videos told me to be myself it's not about you i know okay i feel sick i didn't say it in like a derogatory way i just oh good well we're good then amazing love that love can we watch the footage it's like in flows you don't really like oh it's i use it every day flows so well what do you weigh are you like 230 240. oh i was 250 but i lost a couple pounds when i was traveling what are you doing 120 or 130 um i'm like 115 plus 100 pounds buck 10 soaking wet tractile dry lean matured aged muscle tissue beast very how much of that tiny weight most of my spine is just scar tissue i don't know what we're doing today is this it doesn't matter because arnold has one more olympia than you that's all that matters valid but michael jordan only has six rings so i'm like jordan or arnold yeah he's a basketball player that's like really like a lot more impressive and stuff so what does it matter lift heavy stuff he's able to like 3d map space control this shit dunk you just what if i can dunk in six months from that you could dunk but can you do all the other crazy that they do 360 dunk you'll see it i'll see it when i believe it yeah today we are filming samuel's announcement to jim shark big deal i'm not announcing it he's announcing it so we hit some back yesterday we were supposed to hit legs but i think him shit about this he didn't want to do it because he trained them the day before and i guess people don't like training legs two days in a row so it is what it is i guess he must stage next year and his legs are small comment chris told you so i'm receptive to the comments show show one that was probably the biggest campaign of like-minded comments flex the legs and it worked i guess i feel like i've got a tick like at the time because i like if i'm just standing i was i was doing this all the time just like spreading them it works your comments can be helpful don't let them shame you just be better but yeah we're taking pictures now i think he's getting a forearm pump david's i'm just testing out new new exercises being david for this poster that sam and i want to make the poster that dave's gonna put in the bedroom yeah of basketball players and arnold there's no room for i'm gonna take a picture of me dunking from the free throw line print it like six feet long and you can put it in your bedroom can you dunk am i done my rehab you don't keep it that's that is my that is my current goal right now in life i thought you already can do that i thought it in the past but like now i'm all hurt and injured and like old so i'm like anti-aging myself and getting my body ready i mean i feel all that same stuff too but then i just jump like really like i just push really hard and then i'll just i'll get to the height taller than me and have longer arms and younger so yeah but my back is like i lost like eight inches of back height from all those like compressions like i could jump up and grab it both hands yeah like hang on it i got AI made this one like wreck manager guy anatomy because i was telling my buddy to take a picture so i jump up and i'm holding the rim i'm like pass me the ball so i'm like holding it like this as i'm hanging it bending it it wasn't bending that much uh a little bit the rim afterwards just like straight down do you have hops from your like diving days yeah a little still plus all the like the gymnastics like i could bust out like a like just standing back flip but now honestly i could do it the landing part would get me the jump is like steady like that's not as much impact as actually landing on the ground yeah that's the problem you get stronger and stronger but your tendons don't and you hit the ground and it's just what happened to me last time i checked it out shit like this different options of us looking different ways there's that that's okay yeah fuck your dad move fuck your dad move are you pissed your dad moves better than your lariat prodigy dude you'd cheat that's the problem but i let you because i want because i want to beat you in a disadvantage i just i won that's all that matters english fuck speak brookk ain't even collected thoughts anymore can you actually give me a challenge and like can you be relevant here can you like like wake the up are you happy two go do you want me to hit the fall down machine with my car or just floor it or not put on the brake and then gas and then lift brick off with the clip filled up turtles good good good love it oh he said it in a nice enough way but i know what he meant in the text the subtext of it was sorry if you're not a wuss and you actually want to get big then you'll hit legs twice in a row