 whatisup, YouTube. Today is leg day, and it is 3 p.m. This is the latest I've trained in a long time, and I was coming home with Courtney, and made chili and muffins, and I really wanted to eat them, but if I had a bunch of chili and muffins, I would not be heading to the gym to train legs right now, so I'm resisting. I had some nice potatoes and turkey, keeping it clean, because I gotta train legs, and I don't wanna bomb it, all that, that, but I'm training. So, gonna get some pre-workout. This is pretty close to the cutoff of when I would allow myself to have caffeine or pre-workout. So, this is why I love the good old savage pre-workout, because one scoop is only 150 milligrams of caffeine. So, maybe I'll do one scoop of this, and then I'll survive, because I need a little bit of picking up right now in the supplement closet. I feel like I need to go shopping in the raw warehouse, because loads of Heinz on the supplement site. This morning, I'm creating a little skinny, a skinny little fish today, it's because I ran into creating. But yeah, today's workout, gonna be doing some front squats and some other cool shit, similar to the previous workout my old program, and I was like, crazy range of emotion and everything. So, that being said, I realized I need to really cool this supplement closet out. This was my gut protocol. When I was talking about all the supplements, I was taking my gut. This is what I took in the morning, this was the afternoon, and this was like, kind of by daily, with meals, not every single day kind of stuff. So, it was a bit of a shit show, but it got a lot better. I was gonna miss something a lot better, so. We're on the progress, so I'm gonna head to the gym, get my pre-workout, hopefully someone can keep me up at night and train some legs. All right, front squats. I would just say, and I can't wait for the day I can actually hold the bar like you're supposed to, with your hands here, I still can't. So, I like to put it across my clavicle, and then I cross my arms over top to balance the bar. But I'm still kind of progressing in my ability to do this movement, because I really hadn't front-squatted in like, since college, university, which was 2016. So like, nine years, pretty much, I'm not really front-squating. The movement of the strength really translates to power and explosiveness and jumping, because you're loading the front. Especially with my heels elevated, I'm getting like a really deep stretch, and I'm trying to get really deep and explode out really fast. And I'm doing like a superset of sorts with rests in between, so I'm going from front squat to an altitude landing. But don't judge me on some of these things. I'm not an athlete, I'm a new bodybuilder, retired, trying to become an athlete, but I'm essentially just jumping off and then landing. Can even do without falling. Do it right. Go to the land. You don't let your heels touch the ground, and I'm just like strengthening the tendons, my knees, all the muscles that I need to land, and my balance and everything. Because I can jump high, and I'm getting close to dunk. I did dunk, getting better at dunking, but when I land, it's like super sketchy and hard on my knees. So I'm strengthening that after an explosive movement, and then I'm moving over to a hamstring curl unilateral. And the goal on that one is really heavy on the bottom, and then less heavy on the contraction. So I'm using that crazy amount of load, but I can still get a really deep contraction on my hamstring, hold it for a second, and then back down. And the goal is to go heavy as fuck over there. So I'm trying to get like four reps, being almost that failure at four reps, essentially. So everything is super low volume, really strength-based, explosive, trying to get powerful, trying to get strong, all that good shit. So I'm gonna keep warming up, getting some working sets, and get to it. Oh. Very underwhelming, but part of the job, you know? Gotta do the non-glorious shit. Wow, my right hamstring is significantly weaker than my left. It's an example why unilateral movements are really good. And starting with your weak leg. So I'm not gonna do extra reps on my stronger leg, because it's gonna continue to get stronger. So perfect reps on the other one, closer to failure on the one on the right. Hopefully it catches up in time. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. A little jump things fire me up. The progression of them is cool. It's like jump, land, and hold. And then you could like jump up really fast. You could jump, land, hold, and then jump off the ground. Or you can like jump high off the bench, land, and as little absorption as possible, and immediately spring out of it, just to get that like elastic bounce out. Really practice your body on how to jump. Let me two-hand jam in real soon. Jumping from the free throw line with two hands. Do you feel your body getting like more like activated to that type of movement? Honestly, I was talking to Justin about this because I had the shoulder injury and then a lot of travel and then I lost so much muscle, I wanted to put the muscle back on. So I've really only been doing like two months of it in this whole year. And with like actually two months of intentional work, it's been a fair amount of progress. Like I used to not be able to split squat at all and to be able to do it, you put your foot up on like a bench. And now I'm like full blown like my ability to like do this and not let my ankle off the ground. I couldn't do that shit even two months ago, let alone when I was competing. So I'm definitely getting a lot better and I think I'm close to testing out some sprints, which will be fun. So that'll be a talk about new movements of people laughing at me. That'll be something funny. I'll probably feel like I'm sprinting like Usain Bolt and I'll literally just be doing this. Like bodybuilders just can't move their arms. It's horrible to watch them run, but you gotta start somewhere. So when that day comes, it'll be a funny video. All right, next super set. Manning with the reverse hyper. I feel like this is not a very good reverse hyper. It feels awkward to sit in and there's only one step to put my feet on. So I put a box aside, figuring it out. I don't know. It's my second time ever using a reverse hyper in my life. So figuring it out. But the first movement, I'm curious what he called this because I couldn't tell you what the correct name is. Triple jumper step up. The goal is to be able to get to this high of a spot, holding dumbbells by my side, not going forward and just go like straight up. Right now I need like a little bit of a rock with my hands in front of me. Just be able to do it. Because there's like, there's no way my hip has the strength to do that. Or you start at a lower spot and go up. But the goal is to really like strengthen up in that really hip flex position. So I'm doing eight reps of that, eight reps of that, three sets. I don't think that's it. Oh wow, 20 reps of that over there. I had that wrong. See, I told you, it was gonna get me. I said I like four reps and now it's 20. Man, my hips need some work. Did you ever get like post-Olympia depression or anything? I think so. I was very like stubborn in never admitting that, I would always get into this phase where I like didn't know what I wanted. I'd lacking purpose, didn't know what I was doing. Felt like, oh, I don't wanna compete anymore. Like all this shit. And then like enough time we go by and be like forget about it and just wanna compete again. So I feel like that might have been a little bit of like, I wouldn't use the word depression. But just like a remorse of it being ending. Sure. Detastrophizing of events that are really just time, you know? Yeah. All right, last exercise, tibia raises. Essentially the goal is to get 100 reps and I rest for as many reps as I do. So if I get 40 reps on the first round, which is the goal to get around 40, I'll rest for like 40 seconds. I should bring it down to 30 cause that rest feels long. And then if the next set I get 15 reps, I rest for 15 seconds and so on until I get 100 reps. Oh. Oh, I really screwed myself not taking that full rest. Like I don't need 45 seconds. And then I fucking smoked my shins on that one. What are you at? 60. Oh. Cramping. So hard to set for the day right here. Literally. It's the thing I absolutely never trained in my life. Got 12 more. Gotta do one set. Success. Everyone loves a nice shin pump at the end of their leg day. Oh, if I lift my toe up, oh, I cramped right up there. And it's not even like a big enough to fully cramp. So it doesn't like hurt that bad. It's just like, knowing you cramped something on purpose just to feel it. Yeah. Yeah, it feels good. Hopefully this means I'm not gonna get shin splints when I start running. Doubtful, but we can dream. All right, so, I just remembered I got muffins in Chile at home. So I'm getting the fuck out of here. Gonna go eat some Chile. I don't know if the muffins are made or not officially, but there's definitely Chile at home. So brown rice pasta, some Chile, hell, but post-workout meal. So I'm gonna get out of here. Go work it.