 similar similar similar You're gonna be doing something a little bit different here. I feel like when I rant every now and then, it makes for a good YouTube video, so I figured why not do like a little rant podcast thing with Courtney? Cause I haven't thrown her on the channel in a minute and lots have changed. So I give you my perspective all the time. Then you're gonna get some of her perspective on life. No rusty guys, haven't been on the channel, but I hear his perspective in real time. So all the time. Yeah, you get the long-winded thought, random things. Including a bunch of random shit as well. But I have some questions here that will turn into more casual. I'm gonna fire at her, put her on the spot and then we're ready to roll. You ready? I'm not rehearsed. Don't know what he's gonna ask me, but yeah, let's... She has notes of answers that she's been studying for weeks for this. Let's take it away. All right, what's the biggest change you've noticed in me since retiring from the Olympia? If anything. The biggest change. Well, there's not this like, I don't wanna say the word stress, but like, prep's coming, okay, gotta lock in, need to like, you know, start really cleaning up the eating. Like that was obviously gone. Like daunting pressure. Yeah, that pressure of like, okay, like really need to get serious. And honestly, like just a sense of like peace, you know? Like that was an amazing era and it's like, it's sad that it's over, but it's also like a peace inside of you. Don't make the question, do you think I'm happier or more at peace now than when I was at competing? I think competing definitely brought you this huge sense of fulfillment, which it did, and purpose and like confidence and something to really strive for, which is amazing. And at the same time, like when we talked after, it's like, you're like, I did all I wanted to do with this. Like I don't really feel like there's anything else I need to accomplish, you know? Do you feel like that? Yeah, 100%, that's why I told you that. So I'm curious your perspective though. You can throw me into the bus like, no, he's miserable crying every day. No, I mean, you were at the Olympia, texting me like pre-judging like, fuck. Like, you know, like, obviously like seeing that and sitting on like the other side where I usually sit, not being up there is a totally different feeling. And these were guys you just competed with like the year prior. So there's probably like, yes, that competitive itch, like, I could have maybe you could have, it's real. You think I would have won this year? Yes, I do. But Ramon, you looked incredible and we love you, love Brazil, dinosaurs, the whole thing. But yeah, I do think you could have. Good answer. But yeah, no, overall, I do feel like you're happy and there's still that sense of like, that was like some good, good times, you know? Yeah. What do you feel like is, what do you think you'll miss the most from me competing? And what do you think you won't miss at all or they're happy to go on? What will I miss the most? There were so many memories before the baby too where we like would be at the gym together late at night, like taking so many like videos of you. Early cardio, late. Yeah, early cardio, like we would go to the gym together in the morning or he would do his thing and I would have like your breakfast. Like I'll miss those little moments for sure. And like that peak week, like leading up to the Olympia is always, it's always fun, you know? Like it's fun, but it's like, okay, we're going to whole foods, we gotta get all the food. We have to like start prepping stuff. Heidi's gonna start coming in and looking at him. Like that was, those are some really fun moments. Just being with like the group of people. I feel like it's fun being on a mission, but being on a mission, like a relationship, having a mission and like a singular goal that you're working towards on and the way you helped me and us doing it together, focusing on this thing. It's just like a fun process to be in. It was truly like a team. Like it was like, you're good to use it. I'm gonna make sure you're good here. You're gonna like, it was fun. Peak week I would like wouldn't speak. I would just like sit there and stand and walk places and Courtney would hand me food as I needed it. It was just like assistant. I'd be talking to Honey. Honey's like, what does he look like? I'm like, ah, here's this last video or shaving him in the bathtub like a little seal for six Olympia straight. Yeah, like those like little moments are so like, to like, like you said, accomplish that mission. Yeah. The best. Yeah. But those moments do come up like shit sometimes. Yeah. And then there's stress. It's like, okay, well, like Chris Torres bicep, Chris Torres lack, Chris Torres hamstring, Chris Torres fucking, what else does you tear? I think you're quad. Like quad with a small one. Your quad. Like torn everything like leading us to the Olympia or on the Olympia, like his bicep. Like it's like, oh my gosh, I hope this doesn't swell. And like as, you know, his partner, I feel his energy and he's, I mean, it can be stressful, you know, like the year of your bicep that was pretty stressful because it was like, it was getting like big and like swollen and then people are like, he's injecting stuff. And it's just one arm. And he's also like, go win or try, which you did, but. I had to post the MRI of the town. Cause people were like, oh, he's putting oil in his arms. Yeah. So like, it was like, you know, like those moments can be very stressful, obviously, but. So what do you, what are you happy is gone? What, why are you not mixed? You're like, oh, thank God that's over. Honestly, in our, in our super like real perspective here, I'm, I'm grateful that I also like, yes, we would accomplish these missions together. You doing your thing, me helping, taking care of you, but I'm like also so grateful now that we have a child, another one on the way that you're able to be like more present in those four months, like of a time, like leading up to the, oh, like you're present, but like, you know, you're like, it's like. So focused on something. Yeah. Oh my focus. Yeah. Yeah. You know, which we did it with Bradley and it was good. And we did, we did one when I was pregnant and that was great. But yeah, I think just having you like having you here for some of the year. Having my head on earth. Yes. And that pup in the cloud stressing about the next meal or the torn injury. Yes, for sure. Yeah. So I feel, I feel that's like such a big change in my life right now is things feel less like daunting is the best word. Like to think of injuring myself before was like, my world was ending. Oh yeah. I had literally who would have mental breakdowns if I hurt myself because it was like everything's over. Yeah. And now I'll do that. Fuck whatever. Yeah. Like little things like that are so drastically different. Yeah, definitely. What else you got for me? Do you think I'm lacking purpose right now or will lack purpose as time goes on without the Olympia? Not, let me think how I want to say this. I don't think you're lacking purpose without the Olympia. I think that gave you a lot of purpose, but I truly feel you feel at peace with your decision to like step away. Like I'm good. I think you have a lot of things in your life that give you purpose, your work, your family, your daughter. And those are big things, but like the Olympia was also such like a selfish. It is. I mean, I did it. So like I understand like bodybuilding. I'm not just speaking for myself. I'll speak for myself. It's a very selfish sport. And it's like one goal, mission, boom. And like the purpose everywhere else is like about other people. It's like your work. It's like you're with others. You're serving others, your child, but like the Olympics is like about you, which you're something great about that. I can't lie. Like setting up a goal for yourself and like executing it and doing it for yourself is very powerful, I believe. And something that brings a lot of confidence. Yeah. Right? Sports and like competitive things in general, like very unique, it's a very unique field. The fact that few people are lucky to experience. Yeah. You know, like professional athletes getting to like strive towards being good at something, to beat someone in a game, but it matters so much. Like, but it also doesn't matter in the scheme of life, but it builds like, it's such a unique field. I feel like that we have, but yeah, it's very different. Right, right. Than anything else. But do you think if I like where life is right now, to continue with like things as they are, I'd be like, I'm good? Or do you think I'm gonna need to like do something else? Doesn't this be selfish or like whatever, just like find something more. I think you definitely, yeah, I think definitely. More sternly purposeful. Wanna find purpose in another area of life. Yeah. I do. What do you think? I don't think right now, but I imagine as life goes on, I want like a bigger, something to strive towards that's bigger than myself. That isn't selfish. Yeah. That isn't selfish. Yeah. That's a good answer. I don't know. We'll find it, I guess. Yeah. These questions are horribly not in order. Some random, about competing and then they go, whatever. What's something that you've learned about love since having Bradley? Oh gosh. With something I've learned about love, like personally as a mom. Yeah, as a human mom, sure. Just like how much like your heart expands is cliche and like maybe stupid as that sounds. Like you don't even realize like the love you just have for this little, this like innocent little human. And how that no matter like how tired you are or how exhausted or how overwhelmed you feel, you like will always show up. You show up every day and like bring your best, you know. Maybe not your best all the time. I definitely don't all the time. The best you got in the moment. Yeah. It's not your best with the best you have right then. Yeah. Yeah. And just how much you give to a child is, I mean. You guys, you've had more to give than you might have. Oh yeah. Yeah. I'm always impressed by your ability to like, no matter how you feel, tired you are, she comes out, you can just smile and be what she needs in the moment. Yeah. For sure. I mean, it's crazy. I'm like sometimes so tired, but I'm just like, baby, what are we doing? I also feel like it's cool to like actually experience loving something just because you love it, because of like who they are. Yeah. She didn't do anything for us at all. She only takes from us. We only have to help her, she doesn't help us, but we still love her more than anything. Yeah. And like eventually like I feel like people get older and you like think love is like conditional. Yeah. On things. Yeah. Or you're thinking yourself, I'm only loved if I'm like ex, I'm only worthy if I'm like ex, but at some point you were a child that was loved infinitely for just being alive, you know? Yes. Yes. For sure. And if you lose that as you get older, I think that was very interesting. Yeah. Yeah. That would be it. What are you most excited about? Most nervous about? Bateman number two. Well, let's jump into the nerve since we had a talk of this last night and we're gonna be real on the YouTube channel. I'm a little nervous of how I'm gonna manage time. How are we gonna manage time? Like how, like, it's having children, it's the biggest blessing, yes. And it's also like, okay, you, I like the whole thing where people are like, oh, you think you're tired before you have kids? Like I don't wanna be that person saying YouTube right now. But everyone who said that to me, I'm like, I'm so tired. And they're like, oh, should we tell you have kids? Like, oh, you're so annoying. And then they're like, we tell you have two kids. Yeah, it might be true. You guys were right. And yeah, like it can be tiring for sure, but it's also like, okay, we have this toddler who requires a lot of attention and needs a lot, right? She's running around, she wants to play, I'm trying to do activities with her. We kind of live like a little further out from things. So like, I'm like commuting to the park. It's like, okay, we got an hour. It's 30 minutes there, 30 minutes back. It's a 30 minute drive to like the closest park. You wanna go to like a pool class for her in nice restaurants, it's 55 minutes. Yeah, so like things are, so I'm like time management. Like, all right, like that kind of makes me nervous. I know you just adjust and you have to be able to be fluid and go with the flow and like let go of control for sure. But I'm also like, okay, well, I have a baby that like sleeps at a certain time, X, Y, Z. Not that you guys care about any of this, but like that kind of makes me a little nervous, right? Yeah, I mean, I feel like we just got the hang of having one kid. Yeah, okay, scheduled. Getting to your system feel good and you're pregnant so you don't have much energy, but you're still like flowing. Yeah. She's sleeping through the night, you know? Yes. And then it's like, all right, restart. Yes, for sure. And then obvious, like what I'm so excited about, happy about, about having another one, it's just like being able to experience this baby as a little like newborn again. I feel like with Bradley, I was so, I put so much pressure on myself to like get everything right and to do all these certain things. And like, I didn't really take in like this innocent like little baby stage. Of course I loved her, but I was, I was so stressed. Like I just felt overwhelmed and stressed. Also first kid, I'm like, I don't know what I'm doing. I just, it was a lot. It was just- You're gonna die every two seconds. Yeah, like we were in the hospital when she was six weeks. So like it was just like, oh my gosh, this is like, whew. It just was a lot. And I really like look back and I see all these sweet like little photos and I'm like, oh my gosh, I feel like I didn't really get to take in that moment. So with this baby, I hope I get to like soak in those little moments more, relinquish some psychotic control I had, and also give Bradley a sibling. Like that's gonna be super special. I grew up with a brother 22 months. These two little ones are gonna be 20 months apart. And he was like my best friend growing up. We were like buds. I always watched, I was older sister. I always watched over him. Like he was like my little buddy and we just like, I just loved him, you know? So I just, I hope giving her a sibling, they're gonna be able to build that like special bond. The fact that they're the same gender too. It's less than two years apart. So close in age. Seeing them be best friends will be so cool. Yeah, cause she'll be like three and this one will be like a year and a half. Like, you know, so it'll be, it'll be cool. That's what I'm excited about. What about you? Or is it just me? I mean, sure. I'm gonna go back. It sounds trite, but it truly is like kids just show you time in such a different way. Yes. You know, you look at yourself in the mirror every year and you're like, all of a sudden you're like, I'm old. But a kid, it's like every month, you're like, holy shit. You go on your phone, it shows you a memory and you're like, that was three months ago? Like it feels like a lifetime ago. Like she just started walking. Now she can climb anything in the house and sprint. She can get up, she'd be on like the counter because there's a chair beside it. Like it's crazy. And then you're like, you were, like couldn't move a couple months ago. And it really showed you how fast time goes. And like you said, like you like want to appreciate those moments so much more when you see the change in your face like that. I feel like it's such a blessing that kids give you. It's like fearful when you don't appreciate it, but it's a blessing that we've taken the opportunity to like be a lot more grateful in the moments. Yeah. I feel like you're hard on yourself. Like maybe the first couple of months, but I feel like you were very good at saying in the moment like this won't last very long. Right, right. You know, like just like appreciating the beautiful the moments. Yeah. There's like a saying, it's like be where your two feet are. Like, like being present, you know, like we're always trying to like reach the next thing in life. And like this speaks for anyone, not just like kids, you know, like we're like waiting for this. We talked about this, like, oh, we're going to wait till we do this. And we're like, we're just waiting for the next thing constantly or like with children. It's like the milestones. Like you, oh, I just can't wait till they're in preschool. I can't wait till this. I can't wait till they can talk to me. They're independent. They can't feed themselves. Yeah. And I'm like, there's also something so special about just being where you're at right now, you know, cause like this is all we have. So yeah, I mean, as corny as that sounds, like that's, that's, yeah. How do you think our parenting styles differ? Who's the strict one? Who's going to be the strict one? Who's going to be the fun one? Chris is going to be strict at the beginning and then he's going to turn fun. He'll have this. Yes. Yes. I feel like I'm more of the like, like the fun loving. You're still obviously so loving one right now where he's like, we need to be like a bit better with this. And I'm like, oh my God, she's a baby. It's fine. He's like, you give him an inch. They're going to take a mile. I'm like, she's a year and a half. She's disciplined. Yeah. I mean, that's what I think. She's disciplined. She needs discipline. What do you think? I agree. I think I'm going to be the strict one, but I don't know. I also think we like ebb and flow naturally. Like when you lean one way, I balance a little bit the other way. Yes. But I don't see you being the strict one. The apple. This morning. Oh, she's eating an apple. She's a year and a half. I bring in an apple. Absolutely not. And then she's like, oh, it's too big. It's too hard. She has to choke on it. And the thing is, the thing is, Corny's Google all these things. High risk choking foods. One of them is an apple on the list. And I'm like, OK, yeah, maybe one. They're eight months. But now I'm like, she's got a full set of teeth. She can chew an apple. I'm like, she's fine. See, that scares me, though, because she has a full set of teeth. And it's like, if she takes a chunk, and you can take a big chunk of an apple, it gets lodged in her throat. That'll be the difference. When it comes to safety, Corny will be the strict one. And I'll be the fun one. I'll be like, you'll go climb the tree and jump off. Like, give it a shot. I'll be that one. But when it comes to being a brat or something, when they want something, you'll cave. Like, if we're at Target, and they're like, oh, I want this toy, you'll be like, OK, we'll get it for you. I'll be like, no, you don't always get what you want. You've got to work for things in life. I'll be the one giving those stupid lessons and not and be more strict there. That's where I feel like it'll be. We'll go to Target and be like, no toys. It's not your birthday. We can get this. He'll turn it into a lesson, a philosophy thing. He'll be like, oh, my god. That's going to be what I'm going to have to learn. Not have to turn everything into a life lesson. That's OK, babe. That's your thing. I'll throw them in there, but not every time. Yeah. What does success mean to you now? Or what would, I guess, more specific that's probably what would success was a parent looked like in 18 years? 25 or 30 years in general. I saw something on Instagram. Yo, listen. Where else do we learn? Listen, sometimes those reels hit you. And this older man, he was a billionaire, OK? He's being interviewed. And I'm sure a lot of you have heard this. Maybe you haven't. But I see the parenting stuff. And they asked him this question, what does success look like as a parent? And he said, when your grown kids want to be around you. Like when your grown kids want to be in your energy, they want to hang out with you when they're 30, 35, 25. They want to be around you. And older. And I honestly think as someone who's 32 and someone who is with my mom all the time, that could not be more true as a parent. As a child, a grown adult child who wants to be around her 60-year-old mom all the time. I like she did good. I mean, not perfect, of course. I'm definitely going to make mistakes as well. But be far from perfect. But the fact that I want to be around my mom, I think, says a lot about how she was as a parent and how she raised me. So what do you think? I saw something else on it. OK, hit it. It was, I think it was Bill Burr, honestly. So it was kind of an aggressive comment. But especially having two girls now and being a man, people are always like, just wait till they're teenagers. And that was what the he was talking to someone. They were like, oh, yeah, that's great. Having a girl they love you so much, but just wait till they're older. And Bill was like, I feel like people who say that are people who have failed as parents. And he just said it right to the guy. And the guy was like, fuck me then. Don't think it will fuck. But it's so true. Like, yes, we want our kids to be with us when they're older. But I want our kids to speak to us and want to be around us and trust us forever. Even as teenagers, even if they're going to get annoyed with us and not want to hang out with us. But I want them to always feel safe to come to us. I feel like Justin Kinn gave me this example, too, of God being like, it's not God or dad as the fatherly president or parents. It's not like, oh, shit, this happened. Don't tell dad. Your dream as a dad, at least, and a mom is, oh, shit, this happened. I need to call my dad. You know, whatever shit they're going through, whatever the fuck happens, God forbid, it's like, I'm not even going to say anything. They don't want it to be because I don't want to put that out there. But they're like, first responses. I need to call mom and dad so I can have support in this. That to me would be a massive success. Not like a loss would be, oh, no, don't tell dad, because he was too strict. He's too hard on us. He doesn't allow space for that. Yeah. So I feel like that also leads into then your kids wanting to spend more time with you and share with you and be safe with you. And when they're older, coming back and hanging out with you. Yeah, for sure. No, and even me, maybe not so much my teenage years or was my family divided, whatever, parents divorced the full thing. But in my early to mid to late 20s to early 30s, I've always been like that with my mom. Oh, something happens. I'm going to call my mom. No judgment. Very safe energy. Chris is like, are you like well? Like, no. Yeah, all right, Tyler. He's like, you're a tech-super mom at 9 PM. I'm like, yeah, I have to tell my mom this. I'm like, she's in the other room. I know, like psychotic. But it's OK. Just safe energy. I feel like that with you. I tell you everything. You know? For sure. But as a parent, I can be as a parent. Yeah, I've only created that with our relationship. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, so. Yeah, that's cool. As a next one? What do we got? What's one? We can rip through these ones quick. What's one thing you miss about life before kids? Instead of the like, what's something funny and specific? Not like, oh, more time. Like, what did you want to do with that time? Yeah. Is it staring at a wall? Just scrolling Instagram? Is it watching TV? No, it's truly like, if I were to just like give it examples, like the ability to just like get in my car, not think, like poppy our dog who passed. Like she's at home like chilling on the floor. Like I didn't have to like, oh my gosh, I need to be back in a certain amount of time. It was just like, I got to go. There's literally no responsibility. Yes, we had a dog. But it was like no responsibility, essentially. And being able to go to the gym, go sit at a coffee shop for three hours if I wanted, go watch a movie at night. But now we're like, oh, we're so tired. We just want to go to bed. It's like nine o'clock. No, we're about early 8.30. We're going to sleep early. He's getting on his Kindle. I'm like, I can see him. My red light glasses don't go to sleep. Yeah, so I think truthfully, just like having that ability to she's watching me from home. She's like, I see you. You're on a time watch. Just like to not really have any. Yeah, no. I feel like same with like competing, anything in life, the more beautiful something is, the more sacrifice comes with it. Yes. And I feel like if you want to have kids or you're having kids, your life is going to drastically change. And it doesn't just mean it's all for the better. It is beautiful. Everything's worth it. It's for us. It is. But there's shit that comes with it that you don't want to have to do that you do have to do because it's a responsibility. And that's just kind of life. So if you want to have kids and you don't want your life to change, you don't have kids. Yes, because it's going to change. But again, like you said, it's beautiful. And it's also just like it changes. That's OK. Like I remember my mom always saying to me, and I would get so annoyed, just make sure you travel and do all the things you want to do. And I'm like, what are you saying? I can't do that with kids. And she's like, no, you can't. It just looks different. And then we went to Europe with a 15-month-old. And it looked different. And we're like, oh, shit. Last year we came. We were just chilling, having like wine by ourselves. But like, it's OK. It's a season, right? Like, it's a part of it. So I think that, like in all honesty, I'm going to just give it to kids. And the reality is they're old and go out of the house. And you have that time back in. And all you do is miss them. Yes. You want your kids back. You're just going to send them back here. Yeah. All right, last question. Number two, what's the funniest thing Bradley's picked up from watching us? Or that you've seen her do? Oh, she's by the door crying. Where's my mom? Oh, I'm sure. What's the funniest thing? Well, I call him Babe. So she'll like try to say Babe. And then he says Dude, not to me. I called her Dude. He's like, come on, Dude. So she'll be like, Dude. So she'll say that. What else? Her dancing. Her dancing is hilarious. It's so funny. But we didn't teach you that. I don't know how. I mean, I'll dance kind of. She's way better at dancing than me. What else has she learned from us? The mine is kind of funny. The mine? When I sit on the floor and eat, she tries to eat. What does that mean? She takes my food and my fork. I'll give her her own fork. And she'll take mine. And so I'm, again, the strict parent. I'm like, mine. This is my fork. Trying to teach her. And she takes it. She's like, mine. She takes it back. And now everything is like, someone tries to take something. She's like, mine. I know. About everything. I brought her to the library. She's around all these little kids and these little boys come and take her toy. And she grabs back, she's like, mine. I'm like, hell yeah. And I told her. And she's like, I don't know if I should be proud or like, that's bad. I'm like, babe, not everything is her. She has to learn how to share. But yeah, you taught her mine. Yeah, what else? Just the personality that comes out of a kid. It's so funny. We'll be laughing about something. Then she'll try to laugh. She'll fake laugh. She'll fake laugh. She knows. She'll please. I'm like, what are you doing? And then we're going to laugh more. Because I'm like, OK, she's fake laughing. This is great. Just funny. It's just sweet. And having a baby is like. They're hilarious. The little things they do is you just watch them all day. And they're hilarious. And she's only a year and a half. And I know people say it just changes. When they're two, when they're three, oh, wait till they start talking, they're going to even say more stuff. So yeah. I mean, she talks, but not sentences, obviously. But yeah, it's fun. It's the best. Yeah. A little bit. All right, beautiful. There's nothing else you want to add, Don? Do you have anything you want to add? No, I just didn't know. It looked like there was a lot. I feel like it's been a minute. All right. That was everything I had. OK, guys. Beautiful. Nice seeing you all. Different style YouTube videos. But we got Courtney back on the channel. So we got her for us. We're back into this. We're going to be doing a high rocks competition when she's back in action. Pregnancy postpartum. Yeah, Chris is trying to convince me to do a high rocks with him. I'm like, whoa. I had the champion doubles, pairs, whatever they call it, asked me to be his partner. I'm like, no, me and Courtney are going to go win. I'm going to train for this. Our goal is sub two hours. I got a really true. I don't even know. It's like circuits, right? Circuit training, get my advocate type thing. I would just, yeah, I'm very out of shape. And I'm like eight months pregnant. Like an hour would be an incredible time. You'll probably get two hours. Yeah. Yeah. We'll be good. Watch out for the video guys when we do high rocks together in a year. That's when I'll be back. A year? You do. No. You think you could be ready for that in a year? No, no. That'd be good. It'd be quick. I got to like deal. Yeah, postpartum, that's a lot. I get birth and funness, but, and yeah, that's it. All right, thank you guys for watching. We'll see you later. Bye guys.