 one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one YouTube. Been a while since I had vlog vlogged and Henry's on town so I'm gonna be hitting a vlog today taking through some random stuff with life. Goo is growing up big and strong right now. She's 11 months, a little over 11 months, kind of like days over 11 months. She's walking, screaming, not really talking but she said mama the other day and repeated us so she's definitely becoming a big girl. Pretty freaking crazy like seeing her walk around. She's obsessed with walking now. Super cool. I need to do a full day meeting update soon because things are changing. We've been doing a lot of health checkup. We were just in California seeing a bunch of doctors and I guess I have like a candida overgrowth, leaky gut, bunch of stuff and I guess most people have leaky gut just from like shitty food today, processed food, heavy metals, toxins, all the shit right babe? Yeah babe. No literally that's it. Love that stuff. Processed food. Yeah did you already say processed food? Processed food, everything and sadly you can't really beat candida with like antibiotics. That was literally my first question. Can I just take an antibiotic and just kill this thing? Not really. You have to like starve it with a diet. So I need to cut out processed foods, sugar, grains, oats, eggs, gluten, gluten, dairy. You don't really have a lot of dairy. A buttload of shit. So I'm weaning out of there. I'm not gonna be perfect just yet but I'm weaning out of there. So I don't have a lot of that but this has been my breakfast since I'm just changing up how I'm eating a lot. The predominant thing is the shake. I still try to do low carb in the morning because I feel better like that. So I do a shit ton of blueberries. Don't know how much. I've been doing this bone broth protein in there. Great chocolate flavor to it but also great for your gut to have bone broth. Two scoops of protein. Scoop of creatine. I gotta still be huge even though I can't work out of my body still. And then this was recommended to me by a doctor. It's like glutamine, licorice, root, aloe vera, marshmallow root, zinc, carnosine. Which is good for your GI. Overall gut support and everything. Blend it all up. Sometimes I do coconut milk, almond milk, no gums. Today I just did water. And then MCT oil. What's up? Daddy. He's like, Dad, I want to be included. Hi. Can you say hi? Bradley show up. There we go. You're so pretty. That's how she says hi. Let me see. He's interested, babe. You want to go to Dada? Aww. Is that funny? Say, Daddy, your gut's all messed up. That's funny. Killed it? Delicious. Good. Gordon and your mom are judging me for doing blueberry and chocolate? No. Your mom was? No, I was. You were, you were. But actually it's amazing. I tasted it and he killed it. It's actually really good. So, rock and roll. This is current breakfast. Also, it's good to have too much coffee or caffeine. So Courtney's the queen of matchas. She's been crushing matchas. Don't know if I'm going to have one today or not. We'll see. I'll give you a sneak peek of what it is, but not the full process of matcha. Great antioxidants as well. The Japanese drink that to live forever. I read that in your little longevity book back there. Really? Green tea is amazing. Love those. But yeah, that's breakfast. So, I've got to get on with the day. I'll see you guys later. Bye. Bye. Bradley. Bradley. Mama. Say bye. Bye. Say bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Good girl. Bye, YouTube. All right. So, got my matcha. No coffee. No bum energy. It's a sad time. I'm going to be cutting bum energy out for at least probably like two weeks or so. So, sad time, but we'll see how it goes. Matcha is all I got right now. But with that being said, morning routine right now typically is wake up, breakfast, get out the door as fast as I can, get to the gym, go into work, and then try and get home early. I'd love to train at night. I would. I feel the best training at night. But that's the time I want to spend time with my family, and it just feels I don't want to go to the gym at 5 to 7 p.m. and then come home and Bradley goes to bed at 7.38 and I only have 30 minutes to spend with my family. So, I'm optimizing my schedule, de-optimizing my workout, I guess, essentially, because I'm prioritizing what's most important to me, not with my family, and training in the morning. That sounds dramatic, but it's a small sacrifice for something I really care about. So, I'm going to do some rehab stuff right now. To be completely honest, update on that, I feel pretty, like, impatient and discouraged, if you will. I feel like I took three months off after Olympia expecting to jump back into training full force, and as soon as I was supposed to get back into it, my shoulders bummed out on me, and I still haven't been able to train upper body for 10 weeks now. So, like, went from, like, my physique in Prague, which is pretty nuts, to just, like, haven't trained in three months, which kind of sucks. But it is what it is, you know? I was talking to my therapist a while ago about something that made me think of this, is I'll talk about being in a lower time or a discouraged time or impatient time, and at the core of my beliefs, I'm always like, well, it's going to end. It's going to get better. Eventually, I'll be out of this, and it'll be fine, even if I feel like shit right now. Like, it's going to be fine. And I didn't even really, like, realize that that's, like, a mindset that I shifted in mind over time that grew, given bodybuilding, essentially. My career really instilled that in me. And there's two types of people. There's probably more, but if I break it down, easier to explain. Two types of people. In life, there's always peaks and valleys, ups and downs. And there's one type of person, the optimistic, optimistic person, however you say that, who went at the top, they believe this is norm. This is life. This is how it feels good. And when it goes down and I'm in the bottom, I'm in a hard time, yes, it's tough. Embrace it, but it will end. You know, this too shall pass if you want to be dramatic in language like that. And then there's the other type of person where when you're at the top, when you're at a positive part in life, instead of enjoying it and being able to be present and taking it all in, you're actually just waiting for the other shoe to drop. You're waiting for the dip. You're waiting for the negative to come. Because your life has probably presented you with circumstances to make you consistently believe that even when things are good, they're going to get bad. So you're waiting on the bad, even when things are good. And when things are bad, you're like, this is life. Life sucks. It's always hard. So you're always expecting the negativity. And then that's the pessimistic person. Optimistic person is always expecting the positive. So when you're in the low end, you're expecting it to be good. Pessimistic, when you're in the high end, you're expecting it to be bad. Each person views life completely differently. Even if each person is respectively 50% good, 50% bad in their life, their perception will see life as all good or all bad just based on what they put their focus on. And, you know, I definitely used to be more of a negative person. But then through my bodybuilding career, going through, like, all the ups and downs and having a singular goal and having so many obstacles and challenges that come in my way, where I was like, there's no fucking way I can get through this injury or this illness or this, this, this, that, beat this person, that person. And I continuously proved to myself that I could get through it and that life did get better. And I got through it. And, you know, bonus, I kept winning Olympias through it all too. It really taught my mind, like, life is good. And hard times will end. If you choose to get through them and view them as just an obstacle and not inevitable life, you will get through them, you will learn from them, you will become better. And I'm super grateful for that, all the lessons that bodybuilding gave me. And it also, like, it's proof to me that it's a choice. You know, if you're someone who views life as negative and that's where you're at right now, totally fine. I guarantee you, your life has had every valid reason for you to feel like that. But you can validate yourself to be the victim or you can choose to pull yourself out of that and start to have a positive perspective and view life differently and life will begin to treat you differently. So, getting a little philosophical in this rant here, but it was just a random thought I would have when I express sometimes, like, I'm feeling, like, discouraged about training. People are like, I see you're going through a really hard time, man. I'm like, it sucks, but, like, it's going to end, you know? It's not that dramatic. It's part of life. It's an injury. I'll get over it. So, yeah. I don't know. That's my perspective right now in my car right now that I'm driving to the gym. So, I'm going to go do some rehab stuff. I'm going to do some rotator cup exercises with zero pounds and have a grand all time. So, I'll see you guys there. But, rehab update. I've been doing a lot of postural stuff, like I was doing abs, neck. I don't even know what you'd call half the stuff I do, but it's, like, strengthening my posture, doing a bunch of, like, psoas, hip flexor stretches. Because, for me, a lot of what fucks my shoulder up is that, like, this is good posture. I sit like this. People always see videos of me. They're like, Chris, I thought you were 6'1". You look like you're 5'11". That's because literally, imagine going from this to that height when I stand up tall. Shoulders rolled forward. Shoulders rolled forward. Pressing like this. Not good for your shoulder. Good posture. Pressing like this. Good for your shoulder. So, I fucked my shoulder up and I need to fix my posture. I've started with a neck extension banded. So, I'm literally putting a banner on my head, pulling back, really strengthening the back of my neck muscles so I don't have that, like, tex neck, gooseneck thing hanging forward. Trying to fix that posture. From there, going on to external rotation, side-lying, dumbbell unilateral. On my bad arm, I can't use any weight at all. I was using a fat grip just to increase proprioception in that muscle. The more you squeeze, the more muscles you're using. And it's hard doing that with no weight on this arm. On my other arm, I can do 10 pounds. So, like, pretty huge weight discrepancy between there. After that, I do a prone, pronated shoulder extension. So, lying on my stomach. Straightening back. Same thing. Building up that postural stuff. The subscap, traps, all the good stuff that I need for my posture. After that, I do a dead bug iso-swiss ball groin squeeze. So, just an isometric hold with a medicine ball between my legs. Keeping my pelvis tucked. D to B, as Justin likes to say. Squeezing the shit out of the ball for 30 seconds. Again, postural strengthening the core, frame, everything. Everything's locked in tight. Because as you strengthen everything around the muscle, it all gets stronger. And then, side-lying TVA hold diaphragmatic breathing. Same kind of concept. Training my diaphragm to be stronger. Locked in, strengthen my core. And when I was super injured, like before when I couldn't even lift my arm and move it, Justin said there was this thing that's called that I love the name of it. And I might butcher it, but I think he said it's called Surrounding the Flaming Dragon. Which I just sounded sick. My list was getting in the way of me there. But essentially, that's training everything around the muscle that doesn't hurt. So, like if shoulder hurt, I was literally just doing abs. And he was trying to do like crunches with one arm up, one arm up rotating. And I couldn't even do that. So, I literally just had to put my hands on my stomach and rotate. I was doing the side-living, TVA diaphragmatic holding. Just on a knee with my leg out. With my hands on my belly. Because I literally couldn't put my hand anywhere else but right here. So, I was literally doing pretty much whatever I said I could do like this. Whether it would be abs. I could have these little like hand things where I could train my hand a little bit. Just strengthening that with like a little bit of band. Doing a little bit of legs and calves like I could without hurting my shoulder. But strengthening everything around the muscle. Because as you're stimulating blood flow, lymphatic drainage, overall recovery in the body. It's also going to help whatever the injuries recover. Because I believe the methodology behind the traditional Chinese medicine stuff. So, that's as simple as my rehab is. And I can imagine you guys understand why I get bored coming to the gym every single day doing that. But I do feel better actually coming to the gym to do that. If I'm at home like lying in my living room with Bradley running around or something like that. I'm kind of like mmmmmmm I'm just not going to do it you know. So, I come here I'm like alright I'm in the gym. Time to do it. I'm going to build the routine so that when I am able to train again I'm used to showing up to the gym and locking in. If I can lock in doing boring stuff like this I hope I can lock in doing more exciting stuff. Trying to get jacked and huge again. So, I'm going to have a crazy transformation after this recovery is my goal. I'll go from skinny back to jacked and shredded. I'm going to head over to work. Maybe bother some people in the office. Do my thing. And I'll update you guys over there. Alright so this is the crib. I've never really done a full tour of my office. So, if you guys want a tour. This is my office. And there's your tour. But I am currently eating a lunch on my strict ass diet plan. And it consists of quinoa, beans, and chicken thighs. I've been living off chicken thighs lately because I've had chicken breasts for too many years of my life. And chicken thighs taste way better. So, I'm allowed to eat. Rice, grains, oats. Really the only carb sources I can truly eat are berries, beans, and quinoa. So, that's what I'm going to eat. That's about it. Also, this is what I love. Seaweed. Seaweed. Apparently, I have extremely low iodine and my thyroid function is a little low. And thyroid requires iodine to function. So, I'm eating a shit ton of seaweed every single day to get into that. But, I'm going to eat this. And then, Maddie said that we have a few Bum Energy samples that we need to sample. So, I'm not really supposed to be drinking my Bum Energy yet, but I'm going to go on and take a few sips today because diet starts tomorrow, always. And then, we have a call with a really cool ass branding agency that we're building something really fun for under Raw. A kind of side segment of Raw, which I'll keep you posted on when we are ready to announce it. But, that's going to be the day. I'm going to eat this. Also, apparently, I'm supposed to calm my mind and my nervous system, rest and digest, and eat in a calmer state. So, maybe, I'll probably never do that. But, it is what it is. I'm going to eat this. Go try some energy. Get on this call. And I'll see you later. Taylor, what do you do here? Just try stuff. You don't do shit. That's why all the products taste so amazing. Because you try them? Yeah. Number one rule. Maddie, what are we doing? We are... Honestly, I don't know what we're doing. We're trying some shit. Just a little bit. I mean, it's not good, but it's very high. Good flavor. I'd maybe tone it down to 5% and see if we can fix that talkiness. This is regular Sunshill? Sunshill? GPC. Oh, that's it. 150,000. I'm going to eat too. Mmm. Dang. Oh. That's no good. Try it. Someone else try it for me. I'm going to eat too. I'm going to eat too. I'm going to eat too. I'm going to eat too. I'm going to eat too. I'm going to eat too. I'm going to eat too. I'm going to eat too. I'm going to eat too. Try it. Someone else try it for me. I like this one that was on this side. I've shredded. I literally spat that out. V3? CJ Dubs 8 pack pose. Do you like this? The V2? I hate it both of them. I think V3 is better than V2. I thought V3 had a worse app. Do you want both of them to? Sorry, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one early end of the day if I ever can they seem slow I have a call at four o'clock I jump in the car get on the phone the way phone on the way home and get out of here but we just had a giant meeting where we brought all the employees into a single room and standing there looking at that it made me really realize like how fucking crazy it is what we've grown over the last four years here you know starting off in the old revived gym leg room or if you guys have ever seen videos of me training legs back in the day back in the day even last prep I was training there but that leg room used to be the entire warehouse and it was predominantly revived and then raw was kind of in the little corner and then we outgrew that moved to another warehouse outgrew that and now we're in this warehouse and we've already filled it up we're not outgrowing it because we can spread out now across the country because we're big enough to kind of go east coast west coast but thought that being said it's absolutely crazy you know seeing everyone in one room and how much things have changed and even more exciting we brought everyone into that room to announce that we're bringing on a partner for raw to kind of help take our business to the next level that's a company out in europe called tqg and they own more nutrition and esn and we were looking for someone to kind of help us essentially excel to the next level someone who was similar to us culturally has similar beliefs in terms of like athlete focus quality focus flavor forward like brand focus not just like giant company essentially because that's not the world that i fucking give a shit about to be completely honest so we met with them and it just seemed like the perfect fit you know they sponsor where's wesley other top classic physique guys which i'm jealous because i wish earth could be under the raw nutrition but maybe one day we'll steal him but essentially they're like us in the future hopefully you know they're a more established organized mature brand than us so we're hoping that partnering with them is going to give us kind of the guidance and help that we need to really take ourselves to the next level you know stepping away from bodybuilding it was so much of my entire life but i knew i wanted to do more than that even when i was in the midst of all that and that's why we started raw by my energy my app all the things and i'm so grateful that i did because even as my retirement was approaching and i knew i was going to be done and no one else really knew what was going on i like had this like at least soulless where i wasn't just coming home to have nothing to do you know i was excited to be able to pour more energy into raw bum energy because in my off seasons i did a lot of that and i'd go into prep and really pull away from the business side of things because i just didn't have the mental bandwidth you know closing the one door of bodybuilding felt like my life was almost ending for a moment not like that's very dramatic but you know like big part of my life but really it just feels like now it just opens so many more opportunities to like energy of life to bring into me an opportunity and i'm really excited to like truly lean back into the business side of things now you know leaning into our athletes focusing on our direct to consumer again and bringing up more innovation flavors product all the kind of shit that like my mind spins about but didn't have the time to do before i can finally pour it back into it and i'm excited you know i want to be able to incorporate some of that into my content now predominantly you know my focus is still gonna be fitness i'm like crippled and broken right now but i should stop saying that my language is my life i'm not crippled i'm currently coming back from an injury positive thinking but that journey is going to be huge trying to get jacked athletic all the things and then i also kind of want to bring you guys along on what we're doing here at the businesses and kind of share that journey because it's a huge part of my life it's where i spend you know all my tired days pretty much and it's something i'm super passionate and excited about so all that to say i'm just so grateful for this opportunity i'm so grateful for all the support you guys have given me over the years between my career through raw bum energy all the things you guys are incredible i appreciate you guys had the best fucking community ever on this journey that is absolutely insane and it's far from over you know there's lots of new things coming and i'm very excited about it we're making a protein bar this year which is sick we've tried to do it in the past we made a raw bar i think it was two and a half three years ago and i want it to be like very specific and it just tasted okay and then a week later it got really hard and we just scrapped it and now we have this absolutely incredible bar that tastes so good that i'm so excited to drop we literally go through packets of the samples so fast because everyone loves them it's a little things like that that like truly i'm excited about like marketing that launching that bring on athletes to promote all the little things something that i'm just truly grateful to have in my life and be a part of so you know life's good i can't complain bodybuilding is done but i have my family got business got my health life is beautiful and i'm just super grateful for it all so thank you guys for following along the journey just be trying to show more of that but for now i'm going to get home see the family eat some food eat some quinoa and beans essentially because i'm stuck on this diet and yeah that's life so peace out i'll catch you guys later one more one one