 naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, I'm trying for everything, specifically, target something that I need to work on, beyond just a hypertrophy aspect, so when I'm doing chest, I'm going to try and focus on opening and stretching because my chest is tight and rolled in. So I started holding onto the X or FAR like the handles, not the handles, the bar, which gives me more of a stretch. Give that little bounce on the bottom to focus on strengthening and stretching out down there. When I do a dumbbell, I'll do neutral. Try and get really deep, maybe rotate a little bit. When I do back, I'm gonna do wide grip, try and focus on round boys a little bit more than lots. Could again, lots pull you down and forward a little bit more, I already have strong lots. So while I purchase, I'm still trying to emphasize the structural bounce stuff that I need to work on, as well as maintaining the muscle that I have. That makes any sense. YouTube's a no-wild, guys, don't judge me. My whole upper body just like rolls forward. Doing a wider grip T-bar row with an extra quarter rep on the shortened length of the movement. Down, squeeze, back down, really focusing on getting that tight squeeze up there. So I'm building the reverse posture muscles that don't pull me forward. And then I'm doing just some like scap raises at the bottom, just trying to move my scapula and lock that in a little bit more at the end of the set. So three sets of flies, three sets of this, three sets of some dumbbell movement. They'll do a little shoulders. Get rolling on the upper body day. All right. All right, so because I know some people are gonna be like one hypertrophy day a week isn't enough to grow. I wanna touch on this, because I understand I get it. But this is the point of having phases of your training where you're focusing on one primary thing so you can actually make progress, rather than trying to fix injuries, increase mobility, hypertrophy, strength, gain, speed. If you're trying to work on all the things or too many things that once you accomplish none of them, or if you have a period, and you have a phase where you're focusing on one thing at the priority, and you have auxiliary things that you're maintaining with, you won't lose on the other ones, but you'll actually make progress on the other. So you need to go through those phases, just like seasons of life. When you're trying to focus on one thing, if you focus on too many, you accomplish none of them. But if you wanna build your business to somewhere sustainable, and then you can pull out of that, now it's sustainable, and maybe put your venture somewhere else and build that till sustainable, and you can go forward. But if you try and launch five things that once you accomplish none of them. So I had a hypertrophy phase. I've had them, I'm trying to rebuild my body now. So in order for A, for my mental insanity, because I like hypertrophy, and B, to not lose muscle, I have one day a week where I'm pushing some weight in the movements where I feel like my body needs, and I feel good while also working on the structural balance stuff in the middle of it, like I talk about. And therefore I don't lose the hypertrophy, but my focus right now is on things like my groin, my external rotators, my feet, my posture, and some other more athletic, rhythmic things that I'm trying to build forward to. So that's the point of having a program and a plan for time that they're doing things. Sure, if your main goal is just hypertrophy, you can focus on that. But if you still don't take periods of time out to fix on negging pains or injuries, a range of the motion and stuff, eventually you will get injured. And that will take you to the gym for the extended period of time, which will actually set you back further than if you had just taken the time to work on the things and prevent the injury to begin with. So the whole idea is you maybe take a step back or you pause for a little bit, but it's so you can take three steps forward instead of injuring yourself and taking three steps back. So that's why I only have one night for a day a week. So a lot of different heads to the doubt than you realize. You don't just have to do upright, which is a little bit more interior or pure real doubt. The rear delt runs through a lot of what people think is the mid delt. So this is a little bit of rear delt with mid delt. And I'm not just focusing on weights pulling me forward. It's because my body's tilted forward and gravity pulling me down a bit. I need to pull the weights back a little bit, engaging more rear delt, helping my body strengthen open up. So it's a theme of this workout if you haven't realized it yet. I'm super set this with overhead tricep extension with the rope. Same thing, overhead because it's stretching into that position where my lats are open. Lifting up my mid back, trying to be open and stretch everything up and back as much as possible. Instead of hunch forward like the rope here. So just trying to do everything in that theme. All right, I wanted to show it from those raises from that angle. Cause I want to show what I'm trying to do on these is even at the end, instead of trying to get extra reps where I go like, I kind of rock my shoulders for a little bit, I'm trying to at least slightly engage my traps and mid back a little bit. So that I'm almost like pulling back and then up here. I'm trying not to shrug or roll forward or do anything, but be pinned back here and lift up and down. Makes you quite a bit weaker. I'm using 20 pounds. That was like my fifth set of these, but still locks you into a better position. And it keeps the weight actually isolated on your delts. I did a lot of shit over the years where I would just hammer it out extra reps. And there's a time and place for that. And I would still do it, but too often in the wrong way, without strengthening the things you need, or why I've had like eight tears in my labor and super spinnatus multiple times. I just did five sets back and forth between the overhead, tricep extension and the lateral raises here. So that's enough of that. I'm going to prop this down to, I don't know, 45 degrees and do my favorite bicep exercises of all time. And again, in the theme of this workout, let me be a little bit low for me right now. I'm a little less mobile than I was a couple months ago, but the theme, pinning back the shoulder blades, stretching the chest and only pulling from my bicep. So I'm not engaging that front. Your biceps actually tie all the way in, up under your delt here by your chest. So if they're tight and only strengthened in that tight position, like if you only curl here, they'll be stuck like that. Your arms will be stuck like this, they'll be rotated in and you'll have shit posture and hurt your shoulders. Or if you strengthen your bicep in the lengths and position and you get them strong back here, it'll be much easier to hold your posture. So you can tell my obsession this year is posture because I ruined it. I'm not focusing on this shit through too long. So better late than never. All right, so important part of this one is getting into the position properly. If you can't get into it as decline as it is, incline technically, but more incline makes it easier. However you want to phrase that, then incline it more. Lift the bench up. But you literally, I need to start by almost like pulling my elbows back to get my biceps over my lats and then I'm behind my lats. Now like tuck down and use the bench like slide up and you're really like pinching your shoulder blades back and then you supinate your wrists as far as you can. So your curl isn't close to your body. It's actually farther out. Get even more of a stretch and then just control the weight because you're in a very stretched position. All right, so that's a wrap on today's workout. I know it's a lot different than a typical, especially hypertrophy workout of mine, but I'll try and go through a lot more of the workouts of this current phase. But for example, I'm hitting volume on the muscle more throughout the week than just this. So this is my hypertrophy day, but there's still movements throughout the week. For example, let's say for shoulders, while I'm still working on stabilizing my shoulder with my core and my pelvis tilted with a little bit of like a lateral stability movement. So like I'll be on the ground half kneeling with a landmine, hips tilted forward, abs crunched down so my ribs are in line with my pelvis so everything here is locked in. And I'm lifting the landmine up with two hands really heavy and then lowering it down really controlled. So while that's technically working on a lot of stability and stuff that's gonna help a lot more than just tricep and shoulder, it's also working my tricep and shoulder. So throughout the week, I'm getting more volume on the muscles than just what you see here. This is just like the little bit of sprinkle on top, if you will, of hypertrophy, like I said, to make sure I'm keeping a little bit of gains on my body right now. So that being said, it is filming day for me. I asked this one about your ship for app and for raw and a bunch of other stuff because I haven't done much work at all, like I said, in about six weeks. So time to start slowly rolling back into life. As I said in my New Year's video, there's a lot of really cool changes that are coming up really soon in life. Some fun announcements, some fun changes. But for now, I gotta work, get home, see Bradley take her to the park and do our routine because it's one of my favorite parts of the day. That's what I got. All right, so this is our daily four to five o'clock ritual between me and Bradley. I don't know if you can see in the backseat back there, but I throw in the back of the car, Courtney gets some time alone with Blake and then we come and play at the park. The sun is setting, excuse me, are you in back there? But she's the most patient little girl in the back of the car and she used to hate it. All right, but yeah, she's probably gonna get pissed sitting back here because we're already at the park and she wants to get out there and party on the slide. So this is our ritual. We come out here, we play on the slides, we play with pine cones and acorns and sand. And certainly like going to slide anymore, but that's my call. We're gonna go with the park. Gotcha. Motan, you ready? All by yourself. Three, two, one. Whoa. Ta-da. Me, my turn. Watch out. Gotcha. This for me? Thank you. You okay? You gotta keep your shoes on, I know. You got sand in them. I got sand in mine too, it's okay. This is the stick at the park stuck in the ground. When I gave, I'm planning my first life lesson for Bradley. I first was like, you can't pull it out, it's stuck. And then I was like, you know what? No, I was like, it's really hard. You can keep trying though. If you're really strong, you can pull it out of the ground. Gotta encourage, not limit her beliefs on what you can and can't do. Learning.