 narnit석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석석 I have them on a 30 degree incline ramp. I don't know what you call them, but Prime makes these like metal ones that are specific angles that are way easier than a wedge or like a plate under you. But essentially, I'm just shortening the back, the posterior chain of my body. So my calf and my hamstrings. So I can actually get like a deeper squat and then like press off the balls on my feet. So it's kind of like putting me in like an explosive motion. Really getting a huge stretch in my quad like that knees over toes principle. If you're controlling that and you have a mobility great for hypertrophy because you're getting such a huge stretch in your quad. Also good for your knees to be strengthened in that four inch motion. So starting with that safety bar squat. I'm really sad because even doing this hurts my neck sometimes. But if I do like a back squat, my neck is hooked for like 10 days after. So going into the next session, I'll have like a migraine the whole time. So I haven't really been able to back squat. That's why I've been doing front squats and safety bar. They're also a little bit more functional, keeping my body upright into a position to like be explosive and be able to jump like I want to work towards. So not the end of the world, but starting off with this. See how heavy I can get. See how it feels. Let's go to it. Testing out a watch again too. Just curious what my heart rate is. I don't really like wearing these things because I overanalyze the data. Especially with sleep shit when I'm not sleeping good. Like your recovery score is 15 out of 100. I'm like sick. Let's get after it. So I haven't worn them in a while, but I'm going to try it during a workout. Just I'm curious in this like hot gym. I don't like what my heart rate will get up to. It's like Garmin 4Runner because I'm a runner. Trackstar. Hybrid athlete over here. Right now in this like phase of like trying to get leaner and put on strength. I just get so bored of doing steady state cardio. So I want to start doing like circuits of shit. Like I have the rower and skier here and some shit. I have a rower at my house now and like a ball throw. So I want to like incorporate more HIIT workouts. Monitoring my heart rate to like go up to like. My heart rate can get up to like 180 for a brief time and then come back down to 140. And I can like float up and down there for at least 30 minutes. Because I have a pretty high heart rate. And be fine doing that. So I'm just going to monitor it and see if it helps me. Because my goal this year is to be like big and strong. But I'll still have like a healthier, more relaxed, calm heart rate. Which probably a lot of that too is just being in a more chill state and actually relaxing. But also trying to different parts of cardio and not wanting to be on a fucking inclined treadmill walk for an hour. Because boring as hell and I'm retired now. Oh. Oh. Oh. Alright, I hit like 180 there. I can't bitch about being tired anymore. Because on the last 5th we left for our trip, Bradley hasn't slept through the night. And I was in the trenches with Courtney for a while. But then Courtney or Bradley will just get so much more pissed if anyone other than Courtney tries to hold her. So if it's that night and I grab her from Courtney, she just starts like freaking out and reaching for Courtney. So I've been sleeping alone in the bedroom while Courtney has to go out there and sleep with Bradley. And then I like not sleeping through the night either. I'm just like, I get up and my heart's racing and I just like can't sleep at night. And I wake up like exhausted. And then Courtney's sleeping on a chair with Bradley on her chest. And the first couple nights I'm like, oh fuck, I'm so tired. And she just looks at me and she's like, I'm like, just kidding. I'll shut my mouth right now. And then when I shut my mouth, she'll ask me like, do you sleep all right? I'm like, not really. She'll be like, I'm sorry, babe. Like, we'll try and get your sleep better. And then she's like, understanding. I'm like, there's a trick to this, boys. Keep your mouth shut. That's the secret to life when you have a baby. It's just taking me a long time to learn it. Stubborn man. Stubborn man. My body is smoked right now. I feel like I'm in prep. This is where I need to pretend I am in prep. Not be a skinny little fish and finish the workout. Some days you just come to the gym and you're just absolutely smoked. It's hard to explain. I just feel like my nervous system is just fried. Like high cortisol, bad sleep. Just like going, going, going, going. Funny, being in Olympia prep, it's like on these days, it's just like, it's not even a thing. It's just like, you're like, I gotta fucking show up anyways. You know, it doesn't matter. You know, that famous quote, the days where you don't want to are the days that separate you from the people who don't do it. You know? You want to be elite. I still want to be an elite athlete, so I just gotta maintain that mentality. I'm not be a skinny bitch. Fucking just drive your body into the ground. For real, man. Bringing back masculinity back. Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye People have the same problem as me on the lying leg curl. These things are so beneficial. You can get a construction kneeling pad and put it in your gym bag or a yoga pad like this. I put it right there so my knees are on top. A, it's softer but B, it just lifts. As my knee is bending like this, it lifts me up here more so I'm getting a deeper stretch in my hamstring so I can actually get a full range of motion. Otherwise, this piece is too high relative to the pad so my legs are straight. My legs are still bent and there's not tension on it so just able to actually load the hamstring in the most stretched position. A little hack that I also just discovered by accident. I think I was sitting there one day and I lied on it and I was like, holy shit that feels way better so give it a shot. I need sodium right now. I didn't used to be a big fan of this product because it was very based off endurance and I like to eat a lot of sodium with my food. Then I started actually taking it into a workout when I was sweating a lot and it fights my nausea which is weird enough. I don't know if that's a common thing or not. I'm like, kick a sodium will fight my nausea when I'm at the end of the workout and I feel like I'm gonna fucking throw up. Plus, there's no artificial shit in it. There's some organic cane sugar and people are like, oh, there's sugar in it. I'd rather some natural sugar while I'm working out. It would give me a little boost of fuel. I don't know. Tastes good though. And I need salt. I'm gonna sweat my ass off. I feel like the last few videos I've been talking, joking about the words you speak and put out there and I'm a huge believer in self-talk and the way you speak to yourself really depicting the way you feel and the way you show up. I talked about a thing in the last video about not vocalizing anything like a complaint. Having a coach in that situation is very helpful because he can correct you and try and put you in the right mindset and that's why having a coach is so incredible. But to have the ability to allow yourself to express discomfort and then to internally have a conversation with yourself and be like, yeah, it's hot and you're tired but you're here so finish the fucking workout. Show up. Put in the work. Don't be a skinny bitch. Do your thing. You're a little lazy. You talk to yourself. I remember even when I was in prep and I would be in here alone, I'd like look in the mirror. That's super fucking cheesy. But I was out there, come on champ. Like, let's go champ. Like, come on. Like talk to myself like that. Like, I don't get tired. It doesn't fucking matter. You're going to do it anyway. So just do it. Stop thinking about it. Just like show up and like you have a goal, you're working towards something, you're here for a purpose. Like just do it and being able to like have a personal conversation as opposed to a coach conversation, that internal dialogue, you know, your character, your self is what you bring around with you everywhere. So if you're able to have that conversation within yourself, I feel like you're way more resilient to discomfort and challenge than if you're relying on someone else to be telling you what to do and how to think. So coaches help absolutely huge. I had one through my entire career and especially into like the X's and O's of doing things. But if you can coach yourself mentally through hard times, not just suppressing feeling something shitty, but allowing that shitty feeling to come up and then to work yourself through it and get the job done anyways. That's a leap. At least that was my champion mentality. Everyone does it their own way, but that was the way I operated. So still channeling that post retirement. I'll be seven years old and my kids will be like, I'm tired of that champion mentality. Suck it up. I feel like shut up, dad. Some people go down for others. It's a hermetic of these therapies, right? It's pushing the body to be more resilient. Alright, so headed down to Miami for a day trip. We're gonna spend the night, but I wanna get home to the family. Gonna do podcasts with Mr. Gary Brecka, the ultimate human himself. Guy's kind of like a legend in biohacking and health and whatnot. And met him to do the podcast. We have some affiliation through some of the peptides that I've taken. I don't know exactly what we're gonna talk about. Maybe this will just be a more chilled laid back one. Maybe more optimally for me, I can talk about some of my health journey and be able to ask him some questions because he's a hell of an expert and knows a lot of cool stuff. He also has this really crazy biohacking house. So we're gonna like do a little tour of all the get, gadgets and gadgets and all that stuff that he has. Cause eventually I would love to have something like that in my house. I love that kind of stuff. Like been doing this like eboo ozone therapy, having the sauna in my backyard, having a hyperbaric chamber, just a bunch of really cool stuff. It's like optimized health that not needed for health, but like, if you have access to it, they'll make you healthier. Why not do it? And even in the season of my life now, like post bodybuilding, health is my priority. Like I've said a few times recently, like I don't necessarily want to inspire people to be bodybuilders. I want to inspire them to, people driving motorcycles like crazy here. I want to inspire people to get in the gym workout, create discipline and live a healthier life, which is my goal now. So people like this are how you do it. So if you guys want to learn about a lot of health, he has a lot of people on about like detox of like heavy metals, mold, a lot of that kind of shit stuff that I am dealt with in the past and I'm still dealing with kind of mold and stuff. And a lot of gut health issues. So he's a wealth of knowledge. So if you guys ever need to dig into some stuff, definitely check them out. But we're going to go do that podcast and I'll give you guys a tour of his biohacking home slash facility compound. I don't even know what we're getting into, but it should be dope. Welcome to my very empty house. I love it. It's under renovation. Good job, brother. So they say that only the most enlightened monks can get into a true beta state. Yeah. Like it's a state where you're devoid of all thought. But so this, this will, it slowly warms up, but it has a, an infrared, near infrared wave. So a light wave, a sound wave, and then a pulse electromagnetic field wave. So when you combine sound, light, and magnetism, when those three harm frequencies harmonize, every cellular structure in the body responds. So you put on these data wave headsets, and you'll close your eyes, and, and you'll think like five minutes has gone by. Mm-hmm. And then when you open them and like, look at your phone, it's been 90 minutes. Whoa. You're like, wow, there's, there's no sensation of the compression. You're walking the game. I mean, yeah, this is all, um, centrifugation, sterilization, historic, you know, IVs in here. I have a hood down here where I actually make IVs. And you, this is just for you? It's, me and, and I see one client that I'm curious. Uh, so this is a hydrogen nanobath. And I kid you not, of all of the things that I have, I've seen the most miracles with that. Really? Knees, hips, shoulders, rotator cuff, low back. I, I kid you not, I have put people into that tub, crippled with arthritis. And they will skip out of here, but they won the lottery. I can one. Watch Sean Ryan's podcast. You sweat. Cool. And eventually you're hurting. This is the big part of the stream. This is the podcast. Welcome to the podcast, Chris Bonstead. Thank you, sir. It's an honor, it's an honor to be on here. You know, I find a lot of people who reach a high level of success are kind of potentially compensating at the beginning. Hmm. And when I started to feel like maybe I was seeking a sense of belonging or validation, my journey began to become more than just like becoming a better body, but a better self. How can I use the challenge, pushing myself to new limits to discover parts about myself I didn't know before and become a better version of myself and to be able to grow mentally, spiritually, emotionally, relationally along this physical journey. You shift your focus to your health. And then, so then everything I would put in my body. Cause that moment, that moment made it, threw it in your face. Absolutely. You're like, whoa, I'm not immortal. I mean, coming out of that. So I still competed in that Olympia where I ended up in the hospital. Probably shouldn't have done that, but I was very stubborn and I was on, I had a journey, a goal. I wasn't going to quit on it. Especially in bodybuilding, where it is so subjective, you have no control of what the judges do. Yeah. So if you're trying to beat them or do what the judges do, and then the judges switch what they want, then you're just pissed cause you didn't do what you want. So you might as well just be doing it for yourself, creating the body that you are proud of, that you think is the best, and being the best version of yourself. And there's no way to continuously improve unless that's your goal. Thank you for having me on. Thank you for coming on. The privilege. Excited to learn lots more from you. Oh, we're about to start our journey too. For sure. We'll report back. Maybe we'll jump back on in a few months and see how it's going. And until next time guys, that's just science.