 rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez rez to do this of like is this is this affecting my life too much like is this you know all of the things like I have a daughter on the way it's helping us get into your your headspace so people understand why like why you would actually contemplate retirement because it's easy for an audience to look on the outside and just be like well you're going for one more right yeah no I mean that's literally like some of the reflections I've had since 2018 it was like that year after in the 2020 even then I was still like if I didn't have this illness imagine what I could do I could probably win 10 but this is gonna hold me back like I felt like it was a negative and then I like over time I realized it was actually the thing that was making me like who I was and it was attributing to my like internal success as well as my external like even just a constant there's this like poem or something I read forever ago but like every man needs to experience being powerless at one point in his life to just so that like no amount of success can like change him and you'll forever remain humble because you know at any point you could lose it all and you could be completely powerless and once you experience that like you it's hard not to just be grateful for what you have and just like learning how much that shifted my mind over the years to be like this is bonus like it's not like I could do more without this like no I could have had none of this and I'm lucky to have any of it just got off the phone call with Mark and Tad the director producer for my documentary they were updating me on everything that's going on with the first episode they're just finally like nailing up the timeline for it it's pretty crazy I didn't understand how much went into this but people are like asking me when the documentary come out and they have like I don't know a lot of editors working around the clock like seven days a week like eight hour days just editing through all the footage because there was like 50 terabytes thousands thousands of hours of footage they had to watch back hundreds of my old youtube videos find all the themes that were talking about the documentary from old videos and tie them all together create a timeline over three episodes which is absolutely bonkers just stacks of hard drives and old footage that they had to organize and sort through to like pretty much build the story of my life and have it make sense and also have like a deep message and like purpose behind it all so there's a lock one of those documentaries this is not like a youtube video this is like real deal like high level documentary which is super excited for you guys to watch and get into but they were describing to me the first episode it's kind of like taking me through my my younger life going back and forth from present time to like me turning pro me competing in my first pro show me get winning my first olympia and like how young and innocent I was and how I had no idea where I was going to get to and then the pressures that started to come along with that tying in even themes was like adaptations I had as a child of like kind of like numbing and suppressing how I feel not wanting to be a burden to other with their emotions and have that tied into like me as a champion of like feeling pressure and not really wanting to share how I felt and holding that all in and kind of like pushing everything down just to get through a prep and leading to me numbing out which led to the theme in my one speech where I talked about if you numb the bad you numb the good and you don't really get to fully enjoy the experience so there's a lot that's going into this and I can't wait for this to be done for you guys to watch it because it is going to be an absolute movie it's going to be three movies technically a three-part series and the goal is to have like an actual genuine deep message behind it that people don't just feel like they're inspired to go lift weights but like you see like a raw and like deep human side to myself in it and you know like I'm just a kid from Ottawa who found something he was good at and put a lot of time into it had a lot of rocky roads along the way and somehow made it out on skates so hopefully it comes out at the end of this year I'll be keeping you guys updated maybe get some teasers and some cool stuff to come but it's going to be a hell of a documentary and I'm pumped for you guys to see it Are you here? Is it all for it to come out? Like are you, is it like vulnerable for people to see like three I feel like the first time I watch back some of it I'm like I said that I'm like sweating and like cringing down in my chair especially if we have like a premiere like event and people are around watching I'm in the theater I'm probably going to leave I gotta go I'm definitely a little because I share a lot vulnerably but like this is beyond anything I've ever shared so it'll be definitely nerve-wracking yeah whenever I do abs in like a public gym like a crunch my back creates a perfect suction cup to the floor and now they lean up it makes like a fart noise and if I'm ever like a hotel gym I like I can't do abs like I can't every time I go back like especially if you're in like a quiet hotel gym no there's like a couple people in there and every time just farting like all right so goal is to run a mile I've always joked saying I hate long distance but I want to be able to run so a goal of mine going forward is to be able to run a fast mile I think I'm gonna say eventually I want to be able to run a seven eventually I'd love to run a six minute mile but like in the next year and a half like 2027 before 2027 I want to run a seven minute mile just one not trying to do a marathon just a fast mile and everyone's like you have to run slower farther to run faster and all that bullshit that everyone says well we'll figure that out as we go but I'm just gonna try one right now I'm gonna guess I can get one done in sub 15 minutes I'm gonna have to break and walk I've tried to do this in the last couple months and I cannot run one mile without having to break to walk so I'm gonna warm up a little bit and then I'm gonna turn it off and then I'm just gonna go and then I'm gonna see what my speed is to run a mile write it down on the board write it down on my phone see what it takes and then I'm gonna try and beat it over time so two of my goals will be dunking a basketball or running a fast mile we're about to see how long it takes me to run a mile so don't make fun of me I haven't ran since high school so this could be rough I'm gonna warm up right now though this isn't that yet I feel like there's like a way to warm up where once you get your heart rate goes up you get better so I gotta like get there yeah whoo, it's gonna be tough I need a Garmin watch like the cool kids my heart is probably 190 right now are we ready? game time this is my future ahead of me next thing you know I'm running an Ironman man Way better than I thought I'd be. Gotta speed it up. Gotta beat 10 minutes. Damn, that was way better than I thought I would do. 9 minutes and 50 seconds. It's not bad for a retired old man. Holy shit. The fact that I pulled it up to like a 9 miles per hour and I felt like I was like sprinting and people do like marathons at 13 miles per hour is beyond me. I don't know if this is accurate but it's in my heart rate to only 1.41 right now. Maybe I'm meant to be an Ironman. New career. This is the confidence boost. This is easy. This is like no those like Instagram reels making fun of everyone like you said. Put the glasses on, the headbands, the short shorts with the leggings underneath, the nipple tape. Game over. That was tough. I was seriously surprised myself. After I got to 4 minutes I like told myself I was going to slow down. So I was about to and I was like I can keep going a bit. 5 minutes came like I can keep going one more minute. Great workout. Boston Marathon 2026. Just waiting for my invite in the mail. Is that like an invitational only kind of thing? If you see this video maybe I'll get a ASIC sponsorship. What's the coolest running shoes right now? How did the legs and everything feel? My hip flexors were feeling it. I could feel my body like rotating and this hip flexor was just like tight. But honestly not that bad. My knees felt alright. It's such a small range of motion that you can kind of just take it. Whereas in bodybuilding when your knees hurt and you're trying to do a full squat like you're screwed. Hell yeah. Not bad. See how my hips feel tomorrow. This is going to become the goal board. Either the WOD board or the goal board. We'll start with this. What's the date? April 29th. I'm going to go out of the bell for a second. It's official. I'm a runner now. The downfall of my career. Be 120 pounds. By next April I'll be 120 just fucking sprinting down the streets. It'll be a professional high rocks athlete. Could be. Urs will be coming to your high rocks. Urs will be. Yeah. He'll be cheering me on. Oh my god. They won't let him in there. That was good. So literally this time last year I was just committing to doing the Olympia again when I didn't know if I was going to do it. Next week is Pittsburgh Pro. I went to the Pittsburgh Pro and I told Hani like we're locking in for another Olympia. And it's pretty crazy now truly not having an Olympia this year. It's been different than I expected in a good way almost. I was told and I expected and almost like prepared myself to have like this huge gap and this void and this grief of something missing in my life. And I still have a little bit of like knowing there's something missing but it feels more directed towards the fact that I can't fully train right now and I just miss training. But the actual Olympia itself. It's weird. I don't feel like there's something missing in me like I thought I would and it's still so early. Today I'm sure as prep comes this is still me setting myself saying I'm sure I'll feel X. I don't know what I'll feel is the truth. But like when it comes to the time where I should be in prep and I see everyone else getting close to the Olympia having that singular goal. When the Olympia is approaching when I'm at the Olympia and I'm not getting on stage you know there may well there be a huge like gap of something I'm missing. And so far this year since the Olympia has just been such a sprint. Something in my mouth. I went from the Olympia to traveling to doing this deal with Rob where we were partnering with this German company. Bradley becoming turning a year old. I have a one-year-old baby now which is absolutely crazy. And typically I have these four months at the beginning of the year to like let my body relax. Try and relax and try and get healthy and heal injuries I might have and then you lock right back into it. And I've never had in the last decade I haven't had time to properly give my body and my mind the chance to like relax and to grow. And I'm realizing that like there's this idea of like I saw this quote forever ago. It was like we think that when we heal when we do all the things that we need when we do all the give our body what it needs take the breaks that we need then we can relax. We've earned the right to relax but in truth we need to relax to be able to heal. You know so it's relax isn't the reward for healing it's the condition that makes healing possible. And now that my body my mind has been able to relax a little bit I'm still busy but like to take off the pressure of the Olympia being so like big and this huge thing I have to lock in for. I can like miss a few things fall off for a little bit and just like focus on family and not worried about being an ex at a certain time. Like this morning I was leaving to go work out and Courtney wanted to work out and I was going to go to gym later. I was like you know what I'll sacrifice my workout because like I'm injured anyways. You go out in the garage train I'll watch Bradley and then I'll show up to work late and it is what it is. And having a little bit of flexibility just like it's starting to cause like a deeper sense of like pressure relieved off of me. It's honestly nice and it's different than I expected and you know with Bradley like I said hitting one year old right now it's like as a father in the beginning your role is kind of supporting your wife and the mother of your child. And then you start to build a bigger and bigger bond with your child and now Bradley's one and she's like looking at me doing something she knows is wrong and like smiling and like nodding her head and running off and starting to get her little personality coming out. And it's so incredible to like be with her and the other day I was watching her for like a couple hours and I'm like on the ground. She runs I jump up and run after her. I'm on the ground rolling around with her and like I couldn't even do that stuff when I was full off-season bodybuilding. I'd be exhausted. Be stuck on the floor. Now I'm trying to run a mile trying to become more mobile more athletic while also staying fit and jacked and you know my goals are just lining up with what's truly important to my life. For so long I wanted these goals that led me to success and that led me to being a better bodybuilder and a better competitor and a more competitive attitude to be able to lock in in times of distress and handle pressure. And like that helped me so much and I've learned so much but now it's like how can I slow down? How can I like operate at a level of achieving success that's important to me that fills that external reward that I still care about? But on top of that what's most important is how can I have the capacity to disconnect from that and connect with my family and physically feel vibrant and healthy and have the energy to run around and play with my child. And to have my goals shift into a way it felt like everything just happened like so perfectly and there's definitely been a little bit of an ego death occurrence. I just watched Aaron Rodgers documentary and I loved it. He was talking about his ego death and everything and that's a concept that I like studied while I was in bodybuilding because I knew the time would come where it would end. And you know maybe this is a full video I could get into and talk about this for a while but like you know I haven't posted on Instagram because I haven't been training and I'm typically my training was all revolved around the Olympia and is it going to lead to less followers? Is it going to lead to people giving less fucks about who I am and following my journey? And you know maybe it very might well and I started to feel like I for a moment I like almost cared about it and I caught myself and I was like do you really care if you lose all that or any of that goes away? And I mean the honest answer was a little bit but not really you know I'm not fully detached from it to be completely honest. I still very much get validation from other people's opinions and I'm not that enlightened yet but I can feel the detachment from it and the awareness of how much stronger it used to be and just feeling like the separation from this old self that I used to have that cared way more about that. And that's like the concept of this ego death is like your ego's intention is to just to not be surprised to be in control to be right you know you'd rather be right than be happy that's your ego. Now I'm like that old sense of self that was so comfortable and understood that like success and bodybuilding and your body and your strength leads to this and external validation and success and all this but like you can separate yourself from that completely and just like if you lost all that and still had you know my health and my family and Courtney and Bradley and all that like I really wouldn't care. And it's so incredible where I had both before and now I have this understanding if I lose one I still have the other and completely fine. So it's this interesting like separation of a past self and you know nothing changes if nothing changes. I mean I'm kind of rambling like crazy right now but that concept like truly I was in Groundhog's that year after year like this hero's journey of like win the Olympia and then like have this like lull of do I still want it? Usually an injury that bring me down even lower and then this like need of a surgeon back from that to rise back top and then win another Olympia and then repeat repeat repeat and it was such a cyclical pattern that I was in that my I was kind of tapped out on like my growth of my identity. I was stuck in this box of what my identity could grow and become and now that the box is cracked open and I'm free to become and do whatever I want. It's scary. It's liberating. It's different. But like the only way to grow is to change and you know there's only so much you can grow into doing the same thing every year being Mr. Olympia year after year but you know the change was scary but I'm very grateful to finish this off that I made that decision. You know I really sat with myself for years to really evaluate what my what my values were and I was sticking to them but they were changing. They were ever changing now that they've changed to a point where what I love so much still loved it but it was time to move on to something else you know and change isn't always like oh my god I hate bodybuilding now and I have to have this distaste for bodybuilding and what it did to my life. I don't believe in that at all I still love bodybuilding and I'm still sad that I don't get to do it but unless I leave that behind I can't grow into something else I love even more. So I think me being able to mature was understanding that I'm not going to have a point where I hate bodybuilding and I'll walk away. I'm going to have to know when the time is to walk away from something I love to create space for something I love even more. I even said that in my Olympia speech impromptu of like you got to open your heart sometimes for more energy to come in and I've been doing just that and you know life's still been busy. I've been moving around but it's been changing and I've been changing I can feel myself changing and evolving as a human as a husband and a father and I'm so grateful you know for all the opportunity I have to do so. So it's been good and I want to I want to continue to bring you guys along the journey and the change of my fitness goals you know trying to run a little bit. Don't worry I'm not trying to get skinny as fuck I just want to run a little bit and be more athletic still want to be jacked and shredded but also like being a more calm and patient and present father you know like. I'm not trying to get a meal in a rush out or stressing about my workout. I have less things on my plate I'm going to show up better to my family you know if I'm running out the door we're late for something like whatever who the fuck cares you know. If I didn't eat sometimes I won't eat till 1 p.m. Like whatever I'm in with my family my priority is to go out and do with them and prioritize with them because Courtney took the sacrifice for many years where like bodybuilding had to come first or I wouldn't have won Olympia. So lots of change then you know I want to bring you guys along the journey of what's important to me and how I'm handling it also. Let me try and show you the fitness route the work business route. We got a lot of cool changes on that and I'm super passionate about like the creative marketing side of raw and the brand identity and the vision and you know the message that we want people to feel when they see our brand. So how we're going to be changing that to show so much more of that this year is something that I'm heavily stepping into and getting involved with because I don't really care about the back end of the business of everything. And just like my philosophies on life are changing and I want to share some of those too. So maybe have some solo podcasts where I like voice over a fucking workout talking about some deep shit like that last year I did. Some of you guys liked it. So maybe some more of that will to come all this to say life's been changing. It's been full of ups and down recently. I'm at a good point right now where I'm grateful for all that's happened. You know I still have a part of me that knows I miss it and I'll miss it more as time to come. And we'll see how I feel at the Olympia this year watching people on stage knowing I could be winning another Olympia. I do believe in my heart I could have gotten another one. But knowing that my health is progressing and I feel better in my body and I'm adding years back onto my life and not taking years from my life when I have a family that I need to take care of. There's no greater peace than that in my heart. So that's my biggest value and most important thing to me. So I appreciate you guys as always joining on the journey. If you guys have made it this far in the video, thanks for watching. It's going to be a good year. So keep you guys in tune. And I'll catch you guys next time. Bye. And that's when we bring Melissa and Ian and we start talking about your actually early childhood. We're really trying to get those early videos from your dad. You've been promising to add that there's some like old VHS that he thinks he has. He says he's lost. Yeah. He literally, they came up last time and my mom was in tears. She's like, we've been donating all the bins because they were like hoarding shit. It's like bins and bins of shit. And they donated half of them and they donated a bunch of the wrong ones of keepsakes and they pretty sure the VHS tapes Yeah, so there's someone else right now making this ebump doc Gosh for real hey, I wonder We gotta go to the thrift do we gotta go to that thrift when did they donate them? They said they said it was like six months prior like ah Yeah