 subt subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subtilis subt I would say, like, I'm smoked right now, to be completely honest. And it's, I mean, to get, like, actually real for a moment, like, life is beautiful and there's a lot going on. But, like, there's been so many changes in my life recently, especially, like, from the retirement of competing. And, like, how much purpose and passion I had from such a sole goal to, like, pulling away from that to then, like, the change in, like, what also was a big part of my life, which is social media. And then also now having, like, a child, which is, like, the most beautiful thing ever, but also takes away your free time. And then we go on a trip and I didn't, like, literally, literally didn't sleep on the trip. Like, I was so tired and I don't sleep very well. I don't know if I've complained about enough on my YouTube probably. But, like, when I don't sleep even, when I sleep even worse than I normally do, my body just, like, shuts down and I really lose, like, a lot of, like, mental drive. And, like, I don't know if it's, like, the dopamine or just too high of cortisol. Like, even my memory has been off. Like, recollection of words has been falling off. And I got back from our trip and the night before going in the office I was, like, up, anxious, thinking. I was, like, I just took two weeks off, three weeks off, and now I'm coming back and I have all this shit. I have to go behind on this. I haven't worked out. I haven't done this. I have to do this. I have to film. I have to fucking do all these things. And I was just up thinking and anxious. And then I slept worse. And then the next night Bradley was up all night because she was sick and I slept worse again. And I'm just, like, it builds up over time. So all this to say, pretty much, I still am fucking very human. And having less of a concrete goal of, like, the Olympia, I feel like I've, like, lost a lot of, like, drive and passion right now. And it's honestly been challenging for me to, like, show up and, like, perform for, like, YouTube or show up to work and do everything I need to do. Go to trips and meet people and do the things and all that stuff when I'm not feeling, like, my best self. You know, it's one thing if I'm, like, feeling shitty and I can just, like, go sit at home alone. But, like, there's a lot of front-facing things I have to do to, like, perform. And sometimes that even sucks the life even more out of me. So I don't really have an answer for how to solve this if you guys are going through that. But people who are, like, going through moments of feeling like they have less drive and less passion for their life, you're not alone. I'm in the exact same position right now. All I can say that I've done in the past I'm trying to do right now is figure out what I need, like, what my personal, like, soul needs to make myself feel better. And I know it's sleep, it's consistency, it's routine, it's healthy food. And I feel like when people fall off and they're not sleeping and they feel shitty, you're more likely to, like, binge TikTok and Instagram and eat shitty food because you just want to, like, find good comfort in other places. But that just drives you even farther down. So the people who are actually able to pull themselves out of these slumps are the ones who, when they at least feel like it, they can still show up to the gym and crush a leg day. They're still going home and eating healthy rather than shitty food. They're staying off their phone. They're going to bed when they can, like, doing all the things that make you feel better. So I'm trying to control all the little things that I can in my life right now. It's a season where there's a lot going on. There's a season where I have no free time to myself because I have a baby and businesses and content and things I got to do. And it is what it is. So just kind of doing the little things I can to take care of what I need, whether it's, like, a moment alone, a sauna, reading a book that I'm, like, passionate about instead of going on my phone, driving my car instead of needing to listen to an audio book, listen to some music and roll the windows down and just have a moment to relax because that drive home is my only moment alone that I have. So the little things that help, hopefully, that help. And then over time, you come out of your slump. It's just a season of life. You're not always going to be going up. Sometimes you're just fucking trudging through mud and sand and muck and all that stuff. So kind of where I'm at right now. But it's leg day. So I got to lock the fuck in. And I got to hold myself accountable to do the hard shit. So we're going to go train some legs, get after it. And, yeah, I'm going to do front squats today. So that's going to be tough. But we're going to do it. Good. In the cold gym. I could use a month of hot yoga. My next YouTube video will be, I did hot yoga for one month. This is what happened. And I'll feel incredible. I haven't done squats in so long. I, like, forget how to warm up. Last time I used to warm up squats, I put one plate, two plate, three plate, four plate, five plate, and just go. Those days are long behind me. Damn. Damn. This is way more taxing on my core. This is one of those combos of, like, when you're not recovered and unslept. My ability to, like, push through a heart set. I'm breathing really heavy after. But also, I haven't really done a lot of core stabilizing things. I probably have the strength in some areas of my body to move more weight. But, like, my core and lower back holdings right now is, like, holy shit, like, this is heavy on me. Whereas in the past, when I used to deadlift, like, six plates every week, I could put four plates on my, like, a front squat and just be, like, locked in. Now I'm, like, wobbly and all insecure. My body's insecure. But, yeah. So I got to rebuild all that right now. Rebuild the strong core, strong foundation, and all the lifts around to get stronger. Rebuild the strong foundation. I'm going to put another five pounds on next set. Kind of feels good to be a beginner at something again, though. Sucks when it doesn't. But I like knowing that, A, the amount of work I put into my body the last few years, I adapt quick. But I know when you're really shitty at something and it comes down to, like, stability and form, every week you can progress so much more. Because it just comes from consistency, not so much just the strength you're building. So I'm going to put another five pounds on next set. Hopefully next week I can start heavier. Even stronger at this. When you were at your toughest moments in the Olympia, where were you finding motivation for the workouts? I feel like the difference when I was training for the Olympia was the momentum I had behind me. When you have such a big goal behind you, it's not just like, oh, I'm a week out, it's time to start trying. It's like the year prior, it's building up momentum of like, okay, offseason, take a break. offseason, get stronger, get your food better. And you're building up all these good habits on the way to the point where you have so much momentum of progress and consistency that when you have a tough day, the momentum just like falling forward. You just keep progressing. And you have such a strong goal ahead of you. I had such a singular mission in my life, which is, I think, part of the reason why now I kind of feel lost too. Because it's like a business. It's like Bum Energy. All we sell is Bum Energy. Whereas Rao, we have like 50 SKUs. So it's a lot more complicated to pay attention to each SKU versus just selling one thing. When you have one goal that you're focused toward, it's just head down and work towards it. And then when life usually isn't that simple, you have so much other stuff going on. For me at least, being used to that now, the capacity, it's harder to stay stuck. So I think when I was in Olympia, it was pretty much the momentum I'd built from consistency. And just like the singular passion of drive just to get a singular goal. Like I wanted to be the best in the world, best bodybuilder on stage. And every day was just waking up with that mission. So probably right now, part of what I feel lost is I don't wake up with like a mission every day. It's kind of like, you know, and that's on me. The habits I need to create are like, okay, if I have a lot of shit, I got to get done. Weekends, family. Nighttime, family. Monday to Wednesday, standard. Wednesday to Friday, raw. Bum Energy shoot, playing here. Like I need to be a little bit more structured, especially the way I operate. Because like, I'm not like one of those like pure dopamine driven people who wants to just like fucking run through walls all the time. More of like a mellow, calm, laid back person. If I don't thrive in the chaos the same, I can handle it. But I do better in like controlled structure, which isn't always an option for life, especially when you have a child. But I think maintaining as much as you can is a lot better. My goals are sleeping and training and acts at the same time. At least if I know that, I feel okay. I have that structure over here. When everything else falls apart, I at least have this. So balancing all that stuff. And honestly, in the last year and this morning was an example. I was like feeling overwhelmed. And then Bradley had like had a rough couple of nights, but she wakes up in the morning happy. She's like, she wants to play all the time now. So I'll come out and I'll be like, I'll look at her. I'm like tired. She sees me. She's like, and then she turns and just runs. And like the way a baby runs is hilarious. They're like, they're horrible, like form. They probably run better than me, honestly. I can't talk shit. But then I can't not be in a good mood, you know, like what the fuck am I stressing about when this little baby that I love so much is happy, you know, like it puts things into perspective. So I said in the last video too, but like marriage and family is like the most important thing. And I think having that is just such a beautiful thing to be grounded, keep you grounded. So very blessed. But I also need huge legs. So time for some Bulgarian split squats. Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Neat Ne I think I need an extra fan in here. This corner is missing some airflow. Neat Neat Neat Oh, my God. My head is spinning after these sets. Yeah. It's a little lightheaded. I go lightheaded, like see white, and then there's a pulse of blood to my brain, and I'm like, whoa. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Bradley was sick, and we were, she like couldn't function. She was just like so out of it. We normally don't let her watch TV, but we put on some old school Disney movies. Yeah. We watch Tarzan in Little Mermaid. Sick movies. But it's hilarious as an adult now, so I'm like the weird like a like racist sexual innuendo that are in there. And then like Ariel in Little Mermaid is like, I think she was 16 years old. And just like 12-inch waist, like bra with like cleavage and then like hips. And then this like looks like 30-year-old dude on land pursuing this like fucking adolescent teenager. I'm like this feels so strange, you know? And then Tarzan too. Like everyone's physiques are just so fucking crazy. Yeah. You know, it's pretty nuts. Especially the women. Like Pocahontas, just like chiseled jawline, snatch waist, teenager again, like busting out like. I can't remember the guy's name in Pocahontas. But the dude's like talking about his escapades killing savages, i.e. like Native Americans. And then he goes and falls in love with one. I'm like this is crazy. Times have changed. But like low-key reality though. Kind of the way things used to be. So like my opinion, it doesn't help to hide your kids from reality. You expose them to it, but you teach them what's right and what's wrong and the way to approach things. Whereas in putting them in a bubble where like you pretend like stuff doesn't exist, which it does. So I don't know. It is what it is. I'm going to have to figure out how the fuck to manage that shit and Bradley can understand what they're saying. I mean it's all the same movies that we watched growing up and we all turned out okay. Arguably fine. Yeah, arguably. Depends on the day. Someone brought up like South Park. Yeah. And I'm like that was crazy. South Park is crazy. Growing up with kids with South Park, like that was some brutal comedy. That's why we all have like such dark crude senses of humor, you know. Which turned into like the next generation of like millennials being, well I guess we're kind of millennials. Whatever. That next generation is where they're like coddled and so offended by everything. And we're like, we grew up with South Park. Like nothing bothers us. This workout is hitting all the tempos. So I've had the front squat six reps at the beginning. The middle two Bulgarian and leg curl were ten reps. And then I'm finishing with 20 reps on the leg press. So just getting the body ready to do some work. It's a very random superset. I'm doing ab rolls and leg press. So I never train abs consistently enough. I feel like I've said that for a decade of my life. But if I'm trying to be an athlete, I need a good core. So I'm going to be doing a little ab roll. Let's see if I can still do this. I don't know if I'm the only person who gets this. It's really just my abs. If I don't train them consecutively and then I train them again, I can like tell they're just about to cramp. And if I go anywhere close to failure, if I like sit down in my car or bend down to put my shoe on or something, my abs just like seize and cramp so bad. So I have to like really work myself back up to it. Or I'll just make myself cramp and show you guys so you can laugh at me crying like a little bitch. When I was in cramp, I made it to like end of August. Training in here when it was even hotter and I was training way harder. One day I had a heat stroke in here. I don't know if that's the right word. But I got sick. I got like nauseous. I got like a little flu from being over like exhausted and overheated. And then Hani was like, all right, no more training legs in your gym. Go get somewhere with air conditioning. So I made it to August in prep. And I can't be a skinny bitch right now. Fucking July. It's the last day of July, isn't it? Tomorrow's last day. Tomorrow's last day of July? We got plenty of time. All right. That is a wrap on today's leg and ab workout. I'm stuck on the floor right now. This is another prime example. I started the video talking about like life's chaos, stuff out of your control, being overwhelmed. Stuff that keeps me on track. Routine, balance, family, slow, intentional time, whatever. But nothing really beats a really good workout. I mean, my family beats a really good workout. Bradley's better than the leg day, obviously. But like not many people can deny for having a shitty day and you come in and you train hard, you sweat. Even if it's not the best workout ever, but you push yourself, you get your blood rate, your heart rate going, blood flowing, sweating. You just feel better. I'll say it until I'm blue in the face, but it's just a huge advocate that if someone's life feels out of whack and you're just trying to get your shit together and you don't know what the fuck to do, just start working out. Start with something small that might not be in the direct direction you want to be. But at least clears your head to feel better, to move on and do the thing you need to do, build discipline, all that shit. Just a huge fan of working out. I don't think my career was meant to inspire people to bodybuild because bodybuilding, especially competitively, is pretty fucked up mentally, physically, everything. But weight training and working out, if I inspire people to get in the gym and make themselves better there, I think it's a beautiful thing to help your life.