 What is up YouTube? It's leg day. I haven't had like a bodybuilding-esque hypertrophy pure leg day in probably six months, maybe longer which is crazy, just haven't training legs but which is diff- with a different intent. I was traveling, I'm at the end of a phase, just in building a new program, for me i'm like screw it let's just hit an old school bodybuilding workout no plans get in lift some weight try and get some big legs so what we're doing i've been traveling last couple days hips are tight knees a little sore but there's no time for being a skinny little bitch on leg day so we're gonna get after it i'm gonna train see where my body's at i feel like a lot of these movements are like more coordination skill muscle recruitment than you realize so i'll probably be humbled right now a lot but i kind of miss the days i do and i don't miss the days of like they were in the past where i'd like i remember posting a video back in like 2020 or something where i was talking about the anxiety that i used to feel going into leg day when you're training for a long period of time to the point where for me to get a stimulus out of squats i have to squat 600 pounds or six plates that's a lot scarier than like oh i'm going to squat two plates because i have it in six months and it hurts my legs that difference is drastic so you like earn this rate of the ability to work hard but with that comes like the anxiety of how hard it is to do it so i used to get stressed going to the gym but it was like an excitement like oh my god i know what i'm about to get into this can be a really fucking hard workout and i'm signing myself up to do something very difficult and then doing it and then you feel so rewarded at the end of it so one of the things i love about training especially being an elite trainer is like you need to earn whatever it is if you're a good runner or whatever and it's not that you need to be better than other people you just need to be have progressed for a certain amount of time where pushing yourself you have to push yourself hard to get a stimulus and that makes training more fun so you have to earn the right to get there by training your ass off or something with all that being said it's not really me right now i can get a good stimulus right now so it's going to be effort into the volume not crazy weight today going to be fucking training legs like we used to i'm going to start with some pre-exhaustion stuff on the machines it's going to be good like this so stay tuned that's it that's such a different contraction type than my body's used to being so isolated my quads at my quads were burning after that it was so light but just doing that my quads were like oh like this is hard which is wild and i feel like that's like part of training is switching your stimulus so you can get a response out of less so because i haven't done this in forever the stimulus that will take for me to actually create growth and build bigger legs from this will be much less than if it had been if i was doing the same style of training for 10 years in a row so it's an interesting little idea around people get stuck in their own ways because you find something that works then all of a sudden it works less because your body's used to it you got to adapt it's good to switch things up every now and then all right this is going to be the first working sets i'm going to do i'm going back to the old school days right now i'm going to do two working sets and that's it on things i'm going to do back and forth between line hamstring curl and plate loaded quad extension two sets go hard move on to a more compound movement get on with the workout oh oh oh oh oh i feel like what i was trying to explain before of like you earn the right to train hard it's like it's a mental thing for sure but even physiologically you're like your body can't fully contract every muscle fiber as hard if it's not used to it so i will like fatigue faster now i'm going going and all of a sudden it's like boom i hit a wall and i'm like oh i can't go anymore whereas when i'm more trained or conditioned in this specific style of like lifting my body can push past that threshold more because it's used to it and the muscle fibers have more ability to recruit so i gotta work my way back there but still fuck i'm like going going to rep six i'm like oh fuck like you can do it compound movement today i'm going to do some front squats talk about stuff i haven't done in forever front squats is even longer than that i feel like i on the theme of how i started this video i think a lot about like the idea of doing hard shit people like do the hard stuff all the time and how it's only hard if it's still hard to you and like the basic example of that if i squat 405 for 20 reps then me squatting 405 for five reps is easy to me because i'm used to that and i feel like even training hard every day it's true you're training hard you're doing something hard it's a difficult task it's strenuous it's intense but hard is like stuff you don't want to do doing the hard shit like that saying i think comes from doing things that you don't want to do because they will make you grow they will cause you to evolve because it's uncomfortable to do like something like david goggins running 100 miles might not even be hard for him anymore but him be able to sit at home alone and rest and let his body like take a time to like relax and give himself peace and self-compassion might be the hardest thing for him to do whereas people do too much of that so like growth of doing the hard stuff comes from doing the shit you do not want to do so it's going to come from the thing that you haven't gotten used to and like eventually when you do that stuff consistently it becomes part of your identity and it's not hard to do anymore and then you need to do something else to grow more from that so it's super interesting it's not bad at all if you do something challenging that most people can't do and it becomes so routine to you that it becomes part of your identity that doesn't take discipline to do anymore then you are an evolved being but the goal isn't to be an evolved being it's to continuously grow the endless pursuit of being better so that's where you need to continuously find things that are uncomfortable and adapt stimulus is not only in your training but in life and everything that makes you grow so that's my self philosophical view of why i'm doing front squats instead of leg press in this workout because it would have been a hell of a lot easier for my body right now that's not used to my spine and core holding the weight and absorbing and the coordination and everything like that i'm like fuck it this is going to be harder my nervous system my core and my legs everything it's going to cause me to grow in a much better way so we're doing it today i don't know how strong i'm going to be but i'll be heavy enough to be hard for me to make myself grow so so so so so so so so so so so so like that was humbling how hard that was oh my goodness my head is spinning that's humbling not even 300 pounds taking me out oh man that's the core stability on something like that is exactly what i'm talking about why it's just so hard for me like my upper back hole in the bar up in my core thing locked in felt good though there's something just so much more simple about the exhaustion and heavy breathing that comes from doing like six to eight reps compared to like anything higher volume or beyond that or isometrics or anything just a beautiful simplicity six reps it feels like barely any time at all but it feels like forever when you're under the bar and then you finish it next thing you know you're fucking yoked it's beautiful i don't know why i haven't always had this chair in the gym i was gonna say this looks like a pretty good thing for a lot i feel like i need just wheel around like this all right next thing i'm doing the glute ham raise nordic curl i don't even know what these are really called i think technically a ghr i have a more predominant hamster day coming back up when i come back to my regularly scheduled programming so i'm gonna do this instead of like a barbell thing so am i ready for that in a couple days and i'm gonna do some heavy volume leg press and some lunges to end it smoke it and call it a day content like this i'll be limping for a couple days and i'm gonna do this Oh my goodness. There's just different styles of pain that just feel so good in legs. There's like the six to eight rep, even the four rep like heavy squat where you're just like pushing. But your heart rate is like high, but it'll drop that down because it's a lower endurance. And then do like 30 reps or something where your whole leg is just like shaking and cramping. It's set and you can just do a couple more, a couple more, a couple more. And then you let it in your body just like, ah, relaxes. See, I don't know why people hate leg day. And this is why people don't trust people with small legs. Because if you can't do some shit like that, how can we trust you to carry the boats? Who's going to carry the boats if you can't train leg day? Oh, damn. My legs are going to be cramping in bed tonight. You know those workouts where like get up in the middle of the night to pee, straighten your leg and everything just seizes. And I'm on the side of the bed. Courtney's like, okay, what's going on? I'm like, my legs are cramping. I can't stand. I can't stand. I can't stand. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Lying on the floor after doing 60 reps of leg press. Feels even better. I think that's good for the trunks of my legs. But I gotta do some calves. If it's a classic old school bodybuilding leg day, can't skip calves. I feel like my legs grew. They just need a little bit of blood back in them. Maybe. Maybe. They still exist. They just needed to be bicycle pumped in them a little bit. Well, I even get lightheaded from trying to talk there. That's gonna be it for today's throwback style leg workout. Remember the rules. Hard shit is only hard if it's hard to you. And if you don't train legs, no one, including your girlfriend, will ever trust you. Those are the golden rules of leg day, so don't forget. But in all seriousness, leg day is like the ultimate, like, analogy, philosophy for life of, like, using the gym to do something you don't want to do all the time to create discipline and consistency and carry it out every other way in your life. That's why I love the gym so much. It's what my goal for the mission of Standard, app, and coaching for that to be, of teaching men discipline and consistency through the gym to build confidence and apply it everywhere in their life. And it all starts with one shitty leg day where your legs are cramping, you get lightheaded, and you feel like crap, and you're like, oh my God, why am I doing this? And you walk out of the gym, and you're like, you know what? I feel better about myself. And then it's just that lesson over and over again in life of doing the hard thing that you don't really want to do, doing consistently, and eventually you're confident, and you've grown into a better version of yourself. So that's the lesson from today's leg day. That's all I got. I'm gonna go get some food, and hopefully my legs don't cramp as I sit in my car. So thank you guys for watching. I'll see you guys next time.