 defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence want to sleep she got sick we all got sick it was chaos but it was honestly really nice to have like intentional time together i can finally wear a ring now i've been married but i haven't worn a ring because we wanted to have the official wedding to do this not to get super cheesy with you guys but it's had me reflecting a lot about like love and marriage and all that kind of stuff and i feel like there's a lot of skepticism amongst people that i talk to around it like at least a lot of people which makes sense given like divorce rates are like just under 50 now which means if you're in a relationship with two people i hope or maybe you're by yourself or three i don't know then odds are even higher 50 percent chance of divorce rate there's a pretty much a high rate that one of you guys parents had a divorce so your idea of a relationship ends in divorce if people don't trust institutions no one trusts the government people don't trust religion no one trust family structures anymore so it's become this like negative thing around it but we live in a society that really like pushes like individuality and like self-made selfish pursuits like gain make money do stuff especially like men even or like don't be vulnerable don't lean on people like be the strong person who provides but don't need anything just don't need anything ever it's like this whole mistrust of things and i feel like that's trickled into like marriage and even if it's something that's broken in our society i don't think there's something that's wrong with it in that sense i think maybe our society might be hurting because stuff like that is broken long-winded way to say having the wedding writing our vows having the moments of just like so much focus on love i feel like it made me really reflect that like the most beautiful thing i've really built in my life is my marriage and my relationship with portney and everything is gonna fade the body that i build and work for every day the money you make the business you have it all fades but if you do it right your relationship is the one thing where at the end of life it is at its strongest best point ever and i think there's something so beautiful especially like me like i talk about society we push to be individualistic or whatever that was me i was like convincing courtney when we were young that you don't need anyone you don't need anything relationships are nice but you don't need your partner and all this stuff and learning over time especially with her help of like how important and helpful it is to have someone that you trust in every capacity to like lean on when time gets hard and to share everything that you have going on with it's everything in life when i really think of like everything i've learned in my life if i lost all of it but i had courtney and bradley that'd be great and there's so much like peace in my heart and safety and security that i have in that and i just think it's something that so many people are missing and it's it's hard it's probably the hardest thing that you can build in the relationship but instead of it being something that like traps you it actually creates more like peace and freedom in your life it creates more like security you know someone who can actually hold you accountable they're not holding you back from growth they're actually creating a mirror for you to see your faults in yourself of places where you can get better and if you have a partner like courtney who holds me accountable when i'm not being my best self trust me i have points i can be an asshole it definitely happens where i blurt out things i don't mean and she holds me accountable and i'm able to look and reflect and repair the relationship through it and find what why is coming out of me why it's getting put onto her i think there's nothing in my life more that's made me grow than my relationship with her to make me become a better person a better father better everything and i think just having someone where you know i think whether marriage is so important to me is because you're committing that no matter what you're not giving up on each other like in a life where everything is so temporary right now like stuff is so fleeting marriage is like the one thing where no matter what like we're gonna figure it out we might go through hell go through hard times go through fights but always if our goal is at the end we will always be together then we need to repair along the way and continue to work towards that common goal of being together and i just think there's something so beautiful about that of just like an absolute like i wear this bow on my hand that like i will always put you first i will always take care of our relationship there's so much meaning in that and i think it's just so important to have something in your life like that where when everything else is chaotic and going home you have your rock which is your your wife and your partner and i think in just our world right now it's something that's really missing for people don't really put the same effort they put into like pursuing their fitness or building a million dollar business or all the stuff that they do their relationship which ultimately brings you your most fulfillment and happiness so that was a huge reflection i've been having since getting married and the our wedding was beautiful it was so small with eight people i wrote my vows in the morning by hand and it really had me like thinking and reflecting of how important all these things these promises that was making everything we've been through with each other how all this stuff was and then there was this moment at the wedding i had some drinks in me it was a bit of an emotional day don't judge me this is me already pre-laying this but we had a live band there and the girl was such a good singer and she started singing creep by radiohead which you wouldn't think of emotional song but she made it way deep and i started crying because the song was just so beautiful and i like turned away from my family and me and corny were sitting here and i just like was like looking at her trying to like hide back my tears because like i don't want to cry in public you know i'm i'm vulnerable but i'm still working on it all right give me some grace but it was like such a subconscious moment where like i realized like she's my safe space even around my family like when i have tears in my eyes and i feel vulnerable i turn to my wife because i know the way she sees me with pure love forever is my safe place to just be myself in whatever capacity that that is and just those little moments are just so important like as much as life gets crazy and i'm trying to get jacked to win olympias and do all these things like it comes down to that being the most important thing and that really keeps me grounded such a beautiful thing and i really just want as much as i talk about like getting jacked and pursuing beautiful things in life i also want something that i inspire people to do is to build a meaningful lasting relationship with a beautiful family that they love and to really be a voice of reason that that is the most important thing in life like that's the most important thing to build and to focus on so yeah that's my long-winded dad rant for the day now we're gonna get jacked because that's also very important so getting the gym i haven't i've had two workouts back home so i'm getting back to it since the trip i was eating pretty good i had pizza and baguettes and croissants and toast and bread and sausage and bacon every single day but it's okay because food's better in europe i trained like twice a week and when i was training i was just going really hard and really long and heavy and volume just everything just to keep from losing muscle so now we're kind of rebuilding back a little bit i'll explain more what i'm doing my programming right now but i'm gonna get in the gym get jacked and get back to it because it's time to lock it the in no more traveling no more i'm over this injury olympia's coming up i'm like 10 weeks out of not competing but i still want to be jacked so lots coming on time we got a gym again it is hot in here it's like 100 degrees outside right now still no ac in the gym i know you guys keep saying it's all you see but like i don't want to so i'm not going to and at least it makes my shoulder feel better but update right now training goal right now is increasing work capacity so we're doing some high trip hypertrophy before obviously took like three weeks off got sick traveling training what i could but my work capacity is really low right now so if i'm going to jump in do 100 pound dumbbells for a set of 10 the next set i'll probably fall off super quick so instead of doing like two to three working sets right now i'm doing like a lower volume four working sets just to rebuild that work capacity for my body so that in the future when i'm pushing i can get better everything from your muscle endurance your heart cardio nervous system it takes a while for it's like rebuilt to be able to train hard for a long period of time you can go all out for one set but you want to be able to go all out for a long workout that's how you make the most gains so currently right now that's the goal we're going to be adjusting as time goes on but starting off some shoulder press and some lat pull down my shoulder has been getting a lot better maybe taking some time off vacation was good for it also just started taking a bunch of peptides again the good old BPC-157 tv 500 putting it right there in my shoulder and i was taking it at the beginning of my injury i've taken it through my whole prep but i've taken the beginning of my injury but it's so injured i felt like it wasn't helping and i just got defeated and stopped just started taking it again about a week ago and i feel like my shoulders felt better in a week already so hopefully everything is going to come together and start to get healthier so we'll see but i am doing shoulder press i was doing on vacation neutral grip people are asking why it hurts my shoulder less that's why it's really my only reason so i'm keeping it close and then a neutral grip pull down for the opposite motion antagonist superset i'm gonna go do it yeah yeah No No Ah The goal of this part is ascending load, keeping a 10% intensity spread. And this is why we just launched this thing from my app, Standard Plus. It's like this community with extra education and weekly calls with Justin and some with myself. Because there's these little nuances to training where if you really care, you can actually drive a lot more results. But in this phase of me trying to build work capacity, my goal is to start off with a load where I can get like six reps relatively easily. And then ascending load to go heavier. Or if I don't have the small enough weight increments to do a little bit more reps, like one more rep, throughout the sets rather than going down. So ascending load, you're going up in load as you go on between the sets. And doing that over four sets just allows your body to get used to pushing more and more and more throughout the workout rather than less and less and less. So that's the goal of this one. Same thing on both. It's a four sets of six reps, three second negative, and then just explosive out of the bottom. Same thing on both. defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence defence yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah There's nothing better than sets of six. That's a golden number right there. It's not too short where you're going to kill yourself doing one or two reps. It's not so high, like 10 plus reps where you're just tired and mentally fatigued by the end. It's just like the perfect, like, tired by four reps, push hard through two. See you later. A lot more fun. Ah yeah. at the end of our trip and we all know it so i'll just say it french people have a reputation of being rude and we experience some rude french people but maybe it's cultural differences so i'm not going to label them as rude but you can tell it's not cool to try there like trying to be nice or outgoing or like styling your outfit too hard or being jacked essentially like you're trying too hard something it's not cool it's like that old school version of when you're in school and you're like i don't want to try anything not cool i feel like that's what defines paris at least parisians if you will not defines them what i experience people are getting mad at me even saying this but i don't give a fuck but i could tell there's no gyms there there were like no gyms in paris no one's works out no french people were jacked they were looking at me and they're probably why the fuck do you waste so much time in the gym like you tried too hard they were like looking at me like i was a freak walking around the streets and i was significantly downsized from what i was so there's an interesting difference in culture to say the least everyone's wearing like dope outfits but like minimalist black just like nice pants nice shirt like super simple skinny smoking cigarettes and eating croissants they don't eat croissants every day but they do smoke a lot of cigarettes so it was interesting no jack people in paris so if you want to feel huge walk around the streets of paris the field draft it's hot i feel like i'm bad at this but of like communicating things that aren't helpful i can't remember i think it was like ben bergeron a crossfit book coach with like one of the top female icelandic girls probably they're doing like a winter workout and he made her go do like a run outside and she came inside and he was like how was it she's like cold he's like oh do it again she ran out came back and did it again he's like how was it she's like still cold he's like go do it again how much then she came back in the third time he's like i'm paraphrasing here but like how was it that time she's like good he's like all right you're done she's like teaching her mentally should not focus on the things that are making things harder don't vocalize that it's hot that you're tired that it's cold out just shut up and do the work and some people are impacted that a lot more by others but the brain the body goes where the brain goes so gotta keep my ass from bitching about this heat in here i'm grateful for the heat heat makes my shoulder feel better so i love the heat makes me perform better it's cold in here i've never progressively done like a neutral grip elbows tucked press i'll like throw it in partway through my workout with like lighter weight when i'm already fatigued and i don't do that consistently so now that it's like way better for my shoulder and i'm doing it more i'm curious if i'll ever be able to get up to the 150s like that because traditionally i've just been way weaker like that because i haven't done it so if i can press the 150s as the natty sebum half 90s as that kind of form i'd be fired up then i'd have a huge chest hopefully yeah I don't know. yeah yeah Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right, let's wrap on today's workout. First workout back from vacation, like 11 weeks out in the Olympia that I'm not competing in. God, what's going on in life right now? We have a transformation challenge for my app chance. Holy shit. What the fuck did I just say? We have a transformation challenge for my app launching on August 14th, 16th, 17th. We've changed it multiple times, but it's around that time in this third week of August. So I'm going to be fucking trying to get shredded and jacked throughout that building up towards that right now. Kind of what's going on right now. So we'll be updating you guys on more of that to come for sure. Maybe we'll do a little bit of physique update to come. You can see what I look like post vacation. But other than that, I got to go do a shoot right now so you guys can tag along for that. We've got some food delivered to the gym. I got a nice bison wrap here. I haven't eaten since breakfast. So I've had like four scoops of EAs today because I was not planning on training this late. So I'm going to get some real food in me, go do this shoot. I'm probably not going to have time to shower now, so I'll be sweaty and disgusting. But you guys can't smell me on the camera, so it is what it is. She got sick and we got sick and she got jet locked. We looked at how long after we got into Vitamin Shopping. We were like rolling and it was just like go, go, go. But like it was us, like four people sitting behind a laptop just watching the Shopify tickle. I've never like compared to other brands. We all pay attention. We care about like, our creativity comes from such different spaces. You know like clothing or you know, stuff that has nothing to do with sports nutrition. So like yeah, we all love to work out. We love good quality products. But like when we're building a campaign or it's not like, oh we need to do that. We need to do what we like. We're just doing what we like. The ability to like just make a decision we can do more or two before. And if it fails, we'll be like, oh whatever, like we'll fix it. Now that it's a decision, they're fucking massive. Shit. Alright, so we just had a shoot for Raw. It was just like a little interview with me, Dom and Matt. August is our fifth anniversary. So it's our birthday month and we're going to be doing a really cool like sale celebration birthday thing for Raw. But we were just sitting down talking, reminiscing of like the start of the business and stuff that we've been through over the years. And it's pretty crazy sitting back and thinking about that stuff. Like I reflect a lot about how crazy life is now, but I don't often look back and really remember like all the crazy shit we've been through to get here. So it's pretty cool to sit and talk about that stuff. It's insane that it's been like five years of building this company. And thinking where we started in the back of a little gym to the other warehouse of this warehouse to be on this warehouse and everything. It's crazy. So lots of cool stuff changing. We got that big sale coming up in August. We're working on some really fucking good athletes that we're signing. We just signed Terrence and Keone. So we got the 212 champ, best poser in the game right now, Terrence Ruffin, and some incredible competitors, both champions in their own regards. So super excited about that. Leaning into the bodybuilders. Top of the top of the sport. I can't be on stage this year, but we're collecting some other guys. We also got some more people that I can't talk about yet that we're working on. Top influencers, not bodybuilders. Maybe some more bodybuilders. But we're going to fucking explode the Raw Athlete programs here. It's going to be crazy. And then we're going to start busting out more events. Dope shit. This year, it's going to be a great end of the year. So yeah, there's lots of stuff going on. Fill you guys in as they come and as things go. Hopefully, I was out of town for the last three weeks and all the athletes came and trained and were filming and I didn't get to see any of them. But we bring them back every couple of months just to shoot content, workout, shoot the shit and all this stuff. So I'll try and hop in with some workouts with them in the future. But that's kind of a quick update of what's going on right now. And I got to get home and eat some food. So thank you guys for watching. I'll see you later. All right, one last thing to wrap up this video. We're having a transformation challenge. We're going to be giving away $15,000 in prizes. And this is for myself as much as anyone else. This is important to me because I'm going to be doing this one too. Since retiring from the Olympia, I haven't had that same passion and drive towards doing the things I know I need to do. And in not doing that, which for me starts in the gym with my nutrition, the rest of my life still feels a little bit blah and just even more anxious and just not there properly. So the goal of this challenge is called standard six, the shift. It's a six week challenge. The winner is going to get a $10,000 prize pack, $5,000 in prizes, $5,000 in cash straight in your pocket. And then the runner up is $2,500, $1,500. And then we're also going to have an overall transformation challenge or winner besides just the winners. And there's guidelines on how to win and everything. So every single person is going to get access to our standard plus weekly phone calls. So Justin's on all of them. I hop on all of them that I can going over nutrition, all these things like that, diet, training, everything. You guys can ask with questions in the Q and A on the end. And then on top of that, you're going to get a PDF on cutting, diet, everything you guys need to know, access to the training, the macro calculator, and of course the incentive of the prizes. The goal of this is more than just diet, essentially. We're actually going to be giving you guys a list of habits to add to your life and you're going to be choosing six of those. So it's six weeks, six habits, me, six times Mr. Olympia. I'm not getting seven this year, so I need this for myself. But these habits are meant to put you in a position that you need to succeed. A lot of us know what we need to do. A lot of us don't. And a lot of us just need to create the life and the mindset that gets us to where we need to go. And a lot of that comes from our daily habits. You know, you are what you repeatedly do, not what you think. Not what you want to do. Not what you think you can do. You are just what you do. So in doing little habits throughout the day that you know are making you better, it makes everything in your life easier and the rest just kind of comes from that. And it's so important. And even myself recently, because I know this is coming and I know there's a structure and a plan and a transformation and a challenge, I created myself a diet plan and in following that, I just immediately felt better. And in doing that, I like trying to be off my phone less in certain times of the day when I'm not working. Trying to be more intentional with my family. I read more instead of fucking scrolling my phone. I cleaned up my closet randomly, which made me feel way better because I'm decluttering my space and my mind is less anxious. So all these little changes in habits that people probably don't realize are so important to how you feel and also probably some of the reasons that you're self-sabotaging other areas of your life are so crucial and so important. And that's why this challenge is more so about changing your body, but really just like getting you into a mindset and a rhythm of life that is making you into the man or woman you want to be and getting you the life that you want. So that's the goal of this challenge. And of course the cash prizes are also dope, but the community that you guys are going to get from this is awesome. Everyone who joins these every year are just so incredible. People have done some crazy transformations in the past. We have some examples up on the website, but I'm going to put the link in the comments in the caption here, wherever you guys need to find it. If you guys want to sign up, please jump into this and hopefully we can all get shredded or jacked or whatever your goals are. The goal isn't necessarily just get shredded. It could be get jacked. It's just overall transformation, creating the best life that you can. And we're going to give you guys the habits, the PDFs, the calls, all the stuff you guys need to succeed. So yeah, it'll be good. And I need this for myself. Genuinely, I truly believe having like an end goal and a purpose and a passion and a schedule, routine, structure, all those fucking adjective that you can throw in there really help you actually do the things that you set your mind to. So super important to do this kind of bullshit. That don't go. You're missing out and you're going to be skinny or not hitting your goals, whatever it may be. But yeah, so that's it to wrap on today's video. Kind of bouncing around today. I still haven't showered. It's a gym and I usually shower at work after I train. So I'm going to go inside my home, eat some food, shower and hang this up for the day. So see you guys later.