 mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere Dump bloom down to cook for everyone makes a good meal. It's food is way too good to be casually eating like it's not like Oh, we have some crap meal prep. It's like Boo-she chef food so breakfast right now is over here have a set out fruit King of the blackberries me and Bradley both love blackberries very much But sometimes she gets a seed stuck in her teeth and she'll cry for an hour So it's really a gamble whether or not we give one She'll also run around the house with a blackberry and rub it on everything So it is what it is Tortillas It's the breakfast burrito kind of day bacon eggs tortillas fruit If nobody was a fuck that is I'm gonna load this up and eat so You're going to step you're going to step you're going to step Oh Yeah It's a chico for the dad. Yeah, so if you want to one cup one flat. Yeah clean daffa means one Okay, now you go One would be enough I Sorry, I can't hear you there's no laws out here and There's no laws in where we'll speak it in America Please use two hands when I like only gonna hold you have two hands on it because I want you to have Really control the weapon. All right, because it's gonna have the bullets in the gun It's not gonna be hot ready to go, but it is gonna be loaded. All right Yeah, I was a big like this far below Yeah God just you probably already know this but real quick right left straight hold it nice and tight Safety's off fire when you're ready I Hit the one on the back I Get Ready Three two one My face in the camera is gonna be there I This does not have a round chamber you want chamber go ahead Straight up you got it. Oh, yeah And then safety's right. Are we good? We're all your breathing. So yeah, I know you guys shoot between breaths Don't make it a race. Just take your time Breathe in breathe out try to relax yourself the more you try to excite yourself the more you're gonna feel nervous or shaky Nice easy trigger press Yeah Exploded I Think yours is gonna do I mean it's tough because like the only two shows we saw it worse in More Olympia level lineups like we haven't seen him like you know Quinton was coming second in there and Quinton hasn't even made it You know Quinton's a great bodybuilder, but you're the tall not filled out bodybuilder Yeah So when you're guys that are gonna be tall then filled out or short and filled out and all over everybody's peeled everybody's big I don't know. I mean, I think we're just looking fucking crazy good way better than I expected and way bigger than I expected Maybe like bottom of the second call out so like anywhere between like Nine to twelve thirteen somewhere in that range, but I would be like luck to be proven wrong, you know That's just it's hard to say without like having more like see the next other top guys, you know I don't know my seventh place Seven So do you think you could beat like guys like Brandon Curry William Bonac you could beat them Because they were eight nine last year a great question and then you have big added Barou's added So like it's tough when you like line them all up, you know, but I don't think it's out of the question I've been very consistent in the last few years. Yeah, but I think it's possible Yeah, I don't think it's out of the question. He's got some shots that are like You know really really good like his front double front lot both really good small Shorts, yeah It's so hard to like predict this Olympia because it's been kind of so all over the map You know like haughty one the Derek one then Samson one then Samson lost to Derek at the Arnold And then Nick almost beat Derek in Pittsburgh. So it's like, you know, you really have Four guys that on any given day between haughty Samson Nick and Derek that could win the show I don't know. I think Samson's gonna be hungry after like he's gonna want to defend his title I think losing to Derek kind of like fucking fired him up a bit. I think that was oh, hey, you lost Derek at the Arnold there Just after win the Olympia Yeah, I mean look it's I admire the Balls to do it, you know, but it puts a lot of like You know puts the monkey on your back for sure like when you have that happen You know you're putting yourself at risk for that. It destroys the aura of like Being undefeatable. Yeah, you know like oh he's wins. He like now. He just won a show I don't know. I mean if I had to bet money which I wouldn't bet anything significant because I think it's too hard to predict this I probably would have Samson repeating again his conditioning is definitely like leveled up And I think that's what the judges wanted to see from him And I think if you can like keep pushing that conditioning and still show up on stage like looking big I fit strings him out I think he's gonna have a hard time But if you can like fill it out properly And show the judges that like consistent improvement in the conditioning kind of taking their feedback I think he'll be hard to beat and then I'm probably gonna go Nick or haughty Let's it's hard to bet against haughty. I mean like You know what I think Nick looks crazy impressive this year So just for to switch it up because on my podcast I think I put Nick second for this one. I'll change it up. I'll put haughty second So I'll go I'll go Samson haughty Nick Derek, which I think is crazy putting Derek in fourth Like I honestly don't really see that happening, but it's so hard to place these four guys It's like something's gotta give you know and then fifth place Maybe Andrew jacked I mean Bruce like getting his first Olympia. I could definitely see that in making an impact Into that top five. So one of those guys, baby Yeah, I feel like I think Samson's gonna win too, but I don't like it I Like Samson, I just every time I look at him like you could be leaner in my opinion I shouldn't look at a mr. Olympia. You like you could be leaner. Yeah, you know, I mean if this had been last year I probably would have said the same thing But then he won not being leaner and I think he's going to be leaner this year and I've seen that he is going to be leaner So it's hard for me to like bet against him in that sense. Yeah, I'm curious to see Nick and haughty inside each other Yeah, yeah, I think that's a good matchup We haven't seen that in a few years and I think Nick has improved a lot Grown a lot. I expect haughty to be good too. I mean, I don't think we saw the best haughty ever last year And I think that's like definitely gonna Fire him up to be Coming ready to close at his career. Yeah, and he wants to fucking finish It was a bit so I could see him being like that's the best we've seen in a long time Do I think he's gonna be like 2018 2019 Vancouver pro haughty or something? No, but do I think that he can be the best haughty? We've seen since he won probably a little classic Depends who's gonna make weight I can't believe I didn't even hear about that. I just got on the plane and they're like, dude, Mike didn't make weight I was like, what? Or is it going to whatever all the drama? Yeah, I mean who even knows like, you know, it's that's just that this kind of shit happens every year Speculation it happened with Breonna happened with me. I want to say Ramon, but I like feel like The lines on Mike like how He gets so peeled. Yeah, it's so dense You know Ramon so looks a little smooth sometimes just like even genetic. Yeah, you have that same like density hardness Yeah, like those guys like you could say someone else Could beat him but then when you actually like think of it and go like pose for pose He's hard to beat in like really any shots like he's so complete He's like he's got crazy muscularity. He's really good in every single shot You know and his conditioning is really good and he poses well So, you know, I think that's yeah I think the big thing is if say he is close to cut off Especially with the new muscle if he does have to like, you know Jump through hoops the last like a little bit to get his weight down if that does have any effect on his look You know, if he gets a little you know diminished looking from having to like push hard that last little bit Or if he's still like clearly under the cap and this is all just like fucking internet But which I love you know like who knows, you know Yeah, I mean if I was gonna put it let's assume everyone's making weight. I would probably go Yeah, we're betting money at the mic first I would go Mike Ramon Terrence as my top three and then there's like in my mind like six guys who could come forth, you know like I feel like you have any guys from Greg go to Jose Ma to Logan Franklin Like any of those guys to me could be right after that when I see those as the guys out round out that first call out and like Kind of depending how they look and place in that order, you know 456. I would like to see Logan Franklin the top five Yeah, he has one of my favorite physics right now in class He just gets like nasty shredded. It's crazy. I like rewarding conditioning. So I mean I could see it I mean Terrence Terrence I have is a pretty strong like second or third He looks like he's definitely leveled up the only thing with him is is he gonna be big enough in some shots? And like a lineup of guys that are all like pretty muscular, you know You know, I think some shots like obviously the back double Crazy the details insane, but then like, you know side chests. He's a little thinner than some of the other guys You know front double doesn't display quite as much details. He does the back double Yeah, I always felt like on stage that Mike and Terrence with the same height And then I don't think they ever competed against each other, but I've had Terrence was I mean I've had Mike and I thought it was very similar I think Mike just seems so much more dense. Yeah, so much more muscle on them I think Mike is a little taller than Terrence, but I But like I don't think given the close height I feel like Mike has way too much muscle for a Terrence to be down Aren't you the most classic physique? I mean, yeah, I guess it depends what you define classic Yeah, my subjective opinion. Yeah on classic Yeah I mean I can see in terms of like the resemblance of that like gold near physique like Sean Ray was stage Yeah I try and look at it like I and I get that side of the coin for sure. I was trying to look at it as like I Kind of the best bodybuilder with like but aesthetics being more valiant and muscular, you know And I think Mike to me is like That in spades. Yeah, cuz like yeah, he kind of does look a body like a bodybuilder But that's just because he's really muscular, you know, he's really muscular. So yeah, he looks bodybuilder-esque But he also has like the most outrageous X-frame ever, you know, like a small waist crazy lads flaring quads So I know it doesn't resemble of physique that you would have seen 40-50 years ago Then like Arnold Yura, but like back then people like Bob Paris weren't winning But they had you could look at him be like that's the most beautiful And then what that's was he got right for the repeat Yeah I think that alley guys solid but I think from the back right it's just like a bit too much for Ashes just like I've never seen Ryan so fired up before he's like fucking fucking all out Like fired when I worked out with him. He was like full of energy I know so powerful. He's just like one of those guys you like even if you want a hundred times in a row You still want to roof for you know man. He's just like good ultimate like good guy like You know that even you know like even Ronnie Coleman's like people like the first and by the end he's winning so many or fields Like you're like, I don't want to see a change. I don't think he would ever be that guy Like I could never see that he's just like so like He's said that his wife Amy went to Greece for a bachelor party for a week Yeah, and he was at home with the two kids and managing his gym like cleaning the gym managing it Watching the two kids cookies meals wake up at 5 a.m. to do training and cardio and all this shit. You're just like just a dad This dad wouldn't be That's a mini and you are training back But really back I got clown too hard last time I can't get back That's what we did last time right back. Yeah, no Us three we hit back and biceps. I hit legs with you Chris the one time when your shoulder was in the swing But this morning I did ask him to work out and said I'm gonna wait until someone better Ask me and then I'll let you know the scoop in this thing is like Like a protein scoop that's wild. I'm getting there. It's good. So Sarah Finally made the super savage which is the most aggressive pre-workout will make me vomit With no caffeine in it. So just everything you would ever need for a pump eight grams Citrulline six point four grams of beta-alanine so my face will be falling off five grams great team who prasina Good memories good memories One of my body lover reaction Can I say something I'm not there yet. I'm just starting I think my arm hurts from shooting the my rotator cuff hurts No, like it hurts really bad. Yeah, I'm not surprised You're one of his rifle that jammed into your shoulders Well, you should have told me that there was I was like experiences I told you how much it was gonna hurt you wouldn't have done it. I'm fairly did it It hurts really bad quite frankly. You'll be fine Do you think so or do you think it's dislocated or torn? I don't think it's dislocated That's impressive Are you doing over I don't know what did you I haven't done anything see that it's impressive. I was actually good How did you get a nine? That's good Now we got to go quick go quick. Yeah, it's your super set wide balls My god, this is hard. I Could do it because I have a better grip drink than you David's be true boy. I was nowhere near legit Bring it to the booth to help him buy. Oh my god Really? Yeah, come on. What are we talking for about David's lathe? What the Whatever you want apparently I See the extent of my functional training right now is pull-ups. I love puffs. I Tried to do them like a few times a week. Really? Yeah There's such like a train thing like if I don't do pull-ups I only pull down my pull-ups up Yeah, I could do four before sounds good. We got ten my nap Really fuck you up there for a year Good job Hmm You know there's three You want to cut it short you want only do two who does two sets Do like we'll do two sets most of time. Oh really? I usually do too. Oh, oh, this is like an isolation place It's certainly not good 23 Two of these three of these two of the other ones No, no, right. Yeah, what nothing. What do that mean? Yeah, like six seven do that six seven no And you just said it with a joke and now you're trying to make any part of the joke Well, everyone's part of the six other it's just like six seven No, like I have no idea what's going on No, it's just like six seven we're talking about numbers of things we should do I'll say maybe we should do six or seven Okay No, of course not I have no idea. All right, stop. Mr. Acne. You're these silly little jokes. I'm trying to get out I'm officially into that age where I have no idea where any lingo is anymore too old That actually was six or seven reps that's where to God it was Eight or nine no, it was like if he comes out last one of seven I Got a son in a program like a hand to go. Why would you just tell me the joke is like the whole thing about the joke is like No one gets it's just like six seven. Oh, there is no joke. No, but like every joke is that there's no joke I think so Properly understand the joke. I just got taught this joke. I'm I'm late. You think you're late I was also late. Okay, but like the thing of it just goes like six seven like it's nothing I was trying to get some good pictures of you smiling my bad Oh my god, your shoulder mobility the healthy shoulder I hear some popping and cracking I'm not gonna lie But at least I can hang like this. No, it's very impressive holding up 270 pounds To 80 to 80. Yeah, oh damn. Oh, yeah Come on you got one more at least I Think you did that out of spite No, I was already planning on that doing anymore Oh That was good good good good Oh Yo, this is heavy machine You do have very long arms. I know right like the range of motion here Oh Nice Chris good job I Think it's time to turn high rocks what? Just seems cool. Just like being on the road and doing like circuits Look, I'm gonna need less complaining from the two of you. Okay. You got to work with what you got complaining I'm Optimizing my future. You make everything sound so motivational Yes Just through this one so this one What you want to do is like put your hands in the holes that you think is fitting for your size What could I use? Ropes You don't have a rope I Sorry By rope okay, at least you need a rope and what are we doing? We're trying to target the last by Hinging at the hips a little bit Okay, bending over keeping your spine neutral And then pulling down keeping the same arm Length the entire way through okay I Think I'm learning My belt to do this one day not like you're a professional or anything. I was a professional, but I've lost everything You know I learned it all you know when you retire you forget everything. No, it's like, you know the old saying you don't use it You lose it The name Is it actually wait, right here pressure on it wait other question How do I become more vascular because I feel like I'm pretty lean, but I'm not vascular that's genetic, right? Or just be lean Okay, I mean like the thinner this is the more what's under it will show you know Yeah, I just want a few veins. I'm not even that picky just one or two. I don't even need that many Like one would be true. I don't have any If I squeeze a certain way and like do this maybe one will come through Go get blood now Where's Chris is learning high rocks over here you got bored of the body really stuff. He's learning high rocks Come on, I got a quick come I'll run You really are transitioning Transitioning your transitioning not the right lingo you're converting you're leaving us Oh Really hard socks Oh It's too bright it reminds me of like you know when you go in like to like Oh Oh Slipping shit on one the quarter Well, I'll you So job no Oh Blasian when a black person an Asian person have a child You didn't say blazing oh Wrong with that Like oh, yeah, she's blazing Minus just not what I said. Oh, I said blazing Working out drop the dumbbell Oh  mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere Should I go on Christian Mingle? Yeah. You think so? Farmers only. Farmers only? Yeah, I want to find a guy that can build me a house. Christian Mingle and Farmers only. Do Christian Mingle in like North Carolina? Well then I don't want to relocate. They really love you a little bit. Really? Okay, I'm going to use that next time. I'm going to say Chris said if you really love me you'll move. Stop. Yeah, I want to have that problem where it's like, oh, like do I wear my wedding ring to the gym? That's a good problem to have. Where am I going to get what you call a blaze in? Chuckie Boas, two pair of rat shoes and Sarah Lufters in London. What? No, I don't have either. I thought I brought one on. I thought I brought one, but I didn't. I like that. Just like... I could do what I said if you want. You can? Yeah, they have like a preacher machine. I'd be down to just like crack it. They have a good preacher machine. I'd be down to crack a preacher. Just a couple cents on that. Yeah, okay. I'll never say that unless. You know what they say? You said no literally an hour ago. I don't know if we got it on footage. If we did pop it up, you said no to biceps. You literally said no to biceps. I said no to you. But it's red. It's good enough. Damn, man. And it's probably going to die soon. But it's just hard. This machine is also at the raw nutrition gym, and I love it. What's your favorite brand of equipment, Sarah? Atlantis. What are you just saying? Because you're sitting on an Atlantis piece right now? Oh, I am? What are the odds? I think you like Atlantis. They have some good stuff. They have great stuff. Canadian. Really? Great stuff. Canadians know how to do it. Really? Physically? Yeah. Canadians do everything right. Sick or? Yeah. I was like, Hammer Strength is good too. Just get her home. You want to pop it? No. No, I already bring her to the table. That's why I'm not going to be here. But Andrew's here. He'll drive you. He'll pop everyone to your altar. I think you're wrapping up anyways. Yeah, we have plenty of room in all the cars. Yeah. Who's about? Bye. I'll have to go see the hotel. Fuck. This is a hard machine. It's good. You know what? You want to just keep going? Should we just... Test now? Use the legs? Not legs, I'll pass on that part. You need this? Strongman workout. Circuit. I like that kind of shit. Anaerobic, alactic capacity training. Science-based lifting. Science-based lifting. What do you guys think of science-based? What is science-based lifting? Nothing. Spaking gay? Is that what you're going to say? No, that's no rude. Oh, I... Like, what even is that? You know? What, science-based lifting? Yeah, because like anything could be like, you know? It's like taking a fact from a study and basing your knowledge and decisions off of that study rather than how you feel in the gym. That's like pure science-based lifting, in my opinion. What were you going to say? Do you like science-based lifting? What did you do this for? It's a tool. Okay. And either like or dislike it. Do you use that tool or do you just keep it in the shed? It gets used. Okay. When it's needed. Okay. I think people just like are... Two devices of like, I have to be in one camp or the other. Yeah. When like it's not real. I mean, it's the whole world we live in. Yeah. Like you're a Republican, otherwise... I think especially with like, I don't know. Like included, they're like, you can't be a bit of both. It's like, you're other guy that's got like slam heavy, branch worn dumbbells and like, we have to be like the most jeff nipperty of like anyone. There's like no middle ground. Yeah. But I think most people are middle ground though. Literally, yes. Yeah. But the people out of middle ground aren't talking about it. It's the divided people talking about it. It's the people in the middle that follow them that then like over receive it. Who is a popular brolifter? I don't know. Trenton? Trenton? Trenton. Yeah. Yeah. That's what came to my mind. Yeah. Sam's too like... Yeah. They're like, he busts some shit out sometimes talking about like optimal ranges of emotions and like shit. Yeah. He dabbles. But that's the perfect... He's the healthy belt. That's the healthy belt. He's like most of the best. I think it's like good for him too because you've seen like an evolution of like training IQ. He's changed a lot. Yeah. I think that's what you should be. It's like people are like shit on him. Like, ah, he's going to get hurt. He's trained. But like you need to have that natural evolution. So we did. You need to learn from your own mistakes. You need to learn and like find things that feel right for you. And like I think you find that like healthy culmination of like things that are super science. You have to feel right in certain aspects and things that like, you know, we're a bit more just effort regression makes sense in certain things. Yeah. I'd say once you learn the science, you can learn 20% of the science and you have enough. But it's hard to learn how to apply intensity over a same period of time as much more. Yeah. I was going to take one of the other, someone that like had all the science or all the intensity. I'm taking the guy with all the intensity all day every day. They're going to make it way more far in my opinion. But when you can find that healthy balance of like the 80, 20, let's say, or 70, 30 or whatever that number you want to match to it. I think that's what we look like really excellent. Thank you for having us. You're a learning teacher. You just get so excited. All right. So we're wrapping up day one here in Las Vegas. I'm already smoked. It's going to be a long week. Waking up at a different time zone, but it was a good day. I got to blow up a vehicle. My shot was the one that blew the car up. I made a joke like a year ago, probably when we were talking about like fun things we'd want to do of like random shit like skydiving this that I was like, I want to blow up a car. I said it was an RPG, but like, I think it's kind of hard to get an RPG in America. So shooting 10 pounds of tannerite inside of a vehicle is close enough. That thing launched like Hollywood blew up in the air. So that was pretty cool experience. Got the little workout in. Wasn't the best workout, but it is what it is. Some type of a New Year on the road. So we're going to wrap it up here at the Olympia. Probably, probably still a better workout than typically five days before the Olympia. Carly, would you take Tensin was higher or lower than five days? Probably a little higher on it. Yeah, you're pretty slow. Yeah, Monday. Monday. Yeah, that's true. By like the last couple of workouts, it's just like sitting there. Can I go home? It looks like he's moving in slow-mo. Yeah, like by the by the Thursday. It feels like it too. It's funny. It's like when I did my fast earlier this year, or when you're that starving for that long, you're that depleted. It's literally like meditating like monks fast so that they can like make their brain slow down to be in the Zen mode and like peak week was like this Zen mode. And it's absolutely not a Zen mode this week. It's a lot of people, a lot of interaction, a lot of stuff going on, but it's fun. It's different. Life evolves and it changes. So interesting times being here in Las Vegas not competing, but we're having fun enjoying it. So see you guys tomorrow for day two.