 imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, imortum, im and you're like, sit. What is up, YouTube? Been a while since I've done a full day of eating, so, rest day today, gonna be showing you guys what I've been eating recently. Honestly, I haven't tracked my food specifically in a long time, so I'm genuinely curious to see how this comes out. I don't consistently eat the same thing, but I really have a really good grasp on calories and carbs and food, and being able to eat them and tracking food for like 10 years. And I think about, interesting thing is, I can just choose to hit a protein goal, and then go up and down and weight from carbs and fat without weighing anything now, because I've been doing it for so long. So it's like, intuitive eating is bullshit, my opinion, but after 15 years, your brain kind of becomes its own food scale. But I still wouldn't be able to tell you exactly how many calories I'm eating. So, I'm going to be calculating that right now. I was holding at 250 pounds forever so easily, and I tried to get a little bit leaner, and I came down to like 246, 245. Now I'm like, right fluctuating between 245 and 250, and I'm pretty happy with where I'm at. If I lose weight, it'll just strictly be more athletic. I feel good running and moving and stuff, but I'm happy with how I look right now, so I'm at like a maintaining phase, I guess, if you will. So calories you will see are me currently eating to be pretty lean at about just at 250 pounds. So I think if anything, it's very relieving. It could be in the season of just being able to enjoy food a lot healthier, mindfully too. Even with like having a daughter, I feel like if I were like, she were growing up, and I'm like weighing everything, being like, oh, I'm kind of fat today, and like, gonna pull carbs and like living like that, she'd be like, what the fuck? You know, like now to be like, oh, Saturday you want some pancakes? Hell yeah, let's do it, you know, let's run it. I'm not missing any pancakes or any good meals with my children, hell no. All right, so back in the standard app, on the nutrition app. Push in here, this is 538 calories, 49 grams of protein, 16 grams of fat, and 50 grams of carbs. So this is close to a staple breakfast of mine right now. 500 calories start of the day is not too shabby. I typically eat a little earlier than this, but I eat my last meal now really early because it makes me sleep much better. And then I try and get like 12 hours in between my last meal and my breakfast, just to have like a break from my digestive system, that makes me feel better. So this is how we break the fasts. Nice little runny egg yolk in there. Got right on the corner. Dip the crispy potatoes in there. Like a 10 times better than a diner eating out of breakfast. That's enough. I don't like eating a lot of eggs in the morning, so sometimes I'll have like eggs in turkey bacon and a lower protein breakfast, but it feels just wrong to get under 40 grams of protein in a meal. Still feels like blasphemy to me. So I have three eggs in the morning and then I typically have a shake. Depending on the day, I'll be five or 10 grams of creatine. Creatine is becoming like the most mainstream thing. And it's so funny how many big bodybuilders take for decades and then all of a sudden it became mainstream because one scientific study said it works. Bodybuilders are like, we've been the test study for 20 years, so we know how it works. When you use the SunFiber 2, it's like this really easily digestible thing. It's a prebiotic as well, so it's super easy to get. And then some collagen. Sometimes I honestly just turn over to Courtney's side of the pantry and I just see what she's got and take it. So yeah, we're locking in some collagen, some fiber in the morning. Goldfish protein for you. You dry it? It's awful. What? Awful. You have to try it? Yeah. Why'd you try it? I mean, listen, if you want to do it for like April Fools or... That was what it was for, right? It's like a spring cheese. I think we should launch it. Our company's sell vanilla. We need to do something fun, you know? Something that doesn't make sense on the books. Goldfish. The goldfish, there you go. Send it. Someone's got to innovate in our category. Cheddar cheese flavored protein. Fire. Is it protein powder? Yeah. Is it serious? Yeah. Goldfish. It was real chunks of goldfish, right? All right, so lunchtime. I don't know where my head is at right now. Me eating some color for the day. I got some carrots, different colors, broccoli, 200 grams of turkey from Turkey Meatballs. I cut them up already. And then I'm gonna do this mashed sweet potato. It's yellow sweet potato with white Japanese sweet potato mashed together. Because yellow sweet potato sometimes is a little watery when you mash it. It tastes way better to put it together like this. Calories in this thing come up to total about 500 calories, 40 grams of protein. When you eat healthy all the time, sometimes you have something like, I'll have a bunch of sugar or some shit. And I immediately feel like shit. And it encourages you to eat healthy more often because you're getting a negative response from it. So the more you do it, it starts to feel like it's like challenging. It's a bigger discipline at first. And eventually it becomes a habit. And then everything will be just healthy. And then your body naturally looks and feels better. And then you get addicted to feeling good rather than addicted to shitty food. And then it's super easy to eat good. And then when I was in Los Angeles that week, I was at breakfast and it was like a healthy spot. I got like these gluten-free oat pancakes. I got chicken sausage. I got sourdough bread. I got five eggs. I got avocado. Like this huge breakfast just by myself. And some dude was like, how the fuck do you look like that and eat this much food? And I'm like, I eat healthy all the time. So when I travel or I'm on a weekend or I'm at a dope restaurant that has really cool stuff, or I want to eat a lot of food, I can really eat whatever I want. And I don't put on any fat. So if you get to a point, like delayed gratification, if you work hard at the beginning by eating healthy and getting good shape, then you can really enjoy food. And the times when it's worth it. And you enjoy whatever the fuck you want. Not even think to eat everything. You have no guilt. You don't feel bad. You look good. You wake up and you've been looking better because you're full and so lean. And then you just feel better about yourself in general. So the idea of like delayed gratification and food is so important. Once you build a healthy relationship with that, by eating healthy food that you enjoy, that makes you feel good all the time and enjoying the food while you're traveling or on a date with your wife or something like that. I feel like once you can build that kind of lifestyle, fitness becomes so much more fun. When you're like fucking counting every macro and hungry all the time, you're probably cheating every other day and never really where you want. And over analyzing everything, it becomes a mental stress and a pressure. And I feel like so many people dread dieting because of that. But if you can just get yourself into a healthy, consistent point, it becomes so easy. It's really more of a mental battle. Like people think they need to understand scientific studies of protein intake and carb timing and all this bullshit. When realistically it just comes down to creating a system in your life that feels easy to follow. I don't know, I don't have that for every single person for me, just eating good healthy food I enjoy all the time. And then when I eat out, it's enjoying healthy food and I don't feel guilty about it. And it takes time to build it. And I did this for 10 years of bodybuilding. So to me, this is like loose. People would call this strict, but to me it's loose, it's free. So that's my two cents for people who are like, I struggled to diet. You just gotta build the system where it's easy. Don't think of it as a diet. Like how can you build a long-term plan to change your lifestyle to make it about being consistent? And then you get abs and just maintain them. Wait, you do to maintain abs and it is so, get them, that's what I'm sure. This is meal number three of the day technically. That's a head harm, honestly, I might eat it in the car. Don't judge me. But I don't know why I put food in my head, I'm talking. Very impolite. Depending on how long I'm here, or how my day is structured, training or whatnot, I usually bring one meal of like leftovers from the night before and I'll grab a mega-fit meal out of the freezer. It's also go to the freezer frozen and you keep it in your car. It'll take like five hours to defrost and then it's not frozen anymore, but it's also fresh and ready to keep it in the fridge. So a little life hack there. But easiest way to get in consistent meals, have a couple of these in your freezer and if you're running at the door instead of ordering Uber Eats of like Chick-fil-A or shitty food, just bring one of these and you actually get proper food. Best way to do it. So I got some turkey and sweet potatoes and even though it was in this honestly, it was frozen. So that's what this meal's gonna be. The custom meal and I can't remember what I put in it. Probably like 180 grams of turkey and 100 grams of sweet potato. But nothing too crazy. I'll put it in the calculator after. But I'm gonna get the hell out of here. But eating anything since, I don't think I've missed anything for this whole day. So I'm gonna be out of here, go home, see the family. And we'll have dinner in a little bit, so see ya. Oh, no. Ew, ew, ew. Did you ever struggle with dieting while you were in prep? I mean, the combination of the end of prep and then the tail end of, sorry, the end of the bolt and the tail end of prep were always the hardest parts of the year. Like eating a lot when you just have no appetite. Yeah. And then starving yourself when you're absolutely starving are definitely the hardest part of bodybuilding. It never gets easier. I mean, yeah, it did. It was the first year. Yeah. Because it pushed kind of further and further levels. Yeah. But it definitely got better. Yeah. But it was always very hard. All right, so this is one of those meals where we come home from work and just look in the fridge and see what's there. And there's no way that I'm gonna be able to calculate this because it's chicken salad and I couldn't tell you how much mayonnaise and chicken is in here or the ratio. So I might just have to scratch telling you exactly what I'm eating today. But this bread is not something to eat consistently. We get some type of bread every week. We've been getting this like keto one that's made of almond flour. This is really good. This one apparently has 15 grams of fiber and 40 calories per slice. Was it absolutely nothing. And then we pretty consistently make this mix of like dill, celery, green onion, chicken, avocado mayo. And we just mix it up and have it in the fridge. And like when you're like hungry between meals go grab some rice chips. Just dip it in there. Have a nice snack. Put on some bread. Get a nice 30 grams of protein in. Delicious. Healthy fats from the mayonnaise, you know. And then call it a day. But this is like one of the beautiful things that's being retired too. People are like this is called normal life Chris. Well for me it's called new because I haven't been able to always be like this where you just can eat a chicken salad sandwich whenever the hell you want to get your protein in. Call it a 15 grams of fiber per slice of bread. Those are me living life. So this is gonna be my, usually I won't eat like this. Normally we'll have dinner but I came home a little late today. Life's chaos it is what it is. So this is gonna be dinner tonight. All right so last meal of the day. Again everything's kind of all over the place right now. Kind of whatever's available. Usually you have a, it's called overnight oats. Overnight oats in the morning or at night depending on what happens with breakfast. So I have a four-foot bed, a little almond butter in there, a little salt sometimes out of the banana. Just easy way to get some good food in. It's kind of like a dessert. You're getting like savory sweet protein in there but all protein tastes great. Also blueberries mixed in here. Corn is going with some cereal. I'll probably have some myself. We all have some sweet treats at night. Love for being like one of the probably healthiest cereals out there. Not like high protein, low sugar but all natural and clean ingredients. So very different full day of eating compared to what I used to be eating when I was eating like, at one point I was eating up to 400 grams of protein a day. At the minimum it was about 260 to 70 grams of protein. Today my protein came to 183 grams. Much lower. I usually want to aim for about 200. I'm a little bit below that but it is what it is. Calories were 22,226 calories. 87 grams of fat and 173 grams of carbs. Probably pretty close to what I eat on a normal day. But quick, frequently I'll eat this and add more like snacks or random things or maybe an extra meal or a bigger thing if it's a weekend or whatever it may be. So fluctuating right around that 200 grams of protein. I know the whole rule is like one gram per pound of body weight but I'm not really trying to put on a crazy amount of lean mass right now. I'm trying to maintain and also just give my digestive system and body a break from eating so much protein for years. So it feels good to be having a little bit less right now. Honestly, it makes me a little bit more hungry. Protein's a satiating but it is what it is. So that being said, give it down this. We'll go to the end of the day. So we got the red lights, red light glasses on, locked in ready for bed. Thank you guys for watching. See you out there.