 whatisup, YouTube. Today, the fun little chess day. I'm coming in with no plan, just doing whatever the hell I want, because I'm in between phases of my program right now, so I'm like, through it, I'm gonna hit some chess and have just a nice little pump today. So I might start off with some pre-exhaust flies, some bench press, some stuff I haven't done in a while, but we'll get to it. But the other day, I posted something on my Instagram, and it was like a swipe through, and there was a quote on it that I wrote on the board, which is gone now, but everyone was like, where the fuck is this quote from? And I thought it was a really good quote. And when I was traveling to LA, I was reading this book called Flow, by Mahali, Chikshankshank Mahali. I have no idea how to say it. It's impossible. When you see his name, you'll know, I don't know how to pronounce it. But I wrote down a few quotes from it, because it was like on my brain. I was like, fuck it, I'm gonna share it on YouTube, because I was on the plane, like just writing as I was reading, and I thought they were, they felt very profound to me in the moment. One of them I got is, meaning is built when your actions, your values, your attention all point in the same direction. I read that, I was like, fuck, how often are we feeling like, we know what's right in our heart, we know what we love, we know what we wanna do, but we're not thinking about those things, we're not putting our attention on those things, and we're most likely not taking action on those things. And that's when life starts to lose meaning, lose purpose, we start to feel lost and anxious. And I feel like it's so important where how many times can you know something is right and not do it, and you feel so shitty about it, because you're doing the comfortable, easy thing. You know where it might be a short period of time where you're uncomfortable, but if you're making the right decision that aligns with your values, which is like your core pillars of life, and everything else flows from there. But when you can make decisions and have your life aligned, like maybe your job isn't exactly what you want it to be, but what are your values in life? If it's showing up on time, working hard, being positive energy, lifting others up around you, and you're able to do that in your job, at least you feel better about that, and you're maintaining an energy that you're also proud to bring home to your family, and in your values, your actions, and your attention all align, and the book is called Flow, because it's about creating flow in your life, and your body, and your mind, and your energy. And when everything is aligned, energy can flow through it, and then you feel good, you literally have energy. And I've had so many periods in my life where I'm just like tired all the time, and I'm exhausted, and I don't know why, and it's typically because I'm consistently doing things that I just hate to do. Like there's a lot of stuff that's required of me now, because of the business and all the stuff I have set up that I don't enjoy doing anymore, and the more of those I have to do, I just feel drained, because they don't line up with what's most important to me anymore. And so a lot of my last year has been like trying to align things, at least into the future, where I'm set up to a point where I say, no to the things I don't want to do, I say yes to the things that I line up with, and I'm constantly keeping my attention, my values, and my actions. And I was like, that alone is such a huge thing for life. The other one I have written down is, a life loses meaning when attention scatters. It gains meaning when attention is willingly invested into something larger than yourself. Even thinking of business, like scattered attention, is an immediate way to get nothing done. If you start a business and you have all these incredible goals, they could all be 10 out of 10 great ideas, but if you try and take them all on at the same time, you'll probably hit none of them. But if you focus on one of them, and you nail that thing perfectly, you will be so much further ahead, and this is so hard when you start to become successful, because more and more opinions and opportunities are being flooded at you. And when, you used to say no all the time, if I say no 10 times in a month, good for me. Well now I'm getting 1000 things asked of me, and I have to say no 999 times to be able to accomplish my one thing. It gets harder and harder and more and more important so that you can stay focused. And on investing into something larger than yourself, that's life. Being able to feel like something is more than just a selfish pursuit, and you're actually lifting others up, even if you're business, you're creating income for the families that work for you, you're doing something that makes your family better, you're becoming a better man to be a better husband. You have a bigger purpose in your life that's rather than just your own selfish gain. That's so important for developing meaning and actually being able to enjoy life. Last one, and this is the one I had written on the board, but I just wanted to share it again. The best moments in our lives are not the passive, receptive, relaxing times, but the moments when one's body or mind is stretched to its limits. There's a balance to this, but I feel like especially as like men, when your life gets easy and comfortable, if you start something and you enjoy it, eventually it gets easy. And you have to push yourself farther and farther and kind of stretch the limits of what you're doing and what you're capable of to still feel like it's fun. And there was an example in the book, like if you're playing tennis and you're just learning how to play tennis, you could be playing with like a 10 year old and just like hitting the ball back and forth and you shouldn't hit the ball, it's fun. But if you're a pro tennis player, playing with a 10 year old, you're gonna be bored as fuck eventually because you're not stretching your body or your mind, your limits of what you're capable of, it just gets boring. So you need to continuously push yourself beyond things. And the gym is the perfect example of that. If you're working at it every day and when I was in the gym when I was 14 years old, the first time I ever benched, I had 90 pounds on the bar. If I was still benching 90 pounds on the bar, I would fucking hate the gym. But because the gym is such a pure thing, I'm pushing my body and my mind every day to excel and make it harder and harder. And the goalposts keep moving further and further. I love the gym, I find meaning and purpose here. I'm able to stretch myself. And I think, me for everybody, but I think for young men who feel like lost in life, it's like, life's too comfortable, it's too easy. Find some way to stretch yourself. What's something uncomfortable that you can go do to push yourself? Is it talking in public, applying for a bunch of jobs, you don't think you can get talking to a girl, you think you can't get? Learning something to expand your mind, getting in the gym and pushing your body. It's such like a beautiful stepping stone that you can apply everywhere else in your life. So that book is sick. If you guys want to read it, Flow, the first few chapters are just like deep blasts in the face of philosophical views of life. And then a lot of it is like research studies on people, like rock climbers, professional athletes, people who enter flow states in their mind. And then the end is about like finding meaning in life. So it's an incredible book, highly recommend it. That's what I was doing on the plane ride to Los Angeles last week, and I got some sick notes on it to fucking get my brain stewing about it. So that's our little pre-workout motivation, chest day today, a little warmup, probably bench. I'm gonna make it up as I go. I've been following a program for a while, so some days it feels fun just to find your own flow. This is just gonna be a throwback, chest day, OG, C-bum day. So I'm gonna pre-exhaust with this. My shoulders were a little bit tight today, but I already have such a better range of motion now from doing everything I've been doing that when I come back, even on the lowest point of the rack, I can bottom out there from the wait second it hits. So biggest range of motion I can get, I'll do like two or three sets, just pushing it, and then I'm gonna go bench. So a little pre-exhaust, get some blood in the chest, flies. Nothing more to say than that, honestly, I got nothing. Oh. When you're doing this, especially on the pectic where you're in a fixed machine, when you go back to the stretch, if you think of like driving your arms as far and out as much as possible, so you're getting like that extra range. So if I'm like here, compared to out here, and I'm pushing out the whole time, they like force you to keep everything on your peck rather than being able to curl in and go into your bicep and into your delt, much better on your pecks. Was debating not taking extra pump today, but I'm like, what am I even thinking? It's chest day. Like, am I thinking at all? Two of our products, pump and savage. I don't think super savage, I think it's a single scoop, but they're two scoop formulas. So they're so packed that one scoop is like an average pump product, not average, but good pump product, and then two scoops is our raw pump product, so two scoops in this bad boy, you get five grams of citrulline, five grams of betaine, two grams of beta-alanine, two grams of tyrosine, one gram of agmatine sulfate, some salt, some limes main, some anacetal, nitrosagene, sick pump, pretty much is what I'm saying. So if I don't have a pump today, I will put my shirt back on and we'll just won't talk about it. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh, I got 11, so successful bench day. Got 12, 11, 11. I'm not saying those numbers because I'm proud of them. I'm just being honest. Sorry, I'm bad numbers at all for guys that hasn't benched in 10 years or something. Yeah, but when you compare it to a 250 pound dude who works out. Yeah. For the first time in your career, you're at like the bottom percentile strength. Literally, I've ever been like, fuck, bodybuilders always are though, because we're heavy. Think a power lifter? They're like 180 pound power lifters who bench 400 pounds. And they have what's it called, the Wilks score? Like a body weight to loadage ratio. Pound for pound. Yeah. Bodybuilders have horrible pounds. Bradley has a better pound for pound strength than me. Legit. It's been so long since I've been to the gym without a plan. I'm not gonna lie. I kind of like knowing what I'm doing when I come in here, but because I did flat there, I think I'm gonna do an incline machine and then I'll finish with flies. So, go find an incline machine. Does like following like a program so strictly feel like constraining? Like you want like creativity in the gym? When people start like following checklists, they lose like, it takes like creative flow out of things. Like do you feel that in the gym at all? I think when it was me competing to win Olympias, I had to have like the trust of my own intuition of like what I'd done for so long, knowing what my body needs. Like if I'm in the gym and I'm like, oh, this doesn't feel good. This does feel good to just do it and let myself and trust myself to do that. But when it now, when it comes to training, I actually love having a program because I know I'm driving specific results. And I'm also a huge believer in programming. If you want a day of creativity, just do it. You know, none of us, none of us, I'm not a professional athlete anymore. It's not like it's the end of the world. If you're like, oh, I'm on a program, but today I just wanna hit fucking 20 sets of bicep curls, just do it and then break that itch and then go back to the program. But I don't feel constrained by it. I'm also dedicated right now to like the progress of Jack Lee. And I know there's a lot of specific minutiae things that I don't understand that I just need to get a baseline foundation of strength in. And then I can play a lot more with it. So it's not always perfect at being stuck in a plan, but it's for a purpose. And I also don't wanna be like saying I wanna be a Jack Lee and then not doing the workout for in three years from now, still not being able to like run without injuring my quad because I didn't take the time to do it properly from the beginning. So it's a bit of both. It's also very personal, you know? I think a lot of people say they hate being constrained by a program because they're honestly a little lazy and don't wanna do the things they have to do, but there's a balance as anything, you know? You gotta find what's right for you. I'm not used to doing so much volume for a single body part. I'm getting fatigued. Probably just gonna do two sets of that. Those are also the glory days of mild training. It was like two sets. We have to move on. Let's get out of here. I'm not used to doing so much volume for a single body part. I'm not used to doing so much volume for a single body part. I'm not used to doing so much volume for a single body part. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Wow, I feel like 500 pounds going to do that now. Alright, tighten in one little jack-o-lead thing at the end of this workout. Then some underhand grip low pulley cable flies. Get a nice stretch, pull up that upper pec. And then, I don't know what you call these things, explosive push-ups, plyo push-ups. Off the bench, really when my muscles are just completely fatigued. Just trying to drive everything out of it. Get off the bench. Normally, I can push off the bench and stand up. Right now, it feels like I'm going to collapse on my face. The goal is just really fatigue everything out of the muscle. Wrap it up. It's hard to imagine that I used to be this lean and 15 pounds heavier. It was a fuck that I looked like a fucking mutant. Nick Walker is this lean and 50 pounds heavier. I know I could put on muscle at any point, especially if I lose how easy it is to get back on being a professional bodybuilder. So the second our girls turn 16 or 14 or whenever they get their first boyfriend, 20 pounds of lean mass, I'm putting it on. I'll give you guys my program, whatever I do, you can follow along. What it takes for me to go back when I get down to 20 back-ups at 250, just to scare the shit out of her boyfriend. Gotta be intimidating. All right. That's a wrap on today's O.G. Bodybuilding chest workout. It felt a little bit less purposeful knowing I'm training on specific programming was phasing now where I know I'm like moving through something. And next week I'll be repeating something at least very similar to show direct progress. Just throwing this in there is very fun and like a good like creative freeing release. But I also enjoy being on a program because I know I'm directly progressing somewhere where I'm meant to progress. So if you guys are following a program, don't stress about mixing in like a fun workout every now and then. But if you are enjoying the program, you probably see more results from sticking to it properly building that progressive overload and like a progressive theme. So yeah, I don't know. I feel like I rambled enough at the beginning of this workout. So thank you guys for watching. Hope you enjoyed this O.G. Chest workout. Getting back to the jack-league training. Combined hypertrophy after this. So I'll see you guys then.