 naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n I went home to sleep. I don't know if that makes me a good citizen or not. Dude, I didn't... No, I didn't. You just bust out of muscle-up like it's nothing. Casually, yeah. I'm an athlete, you know what I'm saying? Someone like that only tells us the back of your head. Do you like swing your hips forward? Oh, shit. That was better. Are you trying to do like a two-inch... Just so you're doing it with someone. Because there's two enough for every station. So it would be like sled push to the end and back, or to the end. Stop, farmers carry, pull-ups, ball throw, rower, repeat. Every minute, 20. We'll do it for like 30 minutes minimum, and if everyone's still going, we'll go more. Ali can do it like an hour and a half. Yeah, Ali can do it. We'll start in 10 seconds. Oh wait, you have to go now. So we'll go down, jog back, and then down and back. It took off though. Oh, people, oh, people must smile Sometimes the war The battle of Smith told me I would never smile again Said that I would never smile again But not to worry For all people stop smiling Said that I would never smile again People, times of war I'd go now to the circus General Adams told me Suddenly you were born to die so scared So you said one day you will die so scared But not to worry For all people must die so scared Or else just die near the surface For all people I'm trying to get down to 120. Alright, so we just wrapped up. I don't know what you would call that. We got some CrossFit people, we got some hybrid people, we got some circuit training, hit people. But it's pretty crazy, we were just talking about last year, Wednesday, I was doing my last workout before my last ever Olympia, just fucking smoked low carb, hadn't made weight yet, just like, dragging ass, trying to like get through it. Literally like doing one set of bison, being like, enough, can we go home, I don't have the energy. And now I'm like ripping through a random circuit style workout full of energy, having more energy at the end of it, doing it with the raw team. Because last year we had all this raw athlete come, booth, all these things, I couldn't even see them, be around them, not couldn't, just chose to be somewhere else. This year I got to kind of be on the other side of things, which is fun in its own way. So pretty cool how quickly life changes, how drastic one year apart can make life be very different. But honestly I really enjoyed that style of workout, I feel like we were kind of taking it easy a little bit, considering I wasn't even that out of breath or that drenched in sweat. I feel like it was a pretty gentle circuit of a workout. Maybe you guys will catch me doing a higher lock someday. With all that being said, I got to head over there, get some food, put a little, I have an ounce of water and 25 grams of carbs in here because I need some fuel right now. So we're locking in and moving on with the day. You're crashing! Damn! This is so dangerous! Damn! All the way up there! It's like more dangerous trying to follow a person because then you can't see. There was one where like you every single time like you slow down and then you floor it and then it just pick up all this smoke and I'm like, I got nothing. And then I went off the road. Really? I went off the road and then had to go up and over it. You can't drive fast unless you stop, slow down, let the person go and then book it for a bit. Oh shit, this is terrifying. I'm not an athlete. I'll just do this. There we go. That's part of it. Are you smiling? I'm always smiling. This is what they make us do as athletes for the owners. Peasants. We sit in the passenger seat and then dust them off. Peasants. Why not? That was fun. I feel like I need one of these. I definitely need one of these. I think the momentum might have to get into the motorsport. Into the dune buggy racing? Yeah. That was sick. They're sponsoring this shit? Yeah, it's pretty dope. I feel like if you'll need a way you can like just fucking send it. You know like when you're on pavement in a car it's way scarier. Yeah, this doesn't feel as preachy. Even though it's probably more that you can actually impact and damage yourself. I'll just go with you. Is this your first time seeing the booth? Yeah. That's a big bitch. That's crazy. Oh. Announced the new R. You see the R? No, I missed it. What's up? It's good, right? What's up, Bruh? Wow, why are you fucking swung in there? That's terrible. What's up? Are you testing anything today or not? I told him it depends on if you get a better number than what I record. So you've already done it? No, I mean I've done it back in college. Oh, but you know. Okay, fair, fair, fair. I pulled up my dashboard. I'll go get what I need again. Is this Chris's vlog? Chris definitely can't be Justin at the test. No chance. No chance. We can touch almost the same height but his reach is like six inches shorter. What do you think about everything? It's dope. We were just talking about the first booth we ever had. We negotiated getting in for free. I mean our first booth ever was literally just a truck. We took Dom's truck, put a sticker on it and then drove it into an expo. We called it a booth and then we negotiated becoming somewhere and getting a booth for free. We just had a little table up and then we built to one shipping container and all of a sudden now we have like 20 shipping containers and like 10,000 square feet. So it's fucking insane. This R is sick. I should put that in my backyard of my house. Bruh, this is insane. What are you doing here? You're following me. I was here first. I was here first. My booth. Do you want my pictures? On the documentary. On the documentary. Okay yeah, we just shot a ton of interviews here this week. We're at that stage in the film where you know exactly the quotes and the right people that you need in. So we got all that here at the Olympia. And we're deep in that moment in the film where it's really starting to come together but we've gone through eight years of all the raw footage of Chris's life. Our editor has locked himself in the edit suite and we've finally come through that season and we're in that really fun stage now in the edit where we're editing the 2024 run of his Olympia career and yeah, it's special right now. So it's been, we've been deep in that editing and now it's all in that last moments where you're kind of shifting things around but inevitably I say, oh this is the last interview but no doubt we'll end up shooting a bunch more as it goes. That's Sibo. Look at that Sibo. That's good man. Sick. Left the scene. That's good. The documentary is in good hands. Okay. Alright. We got the still. We got the bare push. He's on. Let's go. The ball. There you go. Release. I think we're getting failed. We got it. We got it. 54. Got me still. I'll do it in my jeans. That's no matter, no excuses. I'll do it again tomorrow if it's bad. Delete the footage if it's bad, I'll do it tomorrow. Hey and think about pushing the ground straight down. Like don't lean back, don't lean back, push him down and go in the top of the line. Yeah, Andrei, you lean back so much, you were like huge. You could probably get like 7, like into the 7. Pull that scapula back, tighten his jaws. Ready? All right, so pull it up there. The old pretension, stand still. Wait, like tight? Yeah. Pull. Huh? Pull, Chris. Ah! I think you nailed it, 58. Woo! I hurt my left. I said 58. I said 58. All right, let me go again. I'll take that. I'm not gonna lie. It is, it is. Fuck this guy. All right, ready? All right, yeah. All right, so pull the pretension out a little more. All right, stand still. I'm not gonna lie. I'm not gonna lie. Pull! Come on! Nice, nice. 56. Whoa! What did you get? 58. 58? 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. 56. leave like I'm sad we have to we're moving to the hotel now for the event this weekend the Olympia but people were like bump to leave and I was like fuck yeah that means we did a hell of a job like making this an experience that they actually enjoyed wanted to be at and just bring the team together and show our appreciation they have for showing the brand the growth that Rah has shown over the last year not just like in like retail sales etc etc but in just like brand belief in community has been such a cool thing to say we just announced Sam's suit look as a fucking new raw athlete was absolutely bonkers dude has been moving me to through like recently I'm retiring coming here Sam's a dude coming in and we got him for Ross I'm super pumped for that something pretty much since he popped off I was like we need him as a raw athlete so very grateful for that all the comments on that too are like there's no other brand he could be at this is so cool to see like Rah's just fucking exploding and like the community and brand itself is holding strong right now and I'm very grateful for that so appreciate all you guys for helping make that what it is I'll support you guys give us in the community but yeah that's this week it's wrapping up and that's time to go to the Olympia in a much different form than I ever have before so we'll walk through that it's got the press conference and everything coming up have a grand old time but thanks for watching see you guys next time