 nara-caritine, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably, inevitably inevitably, inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably inevitably Still progressive overload. So, warmed up. It's early in the morning right now, so it's not that hot in the gym right now. I got nothing to complain about. Let's hit the post-injury PR today. Big day. Damn. Damn. Damn. A little heavier than I thought it would be. But I'm still going for the 120s because I ain't a skinny bitch. Damn. Damn. Damn. Damn. Damn. Damn. Damn. Damn. Damn. Damn. Everything I did to prepare for that, I made it, oh of course you can do 8 pull ups, but the fact that I had to do scapular retractions and all that shit for like 6 months just to be able to do that, the point is working out very smoothly right now, my shoulder feels a lot better, so I'm going to do back and forth here, pull ups, antagonist, chest back, you get the point. That counts. Today's like a good reaffirming day of like the last however many months of rehab working out and I feel like I was thinking about like goals the other day and I was like thinking about all the goals that I set, things on a broad stroke that everyone's like I want this, I want this, I want that, but when you break it down to like what are you willing to do for it, like not what do you want to achieve in life, what do you want to receive, but what are you willing to suffer, what are you willing to endure, there's a lot of shit like I'm not willing to sit behind my desk and grind or like day trade or research this or do all that kind of shit, but like I'll wake up early, come in and fucking take a fat grip and just rotate or cuff my arm for 5 months just so that I can get back to training like this because I love training like this so much, so I feel like that's a very important thing when you set your goals or same with like my diet and all this shit, I'm retired right now, what's the goal I want, I want to get back in shape, I want to be leaner, stronger, X, Y, and Z, am I so willing to endure the discipline and the restraint of a hard diet and waking up and cardio and the training and all this shit to get that goal and I'm like fuck yeah of course I am, it's my life, it's okay, that's a good goal for me, so I think being able to not just look at the end product but look at what you're willing to actually take on in the meantime, it's super important, so my shoulders fuck, Justin's like we can wait this out and you can be good to go probably in a year or we can hammer the rehab, do everything we can and you'll probably be back in like 4 to 6 months and this is like the 5 month mark so I've been training for the last little bit so I probably even beat that, like 3 and a half months I was already pressing again, so to me I was willing to suffer that to get back in the gym because this is what I love to do, competing or not, I love training, so different way to think about it but feels good to be back. hold hold hold Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Health. If you do dark chocolate, milking cookies, or cookies, you might like the milking cookies, bananas, give or take, two shots of espresso, almond milk, fire. I get asked this question a lot, so I'm trying to think how to answer using this example of what I just did, but a lot of people asked how they're supposed to know how to track their weights in the correct form of progressive overload. So, for example, if you're doing four sets of 10, which I was just doing on the flat press, I like to be in like an aim for 10, but be in a 20% variance. So, if I hit eight, I'm still in the rep range, but the goal is 10, obviously. If I'm able to do four sets of 10 at the same weight, I need to up that weight 100%. So, in the goal of progressive overload, last week I was able to do four sets of 10, so this week I did the 110s first instead of my second set, and then I progressed up to the 120s where I only got eight reps. So, if I was being smart, I would know in my third set I would not get eight reps. I'd get less than that. So, either drop the weight a little bit, and then next week don't go up so fast and go up to 115s instead of 120s. So, I'm staying in that 20% variance, but I was kind of ego lifting today, and I didn't really give a fuck. I want to do the 120s again. Some days you feel good when one lifts heavy weight, and you just throw the books out the window. Guess what? If you're training hard, you still get jacked. But, in terms of following the program correctly, next week, ideally, if I do 110s, if I have the 115s, then I'm a lot better off. I don't have the 115s, so I need to play it off by how I feel next week. If I feel stronger, I'll jump for the 120s again, and if I only get eight again, my third set I'll drop down to 110 instead of doing 120s again, just so I'm closer to the rep range of this specific period's goal. And this is really what's important about having actual periodized training, because there's a specific purpose you're hitting each rep range and set range, every workout, because it's progressing over time. If you're just in the gym shooting the shit training hard, then fuck it, you can still make gains, just not as efficiently. hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold This is like my first exercise doing, ow, doing shoulders, elbows, abducted instead of adducted, just to protect my shoulder. I'm doing rows like this, presses like this, everything like this. So I busted out the row first before I pressed because it's a lot safer on my shoulder. But it feels pretty good moving that range of motion too. So that's pretty much how I used to do all movements, probably to a deficit of my physique, of not doing enough balance between scapulas retracted, elbows adducted, and the reverse. It's like we were talking about in that other video, upper chest getting that squeeze with the elbows in. I never did that, I always elbows flared, because it's just the way I started from the beginning. So switching up, probably a great thing for your shoulder so you don't end up like an old man C-bomb. hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold Alright, last superset of the day. The last couple, I can't remember the last workout I filmed, but I was doing that unrolling fly with the dumbbells where I came down and twisted out and came back. It's another similar kind of thing without the roll on a cable, clavicular fly. It's supposed to be a bit of a decline, that's why I'm kind of keeping my feet on the bench and my head back. It's just getting that really deep stretch over top, so it's pulling through my bicep, rear delt, front delt, sorry, all the way through my arm and coming back up. I'm not trying to hit PRs here or do anything crazy to failure, it's just strengthening that length and range of motion and coming back up. Same thing over here, deep stretch over top, pull it back up. hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold hold That's about it.