 packaged for similar length, I feel refreshed. I don't start my mornings off like this too often because I have to know the time and I don't like to do this before I work out. Obviously, but rest day recovery, my body's been feeling pretty beat up. Honestly, my left knee is like a little bit like janky. There's no pain in the actual knee. It's like it needs to be adjusted. So I'm like, all right, knee recovery day. Sana, 30 minutes, cold plunge, 10 minutes, breakfast. I'm going to go get a massage and then my blood flowing. My body's like woken up and everything. Trying to open up everything in my knee and really get it, move it. I used to like Sana like three times a week at the beginning of this year because I had a few, I had mold in my body again or never got it out from last time. I have some heavy metals too in me, which I needed a lot more than just sweating sometimes. So I take a charcoal binder. If you guys Sana charcoal binders, super cheap, get it on Amazon. Take a charcoal binder like 30 minutes before Sana. You take it after two, it's not a huge deal, but it binds everything up in your body and helps you detox everything. I was doing that for a while because there's so much shit we put in our body from like fucking pesticides from being outside. People are going to call me conspiracy theorist, but I believe in this shit. Plastics, metals, shit in your drinking water, all this stuff. Get that shit out of your body. So Sana, great for your body, great for your heart, great for blood flow. And then cold plunge, bring down my inflammation. So that's how we start the morning out. Nice little cold plunge. Also like the cold plunge is nice. Might not look dramatic getting in a hot tub, but it's like 40 degrees in there. But I had a friend who told me when I get into a cold plunge or a shower, part of it is also not reacting. They used to get a cold chair. Part of it is like the mental battle, the discipline of like getting in something cold and uncomfortable. And how quickly can you like make yourself comfortable? How can you control your breath and doesn't need to be breathing slow? Like you can breathe. But just control what you're doing and slowly slow that breath down and just get used to doing that. You're teaching your mind to remain control over stressful situations rather than just letting loose of the emotion. So one thing, a little emotional practice, you can do at the same time, self control. But with that being said, I'm going to go take a nice warm shower, eat some breakfast, warm up and then we have a nice massage. The hell of the morning. This is the usual. Still on it. I'll just shake every now and then. But this is still the staple. Sometimes you can't beat some simple things, you know? We're not eating six to ten eggs. I don't get sick of them. So three eggs I can handle. Morning. Morning. I had a bit of an on and off and then after the Olympia did that like dead lift thing. I had a fucking feeling something's going to happen there. And I hurt my leg here and then it was fine. Then I was doing pull ups the other day like dead hang pull up. I felt it a bit again and then my knee feels like it feels like it's like almost edaline, but it kind of hurts. So a couple of years ago I was doing this stretch and it pushed like it popped out like my shin like that. Oh, I see that. It didn't hurt in the moment, but ever since I can't do this stretch. Well, there's really only a few things that are going on here. Like you just have the patellar tendon right here. That's just what connects this to this. And then you have the meniscus underneath. It's not to say that they're it's torn. I mean, again, an MRI would be kind of the only way to kind of confirm that. Is it extremely painful? You don't get knee swelling right? So I just think there's just, yeah, this is very interesting amount of. I've also been doing more like very subtle, but like the altitude landing subtle jump things more speed work. Yeah, you're you're you're putting more of a plyometric landing on that stuff. So you could be testing it, but this would be a perfect opportunity to try the new electrohydraulic shock wave. Nothing crazy. You feel kind of getting onto that bone. A little bit. So it's like the number one thing this does. So this is going to get your wave down to the bone level. OK, so when it gets down to the bone, that's where a lot of shockwaves don't really get that far down because it's just too painful. Number one. But also it's going to help stimulate like the fibroblasts that are actually going to heal up the tendons. That's what makes your fibroblasts. So it stimulates those. So you can actually get a pretty good repair. It's a little bit better. Good. I still feel it, but it is like. Yeah, even this morning. And like I'm like like you heard Matt say it's like it's your deal. As long as we're feeling like a little progress, it's going to heal. And then like in two days time, it feels better. And then I usually like hit it again. I've got to carry my office. Let me set this up. I'm going to set it up here. So we're next week. We'll be on the left. All that stuff. OK. Is there anything with like like James said he was kind of sore the next day, like training legs the next day? Yeah, I mean, just like our regular sessions, anyways, just be mindful of maybe not red lining a workout. I would maybe keep it to like a 60, 80 percent max. But if we're doing stuff that's in relation to the knee, just kind of, you know, feel it, but we're creating micro micro legions. They're very, very small. So it's not like we're ripping things apart. But if you're going and you feel just a little in the knee, just maybe just take a step away. Don't don't push it. There's no reason right now. You know, there's no end goal for competition at the end of the month. Right. I need that progress. You'll get the progress. Progressive. You get them. I think the dopamine from no pain is a good progress point. The hit as well. It's true. Yeah. It doesn't last very long. All right. So this phase of training is definitely has a lot of new stuff. So again, don't judge me for when I'm doing movements that I would never normally do. But today is a bunch of unique stuff. I got sled sprints in the workout. That's the first thing I'm to start with either running up a hill or with a sled with weight prevents your body from being able to move too fast. So it was someone like myself who's tight and not used to moving fast and having a lot of muscle. I would probably tear seven to 10 muscles. If I just started to just start sprinting. So pushing a sled forced me to slow down and almost like more of like a weighted movement, which I'm used to combined with speed work. So that or uphill, if you don't have a sled, it's a good way to start sprinting. Don't just sprint all out. Just like get your body used to moving again. And then we have some power movements later on. My warmup is pretty hilarious. I get to jump on a trampoline like I'm a child. I mean, that warmup is all a bunch of random shit specific to me and my injuries and broken body parts, et cetera. But part of it is literally just standing on a trampoline and jumping up and down. Courtney had this trampoline in our house because it's good for lymphatic drainage or something. And I touched the ground if I jumped too high. But learning to jump again on one leg. The first time I did this, I felt like my knee was going to explode. And I was getting a lot better. But honestly, I can't lie. Stupid as you may look on a little kid trampoline, doing this first thing in the morning gets like all the blood shaking out of your body. Everything starts moving. It does lymphatic drainage and moves everything in your body. Next thing you know, you're like wide awake. So maybe just put this beside your bed. You got to wake up at five a.m. Your wife will just wake up to you beside the bed like this. Just jumping looking. Yeah. Literally gets your heart going. It was because I just woke up, but. Fuck him out of shape. It'd be time I start believing in cardio. We didn't film it, but I can show a video I have on my phone of it. The beginning of the week, four days, three days ago, I do the same range of motion in an isometric hold. I go down right before it goes over the bar and I hold it. It was the same thing as the chest press I did 20 seconds, one week, 15, then 10. As the week progresses, but then later on the week in the same movement, I do the same range of motion, but I do a pause to prevent any inertia, any momentum, stop on it and then explode out with that top third of the top quarter third of the range of motion. Really just like working on that knee extension, pushing through hips, everything just getting that like when you jump, you're playing sports. Everything is kind of right here. You're rarely like coming down here and jumping all the way up. It's that quickly. Boom. So I'm trading that part right now for this three week stretch. That's the detail after the toss. It feels better. It does feel better. There's something inside it's wrote. So if I do this and then like my shin pushing that direction is what hurts it a little bit. So it feels better after yesterday. I don't know. My problem is I've trained for winning Olympics for so long that when I have an injury, I can't stop. I'm just like, fuck it. Don't stop unless you're broken. But like I have nothing I'm training for now. So like knowing when to give myself rest is a bit of a different story. All these things being a new movement for me, but this one especially having a load on me, the bar and the bar is shaped like an arch. So if I'm doing a single leg naturally, you'll favor a bit to that legs. If I'm a bit over the bar will hit on the curve on one side before the other. And it pulls you. So it's hard to maintain your balance. So just my first week doing this last week, I like almost fell over a couple of times and had to like stabilize myself. But on week two, just purely having more coordination from doing it one time. I feel way stronger in it. When you build like muscle and strength to a point, it can go into a lot of different facets. But if you don't have the coordination or the range of motion to do things, you feel fucked up. But that coordination can come quick when you do it. So if you do like, I only do dumbbell press, if I started bench pressing, I'd probably be shit at it, but it would climb really fast because I have the strength. They just don't have the coordination right now. Oh my goodness. I haven't moved that much weight in a very long time. My body still got the strength, but my lower back is like, be careful, motherfucker. Don't push this too hard. Feels good though to be moving weight again. I texted Justin, I was like, I need surgery on power cleans. And he rolled his eyes like, you fucking idiot. How about we learn how to walk before you can run, before you can power clean? And then he's like, I'll let you do a barbell complex on one of my like aerobic conditioning days, trying to like just train my body, do different things. And it's just like, I think it's like a regular clean grip and just bringing the bar up and down. And then like a press over in front of the head and then just like a snatch, like up onto your toes. And I saw him in a video and he just like, he tried to send me a video explaining it. It was like two minutes long and partway through. He's like, never mind, we just got to do this shit in person. Like, you know, like there's a lot of things wrong here. I'm like, damn, I'm a long ways away from ever being able to power clean. Maybe I should start with sprinting first and then worry about the coordination that comes with that shit. All right, another new movement. First time ever doing this rotational underhand ball throws. Come over here, paw thing and then throwing it. We don't have a wall out here. So I'm throwing out a door. I thought that the door of the metal building and I don't know which one I want to hit. I feel like it'd be cheaper to replace the door than a whole metal building or sheet, whatever. So hopefully nothing breaks, but we'll see if I can even do this with that pole in my back. I'm definitely gonna break that door. Oh. All right. It's a good workout. This is a more of a fun, strength and conditioning day. Doing like, sledsprints, sets of five, split lunge, sets of six rack pulls, sets of six ball throws. Very like, powerful explosive. This is getting me ready to kick this shit if anyone tries to date Bradley. Just be a brick house. So we've pretty much already announced this and if you've come by the raw gym, you've probably seen this fucking unit of a truck sitting outside. But we're going to be giving away this custom built Ram TRX on 40 inch tires. It's got this like, crazy matte cement paint on it. So it's indestructible pretty much. If you ever wanted to like rob a bank or get away from the government chasing you, this is the vehicle that you come on. So if you're shopping for Black Friday, first of all, our website's going to be 40% off and you can win this truck. Which is going to be live actually when this video goes up. So go over to raw, use code C-Bomb because why not? And then every dollar you're going to spend on our website, it's going to get you a chance to win this truck. And then every single day we're going to be doing a bunch of other giveaways as well. So I'm going to get in this truck and seal it right now because what a fuck. Range, 14 miles still empty. What the fuck boys? They use this thing for a photo shoot and they leave 14 miles of range left in there. I'm not driving this shit. I'm not going to get cast. Fuck that. That's like this is Courtney. This is Courtney to a T. Hey, babe, I'm going to take your truck today. All right, get in the other car. Empty. Hey, babe, I'm going to take this car today. Okay, get in my other truck. Empty on gas. Somebody set you up. That's crazy. You want the keys? Yeah, go for a drive. Yeah, Chris drained it. Fuck that. That's crazy. I promise so whoever wins this, I will make them put a full gas, full tank of gas in it. You're also going to win cash because I know when you win a truck, you have to pay taxes on it. So we're going to give you guys enough cash to cover the taxes as well. So there will be no obligation for taking gas cash to cover the taxes. But Black Friday is going to be fucking wild. 40% off is chaos. So if you ever need your supplements, buy them all now and don't buy them again until the new year because why the fuck not? So you could see bum. There's going to be a lot more shit we're going to be giving away every single day. It's going to be a unique gift. So fucking send it. But I'm going to get it because I'm not putting gas in this thing. I'm going to give someone shit right now.