 mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere This is a pretty crazy moment. Sitting on the stage walking up here. I'm at the final of the Olympia stage not competing. It's even crazier that I have my picture up right now. I was talking to Corny but like the last decade of my life has been dedicated to just this. And like those moments of just excitement and nerves and leading towards something. And now I'm not doing it. Like understanding that nothing will ever like replace the feeling that came from this. Whether good, bad, things that come to my life it won't be the same as this beautiful moment that I had stepping on stage. Remembering my family up in the crowd up in the seats up here just screaming and cheering and pointing at them. Giving them the heart and retiring on this literal stage last year. Just a picture they have up is literally me walking out after and that's when I retire. I've been like peace out. I'm done with bodybuilding. Just thinking about like how sad it is to walk away from something is such like a contrast of perception. Like there's so much sadness leaving something but also so much gratitude to have loved something so much. That when I walk away from it, it like was like the grieving of a sport. And I feel like one of the things I'm so grateful for was an opportunity for something that I loved and was passionate about. Swearing myself crying. Where I had like an opportunity to work so hard for something. Like not many people I believe in their life are lucky enough to have something that they can walk away from. Like I spent a decade putting everything I had to being the best at something. Whether or not you win or not to see like to see out your potential in a singular goal. Is something that I will be able to hold on to for the rest of my life. Being like I gave everything I had and I did what I could to that thing. And I ended up being the best in the world. I can look at that. But it's really more so understanding but we all want to find our life's purpose. And where we're meant to be and all these things I felt like. I felt like for the first half of my life at least there was nowhere else that I was meant to be. Then on this Olympia stage. Like my mindset, my body, the people around me. Everything was absolutely incredible to get me to one specific spot. And I'm so grateful for that. I've been holding that forever. Thinking about the amount of relationships I built in my life and I've had in moments. Like when I think of the stuff that I'm really gonna miss it's like Hawny stressing about not having potatoes, Courtney cooking meal and stuff. And I think Kelvin running around like crazy. Curly snapping pictures. Anxious about all the stuff that are coming. My mom fucking after five minutes of prejudging losing her voice. I'm also just crying all the time and locked in Ian. Just like you got this, you know. Get enough stage text to Ian. Be like how do I look? And like all those little moments with all the relationships I built here are so incredible. And I think one of the things that makes me the most sad is like. Being able to celebrate victories with people you love comes most went that's like. Something you poured everything into. Alright so Friday night, night before the Olympia. It looks a little bit different than it did last year Friday night before the Olympia. That's for damn sure. Didn't even make it to the show tonight. We'll go watch tomorrow but we got it on the TV. Last year I had a five guys burger. I had to fight every year to get a burger. Whether it was from Ian or from Hawny. They were like you don't need it. It's kind of clean. I got one every now and then. But I got five guys and then it was put in the fridge with no cheese, no lettuce, no tomato, no sauce, no ketchup. Cold. It's been in the fridge for a couple hours and I ate it. Now we got some in it out. And enjoying it with all the good shit on it. While watching the Olympia. So see how this is. I haven't had to know burger in like a decade. Better than a cold dirty burger. I love better than a cold dirty burger. I have a question. When you're out there are they clenching their cheeks? Is that a truth? Because. Literally. I always thought that they were so like shredded that you didn't have to do anything back there. But they're clen- They look clenching. Do you clench it? They look clench. They're clenching hard. Like Martin from the back? Too cool. That's crazy. I didn't do jacks, sneaky as in that. No, hers is deeper than 12. Oh really? Oh. I mean fuck, you won two open shows this year. That's insane. I feel like I'm always so biased when I like someone. What do you think they're gonna place? Top five. I don't think Andrew jack's gonna be top three. And I didn't have that in my mind at first. Such a funny sport because they want like theatrics and excitement. But if people bump elbows or if they're like taking too long to like hype people up. They're like, they get mad at you. Yeah. You know, Audie and Derek are both getting leaner. Like harder. Samson is not. You look crazy when you came out for the initials. You still look scared. He's so big though. Samson's bad. Current predictions, I have Derek winning right now. I think Derek Lunsford is gonna win. Given what I just saw right there. Second, I honestly feel like I would, I have no fucking idea at that point. We're watching the live stream. I gotta see pictures. There were some shots where Audie looked like it could be him. I don't think it's gonna be Andrew jack, but I could be wrong. I think it's, right now I could see Derek, Audie, Samson, Andrew jacked. Derek's back is insane. His side chest is insane. His side chest is good, which is Audie's best pose. So I feel like his best pose is still comparable to Derek's. And then Derek just looked a little bit, his quads look better from the front and the back. Like Derek's full back, up from his back to his waist to his glutes and hamstrings and everything was like fell. Audie had like a thigh gap from the back. His legs were a little bit smaller, I feel like than last year. I just feel like overall Derek's the most complete and looks fucking peeled up there. But given the live stream I feel like the short white guys, just being honest. You can see more detail on it. So Instagram pictures might be different, but that's my take right now. I think I always slept pretty good before the show. There's a G-Cub. Alright, we just woke up way too early in the morning. Even though I'm normally awake today at 5am on show day. About 6.30, slept in a little bit. Rushed to the gym, do a little arm pump before the expo that we got to go to. We're in one of the cool shirts that are entirely over here made. Took the picture and designed it. So we're just going to shoot that right now. We're going to do a pre-release of this, but getting a sick arm pump. Super set everything, no rest, just get fucking. Good. Good. Extend, extend, pull, extend behind, yes. Another little bigger quarter. Yep, down. Roll our bed into a giant set. No better way to wake up on a Saturday morning. Yeah, right there. One more pull extension and we got five partals. Partals, partals, five, four, two, double right there. Three, two, banga. That's good. Yeah, I got that. Short and even larger partals. There you go. Yeah, a little high, a little high. There's a lot of set. So this is that two things. Here we go. Yeah, you definitely got more. Here we go. All the way up, all the way up, all the way up. There you go. Push this back. There you go. Pull, pull, pull. Get another. Amp, amp, amp, amp, amp, pull, pull, pull, pull, pull. Keep this back. There you go. You have another, you have another, all the way up. Here we go. Push that back. There you go again. Keep this back, keep this back. Pull, pull, pull, pull, pull, pull, pull, pull, pull. That sounds good. I don't know if it's the curling or the stretch. I don't know if it's the curling or the stretch. I'll kill my arm there. Well, both of them are pretty good. So, even for you, like the way that your arms constantly pulling forward, like that's a tough stretch for you. And then you put more blood in the piece. That makes it harder to stretch. And then you get all the phosphate and the acid going up. And that just hurts like crazy. Yeah, buddy. Yeah, buddy. Ready to get on stage again. That's a no-banana. Yeah, you have a banana. It's an internet burger pump. Maybe the swollen face is worth it. Going in Saturday, pre-judging. Sounds like it's already started. Moment of truth here. See who's going to take it. I guess not yet, tonight. I'm going to get a hug. I'm going to get a hug. Yeah, I'm good. You're going to get a hug, say? Yeah, yeah, say it like what? Fuckin' buddy, man. Appreciate it. Thank you. I'm a hug. Please welcome from Brazil, Ramon Dino. Welcome from Germany, Welcome, Brigher. How you doing? Gingy. I'm a free man. I'm a woman. No, no, no. I'm a hard hitter. Yeah, I'm light-skinned, but I'm still a- I'm a free man. I'm a free man. Thank you, Mike Summerbell. Please welcome from Germany, Ramon Stimler. Yeah, thank you. I have your moment now. I have your moment right now. Thank you. Mike Chess. All the best. Thank you gentlemen. Great job back in line. Back in court for free judging. Back to you, Bob. All right, thank you big team. How about a big hand, folks? Your blessing, physique Olympian. I feel like I had the first big, like, FOMO moment when I had people, people came out and like, they cheered and shit. And like, seeing some people come out nervous, some people come out fast, some people come out like, the moment of being backstage and free judging, when everyone's waited all year to see what Chris is going to look like this year, and people are like, ah, we can get on stage. Like, those moments are like, nothing will ever repeat that, you know? Like, I always say, stuff will be better than that. And I'll have like, equally if not more beautiful moments, but it won't be the same. And that just selfish, like, ego, like people just yelling at you before you've been presented in that moment. You know, it's like, exactly. Like, just, people are rough. They're probably, no, I feel like over the years, like, the difference of like, when people expected me to win, so when I came out and they just cheered the loudest for me, I was like, fuck yeah, you know? But... Like, when you get people to like, middle, like, the feeling of going from like, the outside to the middle and everyone goes, fucking nothing. Yeah, even watching people's face, like, and they're like, and they move to the side and like, you know, just that feeling, it's so real. You see your boy, though? How are you? I'm doing good. I'm doing really good. I'm not even making it over the whole time. I'm only for driving two of us. I was like, just going around there, going around like two of us. I'm trying to win, not... Not... Just watched the classic Zika Pre-Judging. Definitely, that was like the biggest first moment of just like FOMO sitting there watching it, being like, the moments of calling them on stage and the excitement. But I really think looking at this shit, given that all year this is the first moment that like, the excitement, the calling, the names, the pose, and the little like, competitive edge you have on it, that's what I missed. Because I love that so much. But a couple weeks ago, when I saw Ryan Terry suffering, dieting, all these people, I'm like, I do not miss that. I enjoy the journey towards the end goal. All you wanted the end goal. Hey, you're not going to work as hard to get there. You're not going to enjoy it. It's just no point. I'd be so much more likely to let the gas off on so many areas, and potentially not even win because I wasn't putting in my effort in. So it was definitely... It was the right decision I had to make to leave, but it's still sad because I fucking love bodybuilding. Like the moments on stage, that first moment, all year stepping on stage, like nothing beats that. Just excitement, nerves, anxiety, stress, and then as it goes, and their confidence builds as you're up there, it's just such a cool feeling. Like the competitive nature. Not many people get to compete at something at a high level. Something that I will always cherish, and always miss, and always grieve, to some extent. That's life, you know? You can't hold onto the most beautiful things forever. Life is impermanent. So, the way it is. But I'm going to watch the show tonight. We have an expo today. See who gets crowned the next class queen, Mr. Wampiel. Get in tattoo. I told Courtney, she's like, you need to get tattooed for me and Bradley. I'm like, I need that to be more meaningful. I'm just holding this whole arm. There's something meaningful. I'm jamming the raw tattoo right there. Where are you getting it? Like it's underneath there. On top of the flat part of the joint. I feel like every time you're excited to get a tattoo, then in the middle of a tattoo, you're like, fuck the tattoo, just hurts. I'm just gonna get it. I'm gonna get it. I'm gonna get it. I'm gonna get it. I'm gonna get it. I'm gonna get it. I'm gonna get it. You guys look pretty. Now I can't go sign with another company. I actually feel good, right? You look really good, Seth. I did. One, two, three. You have a lot of time if you want a picture. Do you want a picture of selfie? Yeah, can you? You can wait. Hurry up. Turn around. Turn around. Oh my god. I'm sorry. Bye. Thank you. Bye. Graphic violation. No parking plaque visible Mr. Lundy event. Come on. Toxic. I'm not paying that. Sent to Mr. Lundy. That's so shit. You win the Lundy of the last six years, and I get a traffic jam. Didn't pay my parking fees so they looked at it. Yeah, nothing says welcome back like that. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Don't pay. Don't pay. Don't pay. Don't pay. Don't pay. Don't pay. Don't pay. Don't pay. Don't pay. Don't pay. Don't pay. Don't pay. Don't pay. Don't pay. Don't pay. Shit stuff. Now I'm only cleaning. Good man. He's off. This looks good too. Yeah. You look really good up there. You can fucking lock it up. Do this for me. You like it? Yeah, just hit those poses fast and hard. Get in it before him, you know? Thank you so much, brother. How's it going, guys? How are you doing? How are you doing? Nine, smugglers. How long did you get your budgie smugglers on? I said you look lost. I am lost. I need them. The return has been sexy. What's this guy? I was just saying that three years ago, some of the stuff I do on sale, I don't know what I'm doing here. I'm watching him. I'm watching him with my hair. I do with my hair. At least they like it. Oh. Do you ever practice that? I'm not fucking dancing. It's called flow state. You're feeling it. Apparently we call that the flow state. I just saw a clip and I'm like, what is that made of? This is the best video I've seen. We've been in it the last few years. Last year was great. You look like shit last year. I'm not that bad. I like it. Thanks mate. How's the family? They're good. How are you? Are you filming here? I'm glad. I was going to bring Alphiel. He was going to come this year. Glad he's not. After what's happened today, he's been entertaining this stuff. He just took away from the home. You have to get him himself. Someone who's been there. You're going to enjoy it. Hopefully. You're going to enjoy it differently this year. Not in your head. Exactly. Honestly, this year has been so... We talked about it. Being in the moment. Obviously, I let him get in my head. I was ready way too early. I made it a lot harder than it needed to be. The boards. On the flip side of it. The last few weeks. I've enjoyed every second of it. I saw that video of you. He would eat it. I did feel that. I just wanted to take something out. I can tell. I don't think you could fake it. I don't think you could fake it. That's the challenge. The first and second wins. I'm getting the hang of it. I never want to leave. Yeah. I just took a win. I feel like... I'm saving it. Side chest. Side chest. And your favorite most muscular. Switch. Aaly and Herod switch. Aaly and Herod switch. Aaly and Herod switch. Aaly and Herod switch. Aaly and Herod switch. Aaly and Herod switch. Aaly and Herod switch. Thank you gentlemen. Back in line. The first place award. The gold medal. The check for $50,000. And the title of 2025. Men's physique Olympia champion. Men's physique Olympia champion. To your winner. And... Three time Olympia champion. Red Terry. And he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he he I'm so proud of you man. Thank you brother. I'm not even just biased. Just the amount of battles me and Ramon have gone through over the last few years. And I know Ramon, the amount of times he has so many highs and so many lows and how many emotions he's had and where he's come from. I'm so happy for him. He's like lost his shit. There couldn't have been a better person for a woman I feel like. I feel emotional but it's like good. And I felt like weirdly happy to see that happen. I feel like what I felt was 10x what I would have felt when I was 7 too. You know? It just felt like I felt really happy for him. I feel like I felt really happy for him. I'm so happy for him. I'm so happy for him. Thank you brother for the motivation for everything. Thank you brother. Thank you brother. Thank you. You are the best brother. Thank you brother. Thank you. Thank you. Carry well. Yes. Finally. You remember? Yes. You built your own. Yes. Thank you. So that is a wrap on the 2025 Mr. Olympia. In a much different way than the previous 8 years of Olympia. Which is absolutely absurd. That it's so close to a decade of doing this. And I've only done like 12 shows in my life and 8 of them were Mr. Olympias. It was kind of a strange day for sure. Like this morning was one thing but night show was always like. The one where there's always a lot of like emotion and memories that come into competing. Like a lot of my memories are like seeing people in the crowd looking in the lights. And all the like intensity and reaction that comes from the night show. And then tonight I started watching Ryan Terry and like I wasn't sure if he was going to win or not. I like believed he was. I knew he was. I thought he was. But like you never really know. So when they were announcing his name I like got that anxiety of like remembering that. And then they brought me backstage and I was going to do give it the classic physique award or be on stage while they gave it away. Cause I didn't sponsor the show. But when I was standing back there.  I got to sit on the stage behind the guys, and they're all standing there, waiting for the names to be called 5, 4, 3, 2, and then they're gone 2 and 1, and I had no idea who it was gonna be. Kinda biased wanted Ramon to win, because we'd competed against each other for the last like 4 years, he's pushed me, he almost beat me in the past, he's been kinda back and forth, and I know the journey he's been through is more like, I know it better, and then when they called his name and he just like collapsed to the floor, it was like, this weird like twilight zone. And I was standing on stage, and it wasn't my moment to be on stage, and I almost got emotional there, and like just seeing like, that emotion and that joy that he had from what went into that, and remembering like how many of those moments I had of just like that flash in that instant, how many years and moments and struggles and sacrifices that went into like that moment to get that win and like witnessing him experience it for the first time ever after like however many years I'm not getting it, was really interesting to see, and I still don't really understand what I felt this whole day in terms of like emotion coming up, but I think it's a lot of like gratitude, because I like genuinely like, the number one thing I didn't expect to feel today was so much happiness for Ramon to have that moment, like it was like, I was crying like smiling like a proud father in the background just like, fuck like that's so cool good for you, I've literally been there, like few people can look at that and be like, I know exactly what you're feeling right now, and it was really cool for to witness someone else getting there, who realistically I probably would have enjoyed it less and remote did after the seventh time, it's not the same as the first time, so to see him witness that was really cool, and there's been a lot of moments over this whole weekend, just thinking of all the memories I share with people I love that I will very much miss, and I keep talking about the idea of like, instead of like chasing perfection, pursuing the passion of something you love, and like by loving something, when you go through hard times, you won't quit, you'll keep pushing through, but by going through the hard time, it gives those high such beautiful moments, and to be able to experience like, that kind of emotion is such like a human thing that's so like unique and beautiful to us, and we'll share that with people you love is, is just really cool, you know, you really have to earn those moments in life, you can't just be like, I'm gonna go fucking play sports this weekend and do something, it's like, no, you have to sacrifice for years, and have like people witness it with you to share, understand your journey, and be able to feel all that, so it's really cool, you know, and I encourage anyone who loves anything, just to fucking go all out, no matter what's going on, and bring people along your journey, and just enjoy the whole thing, because it's short, and it will be over soon, and I don't know why I still get so sad every time I think that it's done, and it's really not like, I haven't had a single moment of like, fuck, I would need to compete again, like, I want to do more, it's just like, it's just something so beautiful in my life that I got to experience a lot, and that's done, and there's a grieving in that, and it's also just a lot of gratitude and happiness that I got to experience it at all, so it was really cool, and even in the midst of this, I was like feeling emotion like this, and then Courtney sent me some pictures of Bradley, and like, her hair was kind of humid, it wasn't as curly, she was wearing overalls, and she looked like a girl, not like a little baby, and that made me emotional too, I was like, fuck, she's not a baby anymore, that goes so fast too, time just goes by so fast, it's scary how much things can, like, you think it's going to last forever in this beautiful season of life, and then it changes, and then having the contrast of what used to be the selfish pursuit of bodybuilding, and now, like, my daughter, the most selfless thing ever, also bringing tears to my eyes in the same day, is like, she's really lucky that I had, I just feel very blessed for the journey I had, the people I got to share it with, and now, a family that I get to build a new one with, it's such a perfect timing, and it's really hard leaving it behind, but that's life, it's not always like you close the door, it's beautiful, and I'm so happy it's done, now I can move on with my life, it's like, no, it kind of sucks, there's a lot of things that was really sucked about bodybuilding, a lot of things that sucks to leave behind, but truly now, like, having my family, another baby on the way, and all this stuff, it's like, that's where I want to spend my time, that's where I want to look back, and be like, I gave everything I had to my family, like, I was present with my family, just like I could look back at my Olympia career, and be like, I want a couple times it wasn't present, one more time it was present, it worked everything I had, and I had nothing to regret by leaving, I want that to be what I feel like with my family, when their kids leave in my house, when they're 18 or whatever it may be, or when they're 30, 40, 50, so, probably one of the best things that bodybuilding taught me, which is how short life is, is to make sure you make things count, make the relationships count, make the experiences count, just be present, remember everything, because it ends very quickly, so, overall it was a, it was a good day, it was an interesting day, it was fun, I kept being like, oh, I feel so at peace with this, I don't have any emotion coming up about it, maybe they'll come up on show day, kind of not really thinking it, because I didn't feel anything internally, and then I'll just kind of pour it out today, so, it was a good experience, and I'm super pumped for they doubled the prize money this year, I told them they better fucking increase prize money, I didn't care before, but these guys deserve it, so, they doubled it up, they made a nice check, but I think more than that, he was just so proud that the work he put on finally paid off, and he got that reward, so, I was grateful to witness that, and I'm happy someone, like Ramon, got to experience what I did as well, and I know the other guys are coming for him too, so, Clasic Vizic is going strong and heavy, boys are setting the standards and doing their thing, but that's a wrap on the 2025, Mr. Olympia, so, thank you guys for watching, I appreciate you so following along the journey, even though I'm not the one up on stage doing the things, life changes, but it evolves, it grows, and that's part of it, so, well, thank you guys for watching.