 apricin, 아니면 apricin, 아니면 apricin, 아니면 apricin, 아니면 apricin, Thank you very much. I hate that. Early morning, went over to Relive, view blood work. Next door, Dom's Fuji asked to put this fancy coffee shop with avocado toast in it. Maybe I'll actually show you guys what my blood work is next time because it's gotten a lot better since competing or I'll show you what my test levels are at because they're significantly lower. Full transparency. I'm going to be stuck on testosterone for the rest of my life. Probably. It would suck to come off it. But I'm maintaining them in a natural level and it made me lose some weight and lose some strength and next whatever. But it becomes my new normal and then it comes back. So I get blood work every two months right now just to make sure I'm progressing and all the stuff I'm doing for my health is getting better and whatnot. So it's a pretty easy thing to do. If you guys want to care about your health, getting blood work is so accessible and that's in so many ways. We also relive in like half the major cities in the country now. So if you guys want to take care of yourself, it's worth doing. And then if you're here, you can come and get some avocado toast next door and not get skinny from not eating all day. So that being said, got a photo shoot after this. Some calls. I'm going to go train today. Doing a little bit of sled sprints today. So if you guys want to laugh at me for having zero athletic ability, today will be the day. I'm going to down this, get some gluten, eat some serving. We got our coffees ready to roll. Blood work done. Only nine in the morning. Be a good day. Yeah, no, I think that looks good. A little pre-workout. That's what beats a Corona on a hot summer. What we're really here for. Every time I'm in a gas station, even if I don't want one, I'll just buy it and not drink it because who wouldn't? Anything else for you guys? No. You tried these drinks yet? Do you like a bag? No, thank you. Yeah, I did when they first came out. You like them? Yeah, they're kind of smooth. They're better than the, what is it? That monster crap? No. The Red Bull crap? All of it. The Red Bull. They're better to me. They're better than the Red Bull. Much better than the Red Bull. I agree. No. No! No! No! I haven't said what is up YouTube, so what is up YouTube? Like I said today's a much more dynamic style of workout than it's typical for me. I've done this workout once and it felt like a fish trying to play the piano, skip rope, play basketball at the same time. I don't know what the f**k that means. So you guys are going to see how awkward I look today but we're going to be running through that. Still kind of recovering from this weekend. It was my friend of mine's bachelor party and for reference I normally go to bed at nine o'clock and wake up at like six. Fall asleep at 10 whatever in that area. Friday morning woke up at six in Miami with my friends chilling. Went golfing that day, went out that night and I went to sleep at 6.30 in the morning. And I didn't have a drop of alcohol, no drugs either just to put that out there. But didn't drink at all out in Miami until six in the morning which was a crazy thing because I was the only sober guy there. I just don't drink anymore. But my body even not drinking was like oh like I didn't get my eight hours of sleep I'm broken. Which to be fair anyone being awake till six in the morning is gonna be kind of f**ked up. But still kind of recovering from that. It was a long weekend. But stay true to being sober. That's one of my things now is like when I say oh I don't really want to drink tonight I'm not gonna get drunk blah blah people come on just have one. Then you have one, you have two, then you have three. Then you feel like s**t. So now I just say I don't drink anymore and people are like oh okay. You know no one's gonna push you when you say I don't drink. Like I just don't drink alcohol. It's like part of my identity. People are like oh yeah like whatever. Leave it. And it's just way easier not to drink. And then you feel better. You don't do anything stupid that you regret. That you're like oh f**k why did I do that because I was drunk. You feel better the next day even if you're not sleeping. There's no hangover to recover from. It's just a beautiful way to live. So I'm a huge advocate for that. When you're young party, have fun, do your thing. But if you're trying to actually make something of your life and like be a better person, be better in your career, take care of your health, anything like that, in my opinion, zero alcohol. Like what the f**k's the point? Do you really need to get drunk? No, you don't. That's my dad rant of the day. We're gonna move on now. We'll do some sprints, some jumps. I got a little bit more warm-up to do and we'll see how it goes. I got a really long sprint today. 10 yards, a lot of cardio. All right, so first complex if you will. I don't know what you call it, a jump complex. I do five broad jumps and then I do five split squat jumps and then I do 10 skater jumps side to side. My knees are pretty healthy. If I squat, like however much weight I need to squat, they feel fine. But impact and like exploding, especially my left knee, it just has this like, oh, like don't make me explode like that. Don't make me land. Don't make me absorb impact. So I'm trying to like retrain it to be able to do that because it's completely different. Being able to like express fully, like I truly believe a lot of athletes are very good athletes because they have less inhibition from their mind to just fully express what their body can do. And having a lot of power but no comfort in exploding, my body doesn't express what it could very well. So I'm trying to get back at that. But in the meantime, I just feel super awkward and like jumping forward and landing feels so like scary. So literally like I have to hold back on my jump so I can at least absorb the landing and get better at that. Because usually when you hurt yourself playing sports or anything, it's often on landing more than takeoff. So building some of that stability back into just getting my body used to doing things, normally if you're asking me, if you were talking to my ego, I would be like, don't come to today's workout. Let me do this for six months and then I can show you. But hey, fuck it. This is YouTube. This is just where I'm at right now in life. So when you see me doing fucking two hand jams, you'll know why. This is purposefully so I'm at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work at work I don't even know what I'm doing there. This will be the videos that I just get fucking roasted for again. Like when I can't remember what the guy was, but some NFL player commented on someone reposting my attempt at sprinting. Just laughing and roasting me. He had no idea who I was. Just like this idiot. I was like sick. Love that for me. Really exposed his weaknesses though. Because I can squat, no problem. My left knee does not feel like my right knee does doing this. For those who are following along the journey, zero response from my truck. I was told, whatever, the 23rd or something last month. It is now April. Right? Yeah. And no response. Like, hey bro, the done? Nothing. Question mark, done. Can I pick it up? Nothing. What's the address? Nothing. It's crazy because like, he could have just let it, he didn't need to text me. Like, hey, I'll be ready to tweet. Right? I'll go send him some more question marks right now. We'll see if he replies by the end of this workout. Three years. I'll get it done this week, bro. One more month. Alright, so sled sprints. It's written in my programming as either sled sprints or hill sprints. Because we live in Florida and there are no hills. Here we are. But I probably could do this workout at a, actually no, I need a barbell. So I couldn't really do that at a park. But anyways, 10 meters approximately. Three times. Three times. So each set is three there back and forth. Flow over 10 meters, but pick up speed, slow down, etc. I feel like I'm not even trying to have perfect sprinting form right now. I'm just trying to get my body used to like, moving. And then I'm going to see Justin soon and we can start actually worrying about how fucking horrendous my form is. But if I'm trying to like, fine tune like, exact movements right now. Which you guys can roast me in the comments if you want. I'll just be overthinking everything too much. I need to have my body at least able to like, move at, slow to moderate speed instead of turtle speed. Then we can worry about the rest. I need to have my body at least. I'm not even going to sit here and try and pretend to tell you guys how to do this. Because you're probably all better at this than me. But I'm literally just trying to drive my knees up and down fast and hard. That's pretty much about it right now. This is some serious cardio for me. I'm not used to doing anything for this capacity. This is some serious cardio. Feels way better pushing it than pulling it. My jaw hurts. Feels good to do different kind of high heart rate. That looks better. My legs are still kind of pointed out. That doesn't look like too much movement. That looks pretty in line. That wasn't bad. This way is worse. My ankles are just like flattening because they're weak. The foot line is just to the outside so my ankle is caving in. Yeah, look at that step right there. That ankle behind me. Could be worse but... Could be a lot worse. Need some strong ankles. Whew. Alright, these are called Romanian rhythm squats. Banded to really get that quick... What's the word I'm looking for? Whatever. Quick reaction out of it. The goal is just like a little bend. Like when you're playing sports and you're jumping or you're reacting, you're really not bending your knees or hips that much. It's just like whippy. Explosive. So, trying to move it as fast as I can. Every time I do these adjustments like faster. Move quicker. That is low. More snappy. I'm like fuck man. It's as fast as my body can go right now. So, the goal is just up and down as fast as possible. You do 10 normal and then 10 up on your toes. 10 normal for a total of 50 reps. This will be a purpose! This will be a purpose! Oh, my God. Oh, my God. That year, which struck me out for almost five months. I think it was five months to get my shoulder back. And then I had that weird infection that was causing all my joint pain for a while, which I thought was just me being old, and then went away. I feel like that total set me back almost like eight to nine months. Not fully, but it slowed down my progress eight to nine months. So, yeah. Been slower than I expected, for sure. I feel like, though, because I don't know if time feels different now because I'm not competing and I don't have that end goal. But I feel like what I don't realize bodybuilding taught me was just staying the course no matter what. I had so many offseeds where I wasn't putting on weight. Perhaps where you're not getting leaner or dropping weight for a certain period of time, and you just have to stop thinking about it and just trust the progress and believe that the work will work. And I feel like that's such an invaluable lesson to learn for life. If you have a plan and you believe in it, then follow it. Even if you don't see the results immediately, the whole point of delayed gratification, why people don't make it somewhere, is because when they don't see the results immediately, they quit. So I keep getting set back, set by set back, but I'm just following the plan. Step one day at a time, one workout at a time, one phase at a time, and keep moving forward. So, like, I'm not even, I have moments of, like, oh, I really wish I could do this already. But I'm not, like, day-to-day frustrated that my progress isn't going as fast as possible because nothing in life happens in, like, a smooth, linear motion. It's just putting in the work every day and being better than you were the day before. And I certainly know I'm better than I was last year right now. So at least I'm making progress, even if it's slower than I want. But I'm hoping to spend some more time with Justin this summer. My body's truly healthy. Maybe I lose a little bit more weight, and then I can start making progress a bit faster. But just trust in the process right now. All right, that is a wrap on today's not-so-athletic-athletic workout. Yep. Featuring your boy, Chris Bump said. So, overall, not horrible. Not much pain going on. Just a little bit of hesitation and lack of coordination. But working on it. Sorry, I've got to start small with these things. Overall, it does just feel good to be, like, moving in different ways. And to get your heart rate up to, like, 180 beats per minute. Even if it's only for a handful of things. I have a couple aspects of this phase of my programming that get my heart rate up really high. And it just feels good to me moving and, like, sweating and, like, exerting that much energy in that kind of way. So, honestly, enjoying this blend of training where I get the hypertrophy, build muscle in the ways. But a lot of stability and, like, rebuilding coordination and explosiveness. So, I'm having a lot of fun with this programming now that we're getting to be able to actually express the movement a little bit. It's not just, like, standing there like this. With, like, no air. It's like, I've got a sled behind me. I'm kind of running. Even if it's not perfect, I'm at least doing it. So, I'm making progress. So, it feels good to be doing it. That's really all I've got to say right now. I guess that's it for this video. So, thank you guys for watching. I'll keep you guys enjoying along the journey of becoming a Jack Lead. Stay tuned.