 imortum. So just try it. Hands low. Extended. I think it is. Hit that M button, too. I feel like Brian Shaw is running. That is good. That is good. Coming for Brian Shaw. Was it a strongman? Yeah, I know he's a strongman, but there was one specific video I remember watching of I think him pushing like a fucking airplane or something crazy. Just do two figure eights, and the pace is somewhat quick. Like you're trying to build speed and then slow around the corner. And then you'll come here and set. Yep, perfect. You'll get lined up, pick it up, and then you're forward, slow down, backwards, slow down, forward, slow down, backward, slow down. Why is there a line, not centered? This is centered? Yeah, that's centered. Oh, the bar's not there yet. So you don't have to go insanely fast right now. Just walk forward, feel it, walk backwards, and I'll let you know where the spots are. It's like right there's good. Right there's good. So you'll really want to set back, lean back, and then you stand as you pull. And I want that so lean back more, and I want neutral. And you're going to pull here and do it as you go back. So it's here. You'll go back here. There you go, that's good. Lean back even a little more. There you go. Take your time on the setup. So that one's more about explosive reps. It's not like removing as fast as we can. You set, boom, big rip. Everything's like strength associated. I think today is very core, including back focus, which is like something that you can improve on, especially because of this thing. And it'll help stabilize everything I do. Exactly. Because again, like a little groin thing popping up isn't just because your groin is weak. There's something systemically that's off. And like we already knew like your core is not up to par with other things. Yeah, for sure. So this is a big part. This is, this is where this type of training. Can you give me a big waist? Not necessarily. You know what the crossfitter? Oh my God. What? God's fired. Big weights. I don't know if it's correlation or causation, but. No, I definitely think that a lot of the stuff that they do, that's part of it. But like you doing a single strongman workout like this once a week. And if anything ever moves in a direction, like if you want your legs to shrink, you don't train your legs like. Also, if you're going to tell me that having a little bit bigger waist makes me fucking more athletic. You would do it. Sure. Sure. So a strongman workout today, switching things up a little bit. Bodybuilding, everything, if they get a little bit boring. And Jack Lee is Jack and Athletic. So I got to do some athletic things, building different kind of movements. So I was like, I want to do circuit shit. He's like, don't just do stupid cardio. No one likes that. So we're throwing in some strongman stuff into my programming, which is like the Jack Lee style. So running through a circuit, you'll see it. But what we're talking about is like, what are the benefit, the body essentially? Yeah. It's like a five birds with one stone scenario. Instead of you sitting on a rower and getting really good at the rower and improving your cardiovascular ability that way, we're doing it through strength training, predominantly concentric. So it's not creating as much of like a deficit for you to recover out of because of what it's not doing. But then as well, like for you, we're trying to make your back better, your core better, your hips better. So we're using movements and time under tension and rest periods that are going to improve more than just you want to lower resting heart rate. Like we're trying to make it to where this is also going to benefit what you do in the gym. It's going to benefit if you decide to go do something athletic. Like if you look at a strongman, like their back is yoked. Like they're jacked. So it's like it's improving certain things that you can even argue like a standard body building workout wouldn't do. So it's a double dip in a lot of ways. Truck push, 20 seconds. Then figure eights. So just down the line. Yeah, exactly. Zercher and then the rope. Yep. Do you want to just back up a bit? Yeah, I'll do that. Or just turn. The turn you get a little bit of hill. Let's try it. Oh, shit. I'll let you know when we're at 20. I'll get some momentum. All right, one sec. You want me going as fast as I can or just push? I mean, you're going to be building up speed to get to as fast as you can. Yep. We'll look hardcore in the rain. There we go. On you. Five, three, two, and one. Good. 30 seconds rest. There we go. Good turn, good turn. And you're coming back. Good. Here we go. Five, four, three, two, and one. That's good. Yeah, just stay down. Here you go. What do you want me to do with that momentum of turning me? That's the idea is your core, you're like, you're fucked at that point. So you have to do something. I feel like if I go any faster to the corner, I'm going to be running like this. So you come around and it's like, you're fighting, you're going this way, but you're also fighting it this way to keep it from turning. Nice and upright. And let's go. You're walking forward. Yep. Right there. Yep. Beard your left a little bit more. Yep. Forward one more time. Stay nice and upright, nice and tall. There you go. Four, three, two, and we're racking. Okay, on you. Looking for eight to ten. Two, good. Good, yep. That was a good one. Beard you right a little bit. What was it? And that's good. You don't got any more room. Off of that, we'll probably increase load on a couple of the things because you're moving pretty quick. You've done two other strongman workouts. One was anaerobic, lactic capacity. Then you try to do the same thing. Two other strongman workouts. One was anaerobic, lactic capacity. Then you tried anaerobic, lactic power if I'm not mistaken, if I'm remembering right. This one is anaerobic, a lactic capacity. So it's not as much lactic acid. It's like boom, boom, boom, right up to the edge where it would switch over to lactic. And then boom, you stop. So you're able to do a lot of work with it. So we can go ahead here. How did everything feel on it? Good. Good? Yeah. It's fun though. Like it's different. It's a different type of tired. I like doing these because it's like a circuit including strength and cardio almost. It's kind of anaerobic because I'm stopping. It's like a two minutes of work and then you break for a time. So it's not quite aerobic exercise. But it's still building my body's ability to like work at a high heart rate and then bring it back down and continue to do so. So it's actually really good for like HRV coming down too. While not stressing the muscles too much because there's no like combination of long range of emotions, eccentric, consensual. So it's like, and it's just fun doing kind of shit like this. What's your job? Yeah, right? Have you come in with like someone else training with you and you're like moving through circuits and shit? Yeah. Something different. Ah! That's what's hitting the brakes. Five, three, two, and one good. Are you holding the brakes? Can you see the brake lights? Where are you? Can you see the brake lights? Oh, yeah. Are you? Of course. Come on. Stay tall. Stay tall. There you go. Come out. Come out. Come out. Now fight it. Fight it. Fight it. Fight it. Get around. Go. Oh yeah. Fight it. Come on. Turn. Go. Fight it. Oh. Get around. Get around. Get around. Right in. Fight it, fight it, fight it, fight it. Yeah, yeah, there you go, there you go, there you go, there you go. Get around. Four, three, two, Kapitsky. Very good, very good. 30 seconds. Yeah, that was really good. That was really good. All right, here we go, right in. Yep. Good. Debbie got a little more wheel room. We're gonna go one more pass out. Yeah, stay strong, stay strong, chest up. All right, walker back, walker back. Very good. Three, two, ripping it to your toes. Let's go, boom. There you go, that was good. Too good. These last few reps, empty the tank. That was a great one. Good, a little more, a little more, boom. There you go, set and big pull. There you go. Try to get it to touch your toes, big pull. Yeah, there you go. Yep, got a couple more. Two, last one, big pull, watch your elbows. Oh yeah. Good work. Good work. This was definitely the easiest. Yeah, yeah, this is tail end, everything smoked and you're asking the body to do something explosive and that's the idea. The car push is just full body intensive. Then it's stabilization with change of direction. Then it's just stabilization in a single plane of motion. And then it's just your back and your core is already taxed and now you have to do something coordinated and explosive. So it works down and load in complexity. Yeah. Do you think this is the shit that would have really, like Mr. Muyagi, my posture? Honestly, honestly, like the pig iron view on fixing your posture is get a super big and strong back. It's not that simple, but like really smart strength coach, Josh Bryant, like when he talks about posture and opening up your chest and having healthy shoulders for like a power lifter who benches a lot, he talks about doing like front of body carries, super heavy rows, like stuff like this in order to fix it. So you pair that with the posturology stuff, you pair it with the proprioception, like all the woo-woo stuff. And then it's really good. But yeah, like bare bones is a great. I feel like the age old like bodybuilder kryptonite is like you look jacked and someone's like, oh, can you help me like move my table? You pick it up and you're like, oh, my back. Like you got about three seconds of holding something and you're done. Yeah. Each end of the extreme has a given sacrifice. If it's all aesthetic, like you're, you didn't train core much. At all. It was partially out of fear of a thicker waist, partially because if you probably would have given you a little thicker waist, if you did for like 10, 15 years, but that was the priority then. So. Also fear of ab cramps. Very true. But also when we were consistent with them, you were slowly able to work them out. And then it. In the last couple of weeks, we've done the, like the, The deflection. Bow soup all pulling things. Oh yeah, baby, yeah, the pipes. And then, there's one, I can't remember what the other one was. I'd have to look honestly. There's a few that were fine. That's good. That's good. Yeah. An untrained muscle, like short circuits basically. How do you feel about the like, on the blue ham rays? Doing the crunches. Like the full extension crunches. It's not my first choice of an ab exercise, but it's very digestible and measurable to where like, if a CrossFit did it, they have a GHR there already, like, perfect. But there's no like, a special benefit to getting that like crazy stretch. Once you're all the way like bent backwards, legs straight. I would use that in a super, super specific scenario. So there's like a Jefferson curl towards the opposite, where you're like up on a platform and you do a deadlift and you're intentionally going down like that and curving and curving back up. And that'd be like a rehab or you're working like, the multifidae and the erectors and you're trying to do that and not just heavily loaded deadlift. I'd look at that similarly. Like I wouldn't do it for 50 reps in between running and this and that, like I would choose something else. But it's a less common tool. Yeah. Yeah. But they're tough. They are tough.