 aromasin, aromasin,usalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusalusal As soon as we get that down, we could hit. Back to it? I mean, it's not going to be like, okay, five, five, five, let's go. But it'll be like. And you're back. We are so back. Full swing. Just be benching for a while. People are going to do that before. Yeah, it just immediately happens. I'm curious to see, too, like 12 weeks after, what strength levels will be like. Because, like, with the lower body, you fix things, and then you've gotten stronger over time. Like, the upper body, in theory, should be the same thing. Like, you should be able to surpass what you've done. Slowly externally rotate. Good. I heard a little bit there. So that's your infraspinatus. So that's one of the ones. It was infraspinatus and supraspinatus that he had. Well, like, you had issues with subscap, but what he texted me was it was supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscap were, like, the three. I thought labrum. Well, labrum. Rotators and labrum. Labrum had issues as well, but, like, what did he, like, directly deal with? Infra. I'm honestly just feeling the quality of the tissues and seeing, like, if there's anything where, like, it's not smooth or if there's a lack of separation between muscles. It's not bad. Like, it's normally tight. If anything, your subscap feels less tight than, like, prior. But obviously, you've laid off on a lot of the pressing movements. This is for eight seconds. Oh, holy fuck. Five, four, three, two, one. So that's a McKenzie technique. That's a... Being honest, I've had it like that before. I'm like, okay, here, like, whoa! Like, that would have been really bad. And I just want to go subscap. So just lay on your back on the bench. Shake your arm straight. Tell me when. It's right there. So it's about the same spot? Yeah. Okay, so then it's a little bit more tissue. It's not even, it's not even, like... We were talking about, like, the trauma response to the brain. Yeah. How it'll get pissed off. I don't even think it's that. I think it's just ranges. Like, the tissues need to improve. You've probably never done anything that's, like, TRX or, like, these. No, this looks good. I almost, like, grimace having to do this stuff. But, like, it's a good tool. It's a good tool. So literally all you're going to do, this we're going to be adding on to the front. Or no, this would be the second exercise. Second exercise after we do the overcoming ISO will be here. And it's a hold, hold, hold, hold, hold, hold, hold. And then you're just doing shortened position back and forth with tension. So it's, like, 15-second hold, 15 seconds of work. Then we'll go external rotation. Then we'll go into the supination. So this is what's controlling how much this one has to fight eccentrically and concentrically. The other cool benefit... That's good. The other benefit of doing this, like, imagine if I had you hold onto a rope and I was pulling. I controlled the load. So then there's a little bit of, like, hesitation in your brain. But you're controlling the exact amount based on what the other side is doing. So it's, like, it'd be like introducing Bradley to something scary. If a stranger did it, she's like, fuck this, this is off. But if you did it or if Courtney did it, it's like, okay. Like, everything's in control. If it's bad, I can ease off the other pressure. So it'll allow you to progress faster. Okay, so we had a four exercise series that we had gone through. The first one was an overcoming isometric. And we're in the lengthened position. His arm's a little bit forward, so we're going to hit a little bit more of the short head of the biceps. But we're just trying to get it to where that distal portion of the bicep and that tendon are strong. And they're prepped for everything that we're moving forward into. Wouldn't they, like, try and curl it up again? I mean, I don't want it moving more than that. But for the next set, we can go heavier if we need to. Five, four, three, two, one. And let's go. Last one here. Ten, nine, eight. Three, two, ten. Very good. So we hit that, both sides. Then we went into a suspension strap ISO. We did, like, an overcoming ISO in the fully shortened position. So we hit lengthened. Now we're hitting shortened. And then we do a little bit of traction to where he's using his dominant side to create tension for his non-dominant. So he controls how hard he's actually working. Hold. Three, two. Adjust the feet. Okay, make the left work. Slow, slow, slow. There you go. Okay, get all the way to that. Keep contracting. Boom. Get all the way there. Make it fight for it, though. Make it fight for it. And then fight it eccentrically. Control it. Control it. Three, two. Bingo. Okay. Went from that. Then we went into an external rotation variation. So it's a mix of his general shoulder external rotators and then his brachioradialis as well, which is considered the long supinator. We're trying to, as I explained this earlier, we're trying to work the way up the chain to where we're getting the shoulder healthier and healthier. So we're working, again, a little bit of supination in a lengthened position, hitting the brachioradialis and incorporating the shoulder. Good. Good. Good job keeping this tight. Yeah, three more. Make them good. Three. Two. One. Very good. One. And then he finished with a shoulder extended supination. Again, just that lower range, but now he's in an extended shoulder position. So he's gone through all the shoulder positions that he can for his biceps. We're predominantly working the lengthened range. And again, in the next phase, now we'll go into where he's going more shortened range and a little bit more mid-range. But this is like the next step in getting his shoulders set is by making sure all that is perfect. 11. Chest height. 12. 13. 14. 15. 15. Perfect. I'm not worried about like, let's make him the best at doing curls. Yeah. And so we have to start with the initial part of the concentric. I'm worried about anatomically working far away from the injury and getting closer and closer and closer and closer. So this is further than this. So we're just slowly working the way up the chain. In layman terms, that's what we're doing. How does it feel lifting up the body again? It feels good. Yeah. It's not like as fun as like hammer curls and two sets of five reps of hammer curls, you know? That's how you grow the biceps. Just two sets in and out. But no, it feels good to have some blood in my arms. Do you have like an assessment of Chris's shoulder recovery? He's well ahead. Like everything has gone extremely, extremely well. Partially like genetically. Partially his training background. It'd be like if someone learned Spanish 10 years ago and then they picked it back up randomly. Like they're going to learn it a lot faster than someone who is fresh. So like he kind of has that playing for him as well. And then he's like he's as consistent realistically as he can be in this season of life. And so it's all paying off really well. Like we're ahead compared to where the protocols are. But that's a good problem to have as opposed to like, shoot, we shouldn't be doing this. Like we got to take two steps back. So he's in a really good spot. Do you have like experience with anyone recovering from like this sort of stem cell procedure before? Even with the fat graft? Not the fat graft. That's what I was just about to say. Like that's a little different. But stem cells in general, like it's not too crazy. Like usually you need a little bit of time off and you don't want to like negatively impact the great procedure that was just done. But the fat graft side, I haven't had that before. And that was very complex. Like it's literally treated as if he got like a full-fledged shoulder surgery. Like I've done stem cells in my knees and my shoulder before. I took two days off. Two days. And then I was like, all right, like ease back into it. But like this was like four weeks and my arm was throbbing. I couldn't sleep. I mean, think about that. Like you put extra tissue and a bunch of like really good things into the shoulder. But like it packs everything down real, real tight. And then that has to disperse and everything has to heal. And then there's the inflammatory process from like jamming a giant like 18-gauge needle into there from all this. Like, yeah, so it was pissed off. It was pissed off for sure. You think it's healed? I mean, is it more healed than like 10 weeks ago? Yeah. But like it's a matter of like how do we progress? Yeah. Like in my head healed is you're back to normal and you're even doing things more than you were prior. Because like you didn't get the procedure in order to get back to normal. Like it was like, hey, let's do this so that I can progress even further. Before I did the procedure. So. I was literally like pressing 60s in paint. Yeah. We're getting close. We're getting close. For sure. The biceps are already sore. So. That was a sick workout. But I'm really going to be fucking 22 inches. Bigger than they were in Olympia. And I feel this kind of shit. I'm pumped for that. But I did want to share that we're. Me and Justin were planning something really exciting. Something I found that was really cool working with him. Is I started to like deter away from being super excited about new supplements. I was like, oh, most people make the same formulations. There's this and then there's that. This is what works and we have it. And then Justin is like a mad scientist. That's what we keep calling him. He just loves science and research and understanding. Literally a mad scientist and his obsession is with results. That's what he always says. Like probably won't even give straight answers. Because everything depends to get the right result for the right person. So with that being said, we're working. He's working on formulating some sick stuff for raw. And this is some stuff that like obviously we have to take into consideration when we make a product. Like someone being able to afford it. Our average consumer doesn't have $100 to buy something. This is something where I'm like, I don't care what it costs. Let's just make something sick. And I give people an option to get the stuff that's still absolutely efficacious and works great. And then just what's that step above it that's like that premium crazy quality stuff. So, you know, we're goals to make some actually crazy cool stuff that I'm really excited about. So we're going to seal his brain, put it in some supplements. And now we're going to have the training set of things in this. So like, well, I'm extremely excited because these are all things that someone like Chris has been getting. Like, like you said, my obsession is with results. So like, well, I have to take multimillion dollar athletes or someone like Chris or whoever it is and find ways to increase their already incredible performance. So I'm like super, super deep into the details. And we've been finding ways to like get that job done. But there's not a set of products. There's not a company that one values having things like that. Like what's the best of the best that like we're trying to do it through multiple things and as well, like doing it right. And I think that that's something that like Ra is incredible with and you're incredible with, with all the projects that you're a part of. And so being able to put my brain and my ideas of these things that have been like kind of like through too many steps having them done. Now, these things that like Chris has to help him get the results that he gets, we want those to be available to everyone. Like why would it not? Like I think you've done an amazing job of giving back and making sure that you're not just elevating yourself, but everyone who's around you. Like raising everyone's standard and making it to where those difficult to attain things are attainable. And so this is just another one of those opportunities, but they're going to be, oh my God, they're going to be sick. Like there's, there's not going to be anything like it. It's going to be crazy. And I feel like it's like what I've really discovered over the years. And you guys know my obsession with like health and finding the best peptides and stem cells and doctors. And I've reached out and talked to so many people. And like a lot of the MDs and people I've spoken to are so disconnected with like the actual stuff that works. And they're not like the guinea pigs versus like someone in the weeds working with professional athletes, gen pop, bodybuilders, pro football players, whatever. And like actually figuring out what works best. Like these morning or whatever, when you're reading a fucking research article on your laptop. I'm like, I've talked to so many of these people. And half the time I reach out to Justin, I just ask a question and he has more knowledge than they do on it. And I'm like, fuck, like, this is the guy I want to be asking about this shit. So like having the anecdotal proof of like actual passion and education to me is so much more important than like, Hey, I got to school 30 years ago and now I haven't kept up with science and I know nothing. Well, and shoot, that stuff is so important. Like there's so many more people that are more knowledgeable than myself. But like it's very hard to find someone. Like all pride aside, ego aside, it's very hard to find someone that's more obsessed with getting a result than myself. And that's the part. Like there's so much that I don't know. But like in these conversations, if there's a way for us to inject a product or get an ingredient or do something that's going to level you up. Or level one of my guys up or level these products up. Like we're going to leave no stone unturned. And like, I think that's, that's, that's the mentality. That's like the feeling behind what these products are and kind of like the results that you've experienced and how we want to push that to people. Yeah. Even with that, like when I like ask you something, you're like, fuck, I don't know. But then you get so excited. You're like, I know this doctor who lived in Africa and created a research book on mole toxicity. Yeah. Okay. I'm going to ask him to figure out that expertise. He's in it. So there's always a link to find it if you're passionate enough. So we're excited about this. You know, he's obsessed with results. I'm obsessed with results. We want to be fucking Jack Leeds, shredded, Jack strong, jumping, running, all the things. So doing everything I can right now. Programming, training, supplements, nutrition, all of it. So bring you guys along for the journey. Hopefully you guys can follow my footsteps and we can all be Jack Leeds. So yeah. Easy enough. Thank you guys for watching. See you in the next video. You too.! Thank you.