 I'm just worried about getting it out of this thing. I'm not worried about getting pressure on it right now, so, you're up. You think my fat ass is gonna fit in there? Unlikely. Are you talking shorty to me? See, look at my legs. Yeah, I'm getting shorty to me. BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA BAA B people interchanging over the last two weeks. I've been here for this middle week. Dom's still here. Christian Guzman's here. Some guys from Germany are here. We've got a whole crew. So we're hanging out. I'm going to bring you guys through a day with myself of what we typically do here. Sadly, it's our last day here, but that's okay. It's going to be a beautiful day. We're going to head to Hill. I'm going to do some back loops on the mountain. I'm not actually going to do that. I actually hyper-extended my arm the other day. It's healing good. I can straighten now, but I can't move it fast. But I fell and put my arm out and it's just like, and I was broke. So it was a little rough. But I'm going to go to the gym right now. I'm going to get some coffee because apparently it's impossible to sleep at altitude. I wake up every hour and just my skin is so dry. I'm blowing blood out my nose. It's chaos. So we're going to head to the gym right now, get a quick workout. It's going to be isometrics today. So super boring. We'll cut through that really quick. Breakfast, hit the hill, get the day going. So follow along. Don't look at the camera. Sorry, I was going to say something. I got a fucking dry pack. What do we have? To go packs. Replenished chocolate. MCT oil. In your morning in your coffee. Plus EA's. I got a fucking dry pack. It's a damn dry pack. We have to-go packs, replenish, chocolate, MCT oil, in your morning in your coffee, plus EAs, secret to fasted workouts. I'm actually fasted, but if you're working it without eating, that's how you do it without getting skinny. Even though I'm getting really skinny, so just trust me, don't look at me. It's crazy how out of breath I am when I'm at altitude. I'm out of breath normally, I guess, but geez, it's sad. Sleeping in the air, I'm like, wake up my nose, mouth, thrust. Maybe I need to come here and train for a year, then I'll be able to be an endurance athlete. Look at the 45s, even. That's crazy. Kids these days. It's actually all old people here, there's no kids here. So old people these days. I think the vibe's getting better. I can't wait to build a fucking sick facility in Tennessee. I've seen the Barn Dominiums. He has one? He lives in Cookville, an hour and a half way. Insane. Yeah. I want to get one of those for office, work, chill space, and then turf, gym, basketball court. That'd be the spot. Have a production studio in there, sets, everything that you'd ever need. You know? The famous company that makes them. I followed them and they were like, hey Chris, what's up, you followed us? We'll give you designs for free. I was like, fuck it. I'm like, I need a couple of years, but I'll be there. Alright, so boring stuff. You guys haven't seen this, but I'm in my last couple of weeks of boring stuff and then we're getting into the fun explosive strength training. So due to a bunch of isometrics, I've talked about this before, so I won't get too deep anyway, but one of the main purposes of this is strengthening for me in this position, an extreme range of motion. So when I'm training for bodybuilding, I'm typically doing like belt squat, hack squats, and you're not getting nearly as much knee flexion as you are with a deficit split squat. So the ability to do an isometric hold there, which is a different type of contraction than I would normally do on my body, it recruits different motor patterns. So I strengthen the muscle in the fully lengthened position. I get more coordinated, more strength there, less likely to be injured, stronger in all the full range of motion, all that good stuff. So we're kind of priming my body in different areas where I'm not very strong right now. My posture is not very good, so my trapped scapula, postural muscles aren't very great. So when doing the shoulder press, neutral, seated, isometric hold like this, I'm strengthening up my posture like that and holding it right in that position where I personally am weak. So this is built specifically towards me. Same thing with a hanging pull up, which is kind of strengthening an isometric hold my body where it's weak currently. I know people are like, how can you say you're weak? You can do X, Y, and Z. But like, no matter how strong you are, you have weak points in your body. And I'm trying to strengthen those weak points because those weak points are typically what lead to injury when you get into them in an explosive movement or really heavy compound lift or some shit like that. So try not to hurt myself in the future, but I want to be strong as fuck. So getting ahead of the game right now. That arm can't move fast. This shit is so much nicer than the other one I've been going to. You've never been to this one? No. Oh wow. I mean, it doesn't have everything, but a lot better than the other one for sure. Christian's on the Justin King protocol too, but he's on a mark setting phase in me. Yeah, I'm a few weeks ahead. Like all the shitty isometrics that I hated, I'm already done with. And he's still up. Are you doing any isometrics still or have you done all of them? No, I'm doing like the quarter reps. Kind of like, you know, quarters and all these. Yeah. Justin King is the man. Shameless plug. No for yet. No for yet. No for yet. Cut that out. We were like hella depleted though. We weren't eating much, no burning, then we just got a bunch of ice cream and cookies, and the next day drained arms. It's a good day. You just gave me a piss we haven't taken our EAs. I brought mine. You did? I just drank them all, yeah. Damn, I didn't bring my EAs. Come on, man. I'm just gonna get pissed we haven't taken our EAs. I brought mine. You did? I just drank them all, yeah. Yeah, I didn't bring my EAs. Come on, man. I just drank them all, yeah. You beat me there, you beat me there. I like that range of motion. It was great. Yeah. Bucking with me? Yes. Is this Chipotle? They were showing them making their beef and shit, and I'm like, this is incredible. What restaurant is this? It was a Chipotle commercial. Absolute lies. Have you had upbeat in Nashville? Same thing? Yeah, it's good. Sweet green's a goat though. Wherever I move, I would fucking buy a fair chance there. All right, so that's a wrap on this riveting, high intensity, high volume workout. Just kidding, it's not. But I only got a few more weeks of this, so I'm gonna power through these when I get home, and then we're gonna get strong, fast, and explosive, and jacked, and shredded. So stay tuned. But we're gonna go hit the hill soon, so see ya at breakfast. Oh my god. Can I subscribe to anybody? I'm not subscribed to anybody. Oh my god. I have one subscription now, and it's you. Whatever, man. Jeez. I stay up to date with this life. You were looking for that too. I didn't subscribe. Yeah, I was like, is that a white button I see? Jesus. I don't watch YouTube. Even though I'm subscribed. I don't watch YouTube. That's wild, person. Give me a break. Like, all my fucking- I think you know a guy. All it is is like, philosophy, trucks, Naval, Kapil Gupta, Aristotle's Guide to Good Life. Mine's like, total opposite of that. Mine's chaos. And then some Pokemon. Some Pokemon. Yeah. No, you can go there. Sorry. Thank you. Thank you. What do we got? Alright, so we got two egg scrambled, but that looks like way more than two eggs. This is supposed to be two egg whites, but that's way more. It's like four and four. That's a lot of eggs. You got some maple chicken sausage, I think it is, or apple chicken sausage, sourdough, berries. Getting it fucking huge. Too much egg whites, man. Egg whites are high inflammatory and hard to digest. I'm just fucking- I'm just kidding. You being a mine? They are something that people build the food intolerance to very quick, but if you're fine digesting, you're fine. Just no one likes to eat a lot of egg whites. I'm not as dedicated as CG. You don't even throw up. Right? That's too much. That was like 12 egg whites. Too much. I think the money was like 300 grams of egg whites. I'd be like 150 in a shake, you know? Same thing. I'm letting myself eat what I want, therefore it feels less restricted, therefore I'm more inclined to eat healthy. I'm just like, I got a salad and chicken for lunch yesterday, even though I told myself I'd have whatever I wanted. And then I felt better, you know? And then I had some chicken fingers at night. Fire. With a filet. Fire combo. We're just living life right now. We'll get locked in next week. Wait a while ago ago ago ago ago ago ago ago ago ago ago ago ago ago ago ago ago Yeah. Yeah. So fast. Yeah. check, broke his leg. Just kidding. He fucked his leg up. Christian messed his lip up. So we're going to go find Christian, get some food, see what his lip looks like. I think he got nine stitches in it. So that's not bad. I had like 14 in my lip right here when Poppy bit me. So he's fine. But we wrap the day up. Finished right there. No serious injuries. Everyone's a little fucked up, but no serious injuries. So we're all good. So we're getting some food and get on with the day. Why is it here like, it's still Christmas. Little monkeys. There's a hall with the best people. That's where the day is. That's where the day is. That's where the day is. That's where the day is. That's where the day is. That's where the day is. That's where the day is. Boar, Elf, Hold on. I gotta go, wait, I can't hear that. Boar, Elf, and Pork. Bolognese. Fire. I'm bulking. I'm just gonna go. I'm just gonna go. I'm just gonna go. I'm just gonna go. I'm just gonna go. We went from one cookie to four. Already? What do you guys want? No, nothing. Marcus? I'm gonna eat this one. Did you already order one? Yeah, I got a cookie. What do we got? I got a peanut butter cookie. Are you eating it, Leonidas? Yeah. You're gonna be fat, bro. You motherfucker. You won't be ready. You're not ready for Thailand, bro. There's fuck. There's only one. You'll be okay. You should enjoy it. Yeah. Be present with it. Yeah, now I enjoy it. How does it taste? Feels good, doesn't it? Right now it feels good. Ask me one more time in five minutes. It'll feel even better. Yeah. The worst influence. I have a horrible influence. That's alright. It's a great peanut butter cookie though. How many times have you been here this week? Just twice. Okay. Did you ask me to miss the wine? Why not? This is the right answer when it comes to cookies and ice cream. Guys, cookies and ice cream make sense? Yeah. Of course. Yeah, sure. You want to stand the tart? No way, bro. I told you it was paparazzi. It's so impressive, bro. Thank you. Thank you, Superb. It's so awesome meeting you. Have a good night. Thank you, too. Thank you so much. You love me so much, Superb. Appreciate it, man. You actually, like, motivate us. Have a good one, guys. Appreciate you, guys. Thanks, sir. Yeah, it's so. I was going to let you yawn. Alright, so, that's a wrap on our little Aspen trip. Been here for the last week. Been chilling. We went to dinner tonight. Went to Paradise Bakery again. Place is fire. Got some cookies. I had a cookie. Then we were playing some Mario Kart. I used to be a legend in Mario Kart Super Smash Bros. We used to play every night in college. I still have the GameCube that we played on. But it was actually a lot of fun. I started off horrible. It was a new game. Didn't know what I was doing. I watched Leonidas play because he was the best. And then the next round kicked everyone's ass, came first place. But Leonidas wasn't in that round. So, we're going to have to have a rematch next time I see those guys. And I'll be prepared. I'll bust up my GameCube and I'll practice on the OG game. And be kicking some ass. So, yeah. That's a wrap on this trip. One week in Aspen. Check. Very sad Lil Goo and Bradlick. Lil Goo and Courtney couldn't come this week. I want to bring her next year. And even if she's like, it's going to be a year and nine months. Barely standing. Put her on a snowboard. Put her down the Black Diamond. They got to learn soon, you know? That's how they learn, right? Just send it. But no. I would love to get her on the mountain as soon as possible. I started skiing at about two years old myself. And then switched to snowboarding when I was older. So, she can do the same. That's a wrap though. My one vacation of the year. Coming to an end. We're entering into the midst of chaos of travel and work and lots going on. So, it's a nice little break. Back to real life. Thank you guys for watching. See you later.