 overlay container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container container So I'm wearing a hoodie and I'm cold right now in this gym Then I used to this even outside of like 70 when we woke up this morning I'm like this is cold out in the morning. I'm officially not Canadian. I'm a Floridian now So here for a photo shoot. We got a bum energy shoot letters later today Doing a little bit of upper body today kind of chest back rear delts biceps triceps Some of my stuff is last time but gonna go a little bit heavier on the chest and I have a full row now a Machine row which I'll have to adapt to one of the machines here with using one at home That was different, but gonna jump into it early in the morning. I've had no caffeine Had some meat nuts so steak and macadamia nut butter so right on plan That's it Trying to do it again today. I'm gonna try and lift heavier than last time which was 50 pound dumbbells if I do remember correctly, so I Don't know. We'll see what I can do here I Got 60s in my hands right now this is like absolutely nothing Talk about a comeback This is another warm-up now Skip right to the 120s This is a key lesson in injuries that I have done this in the past when I was young when you're really strong And then you get injured and you're really weak it comes back really fast But the little ligaments and tendons are not ready for it. So if I just fire and it's like I feel good throw some weight on I'm gonna hurt myself again So when you start to feel good is actually the time where you mentally need to like play it safe and I don't want to go over like a 20% increase month or week over week training otherwise It would be ridiculous. You do a hundred percent weight increase week over week your body's not prepped for that So I'll go up like 65 70 day maybe and then it's like 30% from 55 a little aggressive, but like close enough Don't worry good. No, I feel hard to hold perfect form over 10 reps My back gets gassed a little quicker than I thought Started feeling light for two reps and then in rep three four I was like, oh, this is hard Didn't quite make it to 12 I don't want to overextend my shoulder Like the fact that I was doing scapular retractions that far with that weight today is like so much progress because Reaching with all fucked up heavily for a while so getting a lot better, but Again, don't want to push it too fast It's like in my like It's like in my like Stabilizer rotator cuff with my shoulders just like burning like with the hot Iron going in my arm Not a bad way. Just in a very untrained weak way I I Alright, so, started with my typical rotator cuff warm up, moved along, now I'm on the super step, bicep, tricep. Pause. Oh shit, this is getting complicated now. My brain is not ready for this. It says, first 10 reps, use the tempo 3-0-3-0. Pause in the mid-range for 10 seconds and then perform 10 reps. 2-0-1-0. No, it's full reps and then pause and then go again. I cannot do this much weight. I've had the kind of lactic acid in my biceps in like a year. Holy hell. Alright, so I think I got it right. 10 reps, slower tempo, pause for 10 seconds mid-range, 10 reps, a little bit of quicker tempo. Essentially is the basis of that. One set and my arms are cooked. I should've had to restart again. I should've had to restart again. I should restart again. I should restart again. I should restart again. I should restart again. I should restart again. I should restart again. I should restart again. I should restart again. I should restart again. I should restart again. I should restart again. I should restart again. Oh, fuck. Exact same thing for triceps. I don't even explain it again, you guys get the point. A lot of reps for me. Yeah. A lot of time and attention. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. This machine is like you re-rack it underneath it so I'm like fighting for my life to like put it down and re-rack it. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit. I feel like it was like three sets but a superset. It was two sets in between. So it was like twelve. Oh, shit. By my math. By my bum math. Twelve sets which equates to twelve days of working out. So I pretty much just trained arms twelve days in a row. But yeah, that's it for this workout. Speaking of that. So a little bit of chest, a little bit of back, a little bit of arms. We call it a day. So go get a protein shake. See if this place has any half-season protein. And then photo shoot later. Henry just told me that they have a motorcycle and a vintage Mustang on set. So I don't know if I can drive the Mustang but I might try and take that motorcycle for a rip. Pop a couple wheelies down the Nashville roads. Appreciate it though. Yeah, of course. Have a good day. Hope the family is doing well. Appreciate it. Mmm. Back to middle school. Yeah, those will work. Yeah, hell yeah. There's a scene where we drive the Mustang off a cliff, right? Yeah, exactly. Tom Cruise shot. Tom Cruise. That's a new era. Underestimate the size of my body. That's what I said, yeah. What size are those ones? Uh, 36. Oh, 36 in high school. No way. I wore it there. Really? Yeah, Olympia body. Yeah, bro. You're just calling my name. You're just calling my name. I'm not going to be a big one. I'm not going to be a big one. I'm not going to be a big one. I'm not going to be a big one. I'm not going to be a big one. I'm not going to be a big one. Really? Yeah, Olympia body. Yeah, bro. You're just calling my name, huh? Do you actually wear a 34? Yeah. 33 sometimes. I'm just judging how small your quads are, honestly. No, it's not about my legs, but my waist. Yeah, but like, I have room in the waist. Oh, I'll just let the thighs do the thing. Your baby legs, look at those things. So, I think the body is bigger. Shit. Well, there's some serious quads. Look at these calves. They actually look bigger. Do they? Yeah. Let me see the rest of my legs from. I haven't trained gags in months. For a fortune. But then it'll just be wide shot, and you'll just like feather the gas. So it's like, and it'll look like it's a clutch, basically, because it's automatic. So it'll look like a clutch, but you'll be like puttering across the screen, and you'll just like look over of like, I'm struggling type of thing. That's it. No words on this one. That's it. Easy day. Gotta keep the light polite with him. Was that the XL or the double X? The double X. Yeah. We only got an arm pump before this. Rope past a doobie. What's that movie? Faced and Confused. You just gotta keep living, man. L-I-V-I-N. Try a brake again. Brake. Go. Brake. Move your body more. Move your body more. Woo! Okay. Go back. Reverse. Reverse. That's one way to do it. That was great. Yeah. Haha. Go jump it. Haha. Go jump it. Go jump it. Haha. Go jump it. Haha. Go jump it. Go jump it. Haha. Go jump it. Go jump it. Haha. Go jump it. Go jump it. Haha. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. Here you should. All right, midday, just did part of the shoot. Upside, just cooking. Had a 66 Mustang. Sick car. Made me feel like I need a convertible now. Camaro. Cut the roof off of it. Really cool. Also had a motorcycle there. Courtney always told me I'm not allowed to have a motorcycle in Florida, but driving that thing brought back some nostalgia, and I feel like I need a motorcycle. Also, it's just a beautiful day outside, and just riding a motorcycle. Also, I don't need a helmet here, which is terrifying. I would never ride a motorcycle without a helmet, but around the street, for five minutes, I'll survive. But yeah, it was good. We're here in a diner now, doing the second part of the shoot, a little video. Me and Henry, we've got to be actors right now, so we have no idea what those we're getting into. I just forgot my next line. You're okay. What are you, 12? I can't even remember what I meant. It just fell right to the end. Dude, I just like the... Gentry, she's laughing. I'm kidding. I'm totally by following the blame here. What are you, 12? Let's get you a sippy cup, bud. I'm kidding. This is true. 46 grams of sugar, and no energy? Genius. Bro, not now. Hold on, I'll say you're about managing. Oh. Oh, shit. Atta boy. It's just the atta boy. We didn't get her coming in. Action. Atta boy. Perfect. Perfect. That's it. Yeah. The smirk that cut the eyes. The smirk was good. The smirk was good. Yeah. Let's do one more from here. See? See? The bodybuilder cannot die in me. I literally brought chicken rice and asparagus in me. And they're giving up free milkshakes here, and I'm sitting here eating half frozen rice and chicken breast. So, I'm staying strong. The gains will not leave me for a very long time. Bodybuilder will never die in me. So, we're going to get through this shoot, and then you guys will see it later on in the Böyle Böyle Böyle Böyle Amen.