 SE dondexen, dondexen, dondexen, I don't know how to put this camera in the car, but if you're retired on your way to the gym, that's one way to jack up your adrenaline. What is this? You're looking quite crazy. But you're so cute. Hello. What is this? All right, so Saturday morning, Courtney made waffles, so we're living life right now. Oh. Something but it's good. Courtney's butt of the elf. But I'm turning up her body today. Been out for a while, had a shake. Been a minute, so I'm putting some carbs in my body. See if I can go get a nice pump. I'm trying arms, chest, back today, so. It's a beautiful day. Bodybuilding-style training. Had a coffee this morning with Replenish, loading up on sodium as well. And then I'm going to take this pump, no caffeine, pre-workout. And then I'm going to gym as a fun, so. Should I bring her in there with me? Yeah. Bradley's wearing her winter hat. She likes hats now. No way you're going to do that. Oh, I'll take it. Not today. I'll take it. I'll take it. All right, so we're in the infamous supplement pantry. Got all the good stuff up here, the special mushrooms to get me super locked in. That was for earlier in the morning, though. Oh, no. Don't put your hand in there. There's no caffeine, but you can have some pump. She can have pump. Why not? Good for her blood flow. Oh, yeah. So we grow big and strong. Let's get that out of there. All right, so waffles. Shake earlier. A couple eggs. A coffee. Scoop a pump. And I don't know. We're ready to rock, so I'll see you guys at the gym. Say bye. Bye. Say bye-bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Oh, oh, oh. Ah, I'm crazy! Alright, so the weekends are for fun. I get bubbles in the morning, coffee and waffles for lunch, and then a quick rip to the gym to get the blood flowing. donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde donde Alright, so training now, this period at least, is a little bit more hypertrophy based, which is very exciting for me. I'm still not obliterating a muscle, but within the week I'm getting enough stimulus to grow right now, which is beautiful. And I'm taking a phase out of all the isometric old stuff for a week or two at least, because it was honestly driving me insane. And I just wanted to get in the gym and lift some weights, it's been like six months of rehab and I was like, I need a break. I can finally lift some, so let's do it. So, pushing it a little bit to get my body can handle. Starting off with rotator cuffs and bent over neutral grip cable lateral raise, all with a mouthful, little rear delts, warm up the shoulders. Then I'm going to do a decline press, which is like a true test of how my shoulder is, so that'll still be light. Controlling it as I can. Pull down, I'm going to move on to that right now and really just test how it goes. Pretty crazy. When I started this rehab, I was holding a fat grip. I wasn't even holding a fat grip, but I progressed to a fat grip with no weight in it, where I was just like lying on my side trying to like get a little bit of range of motion. And now I'm using a 20 pound pound dumbbell doing external rotator cuffs. So, we're rocking and rolling. We're getting there for sure. There's still a bunch of movements. Like lateral raise and still some pressing and peck fly. Still super iffy on my shoulder. But we're getting there. Progress and progress. Hot as hell today. Because it's midday and I normally tune in the morning. But I'm getting after it, so hopefully I'm getting as pumped today. Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Victor Thank you. Thank you. If anyone has a better method of handing the weights to yourself when you're by yourself doing a decline dumbbell, please let me know because 60 pounds is easy to pick up like that relatively, but if that gets stronger, I have no idea how to do that by myself. I feel like grabbing a weight like 500 pounds plus, pulling over my head like I have one arm. A little bit sketchy, so taking tips. But two exercises, focusing on a controlled negative, especially on the press here, decline, trying to keep my scapula retracted, elbows in. I'm horrible at that. I naturally always go like this, so I'm probably still fucking up here. See it in the video. So elbows in, scapula retracting, just really controlling the weight, keeping the tension where it needs to be, not stressing my shoulder rotator cuff or anything like that. So feels pretty good. My bump weighed up a little bit, but perfecting form right now for my first injury. You're keeping the tension on, keeping the tension on, keeping the tension on, keeping the tension on, keeping the tension on, keeping the tension on, keeping the tension on, keeping the tension on, keeping the tension on, keeping the tension on, keeping the tension on, keeping the tension on, Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Alright, that's a wrap on today's workout. Nice little bicep pump, arm pump there at the end of that. Feeling good. We're progressing. In Arizona this week. We're going to train with Justin, film some stuff for the app. We've got a lot of cool stuff coming up for the app. A lot of crazy shit changing in the next couple months in general with all the businesses. So, super excited. Lots of life changes actually coming. I'll keep you guys posted. But for now, we're just trying to get jacked. I got a... Sadly, I got a weekend phone call today. Going home. I'm going to try my suit for the wedding. Eat some good food. Call it a day. So, I got to get the hell out of here. Wrap this up out of the office for a little bit. And then maybe still some protein or some amino. Try and find some carbs somewhere as well. Just looking for snacks everywhere I go, essentially. So, yeah. That's a wrap on this workout. Thank you guys for watching. See you guys later. See you later. Alright, so this is something... I'm not going to dive deep into what I'm doing, but I want to take you guys along the process of something we're doing for RAW. Something I've wanted to do for a very long time. To start it off, I will show you by example some of our products. And you look at them. Super Thavage is black. It's still the same label, but completely black. We have Seeker stuff, which was supposed to be in LTO. Limited time off for that. Ended up staying around forever. We have kind of the staple logo. RAW, like that. We have so many labels that are all over the place. Because we grew so fast with the brand. And we were essentially like a teenager trying on new clothes. Like, this looks good. This looks good. Let's try this. Let's try that. And our business was growing so fast. We didn't have time to scale back and take a look at the visuals. And branding and labeling and fine tune it into a perfect cohesive plan. Where we looked at our brand on a shelf. Even when you look at the shelf, it looks like it could be four different brands on there. Now that we're in a bunch of retail, there's a lot of products. In GNC, we're getting our own wall. In Vitaminshop, we have our own whole section in our hometown store. We have walls in other places. And it doesn't pop out very well because it looks like they're all different brands. So I've been pushing really hard for us to be able to bring in a really high level creative agency to help us fine tune our labels, our branding, our mission, our statement, our tone, our identity, everything. So it's super concrete. Especially now that we're getting new employees, bringing on new people and scaling at such a fast rate. I think it's so important for us to take a step back and really fine tune what our purpose is here, what our mission is, what we stand for, what our goal is, and how we look and how we do it, how we act. All those kind of things as if you're a person. So when people come on, they can understand our brand and they can transmit our brand to the world, whether it's a graphic designer, a content creator, or anything like that. You see a video, you see a graphic, you see an email, SMS blast, you see it on shelves somewhere, a promo, a billboard. You know it's RAW because it all looks so similar. So I've been getting on these phone calls with this agency to do this and I'm getting so excited for it because they're coming up with some of the coolest work ever. And we're not branching away from what RAW is. If anything, we're taking the best parts of RAW and we're just capitalizing on that. So instead of us being like a what? What are we? Like bodybuilders? It's more like who are we? How do we do it? We support people who train hard, who lift hard, who get after in the gym, who are their RAW authentic self. No bullshit. You're constantly in this endless pursuit of being better and better. There's not a destination you're chasing after. You're just on this mission to be the best version of yourself. And you're putting in the work to do that. And RAW gives you the raw materials, the building blocks you need to be able to level yourself up. The inspiration, the supplements, everything that you guys need to be the best versions of yourself. We want our content to display that. We want when you look at our packaging for you to feel that, for you to understand that. Our merch when we come out, we got some new better merch coming out daily, weekly, monthly, whatever the fuck it is. But we're fine tuning all that to look so much better. I think it's so important as the brand is growing to be able to have that like strict identity so that people just know who you are in an instant. You know, if you see, if you're scrolling through Instagram, you're like, I know that's a RAW video because they have such a consistent theme of how they display themselves. Same with labels on shelf. So it's very complicated because we have like a wide array of supplements, you know, like started with RAW pre, which was like 50 milligrams of caffeine, super simple. And then Thavage was like our heavy hitter pre-workout. And then we wanted to make a really fucking good pre-workout that was in competition with some other big ones. And we wanted to make a similar price comparison, but a much better product to that, which is where the Essential line came out. So we have Essential, we have Thavage, we have Super Thavage, we have Grass-Fed Isolate, we have Sebum Isolate, different still isolate proteins. So how do we differentiate it on shelf so that you guys can see and understand what you're getting? I personally really want to grow our online sales, I want to grow our athletes, which we're signing a bunch of really good actually competitors this year, which I'm fired up about. So bigger athletes chasing after a lot of people and that's to grow our online sales. And then we have GNC and Vitaminshop, which is like the heart and soul of retail, of like true training. And then there's like FDM, the food drug mass of like the Kroger, the Publix, the Walmart, the Samsung, all those different things. So understanding what products go where, depending on how they look, the cost, affordability, the type of consumer in that place who's going to be buying that. The Samsung's Club isn't going to be buying a $55 pre-workout for Thavage, they're more likely to have Essential pre-workout, which is both affordable, it works fucking good and it tastes incredible. Vitamin Shop, GNC specifically, sells a lot of really high-stem pre-workout. So our Super Thavage is in there, we give them exclusive flavors and it does incredible in there because people love blowing their face off with this shit and it's absolutely insane pre-workout. So this is something I'm actually really excited about, it's a project I've been taking on personally and for this brand and it's going to be fucking cool. You guys are going to be fired up with what Raw's going to do this year for sure. We have some sick announcements at the Olympia, some big names we're bringing on, some new labels and packaging, some cool shit. I'm just excited to get back to what I believe Raw is, just that idea of like the whole champion mentality, having no quit, being the best version of yourself, being raw and authentic, unapologetically yourself. So we're going to be building that once it comes closer and I can actually share stuff, I'm going to show you guys some of the stuff. But I just wanted to not shit on our brand because I'm super proud of everything that we've done, extremely proud of what we've done. I just think what we've slacked on is creating a cohesive brand that makes sense and looks similar across the board. So that's what we're working on now. And I think the best way to describe it is like we grew so fast, literally like a teenager. You're a goth when you're a skater when you're, you're fucking Mark Hollister and preppy when you're kind of figuring out your style. And then when you get into your late twenties, thirties, whatever it may be, you're like, okay, this is who I am. I don't give a fuck what anyone else says. I don't care if this sells better. I don't care if this gets more views. This is who I am. And I'm going to stick to that regardless of anything. We're not going to hop on trends. We're not going to do any of that shit. We're going to stay true to who we are. And that's the best way I can put that. And that's what I want more than anything for raw as we scale as much as possible. I want to maintain those roots of who we are in the bodybuilding community, people who train hard, get after it. Whether you're a fucking mom who's up all night with her baby and then has to go to work and still fucking kill it. You're fucking working your nine to five exhausted. You're going to do whatever. You're going to get in the gym. You're going to kick some ass. Big ramble, but I'm excited about this. So I'm going to be working on this. Stay tuned. Some cool shit to come.