 similar similar Alright, I was unable to speak in there. A, according to cell sleep, and B, I was just not there. I wasn't as close to wake up at 12. If I had any opportunity to wake up late, it was like 12.01 pm I'd wake up in the afternoon. Me being a morning person is debatable to even call myself that, even though I wake up early now. But I'm starting to get a lot better. I used to take cold showers, but I feel like I wake up and I feel like a little stressed, like my core is all tight. I've been taking a warm shower. I have red light in there. I have red light out there. I try and just like slowly let my body wake up calmly. Weight is currently 245 pounds. That's down like 5-6 pounds from about a month ago. I was trying to bring it down so it just felt better and then I was traveling a bit and just trying to be super clean. I just dropped real fast. Now I'm back to like maintain. I don't want to be less than 245 right now. I don't want to lose faster than that. So eating the traditional overnight oats every single morning. Banana oats vanilla protein blueberry. But now instead of almond butter or MCT oil, I put flaxseed oil. It tastes super good. Nutty. It has omega-3s. Alternatives to almond butter. It's an old Kortney King prep pack. So I need this. Two scoops of creatines. A bunch of salt. A bunch of water. I'm going to add some of that. I'm going to add some of that. I'm going to add some of that. I'm going to add some of that. I'm going to add some of that. I'm going to eat this. Two scoops of creatines. A bunch of salt. A bunch of water. I'm not even taking caffeine in the morning yet. Because I can come back and get my caffeine later. Over body day. I'm going to go look out. I'm going to eat this. I'm going to get ready. I'm going to walk in and have a day. So see you guys later. Second upper body day of this phase. Main hypertrophy day of this phase. I'm starting with a super set of chest and back. Similar style I normally do is a minute and a half rest in between. So it's not a real super set. But I'm getting double the rest time. While saving time going back and forth. So eight reps on both of them. And then at the ninth rep. Halfway up. Mid yielding isometric hold. Until failure. Drop weight. Three sets. Move on. And then we're going on to some arms and a little bit of shoulders I believe. I haven't even checked the program myself. I kind of come in the gym blind and focus on one set of time. Just fucking locking it in for that. Body is slowly waking up. Lock it in. Chest day. Try to be strong as fuck. Still weighs away from the 150s. But I'm weaker on flat than an anion incline. So if I can do the 130s today on flat. Then I'm making good progress. My left arm is still like a little less stable than my right arm. Especially with the new weight that heavy. As I got to the top. I can feel I'm stronger here. And it wanted to rotate out. And it's like fight it in. I'm still working on my stability in the injured shoulder. But pretty fucking healed if you ask me. If you're ever doing an isometric on back. Get rid of your ego and use straps. Because your grip will give out before your back does. And the goal is not grip strength. Locking your scapula down. And really holding that weight. In one spot for as long as possible. Alright, we're new. Moving on to a little bit of arms. Now this is probably my favorite go to tricep exercise. Decline dumbbell tricep extension. Kind of a pain in the ass to set up. I put them on another bench. You'll see how I do it. But I'm super setting that with standing dumbbell curls. Just basic ass dumbbell curls. Nothing crazy here. Once it gets tired, do a couple of cheat reps. However I can get the weight up back and forth a couple of times. And then move on to something a little more high volume for tricep bicep after this movement. Ah. Ah, fuck. Ah. What advice would you give somebody that's struggling to find rhythm in daily life? That's a big question for 7 in the morning. I mean I think it only comes through trial and error. Realistically. And understanding what your current goal is. I think if you can take everything back sit down and be like what are your highest values, what are your highest goals right now? Write them down. Pick like 5 things in your life. Family, work, money, gains, being jacked, being lean. Whatever, like list a bunch of things that come to your mind that you want to do. Have goals and tensions, values. And then put them in order of what's most important to you and what's not. Top 3, obviously very crucial. Don't fuck around with those. Make sure that whatever rhythm is in your life, those are important. If you're writing down family is my most important thing and health is my most important thing. And you're not going to the gym, you're spending all your time at work. You don't feel connected to your wife or your kids at home or something like that. And you're like stressed and anxious. It's not because you're working too much, it's because you're lacking rhythm in what's most important to you. So I think being able to, I always say that, being able to like check back with yourself what's most important to you and seeing if your actions, your physical actions line up with what you say is what's most important to you. Because I said this before to you, like you aren't who you think you are. You are what you repeatedly do. Like if you think this is important to you but you're not acting like it. The reality is it's not. And that's where anxiety comes from. Like stress is, if you take a metal bar and you're trying to bend it, point A and point B are trying to be in a different position. So when they're not where they need to be, it's creating stress in the bar. So when you're wanting to be somewhere and you're not, that's where you create stress. So rhythm comes from just knowing that. And then from there it's trial and error. Like if you guys watch my YouTube videos, I was training at 5pm after work. I was training at noon in the middle of the day because it felt best. I'm training at 5.30 and I'm training at 6.30. I'm like trying to find where my day fits best. And like do I want to be out of my house before Bradley wakes up and then come back for breakfast because family is so important to me? Or do I want to spend the morning, wake up a bit later, be with them, and then come to the gym and go straight to work? But either way, I need to make it home by 5pm. I want to see Bradley in the morning. I need to have multiple touch points with my family during the day. So I'm creating a rhythm that's most important to me. And some weeks like we had our investors come in from out of town and then I was traveling and all this shit going on where I had like 12 hour days and missed a workout, wasn't with my family as much, and I started to feel dysregulated. And that's fine. That's just part of life. But as long as I've like found my rhythm in another place of time, I can go back to that and fall back into that and just accept fate is the way it is. Even if you're like, sometimes shit gets tough and you're like, fuck, I lost my job, I'm working 3x job while I'm finding a better one. I don't have time to spend with my family, but this is for my family in the future. Then it's just a fucking season of life and sometimes it sucks, you know? So I think just being able to check in with yourself regularly enough and be like, what are my values? Am I living up to making those values important to me? Is there anything I can change in my end of season right now that's only short where I'm stuck not focusing on my values? And if I am stuck in that season, how can I get myself out of here as fast as possible? Just being able to continuously check in with yourself, I think bringing it back to the devil, phone, social media, distraction, makes people never stop and reflect anymore. So I think we get caught in a rhythm of like a job, busy, doing the same routine in the same old time, in the same shit every day and just feeling in the same place, which is usually shitty. And the reason you don't actually stop and think about it is because you're on your fucking phone all the time scrolling Instagram. Our brains are wired to avoid discomfort, so if we're stressed, we go to something that makes us feel comfortable. You start to feel like, oh, I didn't spend time with my wife today, she's a little upset. Oh, I'm on Instagram and I forget about it and then I'm not going to fix it. But if you sit in that pain for long enough, you're going to create a response that's going to change it. So reflect, go inward, journal, wake up earlier, be by yourself, get the fuck off your phone, do something to change if you're not happy where you are. But that's what I got. One from no answers is bad. That's a cute fucking answer. Passionate about that response. Can you remember what this thing is called? You never remember what this shit is called? ISO Dynamic Shortened Range. Sounds fancy, all I'm really doing is five reps and then I'm holding in the shortened range for five seconds and then I do four reps and then I'm holding in the shortened range for four seconds, three, two, one, repeat. And then I'm going over to the French press, rope, overhead, five, short position, so up top on this one, hold for five seconds and repeat. I think you guys get the point. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, Well, Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm blaming the bench for how weak I am. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's where I probably should have dropped the weight, but I did not leave my ego out of the door today. Didn't want to drop the weight, so that was much heavier than it should have been, but that's okay. I can do that over here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So finishing off with what the fuck you call this baseball high pulley, baseball, pullover, row, same weight, same function, same rope, same height, same everything just rip right through it. Eight plus or minus reps for all three of them. Two sets of that. And then go home. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The wrap on today's workout. Got some good news though. It's still Black Friday, Bonanza chaos, so everything's on sale. So standard, my training app is going to be 67% off for this week. So it's 79.99 for the year, which equates to about six bucks, six cents every single month. So this is the cheapest that we'll ever bring it down to doing a lot of dope updates programs right now are anything you can imagine. Exactly the programs they did for my last two years at Olympia are uploaded on there. There's push, pull, legs, bro split stuff. If you need to time crunch, you need a quick workout. If you have limited equipment, everything's on there. And as I keep talking about like the important phases and periodization and whatnot, those are built into these programs. So you follow each phase to a T track your weight. If you don't use the app, track it on yourself. Just put it down somewhere so you know you're actually progressing and making gains and you will not hit plateaus. It's exactly how it's designed. It's designed to continuously make progress, hitting different stimuluses in different tempos, exercises, range of the motion, everything. So you guys can actually make gains. Genuinely, the training that I do every day and have been doing every day, mine's customized to my injuries and my goals right now, which eventually we're actually planning on putting some of my stuff onto the app of what I'm doing today. But everything I was doing for hypertrophy and the same coach, Justin, who built my shit now and back then, is the one who helped me program all these programs. So if you guys don't know what the fuck to do in the gym or you feel stuck, give it a shot. Now is the best time to do it. It's like, what's six bucks? What's the cost of six dollars anymore? Anything? Can you even get a loaf of bread for six bucks anymore? Thanks. I go to bakeries and they're always a little overcharged, but I like supporting a local bakery to get my bread. So I don't judge a $12 loaf of sourdough. I will pay $20 for a good loaf of sourdough. You can make damn sure of that. Johnny's Bakery, that's my fucking only shameless plug I'll give right now if you're in Jupiter. Great bread. Well, that being said, check it out. STNDRD.APP, standard.app, we'll put a link in the bio. But that's it for today. We're going to get on with the rest of the day. Got to get some food in me. I think we're going to go over what my programs are like today. So I'm going to give you guys a brief rundown. They talk about them day to day as I'm doing my training, but so you guys can understand the intention of some of the shit I'm doing and the progression towards my goals I'm doing. I'm going to give an update on my goals, what my training is like right now, what I plan to look like in the future, so you guys can understand the big picture of everything. So we're going to get out of here and we'll get to that. All right. So I wanted to give an update on my training phases, where I'm headed, why I'm doing what I'm doing right now. And just kind of give you guys continuous updates because there's a much different style of training that I've done and then that I've done in the past. And essentially, and I've said this over the last year, I wanted to become much more athletic and jack. And then the shoulder injury came so that I bounced back into rehab, then I bounced back into hypertrophy to put muscle back on. And now finally I've been in this really good cadence of building my body into a place where it can handle more movement, more athleticism, more rotational movement, more explosive movement. And my idea of athleticism is like running five miles. It's like sprinting, jumping, power clean, explosiveness. It's like fast and strong. So that's what we're working towards. And then the goal eventually is to like be able to run, to sprint really fast. And we're going to test that, I think, in December. So working towards that, as you guys have seen in some of the workouts, but essentially right now my training style, I haven't pulled up here. I have a lower day and then I have an upper body day and throughout the week they match. Upper, lower, rest, lower, upper metabolic gap day. So I'll go through what they are. So on day one and day two, I'm combining an isometric hold super setting with an explosive movement. So with the isometric hold, I'm letting my body recruit a lot of muscle fibers under a heavy amount of weight, holding, holding, holding. All the muscle fibers are like activated, activating, because sometimes in a quick light rep, you can just use a couple muscle fibers. And then I'm moving over to an explosive movement. So I'm activating all those muscle fibers and I'm training them to be explosive. So on the split squat, I'm holding it in the split squat. I'm going to drop it, step over to a step up, unilateral jump. And I step up and jump, explode, explode. On the chest press, I'm holding the dumbbells right here as hard as I can to drop the weight and then I explode with the 45 pounds, just as fast as possible. Same thing on the pull up. I'm holding my hands right here in this movement and then I'm switching over the ball throw where I'm going overhead and I'm throwing the ball as fast as I can. So I'm getting all the muscles activated and then getting them used to firing explosively and really fast. Which is because it's not what my body has been trained to do. It's been trained to move slowly and contract. And if all of a sudden I was trying to sprint and I have 250 pounds behind very powerful muscles that I used to moving that fast, they're going to get hurt. They're going to be slow and weak in that form. And then they're also going to just tear and have a hamstring on the floor. So that's part of the big part of this current movement. Now all my weeks I have specific hypertrophy days within them. So they still care about having big arms and triceps and whatnot. It's not really conducive to the athletic side of things, but Jack Lee, it's Jack in athletic. So keeping that Jack side of things. And then what's interesting on this day in this blend, I have the sled pushes. The sled pushes are the very specific thing getting ready, me ready to sprint where I can push a load so that I can move slower. I'm not going to hurt myself, but I'm getting my body used to that rhythm of sprinting, running, moving as fast as it can. Obviously moving slower with the load. And then what I haven't filmed yet, which we'll show you tomorrow, they have a metabolic gap there. And this is one where I don't really do anything zone two type cardio stuff. I get it walking for cardio when I was in body going, I haven't done it in a while. So I'm doing a square jog where I'm getting my body used to like a jogging pattern, a side shuffle, running backwards. I'm just getting my body used to moving in different patterns and ranges of motion. So within that, my body is getting used to how to run and how to move again, rhythm, all the different things contracting. And he said only do this breathing through your nose. So if you're don't have a watch, the zone two cardio is essentially reading out the breathe through your nose and not feel like you're gasping for air. Can still kind of talk and whatnot. So I suck at breathing through my nose. So this is something I really need to work on. I pushed myself to a pace of which I can still breathe through my nose. I'll be doing that tomorrow. You'll see in the next YouTube video. And then there's stuff with like the flywheel that I do where I'm rotating barbell complex where I'm getting my shoulders used to power clean movements. Abs rotational things that I would never do like the ball through going sideways. It's really just creating like a plan for my body to progress over time where each phase I have four weeks to get used to a movement, get strong into a movement. And then it progresses into something similar but different to my body still progressing to new stimulus and getting the different patterns of motion. And it's all kind of working towards being able to do anything where I want to be able to play basketball. I want to be able to run sideways and stop and go forward and then jump deadlift look good bench press throw a ball throw a medicine ball all the kind of things just be strong and powerful and like feel good. And I'm already starting to feel my body being like going upstairs like a little spring here running upstairs hips being a little bit more open and just being able to move more efficiently versus the bodybuilder. You're literally like you can't move. So lots of cool things updated over time. Justin can definitely lock in much better things but he has a literal plan going probably months in advance of like different styles of contraction and different ranges of motion and different movements so that my body can be strengthened in all forms. So no matter what I do, I don't get hurt. That's a huge component being injected. It's nothing injured and having a body that doesn't get injured easily. Not just be able to do something cool but how much how frequently can you do something cool and not hurt yourself. The injuries suck. So that's a huge part of everything that goes into jacquery training. It's injury avoidance, which means having no weak points. Like if you have a weak angle in which your hamstring is at some point you're going to enter that angle and you're more likely to be hurt there. So if you have a really strong thumb at down bench press but it really should be broke with your back is weak. More likely to hurt your back because you're not structurally balanced super important. So that's why this is very individualized to me but it's really easy to follow. It's hard to build the program but it's easy to follow it for anyone to have a balance. You just have to make sure you actually know what you're doing. So that's kind of Justin's philosophy and his cold coaching business is like tied into that. It's injury prevention, keeping the whole body strong to avoid injury and it was your specific goal to work towards it. So that's pretty much life right now. Me trying to become bodybuilder to jacquery, working towards it. And it's fun having a purpose getting in the gym every day. Having a plan where I can open up my phone and I know exactly what I'm doing. What I did last week, how to progress, don't need to think about it. And I know I'm driving towards my goal of a two-hand jam from the 3 point line. Maybe the free throw line. We'll call it humble. But yeah, that's it.