 fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge fudge f wife in the DMs. You really? Yeah, she slid in my DMs. All because I cried on the internet. What did she say to you? She sent me a picture of her like this. Come put your head on mama's lap. I feel so judged. I can sense Ian judging. I can sense both of you judging. It's not optimal. Is this a row or a girl? She's gonna sulk in the rain. Wait, cut to me crying in the rain. This killed my ego. I'm never leading another workout ever again. Yeah, it was actually kinda fucking hard though. Oh yeah? Oh, nice. They were talking shit. And now look at them. I got a pretty good bicep on me. Oh yeah? I'm pretty impressed. I'm excited. You know, it's just three natties working together. I think he'll be good. Three natties. Three lifetime naturals. When was the last time you worked with those two guys that are like strictly professional bodybuilders? I don't think I have. I've trained with Chris's trainer. Yeah, honey. How was that? Great. Good workout. We hit legs. It was a really hard leg day, I'm not gonna lie. But it was fun. Nervous or? Yeah, I'm a little nervous. I want me to lead it. Allegedly. Yeah, I know. I don't know. I'm kinda scared. Are you just like, normal most of the time? Yeah. Yeah, I usually train alone. Fair. What is up YouTube? We got the elusive Sarah Safari. Haha, surprise bitch. So, today I think she's gonna put me and Ian through a back workout, right? Yes sir, we're gonna head back. Are you leading the way? Yeah. We got some beautiful programs set up for us to get back. Last night I stayed up late at night trying to, you know, schedule this workout. It's actually a way of switching to Lonnie. Oh, that's gonna be a really bad workout. No. Just kidding, honey. We love you. But yeah, that's what we're doing today. I haven't trained like a bodybuilder in Prague really, so hopefully I don't embarrass myself. Ian's a natural fucking 270 pound gorilla. That's what I said, three lifetime naturals just working out together. Literally, yeah. Yeah. Lifetime natties. Yeah. We're all technically natty right now. Yeah. So that's pretty impressive. So we're gonna... They inspired me to hop on. Careful. Careful. Careful. Careful. That's what we're doing. We're not creative now. She's like all into this like... Father, uncle, daughter. You said we're the punks. Father, uncle, and daughter. Father, uncle, and daughter. Well, she's leading the workout, so I think we need to title it accordingly, you know? Yeah, that doesn't work because I'm more senior than him. Yeah. So it's like... But it's not gonna be Father Ian and the kids. That doesn't work. That's weird. Uncle Ian. They're more of uncle vibes anyways. Yeah. Okay, let's warm up with some pull-ups. Oh, fuck. Shit. Alright, I'll lead the workout. Fuck this shit. Okay, pull-ups. You two can do weighted probably. What? We can't even do body weight pull-ups. I don't even know what I can do. I can probably do like eight body weight pull-ups. Okay, that's fine. We'll do three sets of eight. Okay. There you go. Where do you do these? Here? This is probably a better place to do. Where is that coming from? There's a mechanic next door who loves loud cars. Do you need help-ups? I might. That's a heavy warm-up. Upsies? Upsies. Do we have maybe a little bit of chalk? Chalk? No. Look how clean this gym is. I got straps. No, it's okay. I'm gonna need to like band myself, you know? I'm gonna actually be hot. Like band under my legs. How many pull-ups do you think you can do right now? Hopefully more than her, but probably not. Probably eight? Some strict warm, too. I'm gonna do. All right, boys. Who wants to go next? Is that eight? Yeah. Fucking give it. Wrote it back, it was eight. I'll try. We'll go in ascending age. Can I swing a bit in the end? Yeah, get a little kick there. I've lost some weight, so I should be able to. You're like a CrossFit guy now, right? Get a little kip in there. Oh, yeah. There you go. Fuck. How'd that feel? A little rough. Yeah, I was gonna say- My elbows hurt a lot. I'm like hurting just looking at that, you know? Ugh. Good job, Ian. That was probably one rep away from my max. That was good. That was good. Maybe two. Okay, should we do weighted this time? Weighted? Okay, no, we won't. I mean, if you need weight, fucking go for it. Don't listen to what you need, you know? You think you can do weights and do eight? Maybe like five or ten pounds. Does he have a belt here? There you go. There you go. She put weighted ankle- She's got the ankle weights on. Do you want to wear them? What? Do you bring those with you? No, they're yours. Oh. She wanted to add weights and I found those, so I figured it would work. You want to put them on? I'm good. Are you sure? I'm heavy enough, yeah. Okay. What do you wear right now? I'm 250, so... So, like, 240? No, I'm still 250. Say, is it is a thing? We'll be able to make a thing is a thing is a thing is a thing is a thing is a thing is I'm 250 so like 240? No I'm still 250. So functional. The ankle weights look so funny. You dropped? Damn those were nice. Thank you. Ready? You need to come up with like a superset drop set of like... For what? Something like... rather than just like three sets of eight kind of shit. You know? Not talking shit but... Yeah I know you're talking... Dude, Sarah lead the workout. Talk shit about my workout one minute in. Just a warm up right? Yeah it's just warming up and then we'll get into the supersets and the drop set. The meat and potatoes. You can train like a pure bodybuilder Sarah. Um... Like bro split? Yeah bro split. As one should. Like I'll do legs three times a week. I know it's not noticeable. I know you can't tell but I do hit legs three times a week. And then... Maybe that's why. What? Maybe that's why. Like I should do it less? If you're training at a higher enough intensity you shouldn't be able to recover within enough time to train like three times a week. Training less frequently more intense will get you more gains. Yeah maybe I should do it twice a week. Just go harder. I don't know I feel like I go pretty hard but then I'm never sore. It's always sad. Yeah. Too advanced. Do you get sore now that you're retired? Yeah. Okay boys now we're going to do some kind of row motion. And we can superset it with reverse grip curls. Reverse grip curls. Wow we're doing biceps here too. This is fancy. Okay? Not a bent over row though. Not a bent over... You got a machine row? Good one? What? Your low back buck? No I just... Axio fatigue you know? Axio fatigue. There's going to be a lot of weight changing. It won't be bad. I feel like we'll do like maybe three plates. You want one plate or? Do you think I can do one plate? I'm not sure. Oh my god. I'm not sure either. Oh yeah this is... I know right? That's light eh? It might be light but I feel like 45 might be heavy. How many are you doing? I don't know. Wasting all your energy. I think eight or ten. Oh yeah. It's always so funny training with other people. Like they'll be warming up and do like 20 reps. I'm like why are you doing? And we're always like what are you doing? I'm doing like three reps. You're up. That's good form right there. Thanks bro. It's like you guys do this for a living. We used to. We're both retired so we actually don't anymore. You probably do it for more of a living than we do. But I train strictly for aesthetic purposes. Aesthetics? Yes. I mean that's what bodybuilders do too. Yeah. So not much on the... Not that strong. It's just more. More for... One comes with the other. More for fashion. Less for function. A fashion lister. You won't find a weak pro bodybuilder though. Like doesn't actually exist. Not like weak but like relative. Relative to strong bodybuilders but not relative to a normal person. Oh yeah of course. Two more. One more. Good. That's good. Good stuff. Yeah those still like that. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Yeah that was still light. I'm still 12. I haven't done this in four months so whenever prog was. It's been easy. It's not pretty easy. It's not pretty easy. What plastic tools are going to get in the thumbnail for this later? Just had a little bit of... Is this one? Not. Not. Yeah. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I can't do that one. Yeah. I can't do that one. Me neither. Ian can't rotate that far. It's actually less of a rotation than you think. You just cheat your whole body. Yeah. By your hip. Yeah. Can't do that one. You don't want posing lessons from Ian. Except for quarter turns. For me? For me? Yeah. Oh my quarter turns, I'm excellent. Yeah. Best quarter turns in the game. That's about it. Five. Good. My clavicle is going to pop out. Six. Seven. Good. Eight. Chief. Good. Good, good, good. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Do two more? One more. Control them down. Slow down. One more like that. Beautiful. I feel like you got more reps that time. Yeah, she did. You're like, get that chin out of here. Damn. Fucking garbage. You're like, who's using that? Yeah, I just want to get back to the point where in my training I can do like a back squat or a deadlift like heavy and then just leave. You know? Like just do one and go home? Yeah. But just the capacity to do something actually impressive and heavy. Okay. Rather than just like machine volume and shit, you know? Yeah. Boy, it's a shoulder that hurts training back. Yeah, I guess it depends what like the purpose of the, you know? Just to do something hard. Yeah. Because like if it's hard just for being hard or if it's hard for like targeting the muscle. Hard for being hard. Yeah. Because like doing a hack squat is probably going to be better, but like it might not be as hard in your mind, you know? Probably harder. Yeah. So the belt squat is coming back in the fashion. I think belt squat is in fucking style for sure. Fucking belt squat. Yeah. Five. Come on. Good. Let's go. Up, up. Woo. Fucking. Was four plates too light for you Ian? No. I mean, I could do it for a couple, but it might not be pretty. We could try it. Can you do six? No, no, I can't do six. No, six reps. I think I could do five or six. Let's try it. All right. If you do five, Sarah has to do two. Okay. This is the challenge. If I can do more with five than you can too. You can definitely do more than me. We could finish this workout with a high-off. No, because I did 12 reps with a four, which is about the same or less than you did with one and a 10. Okay. Okay. Yeah, slide that on there. Let me get some fucking straps here. Straps. That's why I wasn't pulling two plates right off the rip. Fuck. It's cheating. You did ask for chalk. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I did. I have sweaty hands. I have a problem with sweaty palms. Interesting. Balding, hairy, sweaty hands, can't cook, doesn't clean. No, wait. Okay. Jeez. No, I cooked better than Vaughn yesterday. That's huge. Judging that he's like a cook. He's Chef Walker. Yeah. Yeah. Good. Good. Come on. Up, up, up. One more. Up. That's heavy. Yeah, what? What? Seven? Six, seven? Six, seven. Still got it. Jim Reaper's code Ian. Code C bum. People are actually going to try that now. Maybe there is one. Maybe there is. They might have done that. He was joking about it. He's like, I'm going to put C bum on my website. Calvin checked it. It works. Well, don't try that on Jim Reaper's. I better get commission. Use code Ian. Pressure's on. Oh my God. That's not going anywhere. Come on Sarah, lock it in. Two. Good. Come on. Three. Good. Four. Good. Good. Good. Good. Let's go. Good. Let's go. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Easy peasy. Alright, what's next? Sierra Safari. Now, do you guys like doing all of back at once and then biceps or do you like going alternating? You tell us. I like to alternate. Alright, sure. Okay, so now we're going to do decline curls. Like on a bench with dumbbells? Yes. Decline or incline? Right. You have a decline bench. Yes. No, incline. Wait, decline. Look. Is your head going to be above your feet or below it? Behind. Look. Above or below? Behind. Yes. Yes. Wait. Below. Wait, above. Above. Head will be above feet. Right. Incline. Good? Just say yes. Yes. Which way is north? Right now? Yeah, point north. Do you know which way north is? Wait, oh, I thought you meant like... I thought... No, I know north is up. Wait. But I thought... Wait, no. I thought you meant... North is it up. Yes, it is. Wait. So you think the sky is north from the ground? No, I... That couldn't have worked out more perfectly. So the ground is south, the air is north. Yeah. That works perfectly. Then why did he point off? Was that the bait for that joke? Yeah, so what's the fuck with you? Okay, so it's north that way? We don't know what way north is. It depends where the ocean is. Yeah. Does anyone know what way north is? I think it's north is that way. Yeah, I'm right. I think it is that way, yeah. Fuck. Ian, the people are asking if you're going to come out of retirement. No, they're not. They asked me. Oh, you're on there? Yeah. No, you're not. No, they did. There's a question on there. I'm actually dead serious. I think I'm going to do this amateur thing. Sure. Yeah. It was all done with the context. I don't know if you've heard this. They put in a new rule that if you don't update your pro status, like renew your pro card for three years, you lose it. So then you go back to like have an amateur and have to re-qualify. So I'm like, well, this is fucking hilarious. I'm going to let mine expire and then go and be an amateur again and like do like regional shows. Yeah. Just an open show. Some poor 18 year old kid trying to compete for the first time. I'll be like 265 on stage. His ego shot down the drain. But if you lose, your ego is destroyed too. Yeah, I'm retired though. Win win for me. Yeah, fair enough. You've already done it once. Yeah. But I also never did Canadian nationals. So like to get that title on my belt would be like, you know, six pro wins and you know, all those Olympia things. You change your life. I want a Canadian nationals type. 2027 Canadian Mr. National. Yeah. Yeah. Out of all my, out of all my, yeah, I'll add the Canadian nationals to the fingers, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I'll get like Ottawa's and Canadian nationals on there, you know? Edmonton. Yeah. Yeah. Ottawa and Edmonton. Up, up, up. Oh. Come on. You got another one there. Push. Good. You got a dominant left arm. I don't know what's up with that. Usually my right arm can do like one or two more reps than my left arm. True bro bodybuilder. That's the fucking, the pose, eh? The Sarah Safari pose. Yeah. The double bicep? Yeah. Yeah. With the fucking, the fucking, the pose, eh? The Sarah Safari pose. Yeah. The double bicep? With the fucking, she'll be teaching Ian how to pose when he gets in the regionals. Yeah. Yeah. A couple more. Good. Still moving. Whoa. Good. Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom Oh, tough. Thank you, ma'am. We got service. Come on. Let's go. Up, up, up. Now drops out of the joint. That was a small drop for me. post-workout, high rock workout. I'd also be curious to see how fast Ian could row or ski 15 calories. I think Eddie Hall has a world record. Because it's strength and like weight. I'd rather do the row machine. Row? I mean, it's back day. How long does that take? Like, if you're fast? 20, 30 seconds. Okay, so it's an all out like hard sprint. Yeah, yeah. I'm going to go. I'm going to go. Dude, these twisty grips are throwing me off. Damn, yeah. I was like, what is happening? Okay, now. You're going to go back to back now? Yes. That's crazy stuff to me. I mean, we did tell her that she could choose between alternating biceps. What do you guys prefer? You're like, eh, either one. As soon as you asked that, I was like, we would never do biceps before finishing back. It was a test question. I would also never do that. I was testing you guys. And you guys were both- We failed. We failed. Yeah. So. We were testing your test to see if you would allow us to do it. Fuck. Yeah. I was testing your- I'm kidding. I was testing your test. You're my testing test. Exactly. Alright, let's do lat pull downs. Are these fake weights? I don't know what that means. I'm just kidding. Maybe. You only have 50 pounds on there. 70. 70. So what is your training split if you do a bro split, but you do leg three days a week? Monday, Wednesday, Friday, leg focused. Okay. So like- And are all three of them the same? No. Monday I'll do like quads. Wednesday I'll do like gluten hamstrings. And then Friday I'll do like some type of high like rep range cardio-esque legs. Like circuit-y shit? Yes. Okay. Some of these with the wall, the whole thing. Oh wow. Some squats. Maybe some sled pushes. Interesting. So you're low-key hybrid. But I'm not. Like low-key maybe only on that day. Yeah. And then Tuesday push, Thursday pull, Saturday arms, Sunday back and chest. Back and chest. So do you train- So you train every day of the week? Every day? Yeah. Seven days a week. Or else a week. Yeah. Crazy. Honestly if I'm like busy one day I won't train that day. I'll just skip that day. I try to make it a Monday, Wednesday, Friday. That's crazy. Yeah. Definitely not natty then. What do you mean? I am Natty. I just like if I don't work out I feel unfulfilled that day. That's fair. You need a hobby. Sometimes doing the hard thing is doing that thing though you know? Yeah. Yeah. The hard thing is doing what's best for you and not what you want to do. But it's like for me if I don't go to the gym then I don't leave my house. Like sometimes I'll go to the gym. That's very true. Ian can relate. Yeah. If I didn't train I would literally never leave my house. Yeah. Ian you used to go to the gym for what like four or five hours? Yeah. It's just like that's like my social time. Exactly. Yeah. It's everything for me you know? Yeah. I used to do that for a period too. Yeah. Long time ago. I'm also judging that you said you do the bro split and then you said you did push pull legs. Well I feel like it is. Is it not bro split? Because she had an arms. So she's doing like a push pull legs arms almost. She was doing like the Hunter Labrada special you know? What are you doing Saturday, Sunday? Saturday is like shoulders arms and then Sunday is back and chest. Yeah. Wow. It's a wild split. Crazy. Did you make this yourself? Yeah. You do a bit of bro, a bit of Arnold split, a little bit of push pull legs. Yeah. Yeah. It works though. Kind of. Apparently. True renaissance woman you know? Is that a renaissance program? I don't know. I'm just like fucking like collage of everything you know? I don't know what the fuck that means. You're one from the full stack man. Come on. I always do this just to piss people off. It's still too light. We'll be on track is a mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock mock I'd rather be pleasantly surprised than disappointed. Yeah. Ian, how much do you weigh? Now, like 265, 260. Drug free. That's the most impressive part. Drug free 260. You always have to throw that in there too. Of course. You should see what I used to look like, you know? Back in my day. Back in my day, you know, when I was... Control it up. Alright, another one. Another one? Yeah. Oh, fuck. I had chalk. I'm kidding. One more. No way. Damn. You need PTSD. What? Reminded me of what it's like to be a bodybuilder. Are they even losing? Instead of losing. What's your PB on the row 15, 20 calis? I don't know. I've never tried. You haven't tried? I'm trying to Google. Look at this guy. Okay, that's insane. Is that sped up? No. Look at the machines. It's very about to break. Alright, Ian, don't break into the machine. That's insane. Another bicep? Another bicep. There's one thing I like to do. It's like a... It's three exercises back to back. So you grab the dumbbell. You do like this. Oh, here we go. You go like this. Okay, fine. I'm not going to share. Some plate curls? No. Oh, keep going. That's okay. Sorry. I apologize. I might get fried anyway. Okay, so you take the dumbbell. You take the dumbbells for these waiter curls. Sure, yeah. Or whatever. Okay, then you grab it like this. Okay. You do these. And then you do these. A row. Not a row. It's like the bike. A drag curl? Oh, drag curl. Okay. Yeah, I don't know the names. I'm more visual. Yeah, so it's like 10 of each with a weight. Okay. One weight. Yeah, sure. Ian's going to have to hold the 100-pound dumbbell though. Oh, yeah. I guess maybe this won't work for you guys. I'll make it happen. You're going to hold a 100-pound dumbbell like this and curl it? Maybe like A-50 or a 60. Yeah. I do 20. Yeah. So you guys probably do. 20? I do 20. It's like 10 pounds an arm. No, but you feel it because it's 30 reps. Yeah. This is for toning though. Yeah. For toning. We're at the toning part of the workout? No, okay. We'll do something else. High reps for toning? No, we're all about it. Let's try it. Let's do hammer curls. You know what? I'll try to be toned. We're always the student of the game. You're always learning. No, we'll do hammer curls. This could be the secret to my success. To juicy biceps like mine. I could come out of retirement. If I had good arms, I could come out of retirement. Yeah. That's what was holding me back. That's why you retired. Yeah. Shit biceps. Yeah. And my waist was getting too big. It was. Well, were your quads getting smaller? Who knows? A bit of both. A little bit of both? I mean, I'm not going to lose allusions. Still good enough to win. That's what matters. They're going to roast me. Okay. I thought you said waiter for curls first. I mean, oh, that's the thing. Okay. Sorry. That's the thing. You're changing it. You change it up every time you do it. You do three sets and you do a different rotation every time. You're fucking around now. No, I swear to God. I swear to God I'm not fucking around. You forgot your own workout. No. You change it up every time. Okay. Every set. Okay. So you're going to start which way? I'll start this way. Okay. I feel so judged. I can sense Ian judging. I can sense both of you judging. It's not optimal. You know what, though, like, when we were like starting bodybuilding, like when we were actually making gains, we were probably doing wild shit like that. For sure, but that's an even bigger job. No, but when we were actually making gains, I'm saying. Okay. You pick an exercise. No, do it. No, no, no. I don't want to do it anymore. I like it. I don't want to do it. We got to do at least one set. Yeah, we got to do it. I'll see what it looks like. Yeah. Got to finish it. I'm pissed. Is this a row or a girl? I tried to keep a straight face, but you didn't look at me. He made me laugh. He instigated it, I swear. He's going to sulk in the rain. All right, let me see. Wait, cut to me crying in the rain. All right, Ian's going to try it, though. I think I'm still a little unclear on the third one, though. Oh my god, I can't hold that. I think that was supposed to be the first one. It's okay. We'll mix them up. All right, right. All right, right. My arms don't go that way. It's like the arm blaster. It makes your arms look big. This killed my ego. I'm never leading another workout ever again. Yo, it's actually kind of fucking hard, though. Oh, yeah? Oh, nice. Okay, so what? I'm doing a bent over row now? No, you're not doing a bent over row. Like, slightly and then, yeah. You're next. I see the intention behind the ball. It's just challenging to hold the dumbbell in those positions. Well, I forget that you guys need giant dumbbells. Oops. That's actually kind of fucking hard with that 45. I'll say it was better than I expected. Oh, what? What was that? For clarity? Would you ever do it by yourself in a public gym? In a public gym? No. Why? I have a reputation uphold here. Okay. So, would I hold it like this? Yeah. Curl it. This is a pinky workout. Yeah, it's working. Oh, yeah. How many reps am I doing? Ten. Good thing I'm retired. Yeah, this is what all the young kids are doing these days. There's only nine, but it's okay. You missed the first one. This is kind of hard. Yeah, that's hard. Oh, okay. Come on, you got it. Five. Freeze. Six. Seven. Come on, all the way up. Eight. Ten. What's this? What is this grip? What are you doing now? I can't hold it. Alright, now bend to a row. No, drag it! That looks good. No, it's just actually hard. Yeah, I know. I'm crying now. They were talking shit. And now look at them. I got a pretty good bicep pump right now. Oh, yeah? Look at them live. I'm pretty impressed. Alright, do you guys? Wait one more time. Wait one more time. One more time. Wait one more time. Wait one more time. Wait one more time. Oh yeah? Look at him high. I'm pretty impressed. Aw. You guys... Wait one more time. Wait one more time. One more time. Wait one more time. Wait one more time. You gotta get a little more rigidity to it. I am. I have rigidity to it. There we go. That was a bit better. That was still pretty. Let's see. Aw. It's a little slappy. Why is it so... My last two brain cells working together. Okay, so what did you think of the workout? Oh, just one of those? Yeah. It was... That was actually... That was harder than you thought. That was the first time we got a pump the whole workout, so... Kind of impressed. I need more practice. Okay, now this time, okay? Now you switch the order? This time you switch the order. You gotta do it again? Three times. You know what this is, Chris? Confusing the muscle. Shock the muscle? Yeah. RIP, Rich Biana. Are they called Safari curls? Yep. I created these. I created these. Right. Now let me ask you a question. So say you pick this weight, and you've already set the number in your head, 10, 10, 10. Yeah. What if you get to the end, and it's like 10 wasn't to failure? Would you just stop at 10 anyways? Or would you go do 15 if that was failure? I would go 11, 12. Yeah, yeah. Okay, you would. Okay. Right answer. You passed. I'm a big dabber-upper, but we can't just... That was a bit better. Clammy hands. I do have clammy hands, my bad. Do you guys have a huge gene? I have skinny fingers. What's the width? Like how's your hand width? Mine's a lot better here. Look at that. Mine look like a piece of paper. Piece of paper stretching it. Look how thin that is. That is good. A piece of paper thin, you know? Compared to these meat hooks. Meat hooks. I don't even know what that is. It's this one that is the fucking death of you. You got it. Get a good stretch all the way down. All the way up, nice. Control it. Control it. Don't be throwing it around. How do you get your hands dirty? I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. How do you get your hands dirty? After this, we'll do this. Come on. That was actually like an actual failure for me. That was good. Good job. I can do that weight again. You guys are going to go home and do these workouts in Canada too? Yes. I'm going to teach all my friends. The safari curls. Yeah. The safari curls go crazy. Have you done this on your YouTube before? No. I usually just fuck around on YouTube. I don't think. They've never really seen me train. Okay. Mom is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is fudge is you've been doing high rocks no i don't know where they did a strength high rock day and i skipped the running portion i just did a leg day basically i don't do cardio without the yeah like i my daily steps is probably like 3 000 steps a day it's a lot for me really two or three thousand steps a day i don't probably do like 500 during the day and then like 2000 at the gym that's about it yeah that's what i'm saying is i'm at 1300 right now steps yeah it's good 11 a.m 12 oh it's 12 p.m are you guys fasted like have we eaten today yeah it's noon what do you think oh my best have you eaten today no crazy you're training weights fasted i always train weights fast really you want to judge me more you're leaving gains on the table big time come on actually oh my god yeah yeah i've trained fasted for every year i've trained really wait should i eat before of course what time what time do you work out 10 a.m yeah you have nothing before i have black coffee ea's mct oil that's crazy i mean it's working but i would throw a little mct oil on some ea's into mct in your coffee ea's and call it a day and then eat after oh so i'm good he wouldn't agree with you but i would agree that you at least need amino acids in you that's it yeah yeah so we're done with that bicep movement yes yeah okay so now definitely remember that one though it's in my repertoire now i have like a stitch when you go running and you get a cramp in your side oh really yeah i'm really in shape right now jeez you're the one that's been doing the high rocks forecast you're the only one that's wrong today we can do another back and biceps one more of each i'm good i'm down for whatever you guys want the most volume i've done since i retired so you can call the shots all right we can call it a day i understand you said ideally what was your workout so you let us know if you think it's done we're done if you don't then tell us what we're doing we're doing one more thing okay i'm just scared of more judgment you're scared of what more judgment from the two of you well look we judged you but then you proved us wrong that was a good exercise i'm channeling my inner frank mcgrath yeah kids these days probably don't even know that photo that iconic photo yeah do you know who frank mcgrath is yeah see kids these days kids these days i'm not AI'm 23 years old he's an icon of our generation i know who that is that's the yeah that guy bodybuilder yeah i don't really set goals for new years i want to be married did she just say i want to get married better learn how to cook first try to get married married and have some kids asap you know you have some work to do is crazy tell us your ideal man sarah give us the rundown like looks personality looks i don't care about not at all not at all so like short fat hairy is good with you yeah well i know okay that was wrong i don't want shorter than me okay so you're okay with like a short king as long as he's not shorter than you king yeah yeah okay so like five six is okay five six is okay okay how tall are you five five five yeah i can do five six okay um i want them to be like relatively active like if they're not i'm telling you my standards are pretty low okay like relatively active in the sense it doesn't have to be they're low in terms of looks yeah or just as a general overarching theme i think books okay for sure okay but they're high in terms of character yes i need them to be like funny okay empathetic okay um i like a humble guy sure someone who's also um work driven okay determined okay loyal yeah sure good at communication of course don't we all yeah so those things are not there like a career path you'd prefer would you want someone in the fitness industry someone that's like what's the whatever finance bro thing going on finance bro no i don't care about any of that you don't care wait no christian bell what's the guy from american psycho yeah christian bell no patrick bateman they're really yeah with uh elvis guy what's his name oh yeah i don't know but yeah okay yeah what's your number one tip for a guy who's trying to find a surf safari be funny humble empathetic i would like someone that's sober too so like a hundred percent silver or like no maybe just doesn't party okay so it's like go on the weekend get up like yeah i don't want that but like if they go like once every couple months with their buddies yeah yeah that's fine okay anything else do you think i'm too like that's too hard to find no no high expectations are a good thing well because a lot of the things you listed are like personality traits that can be developed like when you say look things or height it's like a lot of people can't control that but like you're talking about like being empathetic or being caring or being whatever or fucking like these are things that even if you didn't always have you can be yeah yeah these are character traits like that some of them which i never had or chris might not have ever had but like we learned with our partners or over time as we matured to get them so like those aren't i don't think our reach at all but if you're trying to find someone who's already tied up in a bow perfect that's tough that's tough yeah that's fine i like yeah you fucking call me bob the builder i'll fix them that's why the overarching goal you should look for in a relationship is a growth mindset growth mindset yeah you know you know someone that like hears what you're looking for and is like willing to try to you know make things work and communicate with you and like things like that you know and it's growth minded like chris said i think that's definitely the most important so you guys what's some advice you'd give me to try to find someone for you yeah like where do i go look don't look yeah don't look well where have you been looking um the gym the gym are you on any like dating apps no no i feel like if you're dating apps scare me i don't like going on first date yeah with someone that i know nothing about yeah it's a little weird yeah but like if a friend's like yo i have a friend like if someone that is telling me like if it's coming from a reliable source i'm okay to go like on a first date yeah but yeah dating apps how often are you going on dates maybe like twice a year oh twice you that's it maybe quarterly okay quarterly scheduled in with their assistant yeah first quarter first quarter day by annually you know yeah no it's not very often okay when was the last time you went on a date probably like three four months ago three months ago and it was no good no it was one date that's it um it made it to two or three dates and then i saw something like shady on his phone that hurt my feelings really badly so were you intentionally looking at his phone or like he was looking at you saw something intentionally looking at his phone he was like yo can you record this for me can we have more context what did you see yeah and then i saw a text message from like another girl that like he was going on a trip and he told me he was going solo but he was going so he lied to you in the very beginning yeah honesty yeah cross that's yeah see that's all i would say have your values that you care about and have non-negotiables on them yeah and like honesty is obviously an extreme non-negotiable yeah like that's like bare minimum requirement for like a partner you know yeah like you can make you can make mistakes and things like that but like honesty is like key you know yeah yeah how do you want the guy this is i feel like we have a lot of men how do you want the guy to approach in the beginning of dating a girl do you want him to come off strong like emotionally vulnerable like sharing his faults and stuff or do you want him to prove that he can be like a masculine man who can take care of you and then over time you get the privilege of being able to see yeah what would draw you more vulnerable um how quick do you want to i like a vulnerable guy okay i like someone that's in tune so like if he cried on the second dates about like his childhood trauma would you be okay um i think i'd be okay but i'm gonna be honest that a second date that might steer me away okay like second date might be a little too soon yeah but like after like a month of like it depends how often i guess we're going on dates but like if i've known him for a month and he like cries in front of me that's okay okay i'll hold him okay okay so vulnerability is cool yeah that's cool i like but not too much too fast not too much too fast you gotta like feel the vibes now i'm sure you've answered this question before but and in terms of guys like coming up to you in the gym approaching in the gym is this like a okay no like um i'm okay with it i think if i i think you have to read it so if i like take my headphones off if i don't have headphones on and i'm like kind of on my phone yeah come up now have you ever had a guy come up to you in the gym and like with one they were like okay that was a good one like with a pickup line we're like hey that was good you know no and i feel like usually in the gym they come up and they're like yo i like your content and they like dad me up tight it's not like oh yeah yeah yeah not vulnerable enough yeah yeah it's not like i don't know comes up crying oh my god she's just like it's okay so gym is okay jim's okay i think jim's because for me it's like if they're not if someone's not making a move on me at the gym then they're not going to catch me outside yeah i think a lot of guys are probably under the impression that women don't want them to be like approach them at the gym yeah a lot of guys don't don't do it yeah because like you hear such mixed reviews on that you'll hear some women like oh my god never come up to me at the gym and you'll hear something that'd be like yeah i don't mind so like guys are like i don't know you know i feel like the gym's a good place to meet people because i think if you're both working out then it shows you have something in common first of all and working out is like your discipline sure so what would be a good same as approaching a bro though like if i'm like mid-set or training hard someone comes up to me out for a picture like come on man yeah but if you wait till after or when you come into the gym before yeah you see them right walking out of the time it's all about timing yeah and if you guys like made like eye contact a few times sure etc like maybe it's okay to like go up to her you got to read it off the vibes yeah and then don't like i think i think going up to someone be like oh you compete is always a good you do like that yeah i'm like oh you think i'm fit yeah now you're gonna get a hundred people like to get the ego fluffed a little bit yeah that's good okay all right what about like sliding in the dms is this like a that's okay too if they like i got a good smooth pickup line dms are okay but also i get into like it's i get just so intimidated because i don't want like ill intention not ill intentions but like i don't want to like hook up with someone yeah i strictly want like a loving relationship so i think dm sometimes just has that connotation yeah connotation or like stigma that it's like yeah i don't know greasy i met my wife in the dms you really yeah she's living my dms i was before all of this all because i cried on the internet yeah and what the first time i chose to be emotionally vulnerable on the internet i found my wife what did she say to you in the dms she said asking for a friend come here yeah she sent me a picture of her like this come put your head on mama's lap you know come tomorrow yeah i'm pretty sure she said she actually sent me three dms and i never saw them but she was like that outfit is swaggy that's right so it was nothing to do with you crying you're being vulnerable no but because she was the one she didn't answer right she was like oh this guy's different you know oh yeah because i was well what i was putting out there was like my true self right so she saw that and then she was following me she was with jim shark and she was like oh who is this guy and she was like he seems different than the other guys let him idea and then did you ask her on the date or was she kind of took took the reins and was like let's do something oh we just like hit it off immediately flew around to canada the next day come down she flew down to canada like a month later yeah we were living in different countries damn game over so i gotta start making the first move that's what my mom said though my mom was like but she said that was the first time she's ever i mean every girl say that but i believe her now we're married yeah it's our first time fighting in the guys dm it's my first time i swear i've never done this i swear no i'm sure oh yeah so you can't be looking too hard for it you know we were both in a position where we left a relationship where we didn't want to be in a relationship we weren't looking at all it just like happened you know can't be too like hungry for it just know your values outline them follow them non-negotiables live your life if someone comes into your life and they fit they fit yeah yeah i think a big thing too is like especially early in dating is like people have like a little bit of like an ick or a red flag and they don't like communicate they just like ghost and i think like a lot of times if someone is the most millennial thing i've ever heard you say they have the ick and they just ghost yeah i'm trying to like this is we're on tick tock live here that's good no that's good i like this i'm learning these new words i gotta put them in my lingo and they'll just like get out versus like you were talking about you know like growth mindset where that could have been communicating the partner could have been like okay i understand and like can improve and learn yeah you know so i think a lot of like potential good relationships are thwarted off the hop because there's just like not communication for something that could have easily been remedied you know i mean we live in a generation of non-communication people that don't want to fix things they are like looking for the perfect fit like right off the hop and not to like make the perfect thing you know and it's like the saying of like the grass isn't green on the other side it's like green where you water it and it's like you need to water it you know like yeah so yeah like it's nothing's ever going to be perfect in every single way so it's like you need to communicate what is you need and then hope that they can understand that and see that and be growth-minded like chris said yeah yeah yeah we're all fucking a mess under the surface you know yeah everyone's up just if we can make our messes work together yeah yeah no or like find someone that i'm going to marry i don't have to be married in 2025. gotta have the five-year rule what's the five-year rule before getting married you gotta know someone for five years you have to be five years yeah not right i gotta pick someone i proposed i proposed on year five yeah see got married on year six i'm just joking i don't believe in putting a number on anything no definitely not before someone takes it too seriously now what do you think i'm sure a lot of relationships could be helped by that though yeah getting engaged in six months because you're having even what do you think about living together early in a relationship there's like a big like people that are like don't ever do it wait until you're like oh i definitely don't think you should wait until you're married yeah that i agree not yeah you see a different side of person when you live together i think i think like jay's got better you should live together once you know that like or you never i guess you know but once you are pretty sure this is the person you're gonna marry yeah then move in i agree i agree because you should move in fast yeah no it shouldn't be it shouldn't be a rush but like you know when it feels right and it feels natural you know like don't do it to like save on rent you know yeah yeah don't make it a roommate well my lease is up we might as well yeah exactly which is so common i mean so many people are like my lease ends in three months like hey you know should we just like you know but i feel like in that case then it becomes more of a roommate friendship situation than a relationship yeah i don't know now what about uh paying for the first date i am all for 50 50. so you'd be okay if the guys like they come for the bill and they ask the guy like uh how you want the bill split he's like well we'll split it yeah yeah that wouldn't be that wouldn't give me that wouldn't steer me away that wouldn't be the huge really interesting you live in california right yeah wow dude i've been on dates where i'm paying for the first date interesting yeah but never a second date yeah sometimes it goes to a second date well never a third yeah i know they're you're right they don't transpire into anything crazy but yeah i'm fine with splitting it okay i think relationships like when it comes to money it should be 50 50. so you're not looking for like a sugar daddy to just no i don't give a fuck about money okay in that aspect that is not good all right so what are your top three icks oh if they try to too quickly like make a move that is nick for me like like physically make a move yeah yeah like if like halfway into the first date they're trying to kiss you yeah yeah like you're sitting at dinner and they're like yeah yeah fair okay um but that just shows their intentions like yeah exactly yeah yeah facts um facts if they take longer than me to get ready oh yeah okay fair yeah do you take a long time to get ready or no no five ten minutes okay he's like i take four milliseconds to get ready so yeah might be like but i'm sure there's guys five to ten is quick i'm saying like in the aspect of like they need to like look pretty to go out yeah i get that that's not you know like yeah always you want a low maintenance guy yeah yeah for sure i get that yeah i can't think of another but something i like i like a guy that's like a handyman sure like if i get a flat tire and he's or if i'm competent if yeah competent or can figure it out at least like if i'm with him and he gets a flat tire and then he has to like like cries yeah he's like what the do i do yeah sure bro yeah yeah yeah like bro is at home right now googling how to do that like at least like don't make it a bigger issue and try to figure it out before you're like what do i do rational logical logical not an emotional brain yeah but what if what if you're on a date with a guy that's like loaded and i know you don't care about but let's say and you get he gets a flat tire and he's just like yeah call caa fix this he doesn't try and fix it but he's like no problem i'll get this fixed he's like i'll just call an uber leave my car here someone will come get it yeah i'd be like buddy like let's try to fix figure something out yeah no you want a problem solver yeah okay well problem solving is calling an uber and getting out of it yeah that's true yeah it's efficiency too you know yeah it is time is money sarah it is okay well you care more about him being able to fix it himself yeah or at least like wanting to figure out something like problem solving yeah figuring out next steps hands-on yeah you care about a chivalrous man like opening car doors you believe in like that i i love there's nothing i love more than a guy that opens a door for me i love that so like like doors to buildings yeah car doors like actually getting out and going around opening your car door no like it no that's craziness but like if we're both walking to the car and he opens my car door like i always notice that okay yeah but like if we're both sitting in the car like we just arrived somewhere he does not need to get out of the car no that's weird that's weird oh yeah so you care about chivalry but like not to the point where chivalry within reason within reason within practicality doesn't have to pay the bill yeah if it's if he's going out of his way i don't it just it's okay okay and what's an ideal first date for you um like coffee and going on a walk coffee so you're like day dates yeah i like day dates okay i think day dates are better than night dates you do yeah why i don't know i feel like night dates intimidate the out of me day dates are a little like daylight like you get a coffee go on a walk yeah that's true i know his sister my wife was a little nervous that we went like on a dinner date the first one yeah she was nervous about that she was yeah yeah i think i didn't know at the time but i know yeah i feel like guys don't think of it like that no you just think of like the normal thing you like to go to dinner yeah yeah i was 21 you made me so dinner was your first date uh yeah like first official date yeah met each other through friends but yeah what was your first date i mean corny flew from america to my house yeah so yeah we went to nationals but nothing happened for months i promise i slept on a couch i had a bachelor apartment yeah you gave her the bed and you slept on the couch yeah that lasted a night but then we had a pillow we had a pillow you made it sound like that lasted months yeah we waited months before anything happened but i'm saying that's amazing like for me like maybe that stops me sometimes like the mentality is if someone was like oh come over i would assume that well we communicated we were on the phone for like two hours every day for like six weeks before and it was like when you come down don't worry like we communicated about it like it's not going to be about that i love that it wasn't just like yo come over yeah it was like we knew everything about each other's life before we met like yeah so you knew what to expect obviously yeah yo you up what are you doing up yeah be there in ten yeah okay that's good that's good parents out of town open pad pull up open that's a new one that's good i didn't know that one yeah so if you guys think ian and c mom if you guys find any good suitors for me let me know no we're not searching remember now do you have a oh well no she's not searching but you guys no they shouldn't be either they can't be too thirsty no but like i'm saying if we knew someone that was a good candidate it that that's not anybody searching yeah yeah but like ideally the man should be like becoming someone where if you're cross if your paths cross then he is that person you want to be you know rather than seeking seeking you out he needs to be working on no but like say we were like hey buddy we know would be a good with that's not anyone seeking anyone out that's us yeah someone like i would never come across but you guys are like oh i know this guy did you have like a ideal age range like are you open to dating 45 year old 50 year old 70 year old men or do you want like 18 like no no not 18 either i'm 23 so what's your no younger than you no young no i mean like if it's a year maybe that's fine okay like around 20 like 23 to 28 23 28 okay okay reasonable good we've got the scope yeah okay so i row this for a minute or something no 15 10 calories warm up a bit and we'll show you on the screen i've never been on this you've got that bitch up on eight do a 10 calorie warm up and then you gotta stay on the seat ow that hurt really bad yeah this is fun that took me a minute 10 seconds yeah you were like starting stopping you fell off the seat if you went like all out sprint you could probably do that in like 20 seconds no yeah oh this is for real now do we have smelling salts wait wait wait this is for real now i need a 10 minute break give me a second okay chris get some like till i collapse on here or something you know all right all right all right guys so we're doing a row challenge right now we're trying to beat the eddie hall record i think you did it in five seconds so we're gonna rose 10 calories as fast as possible whoever did the fastest wins bragging rights because we don't do things for rewards we do things to be better damn everything he says is like an inspirational quote i don't even know what it means sure everything he says i can just imagine me scrolling on tick tock saying it puff it on the first pole i'm scared okay focus this is only gonna be a couple seconds just give it 120 percent oh the nickel back came on for you should we put it down i'm so depressed good come on keep going keep going keep going halfway there come on go go go i pulled off the seat you're good seven you're almost there eight two more come on go go go go one more one more one more one more one more one more one more there we go 34 33 seconds yeah falls off that was good 33 are you having a panic attack or a heart attack no i'm laughing okay i just literally picture ian bending this thing in half that's a take off wait that was 12 calories already no no no that was two calories onto your pen holy is Alright, we're done. Holy shit! That was good? Bro, that was literally like the Facebook thing you showed me. Literally. Put them side by side! That was the exact same thing! Did you get a video of that? Holy shit! Now I want to try and beat that, yeah? Look how fast you're moving. It looks fake! It literally looks fake. How'd you keep your feet in? I fucking pulled them so tight. Oh yeah, absolutely yeah. No, you got it? Good! Yeah! I don't know how you went so far back. Oh, I was like, no way. Yeah, I was leaning super far back. Like get it back as high as I could. I want a redo. Yeah, you gotta get a redo. For sure. I saw Ian do it, now I'm inspired. That's not gonna be close. Alright, let's go! Let's go. 10 seconds, let's go! Go! Go! Come on! Good! Good! Come on! Good! 11! Holy shit! That was close! 11 seconds. I was falling off the pad too. You're like almost the same, just a hair slower. Yeah, that was perfect. Damn! You gotta redo that. I don't want to now, I don't know. Let's go, come on. Lean back, pull hard. There we go. Pull, pull, pull, let's go. There we go. Come on. Keep going, keep going. Way better than last time. Let's go. You're halfway there. Come on. Come on. Hard, pull, pull, pull. Let's go. That's seven. Come on, keep going. Pull, pull, pull, pull, pull. Go, go, go, go. One more calorie. Go, go, go. There we go. Tony, you got a little bit of a calorie. Twenty-five. See? Ten seconds exactly off it. I told her she'd take ten seconds off it. You did. Yeah, that was exactly ten seconds. That was exactly ten seconds. Ian has like a wizard mind. Yeah, what the heck? He'd be trading, he'd put ten pounds on it, he'd be like, you'll get eight reps. And then I get eight reps every time. He's so super, yeah. Sensei experienced, you know? Are you gonna go again? I think I'm capped out. I think I'm capped out. I'm so super, yeah. I'm so super, yeah. I'm so super, yeah. I'm so super, yeah. I'm so super, yeah. I'm so super, yeah. I'm so super, yeah. Sensei experienced, you know? Are you gonna go again? I think I'm capped out. Are you? I'm capped out too. My thoughts of today, it was really fun. I had a great workout. They were both very nice gentlemen. Were they not judgmental? No, they were very judgmental, but it was great. But you got great advice. Great, yeah, I got really good advice. It was also a good workout, good pump. And yeah, I'd do it again. Alright, so that's a wrap on our workout. We just did a row challenge and Ian absolutely fucking kicked all our ass. It was pretty sad, but thank you guys for watching. See you guys later.