 Lord of the geldi, crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing crushing leg reaching backward against the hand holding it. The flexed hip extends to the rear with gradual adduction of the foot from the pelvis to a position in which the thigh and the arm are parallel to the floor. The spine is in extension and the pelvis is in posterior tilt. While holding the position, eyes are open and focused ahead on one point at eye level. While performing the pose, the active muscles are gluteus maximus during hip extension, quadriceps femoris during knee extension, elongation of pectoralis major in the chest and stretching of the tibialis anterior in the raised leg. In the standing leg, the hamstring is stretched and active at the same time. In the lifted leg, the rectus femoris is also stretched and active at the same time. The iliopsoas elongates. The erector spinae are in spinal extension, the trapezius is active in scapular retraction and the deltoid is active in shoulder flexion. In this video, we present preparation for the lord of the dance pose that includes elongation and flexibility of the muscles involved in pelvic tilt and hip flexion. Notice the iliopsoas. Tightening the muscles responsible for anterior pelvic tilt and hip flexion may cause a hyperlordotic position. Now bring your attention at the rectus femoris. Tightness of the hip flexors strongly pulls the pelvis forward and increases lumbar lordosis. We will become familiar with several preparatory exercises for elongating the hip flexors and extensors. The first exercise, in a squat position. With the knee of the rear leg on the floor, we gradually draw the foot toward the buttocks and hold it there for several deep breaths. The second exercise, sitting erect on a chair. We hold the ankle of the external leg and then perform knee flexion and hip rear extension. The third exercise, high lunge on a chair. The forward leg is placed on the chair and gradually we transfer the weight forward, tilting the pelvis posteriorly to make the hip flexors more flexible. The fourth exercise is lying on the back. We pull the knee toward the chest and tilt the pelvis posteriorly. The muscles that are stretched are the hip flexors of the straight leg. One of the common problems is sensitivity when lower back is in hyperlordosis. First solution would be performing the movement without the forward tilt. Enter the position by standing straight in the mountain pose, tadasana, with legs parallel at pelvic width. Transfer your weight to the left leg, lift up slowly the right leg and stand stable on one foot. The right hand grasps the right ankle, with the knee flexed to the rear. The left hand is thrust forward at shoulder level or upward. The grasped leg moves to the rear against the hand holding it. We extend the flexed thigh to the rear with gradual adduction of the foot from the pelvis in an upward direction. In this variation, the upper part of the body remains in place. The movement is now coming only from thrusting the hand and extension of the leg. Additionally, to prevent hyperlordosis in the lower back, tilt the pelvis posteriorly. Hold in the abdominal muscles and gently contract the pelvic floor muscles. Another common problem is shortened hamstrings in the supporting leg. One solution is to reduce the angle of flexion at the torso and at the hip joint. Second solution is to slightly bend the knee of the supporting leg. Third solution is to perform the pose without tilting the torso forward and to hold the body elongated with the arm reaching upward. It's a chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain chain