 L-delacidhox, ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt them from falling towards the floor. See the animation. Adduction and lowering the shoulder blades. Elongated pectoral muscles make a greater range of motion possible. Problem 1 is difficulty in raising our arms forward and adducting the shoulder blades due to shortening of the pectoralis muscles. Shortened pectoralis muscles restricts how much we can raise our arms and makes adducting the shoulder blades difficult. The result is hypermotility of the lower back. Solutions involve preparatory exercises and adaptations. We can perform the position with our arms to the sides. We can raise our arms without keeping them together. We can raise the arm and leg on the same side. Problem 2 is difficulty in extension or pressure on the lower vertebrae because of a large lever that overloads the erector spinae. Solution 1 is to press the ground with our hands. Pressing our hands on the ground improves the range of movement in the vertebral column and reduces the effort made by the erector spinae. The stronger we press our hands, the less the load will be on the erector spinae and the shoulder blade adductors. Another way to partially reduce the load on the erector spinae is to spread our arms to the sides. Solution 2 is to place a pillow under the abdomen. One arm is under the chin and the other arm is straight out on the floor. We can also raise our legs and straight arm without raising the head. Placing a pillow under the abdomen changes the axis of movement upwards towards the lower thoracic vertebrae. Raising a straight arm activates the erector spinae for stabilizing the vertebral column. Common problem 3 is pain or discomfort in the lower back caused by overload. This happens among exercisers with sensitive backs. The solution is to adapt our breathing so that it reduces loads on the lower back. When we combine back extension with inhalation, we help to attain a larger range of movement. Exhalation stimulates indirect contraction of the abdominal and pelvic floor muscles. Contracting the abdominals helps to support and stabilize the lower back. Exhalation with extension is especially suitable for exercisers who have sensitive conditions of back pains. Common problem 4 is excessive extension of the lumbar spine to compensate for movement limitation in the chest region. The solution involves preparatory exercises. We work on softening and moving the thoracic vertebrae and making exercises aware of the separation of movement between the lumbar, thoracic and cervical areas of the spine. Concaving and rounding the spine while sitting on a chair. The aim of this exercise is to improve overall mobility in all vertebrae. Concaving and rounding the back while on all fours with an emphasis on thoracic mobility. The aim of this exercise is to improve segmental mobility in the thoracic vertebrae. On top of this exercise is to improve within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic vertebrae within the thoracic Thank you.