 Yeurururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururururur Knees and ankles are both at 90 degrees angles, with the inner part of the knees and the inner part of the soles of the feet touching the ground. From this position, gently lower your hips and place your palms on the ground, keeping your hands firmly rooted on the mat, fingertips spread wide for support or parallel to each other. Relax your upper body and gently move the head forward and the tailbone towards the opposite direction. From this position, a gentle backward movement intensifies the stretch. Gradually release tension in the neck and let your chest sink downwards according to your own range of motion. Stay in this position for several long and relaxed breaths while being attuned to your body. To exit the frog pose, gradually and slowly return the knees and the soles of the feet to the starting position in the center line on the hands and knees and into a tabletop position. From tabletop, return to a seated position on the heels with soles of the feet in plantar flexion. The spine is in a neutral position. The pelvis is in a neutral position. The hip joint is in horizontal abduction, which is a combination of flexion plus hip abduction. There is no external rotation in the hips, only horizontal abduction. The knee joint is in external rotation. The knee joint is in external rotation. The ankle joint is in dorsiflexion. The joint in which rotation occurs is the knee joint in which external rotation occurs. Notice how the rotation in the knee rotates the ankle. Although the ankle rotates, the movement comes from the knee. Note that excessive rotation of the knee can lead to potential knee injuries. To prevent knee injuries, refer to common problems. The hip adductors are stretched. Rotating the foot outward will intensify the stretch of the hip adductors. This may be attributed to the gracilis muscle, which is connected to the tibia bone. As the tibia rotates, the gracilis is stretched even more, creating an intense stretching sensation. Common problem, discomfort or pain in the medial aspect of the knee joints due to direct pressure between the knee and the floor. Solution, use padding to create cushioning under the knees. Common problem, limited range of motion and horizontal abduction in the hip joint, which requires increased rotation in the knee joint, causing knee pain. From a kinesiology perspective, the knee joint mainly moves in the sagittal plane, flexion and extension. But when the knee is bent, rotation can also be performed, which is important in daily functions. The normal rotation range when the knee is flexed is 40 degrees. However, there is a greater risk of knee injury if excessive rotation occurs in situations where hip range of motion is limited. This combination of stiffness and limited range of motion in hip abduction, with strong rotation in the knees as a result, is precisely the challenging aspect of the frog pose if not performed correctly. The sensation of stretching should be felt in the groin area and the muscles surrounding the hip. If the sensation moves to the knee, practitioners must exit the frog pose. Applying force or pressure on the knee joints can cause serious damage to the meniscus and the supporting ligaments of the knee joints. Practitioners with a suitable natural structure and high flexibility in the hip joints can perform the pose relatively easily since their hip abduction range is good. However, for many practitioners, the structure of the groin and hip joint does not allow the hips to achieve full abduction, resulting in strong rotational stress on the knee. If practitioners push the body downward forcefully, the hip and thigh bones act as two levers creating a strong rotational force on the knee. Never push a student to perform or stay in this position if they feel sensitivity or pain in the knee joint. Solutions A. Perform the pose without dorsal flexion in the ankles, meaning in a plantar flexion position in the ankles. In this position, there is no rotation in the knees. If hip abduction range is limited and pressure is exerted on the knees, it is important to keep the ankles in a plantar flexion position. Dorsal flexion in the ankles will cause rotation in the knees, leading to pain. B. Elevate the buttocks by placing yoga blocks under the elbows to reduce the vertical pressure and decrease the intensity of the stretch. C. Perform a variation of the pose with the hands stretched forward without knee rotation. D. Perform a restorative variation of the frog pose with full support under the body using a bolster. This allows for a more restorative pose with full relaxation of all body muscles. Thank you.