Warrior 2 pose. Veradrasana 2. In warrior pose 2, how we align the body above our feet affects our posture, our balance in space, and the health of our back. This asa should be practiced with great attention to the entire body alignment and to the contact between the feet and the mat. Right pelvis and femur. Posterior view. the internal muscle group that stabilizes and rotates the thigh externally laterally. The glutius maximus and the posterior fibers of the glutius minimus and medius assist in external rotation in the layer above maintain elongation of the spine. Two effective ways to create elongation are by pulling the head upward and pushing the chest forward. Problem one, posture impairments in the position of the feet tend to cause internal or external tilting of the knees. Solution: direct the exerciser's attention to organizing the center of the knee in a straight line with the center of the foot. Problem two, weakness in the quadriceps of the forward leg. Solution one, reduce the range of knee flexion. Reducing the range of knee flexion lessens the load on the knee extensors and also reduces the range of stretch of the knee adductors of the rear leg. Solution two, preparatory exercises for strengthening the quadriceps and glutius maximus. Get into a lunge position holding the abdominal and pelvic floor muscles simultaneously with the assistance of a string tied around the belly. Do not tighten the string. Practicing a position of static or active lunge combined with a slight elevation of the rear leg. Performing a static squat at different angles or dynamically rising and sitting. Problem three, shortening of the adductor muscles of the rear leg. Solution, reduce the distance between the legs, stride length. Reducing the range of knee flexion lessens the load on the knee extensors and also reduces the range of stretch of the knee adductors of the rear leg. Problem four. Shortened chest muscles limit the ability to open arms to the sides. Solution. Preparatory exercise. Increasing flexibility of the pectoralis muscles. Stretch chest muscles on chair. The aim of this exercise is to make chest muscles more flexible and improve range of thoracic vertebrae extension. Making chest muscles more flexible. The aim of this exercise is to improve chest muscle flexibility and ranges of movement in the shoulder girdle.