 radial nerve. The radial nerve arises from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, with root contributions from C5 to T1. It travels posterior to the axillary artery, from where it gives motor branches to the long head and lateral head of the triceps brachia, and then enters the arm through the triangular interval. From there, it descends in the radial groove of the humerus, supplying the medial head of the triceps brachii and the enconius, then pierces the lateral intermuscular septum to enter the anterior compartment, running between the brachialis and brachioradialis. At the level of the lateral epicondyle, it divides into two terminal branches. The deep branch, also called the posterior innerosseus nerve, passes through and innervates the supinator muscle. From there, it continues distally to supply all the extensor muscles of the forearm, including the extensor polysis brevis, extensor indusis, extensor polysis longus, abductor polysis longus, extensor carpi radialis brevis, extensor carpi ulnaris, extensor digitai minimi, extensor digitai minimi, extensor digitai minimi, and the extensor digitorum. The superficial branch continues beneath the brachioradialis to provide cutaneous sensation to the dorsum of the hand. The posterior cutaneous nerve is used to create a more elastic and elastic effect. Additional sensory branches include the posterior cutaneous nerve of the arm, the posterior cutaneous nerve of the forearm, and the lower lateral cutaneous nerve of the arm. These branches supply sensation to the posterior arm, posterior forearm, and lateral aspect of the distal upper arm. In summary, the radial nerve provides motor innervation to the triceps brachii, the anconius, and all the extensor muscles of the forearm. It also supplies sensory innervation to the skin of the lateral aspect of the arm, posterior arm, the posterior forearm, and the dorsum of the lateral hand, including the dorsal aspects of the thumb, index, middle finger, and the radial half of the ring finger.