 Involved triangle pose, Pavrita Trakonasana. As in other rotation poses, this asana is of great value both in terms of movement, release of localized tension in the muscle system, improved range of joint movement and strengthening of muscles, and in physiological terms, improved breathing and circulation functions, and neurological flow along the spine. Here we lean the trunk forward and combine it with spinal rotation. We lean the trunk forward through the hip joint. The spine performs rotation but without flexion. Flexion is done through the hip joint. In addition to flexion, in this position we can also move the pelvis to the side and downward through the hip joint. This pelvic movement increases rotation in the trunk and is common among exercisers who have limited spinal rotational ability. When we get into the position, the erector spinae act to stabilize and rotate the spine. When we enter the position, the hand is supported on the leg and it pushes to the side in order to assist in rotation. The hand support reduces the load on the rotating erector muscles at the deep level. Rotating the pelvis to the side through the hip joints is an indirect way to increase rotation. The gluteus maximus and medius muscles stabilize the hip joint. They stretch and they also actively work to prevent flexion in the hip joint. Problem 1 is limitation in hip flexion due to shortened hamstrings. When the hamstrings are shortened, exercisers have limited ability to rotate the pelvis and they bend the trunk downward through the hip joint. The solutions include preparatory exercise and adaptations. Here are three examples. 1. Placing a cube for support. 2. Placing the lower hand on the knee or pelvis. 3. Slightly flexing the front knee. 3. ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka ka