 accessed accessed accessed accessed accessed accessed accessed accessed Place your legs on top of the box and keep your torso in line with your arms overhead. Unlock your elbows and slowly bring your head toward the ground by flexing your shoulder. To get back to the starting position, push your hands into the floor and extend your elbows as you press back to lock out and repeat. The deltoid flexes the shoulder. The serratus anterior and the trapezius rotate the scapula upward. The triceps brachii extend the elbow. Common Problem. Wrist Sensitivity During Handstands. Solution. Preparatory Exercises for the Wrists. 1. Finger Palm Flexion Extension. This exercise intends to improve wrist and finger mobility. Start with your palm flat on the mat. Roll the base of the palm forward through the fingers, allowing each joint to roll after the other. Return gradually to the starting position. 2. Wrist Flexion on Blocks. This exercise intends to increase wrist mobility and wrist flexor strength. Begin by placing your hands on the blocks with your finger base on the back edge of the blocks. 3. Lean forward so the shoulders are above the wrists. 4. Lift the wrists up and slowly lower down. 5. Repeat 10 to 20 times. Note, this exercise can be performed kneeling as well. 6. Wrist Flexors Stretch. This exercise intends to improve wrist flexor flexibility. Begin by rotating the palms outward so your fingers point to your knees. Slowly lean back without lifting the base of the palm from the floor. Create small circles around the carpal bones. Common Problem. Difficulty in obtaining full elbow extension or in weight bearing. A possible adaptation. Place the head on a padded surface between the arms to ease the position. The head support stabilizes the movement and allows a feeling of security. It's essential to adjust the height of the support exact head placement. If the support is too low, the head will not be supported. And if the surface is too high, the neck might be compacted. It's possible to use a block as a surface base with a folded blanket on top. The height of the surface depends on the arm length. Place the hands on the floor to the surface's sides and transition from a downward dog until the head is comfortably placed on the surface. Going in again.