The sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve is the longest and largest nerve in the human body. It arises from the lumbossacral plexus and has root contributions from L4 to S3. It is composed of two divisions. The tibial division which runs medially and the common fibular or paranal division which runs laterally. Both are bundled together in a common sheath. It exits the pelvis through the greater sciatic fammen passing beneath the puraphiforis muscle and descends through the glutial region into the posterior thigh. Here it lies deep to the glutius maximus and superficial to the adductor magnus running deep to the long head of the biceps feorous as it descends through the posterior thigh. Along its course, the tibial division of the sciatic nerve gives motor branches to the long head of the biceps for feorous semiendinosis, semimebrosinosis and the isial part of the adductor magnus. The common fibular division provides motor intervation to the short head of the biceps for at the top of the poplil fossa. The two bundled divisions of the sciatic nerve separate into their terminal branches. The tibial nerve and the common fibular nerve also known as the paranal nerve. The tibial nerve continues vertically through the midline of the popl fossa. Then descends in the posterior compartment of the leg. It gives muscular branches to the gastromus, solius, plantaris, paplatus, tibialis posterior, flexor digtorum longus and flexor hallucus longus. At the level of the medial malololis, it passes posterior to it and beneath the flexor retinacculum where it divides into the medial and lateral plantar nerves. These branches innervate the intrinsic muscles of the foot and provide sensory supply to the sole and toes. Additional nerves emerging from this region include the medial and inferior calccanial nerves. The medial calccanial nerve arises proximal to the flexor retinacculum providing cutaneous intervation to the posterior medial aspect of the heel. The inferior calccanial nerve also known as baxter's nerve is a branch of the lateral plantar nerve. It provides motor intervation to the abductor digiti minimi muscle and sensory supply to the calccanial perryostium and adjacent skin of the heel. Shifting focus back to the popl fossa. The second branch diverging from the sciatic nerve is the common fibular nerve. It travels laterally along the tendon of the biceps for feorous then curves around the neck of the fibula. From there it splits into the superficial and deep fibular nerves. The superficial fibular nerve continues through the lateral compartment supplying the fibularis longus and brevis and then divides into two sensory branches. The medial dorsal cutaneous nerve and the intermediate dorsal cutaneous nerve which provide cutaneous sensation to the lower lateral leg and the dorsome of the foot. The deep fibular nerve enters the anterior compartment supplying the tibialis anterior extensor digtorum longus extensor hallucus longus fibularis terteius extensor digtorum brevvis and extensor hallucus brevis and finally gives off its cutaneous branch in the web space between the first two toes. Additionally, another sensory pathway branches from the sciatic nerve, the suroral nerve. It is formed by the union of the medial suralcutaneous nerve from the tibial nerve and the suroral communicating branch from the common fibular nerve. Together they supply sensation to the lower posterior lateral leg and the lateral side of the foot. In summary, the sciatic nerve supplies motor intervation to the posterior thigh and through its tibial and fibular branches to all muscles of the leg and foot. It provides sensory intervation to the posterior lateral leg, dorsome and sole of the foot and the area between the first and second toes.