 naringin, arborese, naringin, arborese, naringin, arborese, naringin, arborese, naringin, a pulsekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksekseksek Keep the spine elongated with a slight rotation or flexed and relaxed facing forward. Breathe in and out slowly while relaxing into the pose. The feet gradually move away from the hip joints. The back foot is in dorsiflexion. The front foot is in inversion. The top of the foot is laid on the floor. The hands are used for support. One hand is placed on the floor and the other supports the front knee. In the full position, the feet move away in opposite directions from one another, one moving away from the front hip joint and the other from the rear hip joint. The sitting position in the deer pose is marked by enhanced rotation of the hip joints. The thigh of the front leg is in external rotation with flexion and the thigh of the rear leg is in internal rotation with abduction. In the thigh of the front leg, the hip internal rotator muscles are stretched. Among them, the buttock muscles with an emphasis on the gluteus medius and maximus. In addition, the piriformis is stretched by the combination of flexion and external hip rotation. In the back leg, the hip adductors and hip external rotators are stretched. Mainly, the quadratus femoris is stretched by internal hip rotation with abduction. Here's one common problem when performing this pose. Increased rotation in the front knee joint resulting from limited external rotation in the hip joint. The reason for that could be shortened internal rotators or limited mobility in the ligaments around the hip joint with an emphasis on the lateral portion. Practitioners with a suitable natural structure and high flexibility in the hip joints can perform the full pose relatively easily as their thighs can rotate outward fully. For many practitioners, the hip joint structure disables the femur's range of rotation and a chain reaction of excessively strong rotation is created in the knee. If the student or teacher forcefully pushes the body down, the tibia and femur will serve as two levers creating large rotational force on the knee. Therefore, there is an actual risk of knee injury when a combination of three components is created at the same time. A. Flexion B. Rotation C. Load This combination is exactly the danger of the pigeon pose. If it is performed incorrectly, the practitioner should feel the stretch only in the hip joint. If the stretch moves to the knee, you should exit the pose immediately but carefully. Pressing the legs while applying force into the position is one of the most dangerous things in the pigeon pose and can lead to severe injury in the supporting ligaments of the knee joints. Never force or pressure a student to perform or stay in this position if they feel tenderness or pain in the knee joint. In any case of knee pain, do not perform this pose at all. A possible solution for this problem. Each practitioner has a different range of motion in the hip joint and the pose needs to be adapted personally according to this range. There are a few possible solutions in case of knee pain in the pigeon pose. A. Reduce the angle between the knee and thigh to avoid rotation. See image below. As the angle increases, so does rotation in the knee. B. Choose an alternative exercise to improve flexibility and mobility of the hip joint. The following is a recommended variation using the wall to improve flexibility and mobility of the hip joint. C. In any case of limited lateral rotation in the hip or sensitivity in the knee, use adaptations to maintain a balanced position of the pelvis. For example, sitting on a block or a bolster to create elevation on one side of the pelvis. D. When the pose is performed fully, the front ankle should be in dorsiflexion. However, if the thigh rotation is limited and there is still pressure on the knee, it is essential to keep the knee joint in the sagittal plane and the ankle in plantarflexion. In this position, even though the knee is bent, the dorsiflexion in the ankle creates rotation and a risk to the knee. Although the knee is in flexion in this position, the ankle is in dorsiflexion causing rotation and endangering the knee. In this position, it is best to keep the angle in plantarflexion. In this position, plantarflexion in the ankle is more suitable as it decreases rotation in the knee joint and reduces the risk of injury. So a full friction can occur with a muscle friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction friction Thank you.