 and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, and great quiz questions to truly test your knowledge. And you guys can become a member on our website. If you go down in the description box below, click on that link to our website. You guys would have access to all of these things. So go check that out. But without further ado, let's get into the pathophys of amyloidosis. All right, my friends, let's start talking about the pathophys of amyloidosis. Now this is a disease where basically it's a buildup of amyloid proteins. These are misfolded proteins that when they accumulate in specific tissues, they trigger the apoptosis of those tissues. And that'll lead to tissue damage. There's a lot of tissues that can be affected in amyloidosis. It's oftentimes a multi-system disease. But the big thing to remember is that amyloidosis can actually be broken down into a couple of different subtypes. And so I want you guys to remember that as AL. And oftentimes the A in front of it is for the amyloid. And then the misfolded type of protein is what falls afterwards. And that's L. L is for the light chains. So it's important to remember that this is a disease that is oftentimes seen in what's called plasmacel disorders. So sometimes they call them plasmacel disorders. Something they call them plasmacel discratios. It's the same thing. We talked about it in our initial video. What did that encompass? That encompassed things like multiple myeloma, monoclonal gamopathy of undetermined significance. And to a small degree, Walden-Strum's macroglobulinemia. So again, AL amyloidosis is primarily gonna be multiple myeloma in MGUS. So with these diseases, when you have a plasmacel disorder, there's a malignancy or a premalignant condition of those plasmacels. So here are our plasmacels. What's happening with these plasmacels? Well, if you guys go back, these abnormal malignant plasmacels are producing an undesirable amount of antibodies. And these are called immunoglobulins. And they could be IgG, they could be IgA. More often than not, they're immunoglobulin G, but they're gonna be producing these antibodies. And if you guys remember, antibodies have different types of heavy chains, and then they have these like little things off the side, like light chains. Well, in certain types of plasmacel disorders, especially multiple myeloma and MGUS, they produce an excess amount of these light chains. So there's a lot of light chains. And so that's what you're really gonna see is a lot of these light chains. So let's say here we have plasmacels, they're producing a lot of immunoglobulins, but they're specific components of those immunoglobulins that they're producing a lot more of. And again, what are these? These are your light chains. Let's highlight that. So there's an increased number of light chains. These light chains, per se, do have specific types of names. So sometimes we refer to them as the Kappa and Lambda light chains. But I don't want you guys to focus too much on that, because that's what we discussed in plasmacel disorders. What I want you to know is, these plasmacels are just pumping out these light chains. When you produce too many of these proteins, they have a normal morphology. What happens is in certain large quantities, they can misfold. And then they can clog up tissues, right? And that's where we get problems. So these light chains, they undergo a misfolding process, and they become more of like sheets, beta-plated sheets. That's where we get the disease process. So here's our light chains. And then all I'm going to annotate here is, let's take this normal structure, and now let's make them really misfolded. And then what they kind of do is, they take on this beta-plated sheet pattern. The problem with beta-plated sheets is they're really hard to break down by proteasomes. And a lot of proteolysis can't really work well against these. And so they build up. Now, this misfolded light chains is really what we call amyloid light chains. So again, what are these now? These are the misfolded light chains. OK, so now we've generated a lot of these abnormal, misfolded light chains. They can't be broken down. They're unable to be completely broken down, so they build up. Remember I told you, these amyloid proteins, when they build up in tissues, they clog up these tissues like a pooper, these tissues start to undergo damage because it undergoes apoptosis within that tissue. So now here, these guys are going to go, and they're going to start depositing into tissues. And when they do that, this is going to lead to our undesirable tissue damage. Now, you may be asking, what are these tissues that are oftentimes affected? It really depends upon the subtype. But alamyloidosis is like the Mac Daddy of all the amyloidosis. It likes to jack up all these tissues. So these patients could get GI involvement. They could get CNS involvement and peripheral nervous system involvement. They could get cardiac involvement, real involvement, musculoskeletal, cutaneous involvement. But they're going to trigger this tissue damage that we see here. And that's the problem is because when these things accumulate in these tissues, they trigger apoptosis of the tissue. Now, this is one way of thinking about these. The next one is AA amyloidosis. Now, this one's the most common. So when you see these, this is the most common. This one right here, I'd say it's the second most common. And this one is oftentimes seen in states of chronic inflammation. What are diseases that you have chronic inflammation? Autoimmune diseases. What are the two big ones that we see a lot? RA, SLE. What about a disease where your immune system is attacking the intestinal tissue, especially in the colon or in the small intestine? Inflammatory bowel disease. So these are really, really big ones to remember. So again, remember, RA, SLE. And also don't forget inflammatory bowel disease. Now, it also could be due to chronic infections like tuberculosis, but how common is tuberculosis? It's not super. It could be chronic osteomyelitis. We could see these in not something I want you to think about. I want you to think about these. Another one that's kind of like, they like to test it on the exam. It's a fickle one. It's a weird one, but the exam sometimes, they like to ask things that are super rare. But it's called familial Mediterranean fever. And so FMF is something that we see in patients who have a family history. They're usually somewhere in that Mediterranean part of the geographical parts of the world. And they present with fever. And here's the other thing, serosal inflammation. What the stink is serosal inflammation? They get pleuritis, pericarditis, peritonitis. Mechanism-wise, we don't know. It may have something to do with neutrophilus triggering a lot of inflammation undesirably, but we know it's a familial aspect. We know it's in a specific Mediterranean belt of the geography within the world. And then also we know that they have fevers that are kind of coming on cyclically. And then also they have serosal inflammation. So again, which one would that be associated with? Familial Mediterranean fever. Also sometimes called FMF. Now, in familial Mediterranean fever, one of the big things that I want you guys to remember is again, don't forget this, serosal inflammation. So in the vignette, you'll come in, you'll have a patient who maybe has some of these tissues that are involved, but they'll come in with fevers and they'll come in with complaints of maybe pericarditis such as chest pain, pleuritis, such as shortness of breath, and maybe they could also come in with a pleuritic chest pain as well. But on top of that, they may also come in with perititis, so abdominal pain. So look for those vague symptoms, look for a family history, look for that Mediterranean ancestry, and it may cue you in to think about this type of AA amyloidosis. All right, either way, in all of these scenarios, these guys are triggering inflammation. What's your trigger for a lot of the cytokines? I've probably rid them on the board like a million times, but do you guys remember it's always like interleukin one is a big one. It's best friend, tumor necrotic factor alpha also likes to throw its jabs in there, but another really big one is interleukin six, right? And all of these are released in pretty significant amounts, especially in inflammation. So all of these are causing inflammation, systemically. When that happens, these guys like to go and bind on to the liver receptors, especially interleukin six. They hit the liver and the liver responds by producing what's called acute phase reactant protein. So that's what it's gonna make. It's gonna make these things that again, a lot of them, it's gonna increase the production of acute phase reactants. And there's a lot of these. If you guys are out there listening, what are some of them that we always test for? ESR, CRP is probably the most prominent ones clinically that we utilize, but there's another one. And we don't often test for this one. I can't say I've ever seen it in clinical practice, but there's a very specific one that I want you guys to know. So the common ones, I'll actually, I'll bring over here, common that we test for and the non-common that we test for. So here's gonna be, we'll say commonly tested in practice. And then here is not commonly tested in practice, but relevant to the actual disease process. Again, what are those? We would see a bump in their ESR, a bump in their CRP. And there's even another one like ferritin, which we also can check, but these are oftentimes your inflammatory markers that we test for clinically. The one that we don't test for that's actually pertinent to this disease, it's called serum amyloid A. Sometimes we abbreviate this SAA. Now let's kind of, let's actually make this protein pink. So here's this pink protein, and we're gonna just draw it like this. So here's our pink protein, and maybe it has a globular structure to it. And you're producing a lot of this protein in the scenario of this inflammation that's occurring. Well, when you have lots of these proteins, guess what they can do? Unfortunately, if this is persistent chronic inflammation, they can misfold. And let's make these big globular proteins, let's make them now these big globular beta-plated sheets. What's the problem with this? Can they be broken down easily? No. Because they can't be broken down easily, what can they do? They can build up in tissues, cause apoptosis of those tissues and lead to tissue damage. So here, what we're gonna have, is we're gonna have an increase in the misfolded SAA. I'm gonna write it down. SAA, increase misfolded SAA, which is the serum amyloid A. This is gonna go deposit into the tissues, and again, that's gonna lead to that undesirable tissue damage that we see. And this one, believe it or not, I'll talk about it later. It really doesn't like to affect the heart. It favors the kidneys. This one, it can hit almost every single organ. But this one, it loves to attack the kidneys, and we'll talk about that. All right, so this one, you're looking for a plasma cell disorder. Real quick, what would be another thing? If I'm thinking plasma cell disorders like MM, what's another thing that I would look for? What is the classic, we use it, crab criteria. So look for a patient who has multiple myeloma, and if they have hypercalcemia, renal failure, they have anemia, they have bone pain from those lytic lesions, and they're also having some tissue damage from this kind of amyloid deposits. You definitely wanna think about this as the cause. But patients coming in with joint pain, some type of history of frequent bowel alterations and bloody diarrhea and malabsorption. You maybe think about inflammatory bowel disease. If you have a child, a younger person coming in with fevers and serosal inflammation, you'll think about this one. So use your history to your advantage. This one's an interesting one. I'd say it's a small proportion, but it's something to think about on the exams. And so there is two types. And so, again, it's always amyloid, serum amyloid A. So amyloid SAA, amyloid TTR transthyritin. And there's two things that I want you to remember for this. There's two types. One is it is mutated TTR. In other words, this is one type. This one usually likes to target the heart and the nerves. You don't see this in older individuals, all right? This one has a familial aspect to it. So you'll be looking for someone who is a little bit younger and you'll be looking for a family history, all right? So again, which one do we call this one? There's two names. I would just call them, according to what we're gonna talk about later, you can do familial, you can do hereditary. I think I just prefer to do the familial. Just don't confuse it with this one, though, all right? This is a familial amyloid transthyritin amyloidosis. This one loves the kidneys. This one loves the heart. And also, you'll notice the difference of these later when we get into the diagnosis on how we differentiate the type of protein. Now, the other one is, it's a normal, so it's weird. This one is you have a normal TTR protein. But the problem with this is that over time that protein builds up. So if you're living 80, 90 years of age and you're building up this protein, it can cause some damage. So we call this senile, all right? Because you see this more in the older age range. So senile, ATTR, which is the amyloid transthyritin, this is the one that we would see in older individuals, greater than 70 years of age. They probably don't have that familial aspect to it. And it's primarily only the heart. That's what you have to look for in the history. So what happens here is in both of these to a degree, there is this TTR protein. It's just when we look at this, let's say here I have the TTR protein and here I have the mutated one. So in this one, let's you represent the TTR protein. Let's do it here in this maroonish color here. So here I'm gonna represent the TTR like this. Let's say this is a normal TTR. And then over here, I'm gonna represent this other one and I'm gonna draw this one kind of like funky like this. So here's the mutated TTR. Now, the difference here is if I have, in this scenario, I have the mutated, let's say TTR, and then here I have the normal TTR protein. How do these cause tissue damage? Well really what happens is, in this scenario, the normal TTR protein, over time, consistent, consistent damage. That's what I want you to remember, is it's going to be over time. And I'm talking a person who is really old. So over time, so over time, that deposition of the normal TTR protein will cause tissue damage. The difference from this one is that this mutated TTR is now going to actually do what? It can easily misfold. And when it misfolds, it becomes resistant to being broken down. So that's what I want you to represent here, is that now this guy will undergo misfolding. And it'll turn from maybe a globular protein like this to becoming more beta pleated. So now, in this scenario, what happens? In this scenario, you're getting this weird protein here. And then what I'm gonna do here is I'm gonna have this puppy go over here, and it's gonna precipitate the same thing, that tissue damage. So for this one, I'm getting an increase in the misfolded TTR. So increase in, misfolded TTR. That becomes resistant to breakdown and loves to deposit in tissues. The preferable tissues is the cardiac tissue and the neural tissue. So you're seeing how a lot of these can deposit in the tissue and really we differentiate them based upon the type of protein. You're probably already asking Zach, how am I supposed to differentiate the type of protein? Is there a specific test? Yeah, it's kind of like the Maury show whenever they're like, you know, who's the father kind of thing. We have mass spectroscopy or mass spectrometry that we can actually utilize to tell us which one of these proteins are actually the problem. And we do that from like a tissue biopsy sample. But we'll get to that. It's just utilizing history that's gonna be more critical for the step two. Now, this last one here is probably the one that you can see, but there's only a certain amount of things that we can test often on this one. And it's called amyloid beta two microglobulin amyloidosis. Now, this one we really only see in two scenarios. And I'd say the first one is the more common one. And this is what you're gonna wanna look for. So we kind of see a theme. Plasmicellular disorders look for the crab criteria. Here, look for features of joint kind of like inflammatory diseases, GI complaints, fevers that are within the Mediterranean ancestry and seroso inflammation. Here, you're looking for a family history of nerve and cardiac problems. Here, you're looking for a person who's really old with just cardiac amyloidosis. What are you looking for here? You're looking for a patient who's been on dialysis for a long time. When I say a long time, how long? Oftentimes in the exam, what you wanna see is a patient on it for more than 10 years. That's a decent amount of time. And so therefore, you probably have a patient who also has underlying end stage renal disease. Why is this pertinent? Well, the kidneys are supposed to clear a protein. So there's a protein that our body normally makes and it's called beta-2 microglobulin. And it's supposed to clear it. So what if you have bad kidneys? Well, dialysis hopefully would clear this, but dialysis isn't great at clearing it over time. You actually need what's called high cutoff, or high flux dialysis, really. So the kidneys aren't doing a good job and dialysis may not be doing as well of a job as you want at clearing that beta-2 microglobulin. So it's not being lost into the urine sadly, because it's supposed to be excreted, or it's not being lost from dialysis. And so because of that, if you have damaged kidneys, you're supposed to be putting this thing out. But if you're not putting this out in the urine, what's gonna happen? Because it's supposed to run through here and then get filtered. If it's not, it's going to build up. So then as a result, we're going to do what? I'm gonna have a lot of this protein. So we've done a lot of different colors. Let's actually just make this one green. So here, let's say, put some of these markers down here. Let's say here I have my beta-2 microglobulin, and we're just gonna show it like this. Here's my globular protein right here. And it's supposed to be excreted, but you're not excreting it. What happens? It's going to build up. So then you're gonna have an increase in this beta-2 microglobulin protein. You get the point that as proteins potentially build up, they can undergo transformational changes in their structure. So what if this protein that was nice and globular like this decides to misfold? I think you guys get the point. What's gonna happen? It's gonna become more beta-pleated. And when it becomes more beta-pleated, is it easy to break down? No. If it's not easy to break down, then what happens? It'll start to build up. If it starts to build up around tissues, what's it gonna do? It's gonna cause a lot of apoptosis of that tissue. And if it causes the apoptosis of that tissue, what's gonna happen to the tissue? It's gonna become damaged. And it's gonna cause a lot of systemic effects. And that's what we're gonna see is this type of similar process. So you see how all of these lead to the same thing. We just have to really utilize our clinical gestalt to say, what in the history tells me the type it could be? And then also, what kind of diagnostic tests would be helpful in telling me which one of these is the problem? Before we do that, I want us to talk about this tissue damage and what are the most common organs? Because you're gonna have a patient coming into you and saying, hey doc, I got cardiac problems? No. They're gonna come in with some complaints. You have to then diagnose them with that and say, huh, what was the reason for this? I wonder if it's because of amyloidosis. Let's do that now. So when a patient comes in with amyloidosis, it's not like a patient with appendicitis, where it's kind of easier where they come in with localized pain within the appendix area. He's like, oh man, oh, my right lower quadrant, bro. That's a little bit more obvious for me to say, oh, they probably have appendicitis. Let me figure out the test that I need to find that inflammation and go from there. It's a little bit more challenging with things like this amyloidosis, because it's not a strict they present the same way. Oftentimes they'll present with very, very specific things that are tested on the exam, but they have a lot of multifactorial involvement. It's like thyroid disorders. They have a lot of different systemic involvement. You have to kind of just think about it and certain types of those systems, though, when it pops up, it's not normal for that disease. And so you gotta think, okay, what would trigger this? And that may lead you down the road of amyloidosis. And if I were to leave you with any of these and you say, okay, I'm done with the video, the two biggest ones are gonna be your cardiac and renal involvement. So when a patient comes in with features of restrictive cardiomyopathy or features of nephrodic syndrome, that should make you think about amyloidosis. The other ones, they are important and they help with the whole clinical picture, but they're not gonna be the most common way that you'll see them on the exam. It's gonna be cardiomyopathy and it's gonna be nephrodic syndrome. So let's discuss that. Cardiac involvement, out of all of those subtypes, it is kind of important to know which one is gonna be more likely to hit the heart, right? Because it could help out on your diagnostic schema. And so if we go through these and we write AL, A-A-A-T-T-R, and A-beta-2 microglobulin, I want you to kind of list out of these which ones are the most likely to involve the heart. And I'll do it with a plus symbol and a minus symbol. This one loves to attack the heart. This one doesn't really involve the heart. So that should be helpful when you think about this. This one loves the heart and this one doesn't involve the heart. So with that being said, these two are the ones that we see the problems in. So whenever a patient comes in with restrictive cardiomyopathy, we have to know what does that look like. Well, these guys, they deposit proteins. This is light chains, this is the TTR. So let's say here, I deposit those. Let's see what color. It was baby blue for the amyloid, so let's kind of deposit some here for the A-L. And then the transthyretin was this maroon color. So let's just kind of use that respectively, I suppose, and deposit some of these maroon TTR proteins here. Well, when they deposit, they oftentimes love to deposit into the ventricles along the septum. What kind of issues would I get with that? Well, it really likes to hit both ventricles, but you're going to see more systemic involvement in the right heart. So the ventricles are going to become very, very stiff, and they're going to become a little bit more thick. So thick ventricles. And the problem with that is that when you have this, it definitely is biventricular, but you see more systemic involvement from that right side. And so this is what you see in a picture of a patient developing what's called restrictive cardiomyopathy. That's usually going to be the most common picture is they're going to get this thing called restrictive cardiomyopathy. So basically, imagine you have these like super thick, ventricles that aren't very, very compliant. They're not as desirable to, whenever blood is filling into them, to expand. Well, that's a problem because if you can't have good preload, you can't get good cardiac output. And oftentimes the most common way that this will present is congestive heart failure. But it's more often than not right-sided heart failure. So what does right side heart failure symptoms oftentimes look like? So let's say here, I would have a patient with a restrictive cardiomyopathy. If I see that, what would be some potential presentation? So I'd say restrictive cardiomyopathy. I would look for the jugular venous distension. That would definitely be one. And do you guys remember when a patient has jugular venous distention, that sign, whenever you take a deep breath in, you should have a good drop where blood, you know, usually would flush down into the heart, right? But in patients who have poor filling, that may stay elevated. And it was a very paradoxical presentation. It was called the COOS small sign, right? So look for a COOS small sign, which is kind of that distended jugular vein during inspiration, which is kind of a paradoxical presentation. The other thing is you're gonna see edema, but the edema is oftentimes more right-sided. And so you can see things like a Patomagole in a Cites and you can see peripheral edema. And so I'd watch out for that. So watching for any kind of peripheral edema as a potential presentation, you're gonna see this more in the legs than you would see it anywhere else, but it's something to think about. Sometimes you can see a Cites, it is possible, and that's something to consider as well. But that's one way that I would think about this. There's another thing that can happen though. And you know, when a patient has a restrictive cardiomyopathy, we gotta go, we gotta get an echo. You see that they would have the thickened ventricles. You'd see that they have bi-hatrial enlargement. You'd have to then probably go a little bit step further and get like a cardiac MRI. And then look to see that they have like late enhancement on the gadolinium and the cardiac MRI. You have to go and do a Technitium 99 scan to look to see if that they would have this amyloid deposits that would kind of light up on that nuclear scan. But there's one other thing that can happen. Imagine that these things deposit so along parts of your conduction system. I don't know what could happen there. If I deposit these things along the AV node, I could get AV blocks, dude. So that's another thing is watch for any kind of like conduction blocks. So conduction blocks is a really, really big one. Cause if I deposit along this conduction system, you can get conduction blocks. What's the most common types of conduction block? That would be an AV node block, right? So I'd be looking for an AV blockade. So this is where whenever we have this patient, we would get an ECG, we may find some AV blocks, we may get an echo and see these stiff thick ventricles. They have a preserved EF. That's another thing is if you get an echo for these patients, they'll have a preserved EF. But if you get that cardiac MRI, that Technician 99 tracer, you'll see that that patient will have features that should support more of a aneloid picture. So that's something I want you guys to be thinking about for this kind of case, all right? So if a patient comes in, the things that we oftentimes will do to check and kind of look at these things for screening them is you'll oftentimes get an ECG, you'll get an echo and you'll follow up based upon that, maybe with other testing such as a cardiac MRI and Technician 99 scan. All right, let's come down. The next thing that I also want to be thinking about for this patient is with renal involvement, it's a real big one. And remember I told you when we talked about nephrodic syndrome, how's the topic, there was the primary glomerular disorders like minimal change disease and membranous nephropathy and focal segmental glomerular sclerosis. But there was the secondary ones, like diabetes and then amyloid. Amyloid was a part of that group. So in this patient, you would have to say which one of these is most likely to have that renal involvement? And let's go through it, AL, A, A, A-T-T-R, and then A-beta-2 microclabula. It's really only gonna be two. It's gonna be the light chain and the amyloid, the serum amyloid A one. These ones do not have any kind of renal involvement. So the question is, is how do these do that? Well, the light chains and the serum amyloid A deposit here. So what color? I had pink and I had blue. So here, you're gonna have all of these weird proteins here. I'll just make them as though we had them, which was, they were zigzaggy, right? They were the beta pleated. And then let's do the pink over here to represent the serum amyloid A that got like that. And what are they gonna do? They're gonna deposit into that basement membrane, baby. They're gonna go over here and clog this thing up. And now, when they deposit into this membrane, it's going to go and it's gonna really mess up the membrane. It's gonna cause some podocytes to get injured. Now, when you injure podocytes, these things are, as you guys remember this, come on, I know you do from the renal, right? I know that learning is stressful sometimes. I do, but sometimes it's good to connect things. Do you guys remember what happens if these kind of deposits get in here and they jack up the podocytes? Let's kind of annotate that here. So what would they do here just so you know, so you can refer to this later, is they do cause podocyte injury. Now, when you injure your podocytes, what's the problem with that? They're supposed to control protein leakage, bro. Protein's gonna be sifting through this thing. And so now what's gonna happen? I'm gonna start dumping proteins. And unfortunately, the biggest protein that you oftentimes dump into the urine is albumin. And so guess what? These patients are gonna start losing into their urine. They're gonna lose a lot of albumin. And so they'll get a lot of what's called, what do we call?  all this, we call this albuminuria, right? We call this albuminuria. Now, this is one, but you can also dump other proteins here. So, oftentimes, we say that it's, yeah, it's albuminuria, but really, it's protein. We dump albumin, that's probably the most abundant, but you can dump immunoglobulins and other kinds of proteins in there as well. So, one thing that we'll do is, as we like to take a look and check their urine-albumin-creatinine ratio or their urine-protein-creatinine ratio, and so, if they have lots of albumin, that's going to cause problems. One thing it can do is, if you have lots of albumin in the urine, guess what that does? So, you guys remember nephrodic syndrome, there's oftentimes a certain criteria that we talked about in Reno that you have to meet to truly have this diagnosis. Do you guys remember what it was? There's a couple things. One is, you have to have the albumin in the urine that's so high that it lowers the albumin in your blood. So you have low, so you have what's called hypoalbuminemia. Do you guys remember what albumin does in the blood? It keeps water and things like that in the bloodstream. So, if you don't have it, what happens? The water leaks out. What does that do if it gets into the tissue spaces? It causes edema. Because you dump not just albumin, but also other proteins. Let's say other proteins. What's another thing that you're going to see a lot of? Proteinuria. And that's the key thing is that these patients have like wicked, it's like wicked smack, you know, wicked high proteins in the urine, bruh. It's going to be crazy high. And how do we usually define that? We say it's got to be at least more than 3 grams in a 24 hour period, right? So they'll have really high proteinuria. And then, again, we got to really take a look at that. That's the most helpful diagnostic tool so we can monitor this. Like I can monitor EKGs and ECHOs and MRIs and things like that. Here, I got to check the protein in the urine. Another thing that also has to be checked is their lipids because you dump so much protein that the liver has to compensate and produce lots of lipid proteins, especially the VLDL and LDL. And so your lipids go up. And so you end up having what's called hyperlipidemia. These are oftentimes what we need to truly fit the definition of a patient having nephrodic syndrome. And so it's really good to remember that if a patient comes in with heavy proteinuria and edema and low albumin, oh, I wonder if it's amyloidosis. And you got to think about these two. All right. I think we got that down. These are the really big ones. And again, I take away from this that screening for this would be a urine protein creatinine ratio. Screening for this would be ECHO and ECG and maybe an MRI, depending upon the results. What about the neural involvement? I think it's worthy to talk about this because there is some things that will come up on your exam. And something I would want you guys to think about for these is, you know, when we have all of these, AL, right, AA, ATTR and A beta 2 microglobulin. It's kind of interesting because AL has a lot of neural involvement. All right. So this one's definitely going to get some neural involvement. Serum amyloid A, it's not that much. It's really, really not that much. ATTR, we got to be really, really careful. And it does have it, but I want to specify that it truly is because we got to be careful. This really only is the familial type, the hereditary type. All right. So it's only the familial. And then A beta 2 microglobulin, this one also has it as well. Now, here's what I want to be super, super careful with. AL loves to present with autonomic neuropathy. All right. So I'm going to write these down later, but this is autonomic neuropathy. Remember that. ATTR is peripheral neuropathy, usually multiple nerve lesions. And A beta 2 is carpal tunnel surgeon, which is a type of peripheral neuropathy if it hits the median nerve. So we'll go through these. But if you have this amyloid deposition, and let's say that it's somewhere within the vicinity of the autonomic nerves, what's going to happen? You have decreased autonomic supply via sympathetic and parasympathetic. So now if I have a decreased autonomic nervous system, you know, nerve function, this is going to lead me to think that this patient could have a autonomic nervous system neuropathy. This nerve ain't firing, bro. And if this nerve ain't firing, bro, we got some problems. So A&S neuropathy. I think this is worthy to talk about, right? How would these patients oftentimes present? It's usually a couple of things. One is orthostasis, bro. You know, you're sitting down, you stand up and back down, you go. Orthostatic hypotension. So look for that in the vitals. That's one thing. The second thing is, they, unfortunately, they struggle with the, they can't get that thing up. All right? That thing's limp. So unfortunately, there's a struggle with impotence or erectile dysfunction. All right? The other thing is the stomach. They can't get that food out of the stomach, unfortunately, and into the small intestine. Things just stay in there, sloshing around causing a lot of nausea and vomiting. That's called gastroparesis. So these are a couple different things that can happen in this scenario. All right? And so again, I really want you to emphasize this thing here that autonomic nervous system neuropathy is pretty common in this one. So let's actually write that out just so that you guys can understand the involvement here. That this one, it really targets more often than not the autonomic nervous system neuropathy. A, A, nothing. A, A wrong. But A, TTR, the familial type. This is polyneuropathy. So this is usually a polyneuropathy. So here, we'll, we'll, we'll squeeze this mother sucker right here. Polyneuropathy. And oftentimes it's sensory motor, but you know, we, we know sensory usually goes first, motor comes later. So what happens with this one, TTR, that was maroon, right? Yeah. So we're going to deposit these somewhere around these nerves. And this is going to cause sensory motor deficits. If you deposit these, can they function? No. So you can't send signals. You're able to step on a Lego and not know what the heck is going on. You know? And so this is going to cause sensory deficits. So this is going to be your, your peripheral neuropathy, your peripheral neuropathy. And this can involve one or it can involve multiple different nerves. But this is the big one to remember here. And usually what's the deficits? It's usually sensory first, motor later. I don't think that's too hard to imagine that if you have the numbness, tingling, parasigias of the lower extremities, that could tell you about a potential peripheral neuropathy. Again, think about this dude walking on Legos and it's just like nothing's going on. All right. You should, it should hurt like a son of a gun. You ever step on a Lego? It's painful. But that's something to think about. This one's the weird one where these beta two microglobulins for some weird reason have an affinity for the carpal tunnel. What color did I make? I made that green. These poppies deposit right in here. More of that distal kind of like neuropathy there, right around that median nerve. When it does that, can you send signals down this median nerve division? No. This is going to cause maybe some numbness and tingling, some parasigias of that division. Usually of the thumb, the pointer finger, the middle finger, and then some parts of the ring finger, right? And then on the backside, on the back of the digits. And then sometimes the muscles here can become a little bit weaker. So you lose some grip strength and, you know, the worst case scenario is the thenar eminence becomes a little bit more atrophied. What's that called? Carpal tunnel syndrome. So this can lead to carpal tunnel syndrome. Here's the weird part. You ever see people walking around with a fracking bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome? Probably not often. Amylidosis is like that weird clinical picture. So it's usually bilateral. And again, what do they oftentimes look like? Well, again, depending upon that division, they could have pain, numbness, tingling within that division of the thumb, the pointer finger, the middle finger, parts of the ring finger, back here, they could have decreased grip strength and they could have some theanarytrophy. How do we determine if these are not working? Well, if a patient comes in with symptoms of neuropathy, guess what the most, according to the exam, guess what the best diagnostic test is? An EMG in the nerve conduction study. That would help us to say, oh, there's an actual neuropathic process. And then maybe from there we go to an MRI. Same thing like this one, we would start off with an ECG and an ECHO. We would start off with a urine protein-crating ratio. And then from there we may go further to cardiac MRIs, radio tracers, renal biopsies, etc. All right, gastrointestinal involvement. I don't want to go too crazy with this one. I only want to pick up really one big thing. And that's within these. It's funny. So ALAA, ATTR and A-beta-2, microglobulin. It's really just these two. Some textbooks say all of them. And that may be true, but it's very minuscule for these two. It's primarily these two. What happens is that in these they cause the tongue to get gargantuous. I might have to do well if I'm running with a big tongue. Big ol' tongue, all right? Things the size of Texas. What is that called? Macroglossia. Now, macroglossia is a common clinical picture here for amyloidosis, especially if it's combined with the restrictive cardiomyopathy and an aphrotic syndrome. Always be thinking about that. Problems with macroglossia is not just that it looks very, very unpleasant. It's also, can you get airflow through that tiny little area when you're sleeping? No. So these patients are super high risk for, oh, do I know this problem? Obstructive sleep apnea. So that may be a way that they could potentially clinically present. The next component here is there is other GI involvement. I'd say they're relatively minuscule and it's not like a super big diagnostic. People don't come in with like, hey, I think my liver is like way too big. Nobody comes in and tells you that. I don't say, dude, my spleen's too big. It's the size of, I can't even imagine, it's the size of Texas in there. They don't do that. And so it's not oftentimes a common kind of complaint. It's just something you may see on the exam that that amyloid protein can deposit into these potential tissues. And so it can deposit into the liver. Sometimes you can get a little bit of cholestasis with that. It can deposit in the spleen. It gets a little bit big, but it's nothing crazy. Oftentimes the real big thing here is you're looking for that hepatosplenomegaly. And I know that this kind of is a tough thing because we've seen here in heme how many diseases can cause hepatosplenomegaly, right? I think the big thing that I want you guys to take away is this one. So I want to actually make this one red because it's the most important one is this one, the macroglossia. This is that exam thing where you see this, you should think amyloidosis. The other one here, and they do say that textbook-wise that it is kind of important to remember, is that these amyloid proteins, funny enough, they can deposit onto these intestinal villi. Now what are the villi for? If you have all of these proteins depositing onto the intestinal villi, they're supposed to increase the absorptive surface area, right? So they're really supposed to help with absorption. Well, if you have this villi, whoops, I don't want the blue, I want to stick to the color here, a black, that if you have this villi deposition, then what's that going to do to your absorption process? It's going to decrease the absorption. And so when you do that, you take away the structures that are supposed to increase the absorptive surface area. And then if you can't have that, what happens to your absorption? That becomes impaired. And what do we call that when you're limiting your absorption? Malabsorption. And so you could see people with weight loss and diarrhea, nutritional deficiencies of sorts. But this is something to definitely consider. I wouldn't say it's a super, super common one that you're going to see on your exams, but it is something to potentially consider. But I'd say GI1, definitely don't forget this. Cutaneous involvement is something to consider in patients with amylidosis. And it could just be easy bruising. Could be a lot of different reasons for that, such as bone marrow invasion. Because sometimes these proteins can invade the bone marrow. I'd say it's less common. But anemia is pretty common in this disease because you can see it, whether it be due to bone marrow invasion or whether it just be due to a lot of just tissue damage causing inflammation. But cutaneous involvement, it really kind of comes down to the classic picture, which is the racoon eyes, the periorbital ecomosis. And that's what you want to look for. But when we talk about this and how it's presenting in patients with amylidosis, so you have, for example, AL, you have AA, you have ATTR, and you also have A beta 2 microglobulin. Really the one that I want you guys to remember is going to be this one. These ones don't really have any significant cutaneous involvement. This is the primary one that I want you to consider. And again, the concept here is that you're going to get this kind of bruising, but it's going to kind of stay to the periorbital area that it's going to be the classic kind of look. And so it's called periorbital ecomosis, but we give it another name. We call this racoon, the racoon eyes. And racoon eyes are also again known as periorbital ecomosis. And it's cool because it looks a little bit like this. So when we see this type of clinical picture with the combination of restrictive cardiomyopathy and nephrodic syndrome, we also see that they have macroglossia. We maybe even pick up some neural signs and then you see racoon eyes. Definitely think about amylidosis. All right, we come to the last one here. And this is the musculoskeletal system involvement. And again, we kind of list our types, AL, AA, ATTR, and A beta 2 microglobulin. Really, any of them can involve the musculoskeletal system. I'd say the most prominent are going to be this one, this one, and this one. You don't see as much of it from this. And so what's going to happen here is that they love to go, any of these, I'm going to represent it here. Maybe I'll put some blue. Maybe I'll put some pink or maroon. And I'll just represent all of these different types of proteins really heavily depositing into these joints. And what happens is it'll produce tissue damage or produce inflammation. And so you're going to get this picture of arthritis. So they're arthralgias, but arthritis would be a really big one. Now, oftentimes it loves to really go after the shoulder joint for some reason. And so I would kind of think about this in a patient with some type of shoulder arthritis as a big one. And even adding to that, sometimes they can get so much deposition and inflammation and periscabular, humoral arthritis that they literally look like they're wearing football pads. I'm not even kidding. I'm not making this up. A classic sign of this is called the shoulder pad sign. It looks a little bit like this. So the patient comes in with a shoulder pad sign, chronic history of arthritis, definitely be considering the possibility of amyloidosis. So there's a lot of key takeaways from this so far. But I think we'll establish that when we get into our diagnostic approach. Let's do so now. All right, let's move into the diagnostic approach of amyloidosis. And when we think about this, what is the most common way that these patients with amyloidosis will present? To make you even have a suspicion of this, because this is not an easy disease. Oftentimes in the clinical vignettes, and sometimes in clinical reality, we see nephrodic syndrome as the most common presentation. So nephrodic syndrome is usually that patient who comes in with heavy amounts of protein area, right? So a very, very large amount, greater than usually, I mean, we'd say three grams within a 24 hour period is very, very concerning. Another thing that we would also see is potentially hypoabium anemia, a very, very low albumin in the bloodstream. They would have also hyperlipidemia, and they would have some evidence of edema within the body. Those are things that would make you curious. And what would happen is you'd work them up for nephrodic syndrome, you develop a differential diagnosis. That's when you start thinking about minimal change disease. You start thinking about focal segmental glomerular sclerosis, membranous nephropathy, diabetic nephropathy, and amyloid nephropathy. Unfortunately, a lot of these patients, you would have to probably go the route of considering some type of biopsy to really elucidate which type it is. And that's how you may end up with the diagnosis of amyloidosis. Another common presentation is restrictive cardiomyopathy. So you may have a patient coming in with symptoms of right heart failure. So they may have jugular venous distension, and they may have potentially some lower extremity edema. They may have that paradoxical rise of the jugular venous pressure during inspiration called COOSMALL sign. They may have other evidence that when they get an echocardiogram, they show a bilateral kind of stiffening and restricted movement of the ventricles with a little bit of thickening there and biatrial enlargement that also could be concerning. They may even get further testing that yields that they have a restrictive cardiomyopathy. And then upon that, you would diagnose this because what would happen is you'll probably get further imaging like a cardiac MRI. You may even go the routes of getting like a biopsy and find that they have amyloid deposits. Other less conspicuous ways, and I'd say less common is things like macroglossy, enlargement of the tongue, neuropathy, especially if it's autonomic or peripheral, or a really, really high yield one that we see is bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome, and racoon eyes. This can usually suspect potentially a basilar skull fracture or systemic disease like amyloidosis. But I'd say oftentimes more than not, nephrodic syndrome and restrictive cardiomyopathy, you should definitely have amyloidosis as a part of your differential in that diagnosis. So once we say, okay, this patient came in with nephrodic syndrome, they came in with restrictive cardiomyopathy, what makes me think that it could be amyloidosis? Well, the reason why I would start thinking that is maybe they would have other kind of multi-system involvement. One of the easiest way is to do a tissue biopsy. Now, we can do this a couple different ways. One is we can do an abdominal fat pad biopsy because that's going to be the less kind of like super invasive option. It's also really decent. It's like pretty good tests, and you can get pretty good diagnosis just off of that. A lot of the times that we prefer organ-specific. So in other words, if they have nephrodic syndrome, I prefer a renal biopsy. If they have some type of restrictive cardiomyopathy, I may prefer a biopsy of the myocardium. So these are all things that we potentially could do, but an abdominal fat pad biopsy is usually going to be the best and least invasive way of being able to get a diagnosis. So once we do that, we take the tissue, what we do is we use a Congo red stain. And if that Congo red stain upon that shows an apple green biorefringence, that is highly, highly, highly suggestive of amyloidosis. You can see here, you see all that kind of apple green kind of biorefringence there. That is highly, highly suggestive of amyloidosis. From there, we've really diagnosed that the patient has amyloidosis that's either caused in this case, this is a patient who has nephrodic syndrome because this is a glomerulus. So you're seeing a lot of the amyloid deposits occurring in the glomerulus. But once we've diagnosed that, we know, okay, they have amyloidosis that's caused their nephrodic syndrome. Well, which type of amyloidosis is AL? AA? ATTR? Is it A Beta 2? Well, really, I know that oftentimes more than not, it's AL amyloidosis in this case, but I got to go a little bit further and really elucidate that type. So we do that oftentimes. You can do mass spectrometry or you can do immunohistochemistry to really look at these a little bit better. And we can kind of get specific weights and ideas of what types of proteins are usually built up. So if I see a lot of Kappa lambda chains that are coming up on mass spec, that may help me to think about AL amyloidosis. So what we do with AL is we think that this is usually plasma cell disorders. Multiple myeloma is a really big one. So we'll do a S-PAP, a U-PAP, and we'll immunofixate for free light chains to see if those are super elevated. What do we know about patients who have multiple myeloma? Well, we know that their S-PAP would show that they would have an M spike, a U-PAP would show that they have a Bench-Jones proteins, and then their free light chain ratio would show that they would have lots and lots and lots of light chains that have grown. And so these are things that would really, really help to tell us that this patient probably has multiple myeloma that's caused their AL amyloidosis. Another way that we can confirm that it's multiple myelomas, usually they have lots of these plasma cytomas that are occurring in the bone marrow. So if I see things like that, that really, really is suggestive of multiple myeloma, in this case, AL amyloidosis. If I said that there was lots of serum amyloid A that came up on mass spec, that would suggest the AA amyloidosis. And then you have to start thinking, could it be due to familial Mediterranean fever, R-A, S-L-E, inflammatory bowel disease? The best way to do that is to think about what? Get the ESR, CRP levels, because usually if those are super elevated, it suggests more of a systemic inflammation and a chronic inflammatory disease of such. And that's where you start thinking about AA amyloidosis, right? Now the transthyretin is going to be, again, thinking that this could be the normal one that's built up in an old person, so C-N-L, or it's familial. There was a mutation that caused this misfolding of the transthyretin protein. So how do we really determine that? Well, we have to do genetic testing for that TTR mutation. If they have the TTR mutation, it's familial, especially if they're associated with cardiomyopathy and polyneuropathy. But if it comes up where they don't have the TTR mutation, but they do have some cardiomyopathy, again, usually no significant amounts of polyneuropathy, that suggests the C-N-L-A-T-T-R amyloidosis. And then lastly, you can bet that if there's lots of beta-2-migraglobulin, that would be a possible A-beta-2. So how do we really determine that? There's a couple different ways, but oftentimes we just check a beta-2-migraglobulin level. And what would we think? Well, it's probably going to be built up, and that would usually suggest, especially in a patient with long-term immunomaniacalysis, greater than 10 years, or in-stage renal disease, that would likely suggest A-beta-2 amyloidosis. All right, that puts everything together to think about this. And again, thinking about it in this way, that most often it's these two presentations that make you think about amyloid. The only way that you make a diagnosis is you need the tissue. Get the tissue biopsy. Abdominal fat pad, very optional, a very good option, less invasive, but preferred if you had to go with the best gold standard to be organ-specific. You see this, it's amyloid. We can further divvy this out to think about which one it is based upon mass, back or immunohistochemistry, and then figuring out based upon that, we can go a little bit further to elucidate specifically these specific subtypes of amyloidosis. All right. Now, the next component here is whenever a patient has amyloidosis, whether it's AL, AA, ATTR, or A-beta-2, we always want to consider the possibility of associated complications. We know that the most common is nephrodic syndrome, but don't count out other things like restrictive cardiomyopathy. So whenever we think about this, it's easy to always consider that if a patient has amyloidosis or you suspect them to have amyloidosis, always consider the urinal-vumine-cratonine ratio. That's going to tell you if they have heavy amounts of protein area. So if a patient has a very, very high urinal-vumine-cratonine ratio, where we can really say that they're putting out more than three grams of protein within a 24-hour period, we may have that suspicion, okay, this patient may have nephrodic syndrome, and you may be able to catch that, and then say from there, do I go to the lengths of saying this could be amyloidosis, right? And even as you're treating these patients, if they have nephrodic syndrome, you should be continuously monitoring that. Now, we also know that this can cause cardiomyopathy, but it also, if these amyloidosis get inside of the bundle system near the AV bundle, the AV node, you can cause AV blocks. So you definitely want to be watching out in the EKG for any AV blocks. Then this could be a first degree, this could be a second degree, or it could be even a third degree AV block. Next one is ECHOS. So again, ECHOS, I told you are really good for being able to pick up if there's any restrictive cardiomyopathy here. You can see that this patient has a very, very thick and very less elastic, I'd say, and less kind of distensible myocardium, and that's definitely concerning. But again, we would be able to pick it up here. Another way that we can do these is we can do cardiac MRIs, and we look for like gadolinium enhancement. And if it's late, that means that some of that gadolinium is getting trapped inside of all this amyloid and fibrous deposits. And so it's harder for that gadolinium to actually exit out of the actual myocardium. And so it remains to be enhanced even later in that phase when it shouldn't be in normal patients. You should not have late gadolinium enhancement. If you do, you're thinking about something that's kind of restricting the gadolinium from getting out of there. And that would be something to think about, especially in amyloidosis. Another thing that we can do is we can do a TC99 scan, and it looks potentially for radiotracer uptake. And all we try to do is we actually try to compare the ribs, the uptake of the rib to the uptake of the myocardium. And if the uptake of the actual myocardium is bigger or greater than the uptake of the ribs, that's highly, highly suggestive of a patient having an increased uptake of that radiotracer, which we can see in patients who have amyloidosis. All right. And then lastly, EMG's nerve conduction studies are great because neuropathy is a very common presentation. If you pick up neuropathy, again, it could be something to think about as a patient having amyloidosis, but it's not going to be at the top of your differential. Oftentimes, the best ways of being able to pick these things up is you're not buming, cratting, or ratio in an echo. All right, let's talk about the treatment of amyloidosis. So when we think about this, there is different types. So we're going to start off with AL amyloidosis. That's one that's actually high yield. But again, we talked about this in multiple myeloma, the plasma cell disorders. So we think about AL amyloidosis as usually secondary to plasma cell disorders with multiple myeloma being the most common. EMGUS, or monoclonal glomopathy of undetermined significance, we don't usually treat. We just monitor. And then if they happen to develop multiple myeloma, we treat accordingly. So how do we treat this? Well, oftentimes, you start off with the VRD therapy. So this is usually like the Bortezomib, the linolytomide, and usually some type of steroid, maybe like a dexamethasone of some sort. The other thing is that if we're trying to condition them for a bone marrow transplant to kind of like help them have proper plasma cells, they're not producing these abnormal amounts of Kappa and Lambda light chains, we'll do high dose mouthland. This will condition them, usually get the bone marrow ready to properly accept a bone marrow transplant. So that's kind of the way that we do that is again, you start off with the VRD therapy, and then from there we'll condition them if they are eligible for a hematopoietic stem cell transplant, but we give them high dose mouthland and then follow it up with that stem cell transplant. Now, a AMYLidosis could be the RA. It could be due to inflammatory bowel disease, could be due to SLE, could be due to familial Mediterranean fever. Depending upon if it is all those things or familial Mediterranean fever determines the way that we'll treat. So obviously you have to treat the underlying cause and for RA, SLE, inflammatory bowel disease, all of those things come down to usually D-Mards or some type of biological agent, whereas familial Mediterranean fever, you need to know this my friends, it will likely come up on the exam at some way, shape, or form, it is culturizing. So again, how do we remember this? If it's usually those patients who have RA, SLE, inflammatory bowel disease, you're treating them with D-Mards or some type of biologic. If it is familial Mediterranean fever, it is culturizing. Don't forget that. All right, ATTR AMYLidosis depends upon if it's the mutated, the familiar, or the non-mutated, the senile ATTR AMYLidosis. Well, depending upon that determines if we use a drug that binds to the transthyretin and prevents it from accumulating over time, prevents it from actually leading to this tissue deposition. And that would be tafomitis. So that's going to be the one for the senile or the non-familiar ATTR AMYLidosis, which we see a lot with the cardiac involvement. The other option is we replace the organ that's abnormally producing or producing the abnormal ATTR protein. And in that mutated form, that's the issue. If we get rid of the organ or we switch the organ to a proper organ able to produce that protein, we might be okay. And so that's where liver transplant is best for those who produce that mutated form, since it's the source of ATTR. All right, or that in this case, the mutated transthyretin protein. So again, we kind of go off of this if it's non-mutated, it's tafomitis. If it is mutated, we do the liver transplant. This kind of gives us an overall look at how we treat AMYLidosis to paste on if it's AL, the plasma cell disorders, chemo, very high conditioning chemo, and then stem cell transplant, underlying disease needs to be treated. If it's the RA, SLE, inflammatory bowel disease, it is usually DMARDS, biologic steroids. If it's familial Mediterranean fever, colchicine. ATTR, which have the cardiac AMYLidosis, the most common presentation, usually the polyneuropathies and the familial type. It's tafomitis, if it's the not mutated or the senile form, and it's a liver transplant for those who have the familial form. All right, my friends, that really is a big topic on AMYLidosis, and I really hope that it made sense. I hope that you guys enjoyed it, learned a lot, and I hope that if a question comes up on it, you'll be able to crush it the Ninja Nerd way. We love you. We thank you so much for being so awesome, and as always...  until next time.