 mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere blue. I'm just kidding. No, this is going to be really cool to help us to understand the great, great understanding of the anatomy of the lungs, looking at the different lobes and fissures. And so we'll dig into this a lot. All right, let's dig into it. All right, my friends, let's move here to the kind of digital portion where we're going to take a look at a lot of this type of anatomy. And we're going to do it through a lot of illustrative views. We're going to take our time. And then after we get done with this, we're going to move into kind of looking at this in a cadaver. Obviously, it's going to be more of a virtual kind of like three dimensional one via the Anatomosh table. But again, I think this should be a thorough approach to give you everything you need to hopefully pace the anatomy exam. And all right, so we're going to take our time. We're going to go through this and we're going to really try to make sure that we can put a whole just really good view into this. We're going to take you along with the story, right? So when we think about airflow, I want you to think about airflow. When you take a deep breath in, what's the kind of like, I think that one of the easiest things to think about sometimes with anatomy is kind of like a storyline, a step by step process. If you were like an air particle and you got inhaled into someone's lungs, which structures do they go through one by one? I think that's the first thing to do is just to identify the structures as you go down all the way to get to the end, right? We're in this case, gas exchange is going to occur, identify those structures, and then we can kind of pick on it a little bit and go into some particulars a little bit here and there. All right, but a lot of this is really just more identification, seeing it, thinking about it, and then we'll talk a lot more about the physiological processes in our physiology lectures, more of that whiteboard stuff, but we'll try to apply some applicable things here and there, because obviously structure complements function and vice versa. All right, so here we go. When we think about airflow, we're not including it, but obviously if you take a deep breath in through your nose, it's going to move through your nose, it's going to move from your nares into your nasopharynx, it's going to go to the oropharynx, laryngopharynx, and it's going to get to the larynx, and then from the larynx, it's going to move downwards. What's the next structure that's a part of your conducting zone? Well, really, it's the trachea. So just below the larynx, there's going to be right here, you're going to have to go right into this guy here called the trachea, which has these kinds of nice little beautiful rings, these annular kind of like hyaline cartilage rings that move down. That's going to be the trachea. All right, from the trachea as the airflow moves down, it then bifurcates, and that's called the carina. That's called your carina. From here, the carina will bifurcate into two structures. One is going to go to the right, and it's going to go to the right lung, and then this one right here is going to go to the left lung. That's going to be the left primary bronchus. So you have the right primary bronchus and the left primary bronchus. Right? So again, right primary bronchus, left primary bronchus. From here, you then have to determine, okay, I got a right lung, a left lung, how many lobes do I have in each lung? We're getting a little ahead of ourselves, but for right now, the right lung, I want you to trust me, it has three lobes, and the left lung has two lobes. So I should have three lobar bronchi on the right, and two lobar bronchi on the left, and that is exactly what we have. So if we follow it off to the lobar bronchi, here's our primary. It should branch off. Should branch here, should branch here, should branch here. And that's what we got. We got a superior. We have a middle, and we have an inferior lobar bronchus, right? And that is really the key thing. And then if you go over to the left, this is the primary, branches off into the left superior, branches off into the left inferior. Not very hard, right? All right. Now we're in the lobes. From the lobes, we got to make sure that that bronchus gets distributed all throughout that lobe into different kinds of segments, right? And so then from here, it should branch out into these tinier little bronchi, off of this, all of these guys. And these are called your tertiary or segmental bronchi. And that is what's really cool, because then these kind of make up segments, if you will. So you can have like a segment here, like a bronchopulmonary segment, which is actually going to be really helpful. Now, from these tertiary bronchi, they then give off this tiny little bronchial, very, very thin wall. It's a simple cuboidal epithelial tissue. It has a little bit of elastic tissue, a tiny bit of smooth muscle. And it's getting ready to feed into a structure where gas exchange is going to take place. So it has to get ready to change its structure, because here you got pseudo stratified cilia to columnar goblet cells, lots of smooth muscle, lots of cartilage. And you want big structural things that can hold a lot of airflow. As you get to the tinier tubes, you don't have as much of that support and muscle. You need things very thin so that things like oxygen, carbon dioxide can move across pretty simply. So we're going to get into the terminal bronchi, you just can't see them. They're tiny little guys. And then again, I told you that there's like these segments, like this is a bronchopulmonary segment, which is actually cool because one segment is separated from another segment by connective tissue. Even though they could be in like the same lobe, it helps us that if there's ever a disease in this segment, I can safely remove that since it's separated by a connective tissue septa. So that's kind of pretty cool. But again, let's not nerd out, let's keep moving on here. So we talked about airflow. So we've gotten to the point where we took air from the nose and to the pharynx and to the larynx, to the trachea, to the primary, to the secondary, to the tertiary, and then into the bronchopulmonary segments, which have these little terminal bronchioles. And the terminal bronchioles, if you think about it, so again, we'll kind of take this down as we zoom in. We'll have your trachea and then you're going to go kind of moving down. You're going to get into the bronchi. You're going to get to your bronchioles. You're going to get into the tiny little guys called the terminal bronchioles. And then you're going to get into the next one, which is your respiratory bronchioles. So conducting zone, what that means is it's conducting air. That's all it does. There is no gas exchange occurring here. Respiratory zone is where gas exchange is theoretically taking place. So respiratory bronchioles are the beginning of the respiratory zone. And it's finished with the alveoli. So imagine here you have the respiratory bronchioles. The respiratory bronchioles are going to move and they're going to move into these tiny little tubes called alveolar ducts. And then those alveolar ducts are going to contain a bunch of different alveoli called alveolar sacs. So if you can imagine here is the respiratory bronchiol, this tiny little tube that's feeding this ball or this popcorn, this tiny little tube, or this tiny little tube, that's an alveolar duct and it's feeding these alveolar sacs. And each individual circle is an alveoli. Let's zoom in a little bit more. So as we kind of zoom in a little bit more here and appreciate these things, we can see something pretty cool. So here we're going to see the respiratory bronchiol and it's going to start diving in to these alveolar ducts and then here you're going to have these alveolar sacs. And then surrounding it is all this kind of pulmonary capillary network and that's really where gas exchange is occurring. So you have all of these alveolar sacs and each individual one is an alveoli. That is the structural and functional unit of the lung. If we zoom in on this alveolar sac, you can appreciate the individual alveoli. And the makeup of it is actually quite simple. There is simple squamous epithelial cells, which is kind of like these flat cells, and that's just where gas exchange is going to occur across. And you should have a thin little respiratory membrane here, a little bit of connective tissue, and then you have your pulmonary vessels. So this is where the gas exchange is going to take place, where oxygen will then move where? In and CO2 will move out and then this will be exhaling the CO2, oxygen that we breathe in would have been going into these vessels and then going to the heart. So these small little guys are like your type one alveolar cells. Like this little squamous guy right there, that's where gas exchange is occurring. And then here are these pink ones, these are your type two cells. And these basically are going to be capable of producing surfactant, which decreases a lot of your surface tension, which is in the alveoli and prevents the alveoli from collapsing, right? So that's really, really important. And then here we have some alveolar macrophages, but that's kind of just a basic little microscopic structure here of the alveoli. Alright, so we've really kind of, I think at this point talked about the airflow from the moment it takes and gets into our trachea, what are the structures that it moves through as it goes down? Let's take it a step further, and then say, okay, now that we know the airflow from top to bottom, what changes in the tissue makeup that allows for better conduction, that allows for better humidification and moistening and warming of the air, that allows for gas exchange, right? That's all really important and kind of highlighted up here with this top part of the chart. So epithelial tissue is important because when you talk about pseudo stratified cilia to columnar epithelial tissue, it's got, you know, a lot of that epithelial tissue for that surface area for where when airflow is coming by, there's going to be a lot of goblet cells, there's going to be a lot of cilia, and that's really important because one of the big things that allows for that is that allows for, as airflow comes in, we want to moisten the air, warm the air, humidify the air, and that's where the epithelium, the cilia, and the goblet cells all take place. Also, if you have any mucus or fluids or bacteria, things like that that are present in those airways, this cilia helps to kind of move and beat that stuff up and out so that you can spit it out. So we want these things kind of in our conducting zone, and we don't really want these things in the respiratory zone. We don't want mucus and cilia playing a role in gas exchange. So that's really the key thing here is I want the height of the epithelium to decrease, the cilia to decrease, and the goblet cells to decrease as we go down, right? So that's really, really important as you go from pseudo stratified cilia to columnar to more of a columnar to more of a cuboidal to then squamous cells. Cilia, I want this to decrease as we go down, right? Goblet cells, I want this to decrease as we go down. I want a lot of mucus as we get into those smaller airways that'll plug it up. Club cells, I don't want you to focus on too much of this, but this is going to be way more and more of your respiratory zone. Here's the big thing for the respiratory zone. This should really only be in the respiratory zone. It should be in the alveolar ducts in the alveolar sacs. This is going to be the type one cells which play a role in the gas exchange and the type two cells which play a role in the surfactant production, which helps to decrease the surface tension and prevent the alveolar from collapsing. Glans that contribute to mucus just like the goblet cells do. I don't want a lot of mucus in the airways that are small, so where should these be? More prominent in the conducting zone, right? Highland cartilage, this is more for structural support and resilience and making sure that that structure doesn't collapse. I want that more so in the bigger structures. I don't want that in the smaller structures, smooth muscle that controls the constriction and the relaxation of the airway, that controls airflow. I want that more really in my bronchi and my bronchioles and some in the trachea. That's where I would expect to see more of that and very little of that as I get downwards towards what the respiratory zone. Elasticity, we want the elasticity of the lungs to be really, really good, but I don't want it to be super intense. I want allowing for elastic recoil of the lungs, which allows for that passive expiratory process, but I want that involving more of the bronchi, the bronchioles, more of that structure that is again allowing for that recoil to occur. I want very little of it as I get downwards towards those small little alveoli. That's kind of like taking a concept of here's the structures as we move air from top to bottom. We've talked about that. Then we talked about what are some of the microscopic components that contributes to its overall function. The next thing that I want you guys to remember, and we'll get into it a little bit more in a second, but when you think about this, you can kind of have a clinical relevant point here. When you look at the structure of the lungs, let's say that you decide to eat something and it just goes down the wrong pipe, unfortunately, or you're a child and maybe you swallow a little car toy. That thing moves down the lungs. Which one is it more likely to flow down the right lung? The reason why is because of that vertical kind of like component of the right low bar bronchus, sorry, primary bronchus. Aspiration or form bodies are more likely to be aspirated and occur in that right lung. You can appreciate here maybe a child who swallowed like a little car toy and it got occluded that right primary bronchus. Then no air gets in here and you get kind of like an obstructive atlanticis and that can kind of decrease the size of that lung. It's not a pneumothorax, it's just there was a complete resorption of that lung because you're blocking airflow in. That's what we can kind of see in these potential scenarios here. That's something to think about just as a kind of a relevant thing here. We talked about airflow structure moving down from one to the next. What are the components? We talked about its tissue makeup which contribute to its overall function. The next thing I want to talk about is just again going kind of looking out of the lungs a little bit bigger. Say okay, I know that the trachea and I know the bronchi and the bronchioles and all of the alveoli there component wise. When I look at the lungs in a big view, what are some other things that I should really know? Well here when you look at the lung here in the anterior and the lateral view you can see a couple different things. So anteriorly we have a really good appreciation of the lobes. So here we have three lobes in the lung, two lobes in the left lung. So three in the right, two in the left. With the right there's the right superior, there's the middle and there's the inferior and they're separated by fissures. Here is the horizontal fissure and here is the fissure. You're going to see the same thing here. Here's the superior lobe, here's the inferior lobe and it's separated by the oblique fissure. So it's pretty simple to see these kind of like overall lung look. What I want you to now think about is okay there's another structure that you can kind of see but it's more in the inside of like it's actually kind of in the medial portions and it's called the pulmonary hyalum and I want to take a look at that because you can actually get quite a quiz questions about this sometimes. So you can see the lungs when we look at this in a ventral view. Here's again going to be the left upper lobe, here's the left lower lobe, here's the right upper lobe or superior right middle and right inferior or lower lobe. And then on the inside here you can kind of see that the pulmonary artery will run in here, pulmonary veins will come out of here. Same thing on this side you see it better. Pulmonary artery runs into the lung, pulmonary veins coming out of the lung and then you can kind of see here here is the left primary bronchus going into the lung. All of these things this is actually called the root right. It's actually called the root when it moves into the actual pulmonary hyalum. There's a hole in that lung called the pulmonary hyalum and that's where the structures are moving. And so sometimes you can get asked about this just based upon kind of the position. So when we look here this is the right lung, this is the left lung. What I want you to think about here is the orientation of the bronchus to the pulmonary artery. So when you kind of take a look at these you'll see here here's our bronchus right in the right hyalum and the left hyalum. Here's the pulmonary artery over here and here is the pulmonary veins over here and then same thing over here. Here's our pulmonary artery and here's our pulmonary veins and you're probably like wait Zach it's red wouldn't that be arteries? No not in the pulmonary and the fetal circulation case. So usually it's almost arteries almost always red and veins are almost blue except for fetal and pulmonary circulation that's usually opposite because the pulmonary artery is taking blood from the right lung getting an oxygen to bringing it back to the left side of the heart. All right so what I want you to appreciate here and this is the way I remember it is just that the primary bronchus and the pulmonary artery if you look at it on the left it's superior. All right so the pulmonary artery is superior to the bronchus in the left lung and then if you look at this this is actually going to be kind of the anterior surface of that right lung and then this is the posterior surface here. What's going on with the pulmonary artery here? It is anterior to the bronchus in the right lung so I remember the kind of like little simple mnemonic rals, R-A-L-S. The right bronchus sorry the right pulmonary artery is anterior to the bronchus and the left pulmonary artery is superior to that left pulmonary bronchus. All right so rals right is anterior left is superior that's a quick little thing to help you to remember the orientation of the artery to the bronchus. All right now the next thing is when you take a look at the lung you see the lobes but there's something else that's actually present that's called bronchal pulmonary segments. It's all of those tertiary segmental bronchi that are kind of flying all over the place and again this bronchal pulmonary segment is separated from this one by a connective tissue sept which makes it nice and easy to surgically kind of remove that section without affecting the other sections if they're healthy and normal and so we're going to talk about this you're just seeing it in the medial view you're getting a little bit of an eye of it in the lateral view and you can even see this in the ventral view. I'm not expecting you to memorize these I am not. What I want you to have just an overall appreciation about is how many bronchal pulmonary segments are present in each lung and it's generally for the most part 10 in the right lung and probably somewhere 8 to 10 in the left lung and I'll explain why because some of them can fuse but again I'm not expecting you to remember this unless you're going to be going to become like you know some type of surgeon usually some type of chest or thoracic wall surgeon you're not going to have to know all of these segments again it's just giving you a little bit of an appreciation so if we look up here you're going to see some different segments so here we're going to have what's called your green that's one that's apical segments that's going to be obviously up here all right then you're going to move a little bit more into the posterior portion so that's going to be two you can appreciate all color coded he's going to be like he'll have a dut…. he'll have a dut…. he'll have a dut…. a doodoo brown color as the posterior segment, which you can see here. Then we're gonna move into this one, and this is gonna be what? It's gonna be the anterior segment. So that's gonna be three, that's gonna be here in blue. All right, so you're pushing in all of these views. Then we're gonna go move into the middle lobe. So as we go into the middle part of the lung, then we're gonna get into these areas here. So you have your lateral segment, so lateral segment, that's gonna be four, that's gonna be kind of in this tan-beigeish color. And then you're gonna move into the medial segment, which is this gonna be this small little guy right here, which is kind of like this reddish color. And then we move into the inferior lobes. You have the superior segment, all right? And then you're gonna have another one called the medial basal segment. And then you're gonna have the anterior basal segment. And then you're gonna have another one called the lateral basal segment. And then lastly, you're gonna have the posterior basal segment. So you see why I'm telling you, you're not gonna have to memorize these. They're not gonna be something you'll be tested on. You're more likely than not be tested on how many of these bronchopulmonary segments are present in one lung and the other lung. And it's usually 10 in the right lung. If we go through the left lung, you can again have this similar process. If we just one and two, you can see that there is something very interesting that happens right away. Do you see how sometimes one and two, it fuses? So your apical segment and your posterior segment can fuse. And that's quite interesting, all right? But your anterior segment can remain the same. And then you continue and you have the superior lingular segment. And then you go to the inferior lingular segment. And then you go to the superior segment for the inferior lobe. And then again, we can go medial basal segment, anterior basal segment, and your lateral basal segment. And then again, your posterior basal segment. So you can appreciate all of these, but what you're noticing here is that we just fused two of these. And that's why you can have sometimes 10, or you may have eight, you may have nine. It kind of depends because sometimes the apical and posterior segment will fuse. But sometimes you can even have other segments that fuse as well. And so that's one of the really, really key things to think about here is that oftentimes there's 10 bronchopulmonary segments in the right, and anywhere from eight to 10 bronchopulmonary segments on the left. Again, apical and posterior segments can fuse, but you know what else can? The medial and the anterior basal segments can also fuse. So just these fused, that's gonna give you nine. If these and these fused, that's gonna give you eight. And if none of them, you may have 10. So that's why it's somewhere between eight to 10 and the left lung, and usually 10 in the right lung. All right, that was a lot. All right, at this point, what have we kind of talked about? We have airflow from the trachea down to the bronchi, down to the alveoli. We talked about the tissue makeup. Then we talked about the lobes of the lung. We talked about the fissures. We talked about the pulmonary hyalum. Then we said, okay, let's take every overall view of the look and break it into like a million pieces, right? Bronchopulmonary segments. How many are there in the right lung? 10, how many in the left lung? Eight to 10, depends on if the apical, posterior segment fused it and the medial and anterior basal segment fused. Otherwise, that's it. What's the significance of the bronchopulmonary segments? The component here is that if there is disease in that segment and not affecting the other segment, because there's a connective tissue septia, you can remove that safely without having to remove a lot larger portion of the lung. So that's the benefit of that. The next thing is, we talked about the overall view of the lung, right? The lobes, the fissures, the hyalum. We talked about the segments. We talked about the trachea and the bronchial tree that feed it. What about the covering? And that's where we get into the pleura. So if we talk about the pleura of the lungs, we're gonna have different layers. And so when you look at this, it's kind of like a little simple squamous epithelial tissue with a little bit of loose aerial or connective tissue. And on the top part of the lung, you have the cervical pleura. Then you have the costal. It's pretty easy to understand why. It's by the ribs. You have the medial steinal pleura. And then guess what? The diaphragmatic pleura. The next thing here is there's two different components of the pleura. So if you actually were to really zoom in on the pleura, you'll see here we have the skin. We then have the subcutaneous tissue. We have the intercostal muscles with the ribs. And then you have a green layer, like a bluish layer. You have a cavity here. So there's some different things here that I want us to talk about. So the first one is the layer here, very, very brightly highlighted. And this is the layer that's clinging to the lung tissue. This is called the visceral pleura. It's made up of simple squamous epithelial tissue and aerial or connective tissue. Then there is another layer, and that is gonna be kind of this blue layer here, which is super bright. And that is called the parietal pleura. That's called the parietal pleura. And again, this is a simple squamous epithelial tissue with a kind of aerial or connective tissue. And then there's a space, it's a potential space located between the visceral and the parietal pleura. And what's that called? That's called the pleural cavity. And that contains pleural fluid. There should always be a small amount of pleural fluid that whenever your lungs are kind of inflating and deflating, it prevents those two layers from rubbing up against one another, causing a lot of friction, which can lead to kind of pleurisy. And we do not want that, right? So that's the component I want you to think about. All right, another thing is that sometimes, whenever these pleura, usually they're pretty much almost like connected to one another. So when I say potential space, it's a space that really, like we don't think about it too much. Some areas, there may be a true separation, a true space that occurs between the visceral and the parietal pleura. And these are called recesses, and there's two important ones. So if you can kind of appreciate here in green, there's a costomediastinal recess. That's one, but here's the really important recess I want you to think about is down here. And this is called the costodiaframatic recess. This is sometimes when people get what's called pleural effusions, fluids that accumulate in larger amounts in the pleural cavity, they tend to really sit down there in that recess. And what happens is when you get a chest x-ray, it blunts that costodiaframatic angle. And you kind of lose that beautiful angle that we'll talk about sometimes when we do the radiology series. All right, at this point, we got down the airflow, breaking it down to all the different pieces. We talked about the tissue makeup, right? We talked about the overall look of the lungs, the lobes, the fissures, the pulmonary hyalum. We talked about the segments and their significance. We talked about the covering on the lung, the covering on the outer part of the chest, the inner part of the chest wall and the space between. Now let's talk about the blood supply that is in or around the actual lungs and pleura. So the first thing here is we talked about a little bit already, here's your right atrium, here's your right ventricle, here's your pulmonary trunk, right? There's arteries that go and feed the lungs. That is your pulmonary arteries. This is delivering deoxygenated blood to the lungs. So you have what's called the pulmonary trunk. It then goes into your right, into your left pulmonary arteries which then give way to your pulmonary arterials and go to the lungs where they break down into capillaries and gas exchange occurs, right? So this is again really, really important. Now, after gas exchange occurs at the alveoli, right? Then blood is gonna come via the pulmonary venules and it's gonna empty into the pulmonary veins. And there's gonna be four pulmonary veins and these pulmonary veins should all empty into the same place and that is in that left atrium. All right? So the whole purpose of the pulmonary circulation is to do what? To allow for proper gas exchange. Deliver CO2 to the lungs via the pulmonary arterial system. At the alveoli gas exchange, oxygen goes into the blood, CO2 goes out and then blood is gonna come back to the lungs, the left, I'm sorry, back to the heart via the left heart. So left atrium and left ventricle go all the way to the breast of the body. It's gonna bring that oxygenated blood back. So sometimes you'll be asked, take me as if I were a red blood cell from the right atrium to the lungs and back to the heart. Let's pretend we're gonna do that for a second. Right? Blood comes from superior vena cava, inferior vena cava into the right atrium. From the right atrium, it then moves across the valve. As the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle. Right ventricle then moves into the pulmonary trunk. From the pulmonary trunk, it moves outwards into the pulmonary arteries. Pulmonary arterials, pulmonary capillaries, gas exchange occurs. Comes back via the pulmonary veins. The pulmonary veins then go and empty into the left atrium. Left atrium then crosses the bicuspid valve or the mitra valve into the left ventricle. And then from the left ventricle, it leaves via the aorta and goes to the systemic circulation. That's what I want you to remember. All right. The next concept is going to be the bronchial circulation. So the bronchial circulation is very interesting. So we have the arteries in the veins here as well. So these are going to be supplying the oxygen to the actual tissue of the lungs, like the bronchioles. So they need oxygen as well. So it is the smooth muscle, all of these different epithelial cells. They all need oxygen. So the tissue of the tracheal bronchial tree, that's what needs oxygen. And so that's where the bronchial arteries come into play. So the bronchial arteries, they actually come off of the aorta. So when you really think about it, here's the aortic arch, right? And then off of that aortic arch, you're going to come down here into this descending aorta. And off the descending aorta, there's some branches. Here's the right bronchial artery and here is the left bronchi artery. So what you'll be tested on sometimes is, where does the bronchi arteries originate? They originate off of the thoracic aorta. Where does the pulmonary arteries originate from? They originate from the right side of the heart. So that's going to be really, really important, okay? Now, bronchi arteries, another kind of like clinical thing here is that whenever those kind of bleed, those tend to be the primary source for patients developing things like homoptysis. And that's really, really important to remember and they can bleed a lot. They're a higher pressure system as compared to that pulmonary arteries. The bronchial veins are basically taking any of the waste, any of the deoxygenated blood and removing it from that kind of tissue and bringing it back into the right side of the heart. And so when you look at this, you have a couple of different structures. You've got your left brachiosophallic vein, you have your right brachiosophallic vein. They then kind of coalesce and make the supravena cave which empties into the right atrium. So where does the blood from the bronchi veins come from? Well, here's going to be the right bronchi veins here and here's the azygous vein. So it actually helps to dump into the azygous vein which then fills into the supravena cava. The left bronchi veins, they actually help to dump into the accessory hemi-azygous vein which then eventually dumps into the supravena cava. So right bronchi veins, azygous, left bronchi veins, accessory hemi-azygous vein. All right, cool deal, man. So that's them. And so again, they supply the bronchi and they even supply, as you can see here, a little bit of the visceral pleura. The parietal pleura is supplied by the intercostal arteries and drained by the intercostal veins. All right, man, that was pretty cool. So we got the airflow down. We got the tissue makeup. We got the overall look at the lungs. We got the fissures. We got the bronchial pulmonary segments, baby. We got the pleura layers. We even talked a lot about the vasculature via the pulmonary circulation and the bronchi circulation. Bronchi again is supplying the bronchi. The visceral pleura comes off the aorta, dump into the accessory hemi-azygous and into the supravena cava. What about the lymph circulation? All right, and again, the reason why I'm telling you all of these things is because when you think about these kinds of things, like for example, like disease processes, if a disease process occurs where somebody has disease of the trachea, it's gonna affect the airflow, the conduction of air they'll develop.  respiratory distress. If they have some type of process where the pleura is inflamed, they can have pleuritis, and that can cause a lot of pain. If there is some type of process where they have a disease that is affecting a segment of the lung, we could remove that segment safely without affecting other segments. If there is some type of process where the fluid in the pleural cavity is over accumulated, we can have a pleural effusion. If there is fluid and pus and bacteria that accumulate the alveoli in the bronchi, we can have things like pneumonia. If there is a clot in the pulmonary arterial circulation, you can have a pulmonary embolism. If you rupture a bronchial artery or it bleeds into the bronchi, you can have massive hemoptysis. This is the same kind of concept to think about the clinical relevance here. Just like the lymphatic circulation, this is a problem that patients develop unfortunately cancers of the lung. They spread via these lymphatic vessels and nodes and get to other areas of the body unfortunately. So you can imagine there is a very extensive network here. I want you to remember the flow. So we start off here with kind of like a superficial kind of lymphatic plexus, and sometimes they can even be a little bit deeper. But what happens is all of these small little lymphatic plexus that are superficial or a little bit deep, they do what? They drain and they move their way inwards, right? So they're moving inwards into these nodes along the way where they get some more cleanup of that fluid. As they move, they counter some nodes. And what are those nodes? These are called your bronchopulmonary nodes, sometimes called the hyaluronodes. So remember, the hyalum is right where that primary bronchus, the artery and vein enter into the lung. So this is your bronchopulmonary or hyaluronodes. From here, it's then gonna move upwards. Where is it going to go then? It's gonna go to the tracheo bronchial nodes. So you're gonna have some of these guys that are right here. It's as the trachea kind of comes down and then it bifurcates to the primary bronchi. So here's your tracheo bronchial nodes it'll move to. So superficial, deep lymphatic plexus, bronchopulmonary nodes or hyaluronodes moves up to the tracheo bronchial nodes. Then what? It's then gotta keep going. As it goes up, it encounters these little trunks called the bronchomediastinal trunks. So here's the bronchus and then here, just right here is the mediastinum. It's a little space or cavity where the trachea actually runs through. So here we have the bronchomediastinal trunks. So again, we got superficial deep lymphatic plexus. We got bronchopulmonary hyaluronodes. We got tracheo bronchial nodes. Then we move up to the bronchomediastinal trunks. Then we come into the next part which is the lymphatic ducts or the thoracic ducts. So the right lymphatic duct is going to be this little guy right here. See how it dumps in at the junction between the internal jugular vein and the subclavian vein right at that brachiosophalic part? That's the right lymphatic duct. This is the one that you need to remember. Here's the thoracic duct. This is the one that empties right at the junction of the internal jugular vein on the left side and the left subclavian vein. Sometimes when people are doing what's called subclavian central lines, they can puncture the thoracic duct and they can cause a kylo thorax. And so that's an important thing to remember but this is going to empty right there. All right. So what I really want you guys to know is just more the flow. Whenever a patient develops a lung cancer, if that cancer is here and it does spread, like the lymphatic, it can spread into the bronchopulmonary nodes or also as the hyaluric can spread to the tracheal bronchial nodes, can spread to the bronchometeosanotrunks, can get to the, eventually, to the lymphatic ducts or the right lymphatic duct or the thoracic duct. All right. So let's move on to the last part here which is the innervation of the tracheal bronchial tree and really the pleura as well. So there is an autonomic component pretty much it's supplying in the sympathetic and parasympathetic that really the big things that I want you to think about is mucus production and then diameter of the bronchials. So bronchoconstriction bronchodilation. There is some vasodilatorium vasoconstrictive processes as well but they're not as high yield as I want you to think about. So primary thing is sympathetic is T1 to T5. So that's coming from that T1, T5 portion of the spinal cord, right? And what I want you to remember is is that when these postganglionic motor neurons go or they're preganglionic at the actual spinal cord, they then go to the ganglia where they synapse and then you get your postganglionic motor neurons that goes to the target organ in this case the lungs. When they release the epinephrine and norepinephrine onto that smooth muscle of the bronchials it's going to cause bronchodilation, right? And it also can affect the glands and so it can actually help to decrease some of that mucus production. Think about this, if you got like a, I don't know, a bear running after you, you need to be able to have open airways to allow air to conduct nicely in and out of the alveoli so that you get good oxygen to be delivered and good CO2 to be exhaled so that you can power those muscles to run away before you become lunch. The next component here is that you don't also don't want that mucus to be highly produced if you're running away from a bear. You don't want to be hacking and coughing up a lung and trying to have all this nasty mucus, you want those airways nice and patent, right? And so that's a cool thing. And I'll talk about why that's actually clinically relevant. Parasympathetic Vegas, right? So, sympathetic T1, T5, parasympathetic Vegas Nervor, cringey under 10 controls this. This is going to have a Cedocoline released, right? So it has very long preganglionic and then these little tiny short postganglionic motor rounds in the actual target organ itself releases Cedocoline onto the smooth muscle and then what does it do? It causes bronchoconstriction and then it also can increase mucus production a little bit. So now, here's the thing of why this is actually clinically relevant. If you think about a patient who has, let's say, bronchoconstriction, you can give them a Saba, which is basically a short acting beta to agonist. It's going to act like epinephrine and norepinephrine bind onto the smooth muscle and cause bronchodilation. So it enhances the bronchodilation effect and it also can decrease the mucus production if they have some issues there. If you give a drug, like let's say that you have a patient who has, again, some type of asthma or COPD, you can give them what's called a muscarinic kind of antagonist. And so basically they're going to block the effect of Cedocoline at those receptors. And so it's going to block the effect of bronchoconstriction and instead cause bronchodilation. And it's going to basically help to also block the mucus production so it can also lead to a decrease in mucus production. Another thing is we can give other drugs, anticholinergic drugs, particularly things like glycopyrilate, and that also has a decrease in the salivary and some of the mucus production as well. But either way, that's what I want you guys to think about. So guys, this has a really important clinical relevance to it. That was a lot. But the last thing that I want you guys to pay attention to is that we talked about the autonomic components, the sympathetic, parasympathetic. And we talked about how that really supplies mainly your tracheobronchial tree. What about the pleura? We know the parietal pleura is supplied by the intercostal nerves, right? We talked about that with the thoracic wall. What supplies the visceral pleura? Well, the visceral pleura is really going to be supplied by afference from the autonomic nervous system, right? So there is visceral afference from the autonomic nervous system that do innervate the visceral pleura. All right, my friends, so that covers a lot of the part of where we're going to talk about this and really the illustration. So we've gone through a lot of the things with the tracheobronchial tree, the structures, the movement of airflow. We talked about the overall macroscopic view of the lungs, you know, their lobes, their fissures. We talked about the bronchopulmonary segments. We talked about the hyalum and really knowing that quick mnemonic. We talked a lot about the vasculature. We talked about some of the lymphatic circulation and lymph nodes, and then we finished off a lot with the innervation. I really hope that you guys like this part because now what we're going to do is we're going to move to the anatomy table and we're going to kind of redo this. But we're going to look at this more and kind of what seems to be more of an actual realistic appearing patient. And so let's do that now. All right, let's dive in. So as we take a look here at Hans, we're going to take a look at the lungs and just kind of get an idea. So when you take a look here, you'll see the right lung. So there's the superior lobe, the middle lobe, inferior lobe, and they're respectively separated by the horizontal fissure and then the oblique fissure. All right, so that's going to be the right lung. All right, next we're going to take a look at the left lung, very similar. Obviously we talked about this a lot, but again, we're only going to have two lobes. So you're going to have the upper lobe or the superior lobe and the inferior, the lower lobe, and again, that's separated by the oblique fissure. The other thing that you have off of this kind of superior lobe is the lingula. And then you have this like little notch or divot and that's where the apex of the heart kind of pushes into the lung and causes this thing called the cardiac notch. All right, so we've appreciated the two lobes of the lung and the respective fissures. The next thing is the tracheo bronchial tree. So you can see here we have the trachea, then brypharcates into the right, left main bronchus, goes over here into the upper or superior low bar bronchus, the middle low bar bronchus, and the inferior low bar bronchus. And then the same thing over here for the left, the left superior upper and the left lower or inferior low bar bronchus. All right, and that just gives you an appreciation of these kinds of structures of that tracheo bronchial tree. All right, the next thing is talking about the pleura. You have the visceral pleura, that is the lining, the one that clings to the actual lung tissue itself. All right, and then as we kind of go further outwards towards the chest wall, you have the parietal pleura. And you have that cervical portion, okay? You also have the costal portion by the ribs. You have that diaphragmatic portion. And then if we kind of like change the morphology here to take a look closer, you're gonna see this midline structure and there's gonna be a lining there as well. And that is gonna be referred to as the medial steinal pleura. All right, so this is all parietal pleura. Both of them simple squamous with some areyllar connective tissue. Nerves, intercostal nerves are very important for the parietal pleura. And the phrenic nerve also runs within this kind of vicinity as well. And supplies the diaphragm. Arm and Frenset covers our video here on lungs and pleura. I really hope that you guys liked it. I really hope it really did make sense. And if you guys did continue to support us hit the like button, comment down in the comment section, subscribe. Also, again, really, really, really hope that you guys are liking these videos. We're gonna keep putting them out every month. So just keep an eye out on them. But thank you guys for joining. And as always, love you, thank you. Until next time.