What's up, ninja nerds? In this video today, we're going to be talking about the anatomy of the thoracic wall. Now, we will be using this amazing table. It's called the anatomage table. It's going to help us to look at a lot of our gross anatomy in a three-dimensional way. We have our friend here, Victor, that we're going to be utilizing as our cadaavver. Now, before we get into this, what I want to tell you guys is we're going to be doing this anatomy lecture in two different ways. First, we're going to take a look at some really cool digital illustrations, dig into the anatomy a little bit. And then what we'll do is we'll use the anatomage table to give us a true realistic look to this anatomy. And again, we're going to go ahead and dissect down. And we're going to do this in a really cool way where as we dissect down, we'll look at different things like the muscles. We'll then talk about the bones and the joints. We'll talk about nerves. We'll talk about a lot of different vessels that run within the thoracic wall. So, it's going to be very, very in-depth, very thorough. Let's dig into it now. All right, my friends. Let's dig right into the anatomy of the thoracic wall. We're going to start with the bones. The bones obviously make up a very important structure of the thoracic wall. We'll start with the sternum. That's one of the main components. Now the sternum is actually made up of three different subcomponents if you will. The top portion here is called the manubrium of the sternum. And then on that you see this little notch. This is actually called the superernal notch. Some people call the jugular notch. It's an important landmark. Whenever people are doing what's called landmark guided subclavian central lines, they use this. They put their middle finger in there to find that position. They take their thumb, they move it along the clavicle to where the clavicle bends. And then the whole goal there is that that's where you're going to insert your needle and you're going to point your needle tip towards the supernal notch. And by doing that, you should access the subclavian vein with negative suction on that catheter. The next component is the body of the sternum. This makes up the largest part of the sternum. As you can see here, look at the size of the manubrium. Look at the body of the sternum. And then lastly, we have the zyphoid process. We identify this during CPR because you want to go above that when you do compressions because if you don't and you smash that little piece off because it's only held by a small little joint called the zyesternal joint right here between the body and the zyoid process. You could crack it off and actually stab them in the liver. So that wouldn't be doing them any good. The last thing here is the sternal angle. It's another like little landmark structure. We use this a lot during oscultation because it's at the level of the fourth razio vertebrae or where the second rib articulates. And so if you can identify that you can kind of say all I'm at the second rib. If I go parasernal, I could be listening to the second intercostal space on the right paristernal side. Move it over the left, left, second intercostal space, parernal side. So, it helps you to identify potential murmurss and identify those heart sounds of specific valves. When we move the sternum to the side, we can get a better picture of a couple of the notches. So, this notch that you can kind of appreciate here, that's called the clavicular notch. That's actually where the clavicle articulates with the sternum, particularly the manubrium. Now when we talk about this, it's actually the um the sternal end of the clavicle. It articulates with the clavvicular notch and forms the sternocclavicular joint. We'll talk about that a little bit later. The other one is the costal notches. And we obviously run these down first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh. What do you think attaches here? The ribs. So the ribs, particularly the costal cartilage of the ribs is going to attach into these costal notches. Next, if we actually zoom in on a rib, we can appreciate a couple different structures. Now this would be the anterior surface. So this is where it's going to connect with the sternum and this is going to be the posterior surface where we'll articulate with the thoracic vertebrae. We can appreciate here's the internal surface and you can't see it but it would be behind this and here's the external surface. Couple different structures we should identify. Head is a really important part because it helps to articulate with the thoracic vertebrae. It does that via these things that we highlight in yellow called the facetses. We also have the neck of the rib and the tubacle. This is another good attachment point where the ribs articulate nicely with what's called the transverse processes of the thoracic vertebrae. We can appreciate there is an angle where the kind of we see the rib bends and turns and technically this whole thing here is the shaft. But there's another really cool part on the shaft on the bottom part there's what's called the costal groove and if you run your finger on the inferior surface you'll be able to feel it. The reason why that's important is right in that groove contains a neurovvascular bundle. It's the intercostal nerve artery and vein. really important to know that that's there so that whenever you're sticking needles into the chest, you actually go above the ribs because this would actually be where the neurovvascular bundle is on the bottom or inferior portion of the rib. So you always want to insert a needle above to avoid hitting that. Then we can appreciate the costal cartilage. Again, that's that part where we connect the costal notches on the sternum to potentially the costal cartilage on the ribs. When we kind of zoom in particularly on this posterior portion here, we can appreciate these facetses very very nicely at um and these are what articulate nicely with the costal demiaets that are actually going to be present on thoracic vertebrae which we'll talk about later. You also have that crest which is going to be kind of a dividing line between them. And then we can appreciate the neck but here's another part which is that tubacal. We have the tubal with two uh articulating and non-articulating surfaces. So here's the nonarticular surface and here's the articular surface. And this is really where we have that connection between the transverse costal facet and the transverse process of thoracic vertebrae with this. And we'll appreciate this a little bit later. All right. So when I say later, I'm talking now because here's our thoracic vertebrae. And we're going to identify a couple different structures here. So here we have this first one. This is called the superior demi facet. And again, it could be right here. It would be this one here. And you can't see it, but it' be right here as well. All right. And then we have what's called the inferior demi facet. So here's one here. There would be one kind of below here. And then there's this one right here. All right. And then we have the transverse costal facet. This one right here. This one right here. You can't really see it, but it probably be somewhere around this vicinity right here as well. Now, the reason why this is important is because you can appreciate this whole structure here. This is a joint. We'll talk about this when we get to the joint section. But when we look at the articulation, it's actually kind of nice to look at how these joints really form. Here is the rib. So, this is the portion of the rib. And here's that superior facet. Here's the inferior facet. and it's articulating with this demifacet and this demiaet. We'll talk a little bit later, but it's actually kind of interesting how this articulation occurs. When you think about that, let's pretend that this is the inferior demifacet and this is the superior demifacet of the thoracic vertebrae. The superior demifacet articulates with the uh inferior facet of the rib and then the superior facet of the rib articulates with the inferior demifacet of the above thoracic vertebrae. And so it's actually kind of interesting. So to again recap that because I know it sounds kind of like really weird. Again, the superior facet on the rib articulates with the inferior demacet of the upper thoracic vertebrae. And the inferior facet of the rib articulates with the superior demifacet, this one, of the lower thoracic vertebrae. So, it's a really cool joint. All right, let's move now to talking a little bit more about these joints. Let's talk about the joints though between the ribs and the sternum. First, when we think about that, we have the manubrio sternal joint. This is actually a really cool cartilagynous joint and it's formed between you guessed it the manubrium and the body of the sternum and it's a type of joint called a symphysis joint which is kind of like a more of a fibrocartilagynous joint when you think about it. Then you have the zyosernal joint. So the zyernal joint is really what it sounds like. It's between the body of the sternum and the zyphoid process. It is also a cartilagynous joint but it's more of a sincondis type of joint. So it's a little bit more filled with highland cartilage. Then we have the sternoclavicular joint. This is a really cool joint, very common one that we think about when we have the sternal end of the clavicle articulating very very nicely into that clavicular notch and it's filled with a lot of highland cartilage but it has a sinovial cavity and so this is a type of sinovial saddle joint. We have the sternoc costal joint as you saw highlighting right here and you would have one right here that is going to be between the costal notches of the sternum and the costal cartilage of the associated rib. Now with this, this is a beautiful type of joint called a sinovial plane joint. It doesn't allow for a lot of movement. It's more of a kind of a gliding movement, if you will. All right. Next, we have the costtochondro joint that we see kind of highlighting in blue here as well. That's between the rib and the costal cartilage. And this is a sincondis, meaning it's kind of a joint formed by highland cartilage. We can appreciate another connection, the joints, but now we're not looking at the ribs and the sternum. We're going posterior. We're going to the back, baby. That is going to be between the thoracic vertebrae and the ribs. And we can appreciate again this costtovertebral joint that's formed by the costal demiaets of the thoracic vertebrae and the articular facetses that are on the head of the rib that is forming that joint. The costto transverse joint on the other hand is between the tubacal of the rib and what the transverse costal facet on the transverse process of the thoracic vertebrae that's missing making that costto transverse joint. Now the beauty of the costto transverse joint and the costtovertebral joint is they are both sinovial plane joints. So sternocostal and costto transverse costover vertebral sinovial plane costtochondrial zyernal synchondrosis sternocclavicular sinovial saddle joint and manubri sternal is all alone on the symphysis joint area. All right cool now let's move to the muscles. Now the muscles are great attachment points between the ribs. We have the external intercostals as you can see here. We have the internal interccoal muscles and we also if we kind of dissect a little bit deeper and I kind of take the rib off I can kind of see another structure here and it's really cool when we actually cut let's imagine I take a and I cut through this rib and I get like a superficial so this would be the superficial surface and this would be the deep surface so I'm kind of going from the skin on this side to the lung on this side you have the external intercostals internal intercostals here's your neurovvascular bundle. What do you think this one is? That's the innermost intercostal muscle. All right. Now, we can appreciate all three of these muscles really easily from a superficial to deep perspective. But it's obviously a little bit more challenging to identify them in this directions in which they move, which actually really helps because if you think about the direction in which they move, it kind of gives an idea that if they contract and pull on the ribs, the way that they will actually move the ribs to control our respiration patterns. And again, we can appreciate here that cool neurovvascular bundle that's kind of smashed between the innermost intercostal and you can't see it, but here it is the internal intercostal muscle. We have another one called the subcostal muscle that's a little bit lower. This one is also very very similar and we'll talk about this a little bit later, but the internal intercostals, the innermost intercostals, the subcostal muscle all have a similar function that they pull the ribs downwards. So they pull the above rib downwards and that helps to depress the ribs. It decreases the thoracic cavity volume to help with forced expiration. Whereas the external intercostals you'll see a little bit later that actually pulls the lower rib upwards and a bucket handle movement that helps to increase thoracic cavity volume to help with inspiration. Another muscle that's going to be interesting if you take and again cut on the sides of the sternum and look behind it you can appreciate this muscle called the transverse thoracus. Again, this has a similar function to the internal interccoostals, the innermost and the subcostal muscles. We have a better appreciation of kind of the direction or how these muscles kind of contract when you look at them as like rubber bands. You can kind of appreciate here that if it's pulling from here to here, that will help to depress the ribs. You can think about again with the internal necosus, if it pulls down, it's going to contract that ribs and pull the ribs downwards. And again, you think about the external necosus is going to be here. is going to pull this rib upwards. So that kind of gives us a little bit of an appreciation of that movement. And again, same thing here. We can see the subcostal pulling that rib downwards. So when we think about this again, it's a quick reminder to us which one of these muscles are going to do this. It's the external intercostals. It's going to lift the ribs up like a bucket handle movement. And then which ones are going to pull the ribs downwards to help to depress the ribs and decrease the thoracic cavity volume. It's the internal intercostals, the innermost intercostals, the subcostal, and you can't see it, but it would be behind the sternum, the transversus thoracus. All right, next let's move into the nerves. We have to cover a couple different landmarks. Here is going to be the aorta. Here is going to be the spinal cord. We can see the spinal nerve, which is formed by the dorsal and the vententral root. We have the sympathetic trunk. It actually is important because it can give like sympathetic fibers that can run potentially within that intercostal nerve. And then we have the posterior ramis which is going to supply a lot of the back the skin and the muscles of the back. But we have this really really important one which is the anterior ramis and that's going to be making up the primary nerve the intercostal nerve which is usually from T1 all the way to T11. This nerve can give off a couple different branches. One is it can gives off these branches to these muscles here. I bet you remember these innermost internal and external intercostals. That's right. But it also gives these cutaneous branches that can supply the skin of the lateral side of the actual thorax. And you have another one which is the antercutaneous branch that can supply the anterior portion of the thorax. You also have these rami communicantes. And again that's the way that we can have interconnections of the autonomic nervous system running within these associated spinal nerves. Now let's have a better appreciation of this. When we think about the intercostal nerve again it runs where? It runs in the costal groove. It rises from that vententral rami here and it runs in between the muscles but it runs in that costal groove as a part of that neurovvascular bundle. And what is it going to do? Well, you got to think about it. It's giving off motor supply to what muscles? To the intercostal muscles. And it's also having sensory or skin supply to what? Well, the lateral cutaneous branch is going to be one and the antutaneous branch. So it's going to be supplying the skin of the thorax but also it even gives branches to the viscerum parietal plura. All right the next part is the subcausal nerve. We can't appreciate it as much in this diagram but it's the same thing. It arises at the T12 level and it still runs and what it does is it courses below the 12th rib and it still does the same thing. It has to give a motor supply but it goes to the abdominal wall muscles and it has to give a sensory or skin supply and that goes to the skin of the abdomen and the paritinium. So it's a similar concept to the way we talk about these with the intercostal nerves. All right. The last thing to remember is when we talk about these nerves, they're obviously supplying a patch of skin and we use these patches of skin known as dermatomes to give us potential areas that we need to remember. Out of all of these for the thoracic wall, the one that I want you to remember is T4 at the TE. Okay. T6 is actually going to be at the zyix. It's the zyphoid process. T10 is at the belly butt 10 and T12 to add that on is at the pub. So that's going to be at the pubic region. This helps you to at least have some of the biggest landmarks to remember for that thoracic portion of the intercostal nerves. Now vessels, this is the next part of our thoracic wall. We have the azygous vein. We have the thoracic aorta. The reason why I mention these is because the isygus vein and another one which you can see here on the side, the hemizygus, they're draining the thoracic cavity and the thoracic aorta is supplying arterial blood. And there's another one which we'll talk about called the internal thoracic artery which is going to be supplying the arteries of the thoracic wall. Let's focus first on the supplies of the arteries particularly from the thoracic aorta. It gives off this branch here called the posterior intercostal arteries as you can see here. And the next thing is the anter intercostals. Where do they come from? Well, they actually come from this one. It actually comes from the internal thoracic or the mammary artery. It gives off the anter intercostal artery. So poster intercostal comes from thoracic aorta. Anter intercostals come from the internal thoracic or the mammary artery. Now the veins same concept. The posterior intercostal veins they empty into the what? They technically empty into the hemious vein on this left side of the hemthorax. Whereas the right poster intercostal veins will empty into the azygous veins. So that's really important to remember. Then they empty into the superior vennea. The anter intercostal veins these drain here. This was the internal thoracic artery. What do you think? This one is the internal thoracic vein or the mammorary vein. All right. Now again it's important to remember that these arteries and veins the intercostal arteries and veins they run with as a part of the neurovvascular bundle. So they run with the interccoal nerve in that costal groove. Now internal thoracic artery you appreciated right here again it arises actually from the subclavian artery and it runs vertically or paristernally down the sides of that sternum. The internal thoracic veins same concept they drain into the brachiophalic veins which then forms the superior vennea but again they run parernally or they run on the side of the sternum vertically. There's one artery that I didn't show you guys here, but would actually be coming and supplying ribs one to two. So, the poster intercostal arteries and veins, they really are going to be one of the main ones of pretty much from ribs three to kind of like almost down to 11. But ribs one and two are going to be supplied by the supreme intercostal artery and they arise from the cost cervical trunk. Now, one last thing is just to again give an appreciation of that neurovvascular bundle. Here we see from a superficial skin level down to the deep visceral portion of the lung. We can appreciate here's the lung. This is the visceral plura. Here's the parietal plura. Here's the endthoracic fascia. Here's the rib and here's a rib. And then muscle external, internal, innermost. What's this guy right here between it? The neurovvascular bundle. And that's consisting of the intercostal arteries, the intercostal veins, and the intercostal nerve. Since this is coursing along the anterior surface, it's going to be those anterior intercostal arteries and veins. All right. Now, the last thing I want to talk about is the relevance. So, what happens if there's some abnormalities of the thoracic wall? One common one is costtochondritis. This can happen from exertional activities, especially in young individuals where they put a lot of stress on those costtochondrial joints and they get really really inflamed. It can actually cause chest pain. And it's really important to think about this one because it can actually be reproducible whenever you palpate and squeeze on those costal condro joints. It's very very sensitive and sore. Another one is fracturing of those ribs. Especially if you have multiple broken ribs in multiple locations, this can cause something called flail chest. It's a paradoxical breathing pattern. So do you notice that as this patient is taking a deep breath in, what's happening to their thoracic age? It's caving inwards. That's paradoxical. As you take a deep breath in, your chest cavity should be increasing in size. And so this is going to be one of the results of having multiple broken ribs in multiple locations. It can create this paradoxical movement of the chest. Another important reason that we should understand anatomy is especially during procedures, a thorosentesis, performing a chest tube, anything in that manner, it is important to understand the relationship of their needle with the neurovvascular bundle. Here's the lung, right? And here a patient has a plural eusion. We want to stick a needle in there and drain that eusion out. So where should I stick my needle with respect to this neurovvascular bundle? I should always go above the rib to avoid hitting that neurovvascular bundle and that will help me to drain that eusion successfully without complication. All right my friends, let's start talking about the anatomy. So we have the manubrium of the sternum. So this is going to be one of the three main components of the sternum. The second component is the body of the sternum. And then we have the lovely zyoid process at the bottom. Make sure you identify this one because if you do CPR and crack this one off, you're going to be stabbing them in the liver. You don't want that. The next component right on the manubrium is the jugular or supercernal notch. We use this in an identification point for subclavian landmark guided lines. Then we have the sternal angle. This is at the level of T4. We use this as a way of counting ribs, believe it or not. Now, speaking of ribs, we have a total of 12 pair ribs. We have true ribs known as vertebral ribs 1 to 7. Then we have false ribs. This is going to be the vertebroond ribs. This is ribs 8 to 10. And then finally, we have these goobers hanging down here just floating around. And that is going to be ribs 11 to 12. Now, we zoom in on a typical rib that's going to have a head. And on that, there's these facets that actually articulate with the parts of the vertebrae, the thoracic vertebrae. Then we have the neck of the rib. A little bit over here, we have the tubacular rib. This is actually another attachment or articulation point with the transverse process of the thoracic vertebrae. Then we have the shaft of the rib. And on the bottom of that there's a costal groove where the neurovvascular bundle resides. This is just appreciating that articulation point between the head of the rib and the body of the thoracic vertebrae. And then this is showing an articulation point between the tubacle and the transverse process of the thoracic vertebrae. These articulation points create joints. One called the costtovertebral joint with the head of the rib and the body of the vertebrae. And then finally the costto transverse joint which is the articulation point between the tubacal of the rib and the transverse process of that thoracic vertebrae. And we're just seeing that beautiful articulation point there between the demiacets the costal demifacets and again the transverse demifacets. We can also appreciate that these ribs provide attachment points for muscles. One is the external intercostals the most superficial one. It actually helps to elevate pull the ribs upwards to aid in inspiration. Just deep to that we have the internal interccoal muscles. And these also when they attach to the ribs they depress the ribs to help in the forced expiration process. And then finally just deep to that is the innermost intercostal muscles. And these ones also assist the internal intercostals by again helping to depress the ribs and forced expiration. Now there's a really important muscle that actually aids in the actual breathing process primarily inspiration. And this is the diaphragm. You have a sternal attachment, a costal attachment, a lumbar attachment. When it contracts, it actually comes downwards, increases the thoracic cavity volume to help in aiding and inspiration. Another really cool part about the diaphragm is there's these different holes where structures move through. Case in point, this is the caval hiatus. It's at the level of T8 where the inferior vennea punches through and goes from the abdominal cavity to the thoracic cavity. And just adjacent to this is the esophageal hiatus at the level of the T10 vertebrae. That's where the esophagus is, as you can see, runs through and punches from the thoracic cavity into the abdominal cavity to join with the stomach. Another part here is actually formed by the crust of the diaphragm and that's actually going to be the aortic hiatus at the 12th thoracic vertebrae. Another really cool thing about these ribs is that they provide again this little network of structures to run there called the neurovvascular bundle. This is an example of one of those components, the nerve, the intercostal nerve that actually runs right here along the underside of the rib. Now these nerves carry motor supply and sensory supply. The motor supply actually always originates from a motor cortex. Comes down via the cortical spinal tracts. Decisates at the pyramids at the level of the medulla. Most of it runs down through the lateral cortical spinal tracts. Runs via the intercostal nerves to these muscles to help them to contract to aid in the inspiration and forced expiration process. That's one really cool thing about these intercostal nerves is the motor supply. Additionally, these intercostal nerves carry sensory information. So they can pick up pain and temperature and find the discriminative touch. All of these things from a potential dermatal area, carry that down this nerve to the spinal cord and the pain and temperature pathways are carried up via the spinalic tracts and the crude touch and pressure can be carried up via the anterior lateral system and your you know fine discriminative touch is carried via the medial liiniscus and eventually these terminate at the primary semata sensory cortex on the contrlateral side. So here we can appreciate both of those pathways. Now the arterial supply is also crucial. These poster intercost arteries actually arise from the thoracic aorta and run again below that lower part of the rib a part of that neurovvascular bundle. There's another structure you can't see but if you imagine the sternum would be right here. There's a structure called the internal thoracic artery and that gives off these anterior intercostal arteries. So we appreciate the arterial supply. What about the venus supply? Well, there is an azygous vein that helps to drain the actual right side of the thoracic cavity. Hemiozygus, which you can't see, drains the left side of the thoracic cavity and they empty into the superior vennea. But what empties into that is the posterior intercostal veins. Now, the anterior intercostal veins, you'll see these, they actually run anteriorly and they dump into the internal thoracic vein, which is going to be running on the sides of the sternum. All right, my friends. So, that covers the anatomy of the thoracic wall. I really hope that you guys like that. I really hope it made sense and I hope that you guys really enjoyed. And if you guys did, please continue to support us. Hit that like button, comment down in the comment section, and again, do subscribe. Also, just keep tuning in. We're going to continue to do anatomy videos at least every month and just continue to dive into this utilizing the anatomage table and our digital illustrations. All right. Well, we finished this up, so let's close up Victor while we can. All right, ners. Well, I love you guys and thank you guys. And as always, until next time.