 and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, the heart. So let's actually go ahead, dig into the illustrations and after that, let's go ahead and dig into the heart and then start actually talking about every single piece, going through identifying things and pretending we're a little red blood cell moving along the way. All right, so let's talk now about the anatomy of the heart, the coronary circulation. We'll dig into this, go through the illustrations step by step and then we'll kind of review with just an overall kind of like view looking at the anatomized table. So let's kind of step into this. So first things first, I'm going to take and look at the actual heart wall. So I want you guys to think about this in slightly a morbid way, but imagine I have like a knife and I'm going to penetrate it through the person's chest wall and I want to talk about what layer the knife is going through from superficial to deep sequentially. And so you can imagine that by just zooming in on this whole heart wall layer and we're going to go through this from superficial to deep. The first layer that we have highlighted is the fibrous pericardium of the heart, really dense irregular connective tissue. When we think about this, what is the overall function? Well, if you can imagine because it's super hardy, it's going to protect the heart from a lot of external forces. And on top of that, it's since it's a really strong connective tissue, it can anchor the heart down to the surrounding structures associated with it. Another thing is that because it's a little bit more rigid, we don't want the heart to always overfill. And so this is going to only allow for a certain degree of stretch, if you will, and it's going to prevent that heart from overfilling with blood. So three primary functions is again, protect it, anchor it, and then prevent it from overfilling with blood. The next one just deep to that is called the cirrus pericardium. So the fibrous pericardium. And then you have another layer called the cirrus pericardium. And there's a parietal layer, and then we'll talk a little bit later. There's a visceral layer. So the parietal layer of the cirrus pericardium is kind of like a mesothelial tissue. It's a simple squamous epithelial tissue with a little bit of areolar connective tissue. And so it lines that inner surface of the fibrous pericardium. And some of those cells are responsible for producing the pericardial fluid that lies within what? The pericardial cavity that we have here highlighted in blue. The pericardial cavity holds on to what's called pericardial fluid. And that pericardial fluid basically whenever the heart contracts and relaxes, we don't want those two layers, the parietal layer and the visceral layer to rub up against one another and get kind of like inflamed. And so we allow for them to have some fluid there to allow it to glide easily and keeping it really smooth. The next one, just deep to that, is called the visceral layer of the cirrus pericardium. You can appreciate in this pinkish color. And we also give it another terminology as you see here called the epicardium. All right, meaning it just clings to the outer wall of the actual heart tissue itself. Now, the visceral layer of the cirrus pericardium, again, it's going to line that kind of surface of the heart and we know that the cells are responsible for producing some of that pericardial fluid. And that's going to again allow for that gliding of the heart. All right, the next one is the myocardium. The myocardium is a thick tissue made of cardiac muscle. And that cardiac muscle is critical to the contraction of the heart. So it's obviously responsible for being able to expel blood out of the heart. So it's critical to contraction and relaxation of the heart that helps us to either move blood out of the heart or to relax to allow for us to fill or have a proper venous return as well. All right, then we come to the most inner layer called the endocardium. So it's an endothelial tissue. And so it's just simple squamous epithelial tissue, a little bit of loose connective tissue, and it lines the walls of the heart. So it lines the atria, lines the ventricles, and believe it or not, it even lines the valves. And so it's a very important structure. And then it's continuous. One of the beautiful things is that this continues into the arteries, the pulmonary artery in the aorta. So it's a pretty cool thing that we can talk about with this. So we can appreciate the layers of the heart wall. So again, to go from superficial to deep, it is which ones? The fibrous pericardium, the parietal layer of the serous pericardium, the pericardial cavity, the visceral layer of the serous pericardium, the myocardium, the endocardium, and then you're into the actual cavities of the heart. In this case, this would be like the left ventricle. All right, that's what I want you to take away from this. Okay, now that we talked about the layers of the heart, let's actually go through step by step and as one of the team members here who helped me make this, get into the chamber of secrets. All right, that is the left atrium, the right atrium, the right ventricle, the left ventricle, and go through maybe some specific structures that you could have to identify on the exam. So the first one that we'll do is we'll take an overall kind of holistic view of the right atrium. And again, you can see the right atrium here, and you can see that there's a structure here called the oracle, the right oracle that kind of sits over it. Let's kind of take and slice it open and take a better look at it to appreciate some definitive structures. And we kind of peel that right atrium muffin cap back blue. All right, we can appreciate a couple different things. What are those things? Well, one thing is you have three things that empty into the right atrium. So they bring deoxygenated blood back to the right side of the heart. That is the supervena cava. We'll talk later, brings blood from deoxygenated blood from above the diaphragm. All right, that's one. The next one is the inferior vena cava. That's going to empty into the right atrium. It's bringing blood, deoxygenated blood from structures below the diaphragm. And then there's another one, and you can sometimes call the opening or the osteum of the coronary sinus, but that's going to be right here. And that's going to be bringing deoxygenated blood from the myocardium. So three areas of blood and deoxygenated blood are going to empty into the right atrium. That is the superior inferior vena cava and that osteum or opening of the coronary sinus. Another structure that we have here is called the phosphovalus. You might remember this is kind of a scar tissue remnant that is the result of something in a pediatric patient that exists called the foramen oval. And that was a hole that allowed for blood to be able to shunt between atria. And again, we know this because whenever the baby is in these stages, whereas growing, it's not breathing in air. And so the lungs, they're kind of like within the amniotic fluid, right? So there's no ability to breathe air. So we need to have that shunting structure so that we can move blood from the right side of the heart as much of it to the left side of the heart so we can send it out to the systemic circulation, to the placenta, for the placenta to do that function. But eventually, that has to close off. We don't want it to be patent. So it becomes what's called the fossa oval, which is a nice scar tissue between that. And generally, that's what then a structure called the interatrial septum. So there is usually a hole during the normal kind of developmental process that should close and become a fibrous remnant when you get older. You don't want that to stay open. The next thing is we have, if we peeled that muffin cap back blue, we got this kind of like part of the wall. It's more of the anterior wall of the right atrium. And it's made up of a muscle called the pectinate muscles. And they may play a role a little bit with kind of like overall helping with expansion and increasing the size maybe of the right atrium. But it's more just an anatomical structure that you may have to identify in the exam. And then there's kind of like this separation point that you may see here called the crista terminalis. And that's just one of those demarcation points that we may see and you may have to identify. All right. Another thing is again, you're kind of, you saw it from that first view, which you saw this kind of structure sitting over on top of the right atrium. And that is called the right oracle. And we can appreciate that structure as well. It's just more of a fatty kind of tissue. All right. That is the right atrium. So we can appreciate the right atrium and the structures that are kind of there. And the reason why we kind of talked about them in great detail is because whenever a patient has pathological processes that occur, such as right heart failure, or they have some type of issue where they have a patent for amino valley, those things are critical to know how these things normally function their normal structure. Because whenever there's a breakdown in that normal structure, a breakdown in that normal function, that's when we see things like pathology. And so it's really, really critical to know that. To just give you an example, if you could imagine that the right atrium couldn't receive blood from the superior inferior vena cava, what would happen? And we see this in right heart failure. Blood would back up and it would cause jugular venous distension. It would back down the inferior vena cava and that would cause more of that lower extremity edema, hepatomegaly, maybe even ascites. And that's why it's critical. If we didn't close off that phosovallus and it remained patent, you would end up with an asianotic heart defect in these babies they may experience severe hypoxia and other complications as well. So that's why it's important to talk about it. Let's then move down. Because we know that the right atrium is connected to the right ventricle, but it's usually via a space, which we have a valve to prevent backflow. And we'll talk about that valve in a second. And that's called your tricuspid valve, right? But we're going to enter our way into the right ventricle through that tricuspid valve. Let's kind of open it up and take a better appreciation. So you can see here we got a couple of different things that we need to talk about. The first one is all of these kind of rigid, kind of like bundled up pieces of muscle. And they're all over the place, but it's called the trabiculae carnaine. They tend to be, they can be in all of the walls, but if you ever open up a heart and a model or a true cadaver, you'll see and appreciate it more in the anterior portion of that ventricle. But either way, it's more of these obvious, kind of like rigid spindly type of muscle fibers that are presented there. All right. The next thing is we have another kind of like muscle tissue that's kind of critical because the prokengi fibers actually run through this. And it acts as kind of a way of being able to connect some of the papillary muscles so that they can receive that proper prokengi signal. And that's called the septomarginal trabiculae. I like to call it the moderator band, but you can appreciate that here. And it's really just kind of like, you can see how it kind of acts as like a little kind of bridging point between the papillary muscles and the prokengi fiber should run through there. Another structure, kind of just knowing it in general, we have what's called the pulmonary trunk. And it's not to be confused with kind of like an area where blood is getting ready. It's kind of like a little, it's like it's moving onto a deck, essentially, that's going to then move through these like little valves and then go into the pulmonary trunk. This little area here, this little deck, if you will, is called the conus arteriosus. But then again, we'll talk about this later. It kind of provides the gateway of moving towards the pulmonary trunk through the pulmonary semilunar valve. Another thing is we have papillary muscles and we have a bunch of them. This is a little overkill, but I still think it's important, especially when you start getting into infarcts. Whenever you have infarcts, different areas control different papillary muscles, so different parts of the heart wall. And so if you have, for example, an infarction somewhere along the septum or on the lateral wall, it may affect those papillary muscles, which then may cause particular valvular insufficiencies. And again, we'll get into that a little bit later. But papillary muscles, let's kind of identify them. The first one is called the anterior papillary muscles. And then you have the posterior papillary muscles right here. So imagine these are just coming out, the anterior is a little bit more, and then going deeper, if you're punching into the actual camera, you're going to have the posterior papillary muscles. They're going to be deeper into that right ventricle. And then you can imagine here's the septum, so what would you imagine these are? That's the septal papillary muscles. So these are your papillary muscles and their job is to be able to contract and kind of tighten up these little strings that are called what? The cordae tendinae. And the cordae tendinae is basically a very critical structure that whenever it kind of, what it does is it connects to what's called your valve cusps or the leaflets, if you will. And what happens is the cordae tendinae, if they're kind of pulled top by the papillary muscles, they really help those valve cusps to kind of like approximate together nicely, so that you get a good closure of that valve. So if a papillary muscle is infarcted or dies, it can't contract. It can't hold the cordae tendinae taut. And then those valve leaflets or cusps are more mobile. And this can cause things like rigor, agitation, or prolapse of that structure into the appropriate atrium. So that's why it's important to know that. But again, papillary muscles connect to the cordae tendinae, which are then kind of anchoring down specific cusps, if you will. It's harder to point these out, but I'm going to use this as an understanding here that here's our anterior cusps. It's really just this portion here. These we already pointed out of the cordae tendinae, but they're connecting to that anterior cusp. And then you have another one. This is called your posterior cusp. And that's, again, it's going to be connecting to the cordae tendinae, which connected the posterior papillary muscles. And then you have your septal cusps, which are connecting to the cordae tendinae, which are connecting to the septal papillary muscles. So again, you can appreciate all of these structures and how they make up a really profound valvular apparatus. With that, we talked about the right ventricle. We covered the valvular apparatus. We covered the trabiculate carnae, the conus arteriosis, which are, I think, the big things to really identify. All right? Let's now kind of take and turn around and get into the left atrium. When we kind of open up the left atrium and peel that muffin cap back blue, you can appreciate at least some important structures that are critical to knowing that way. If there is disease, you can understand kind of, again, the normal anatomy, normal physiology. If you break it down, what the pathology may look like. All right. So the first thing that I want you guys to identify is, again, it's the same concept. It's just, it's homologous to the right atrium. If you peeled it back, there's a muscle in the anterior wall called the pectinate muscles. This is just muscular pectinate, which is, again, it's a more fancy way of saying pectinate muscles. But again, it's the same concept, same structure, same function. What I want you to remember is if I remove that, we can get a better appreciation for things that empty into the left atrium. So if you guys remember, what were the structures that emptied into the right atrium? The supravenia cava, inferior vena cava, coronary sinus. What empties into the left atrium? The pulmonary veins. If I asked you to take a next step, how many I want you to say four? Two from the right and two from the left. All right? These empty in to the left atrium, they're supposed to bring oxygenated blood back to the left atrium. All right? Really important that you know that. Now, there's another structure which we can kind of appreciate here, and it was a hole that was actually between the right atrium and the left atrium when you were a very small baby in your mother's womb. What was that called? The foramen ovale. When you're born, it should close up, become a fibrous remnant called the fossa ovale. So you're just appreciating it on the other side of that interatrial septum. Again, we see the mitral valve apparatus, kind of parts of it, and we'll get in, we'll talk about the anterior and the posterior cusps, because the tricuspid valve at three cusp, this one's only going to have two cusps, so another name for the mitral valve is called the bicuspid valve. All right? And then we have what's called the left oracle, and the reason why I want to mention the left oracle is the left oracle has a small little space in it called the left atrial appendage. And this is something that's important to know, because what happens is, in patients who suffer from something called atrial fibrillation, where their heart, atria, isn't contracting very properly. It's kind of actually shivering or quivering, if you want to say it like that. It doesn't get a good atrial kick. What happens is because of that, it gets stagnation, it gets stasis of blood, and it tends to sit right here in this little pocket. And if blood sits for a long time, it can form a thrombus, and that thrombus that forms there can then get flicked off. So left atrial thrombi and atrial fibrillation, they actually love to sit here. And so sometimes what we may do is, we'll put them on anticoagulants, but sometimes if we can't or they're not responding well, we may actually have to occlude that space that they can actually allow thrombi to form there. So that's why I wanted to mention that one. All right, that's our left atrium. The big things that we wanted to hit there was that left atrial appendage and the pulmonary veins, seeing the other side of that fossa ovalis, and then you're kind of seeing the entryway via the mitral valve. But let's now move into the bottom part where we're going to move from the left atrium, if we could imagine, where a little red blood cell, we're moving down from the left atrium with the left ventricle through the bicuspid, through the mitral valve, one of those two into the left ventricle. We take a piece off, and we can see inside. You can again appreciate some of those rigidity spindly structures called the tripliculae carnae. You can also appreciate your papillary muscles. If you can imagine, this is the anterior, this side is the anterior portion of that heart, and this is the posterior portion of the heart. You're just looking at it from kind of a lateral view. So here's going to be the anterior papillary muscle, and what would this one be? The posterior papillary muscle. And we can appreciate that these are controlled by different blood circuits, and we'll kind of get into that more in the kind of arterial distribution. But I want you to talk about that more in the pathology section. So when we get into myocardial infarctions, it's kind of critical because again, papillary muscle rupture is a pretty nasty thing, and it can cause a lot of mitral valve regurgitation, acute heart failures. So that's why it's important to kind of remember that. Nonetheless, these are two structures that are going to be holding on to what? That cordae tendinae, which are then connected to the valve cusp or leaflets. And you should have an anterior cusp, which again, you're kind of appreciating the top part of it. This is the cordae tendinae, and then what's this one? This is the posterior cusp, and it's just this portion here. It's connected via the cordae tendinae to the papillary muscles. That makes up your valvular apparatus. All right, that really gets you. I think the big things that you need to know about the left ventricle. And then we've covered the chamber of secrets. Let's now move into the next part here. The next thing I want us to discuss is the valves. The valves are really important, and you're probably like, didn't we already kind of do that? Yes, we did. But we didn't really talk about two other valves that I want to talk about for a second. So if I'm taking a slice of the heart, so again, you can kind of appreciate if I'm kind of taking a slice through the heart, I'm going to try and get all four valves in one view. So we're going to do that now, and we're going to appreciate we're looking from like the top down at these valves. And there are some critical things to talk about. So the first one is the tricuspid valve, and you can appreciate the three cusps, right? As we talked about the anterior, the posterior, and the septal. Then we have the bicuspid or the mitral valve, and it just has the anterior and the posterior cusp. Then the semilunar valves. So we didn't talk about these, but if you can imagine, we kind of saw the pulmonary semilunar valve when we were looking from the right ventricle up through the conus arteriosus. It's hard to see the aortic semilunar valve, but it's tucked deeper and a little bit more posteriorly into the left ventricle. But again, nonetheless, they're going to be the entryways into the arteries, the aorta and the pulmonary artery. So we have to have valves to prevent that backflow. And so what will we have? Well, the first one is the aortic semilunar valve, and this is going to have three of those cusps. And then the pulmonary semilunar valve, which is going to have three of those cusps. One thing I think that's critical to remember about valves in general is that they're preventing backflow. AV valves, which are also referred to as your atrio ventricular valves, which are which ones? Your tricuspid and your bicuspid, those prevent backflow into the atria. That's their job. It's not to promote flow into direction. That happens passively. Their job is that whenever the papillary muscles contract, they pull the cordae tendinate, the cordae tendinate, bring the cusp closer together that you don't push blood back into the area that it just came from. Same thing, semilunar valves, which you can appreciate here, their job is they're going to open up whenever the heart goes into systole, the pressure gradients will push blood from the ventricles into the arteries. But there will be a drop in pressure during diastole, where it'll want to flow back. We don't want that to backflow into the ventricles, and that's the purpose of these valves. Another beautiful thing that you can see here, and I love from this diagram, is that off of the pulmonary artery, at least the pulmonary trunk, it'll bifurcate into the right and left pulmonary artery. The aorta itself, which is going to come after the aortic valve, it's going to then have a couple different things. One is it'll move up via the aortic arch. But there's also two branches that come right off of the base of the aorta, and they're very important to talk about. Because we're going to move into this next, and that is your coronary arteries. These are the structures that supply oxygenated blood to the myocardium, which we need. The myocardium is such a hungry workhorse, it needs oxygen, it needs nutrients to be able to perform its job. So we need to give it its own blood supply. And the same way your biceps, your triceps, your quadriceps, your brain, all these other organs are depending upon systemic blood flow from the aorta, so is the myocardium. So you can appreciate that these are just right off the base, and so they get a good amount of blood flow that moves into them. And here's a question that you'll probably be asked, when? During diastole. During relaxation of the heart, whenever blood gets pushed out into the aorta, the heart relaxes, and it creates a pressure gradient that wants to cause the blood to move backwards towards the ventricles. What should close? The semilunar valves, when they close, blood is then redirected into the right and left coronary artery. So that's why it's important. Alright, so with that being said, let's kind of talk a little bit about more of this blood flow. And we're going to talk about it in two different ways. We may have a couple other views, but we're going to be able to appreciate a lot in the sternal cost of view. This is the normal way that you would look at the heart. If I was looking at a person in front of me, this is generally the way that the heart is. It's usually kind of sitting within the mediastinum, and it's shifted two thirds to the left of the midline of that sternum. And we can appreciate the apex, and we can appreciate the base. This is looking at it more in a dorsal kind of caudal view. And so you're looking at the heart. I'd be looking at a person from the back, and I'd be able to appreciate that this is what it would kind of look like from the back, where it shifted two thirds to the left of the midsternal line, but I'm able to appreciate the posterior wall, some of the left atrium, and a little bit of the right atrium. So that's again some views that I want you guys to appreciate, because now what we're going to do is we're going to use those to really talk about some vessels that run along this surface. The first one is the right coronary artery. So you have two coronary arteries, the right and the left. The right coronary artery we can appreciate right here. Left coronary artery we can see poking behind the pulmonary trunk right here. But let's kind of focus on the right coronary artery. So here we can see the aorta. It's going to give off this little branch, and that's called your right coronary. Now a beautiful thing about the right coronary is we can see it moving kind of down, down, down, and then it moves back. I can kind of appreciate it here, but instead of me doing that, look, you can see it's kind of wrapping around that right atrium. The reason why I say that is there's some branches that are given off along the way. The first one that is critical is the SA nodal branch. Supplies the SA node that's the pacemaker of the heart, bro. Definitely need to know that one. Another one is the right marginal artery. Some people call it the acute marginal artery, but I like to call it the marginal artery, the right marginal, and it's going to come off here, and you'll appreciate that it can apply a decent amount of that lateral wall of the right ventricle. And so that's pretty critical to know. So if there's kind of an occlusion here, you may kind of experience a lateral wall infarction. All right, that's another branch. Another one that you can appreciate, we can kind of see it here, but we can better appreciate it from this kind of dorsal caudal view here, which is your posterior descending artery. I want you to remember there is two names for the posterior descending artery, the PDA. There's the posterior descending artery. And the other one is called the posterior interventricular artery because it runs in a little fat-filled groove called the posterior interventricular sulcus. So just do remember there is two names for this vessel. But I'll talk about this later. Not all patients have blood flow. I'd say most of them. Probably 80% of their patients probably have what's called right dominant PDAs, meaning that their PDA comes off of the right coronary artery. Some people, it comes off the left, and we'll talk about that. It's usually like the left circ. It's not a lot of people, and some people actually have their PDA fed by both, the right side and the left side. But we'll get into that. All right. Again, the reason why I mentioned all of these branches is that if you have an occlusion of the right coronary artery, pretty proximal, you can lose the lateral wall. You may lose some of the posterior wall of that right ventricle, and you may even lose some flow to the SA node. And that's pretty bad. Right? So you can experience some pretty nasty complications. The left coronary, we can appreciate this one pretty nicely here. It's really, this is the main, and it's going to give off some branches along the way. And so let's talk about those. So the first one, again, it's going to be that we give it a lot of different names, but the left anterior descending artery, we call it theoretically, you call it the widowmaker. But the only reason we call it the widowmaker is if there's a clot in this because it supplies so much of your left ventricle, your intraventricular septum, that if you knock that out, there's a strong chance of experiencing sudden cardiac arrest, going into acute heart failure. It's a pretty nasty one that you don't want to clot this up. Either way, the LAD is one term, another one just to be aware of. You're probably going to be like, oh yeah, well this is the posterior descending. And they call that the posterior interventricular artery. Oh, I can call this the anterior interventricular artery. Why? Because there is a fat-filled groove called the anterior interventricular sulcus that it runs down. The other vessel is called the left circumflex. And this is that left circuit, sometimes you have the left circus, kind of like a little slang for maybe interventional cardiologists and stuff. But it's the left circumflex artery. It's kind of kind of move around that left oracle. And it can give off some branches as well. But what I want you to know is that it kind of loops around. And you can kind of see it looping and then swooping right over here. And it'll give off some branches that supply more of that lateral wall of the left ventricle as well. And even a little bit of that posterior portion, as you can appreciate here from that dorsal caudal view. So that's what I want you guys to be able to take into consideration. They do have branches that come off, but these are probably the main ones that you'll kind of be tested on most often. All right. Again, the perfusion regions are critical when it comes to pathology. Because you can see here what the right coronary artery supplies. It's a pretty good chunk, dude. It can supply a very large portion of the right side of the heart, some of the septum. And even we can even appreciate in those patients who have a pretty dominant right coronary supply. It can even give some supply to the posterior portion. All right. And again, that's just considering it as the whole thing. If you go off the branches, that right marginal, which is still kind of a branch off the right coronary. So if you block the right coronary, you're going to lose supply to this one as well. That's going to supply more of that kind of lateral wall of the right ventricle. And again, again, applying that constant concept to the PDA, it's still a branch off the right coronary. So if you occlude that, you're again, you're going to lose that posterior wall. So you can appreciate the right coronary supplies a very significant amount of the heart, more of that right heart, more of the posterior heart. And that's why you clawed it off. You can experience a pretty nasty right ventricular myocardial infarction, right heart failure. And these patients often don't do very good. All right. The LAD, again, coming off of that left coronary, the left coronary gives the LAD, which supplies a very good portion of the left ventricle, supplies a good amount of the free wall, supplies the septum, supplies the anterior portion of the left ventricle. So really, really critical structure here. And again, coming off is that left circ. It's going to supply more of that high lateral wall, if you will, of the left ventricle. And it even gets into that posterior portion of the left ventricle as well, right, especially on the left side. So that's some perfusion regions that I think just points to the overall significance that if you clot these vessels, you can appreciate what would happen if you were to kind of imagine that you had what's called an echocardiogram. It kind of tells you the contraction of the heart. And that contraction of the heart may actually be, you may have an area that's not contracting very well, because it's not getting enough oxygen, it's infarcting. And so sometimes we can appreciate wall motion abnormalities. And those can be made worse during drug in trials, or we can give them certain medications. And that's a little bit beyond the scope of this, or we can do stress tests to see if we can kind of trigger that area to act abnormally on an EKG, or act abnormally on an echocardiogram. So that's why it's kind of really important to know the particular areas. And then we'll apply this when we get into more of the medical aspect to when we read EKGs. EKGs can theoretically point to a particular area that is infarcting, and the likely vessel to consider when you're  snaking, acatheter through these areas. But that's what makes interventional cardiologists so great, is that they can find that out when they're kind of going through the process. All right, so last thing I wanna kind of talk about is just giving another kind of really quick recap and appreciation to the dominant supply to the PDA. This is something that if you're an avid desirable cardiologist, you really wanna know the nitty gritty that sometimes you may get hit with a question about this, it's kind of important to know. So the right coronary, I'd say probably 85% of the time, it's gonna be the primary supply to the PDA. So it's gonna supply that posterior ventricle for most of the scenarios. And so that's something I think that's probably the most often, right? So if you can kind of imagine, I think a cross-section of the actual ventricles, and we can see here the right ventricle, here's the left ventricle. What we're going to appreciate is you're gonna have some blood supply. And this is looking at your kind of your interventricular arteries, like the anterior descending, which is either the left or the posterior. And so what you can appreciate here is that the right coronary is gonna give most of the supply to the right ventricle, right? It's gonna supply most of it. But in certain scenarios, that right coronary will then supply the PDA, 85% of the time. So it'll give most of the supply of that posterior wall of the right ventricle to the interventricular septum, and as you can see, even a small piece of that posterior wall to the left ventricle. So that's 85% of the time, right? Small cases, we can appreciate that it's not coming off. Look, it just, it disappeared. Now it's coming off of the left circ. So in that scenario, we can appreciate that it's left dominant. This is now left anterior descending, giving a branch like left circ. Left circ is the supply most of that lateral wall. But then it gives the PDA, which supplies the posterior wall, all of that left ventricle, septum, and then on top of that, even goes into that right posterior wall a little bit of the right ventricle. So you can appreciate that about 8% of cases, right? And then small cases like 7% of the time, it may, oh wow, look, it came off of both of them. And that's kind of a co-dominance, if you will, in that scenario where you may have the right coronary and the left circ both supplying that particular area. And so you can kind of appreciate that here with this purple, which is the overlap, all right? So those is just a little thing that if you wanna know the nitty gritty, or if by chance you see this as a question, or you're looking through the cadaver, you're like, oh dude, this is, I'm following this. This is coming off the left circ. Well, that might be one of those left dominant. Oh wow, it's coming from both. That's the co-dominance. Most of the time, you're probably gonna see it following off the right coronary to feed the PDA. All right, now, we hit the arterial circulation, which is supplying oxygenated, rich blood to the myocardium. What about whenever you perform gas exchange, you need to get blood out of the myocardium and then take it back to the right heart, where it opens up via the coronary sinus into the right atrium so it can go back to the lungs at oxygen and then go back to the left ventricle, or to fill the coronaries again. So we gotta talk about those. So the veins here, I actually like to do these in a way, it's a little bit different, where I like to think about the blood flowing along an artery, or this vessel, this vein flowing along with the big arteries. So the first one is the coronary sinus. You can see this is a big fat structure in the dorsal caudal view, it's the best way to see it. And what I like about this view is that where is it going? To the right atrium, where it's gonna empty in. So now what I wanna do is I wanna think about this tributaries, the things that are feeding into it. So let's go through that. The first one is the great cardiac vein. Some people call this the anterior interventricular vein, some people kind of make it actually separate from it. A lot of the times you can kind of consider them relatively synonymous and interchangeable. It's just where they may differ is at a point where they're kind of moving. So for example, if we really wanted to be particular, we could call this right here, the anterior interventricular vein, and as it kind of gets ready to move up here, we could call it the great cardiac. I think for simplicity's sake, most of this is the great cardiac vein. And I like to do it that way because I know that it runs with which artery? The left anterior descending artery. So that's what I prefer to call the great cardiac vein. And this is gonna take a lot of venous blood and move this wear to the coronary sinus. So it's eventually gonna take that blood from the myocardium, take it and empty it into the coronary sinus, which empties it into the right atrium. All right, that's an easy way to remember this one. What's an easy way to remember the other ones? That's kind of a similar concept here. The next thing is the small cardiac vein. The small cardiac vein you can appreciate that runs along which vessel right here, the right coronary. And so if it runs with the right coronary artery, it's gonna be kind of bringing most of the blood from that right side of the heart. And then what it's gonna do is it's gonna swoop around. So here, I'm gonna follow it and I'm gonna come back over here. Here's my small cardiac. Where is it gonna empty? Right into the coronary sinus. So we can appreciate that there. And again, it runs along the right coronary, swoops around back. And that's what I want you to think about. The middle cardiac veins, you can't see it from the ventral view, but you can see it from that dorsal caudal view. Here's the middle cardiac vein. I bet you can't guess what it runs with. You cheated. It's the posterior descending artery. And so it's gonna bring blood from that posterior portion of the heart. It's gonna run its way up, kind of combined with the small cardiac vein and empty into the coronary sinus. These are the ones I really want you to remember because these are the ones that you're probably gonna get tested on in some way shape or form. There's a lot of other small veins that you, if you wanted to go the extra mile, you could know, but these are the big ones that I want you guys to think about. There's also other ones that we can't even see. And these are called the thebesian veins. They're small little veins that if you actually look at like a picture of a myocardium and you actually pull up the thebesian veins, they're basically connecting within the myocardium. They're a small kind of like network. And what they do is, they kind of just, they don't actually run via this circuit, the small, the great, the middle, into the coronary sinus. They actually just empty blood from a myocardial circuit directly into the actual like cavity, the left ventricular chamber, the right ventricular chamber, the lumen. And so those are small structures. I don't wanna go into that right here, but just do remember there is some small little veins. If they ever ask you, hey, what are the veins that don't actually directly, what are the veins that directly empty into the actual heart chambers? I want you to remember thebesian veins. All right, cool. Let's now talk about the conduction system. The only way that the heart actually truly is able to contract is if we can send electrical signals from the top of the heart to the bottom of the heart and it has to work in a nice sequence. So we should know that sequence. The first thing is the SA node. And that's why it gets a good blood supply. And if it's not, it's gonna start actually having dysfunction and then it's not gonna be able to send those paces that we want. So really important structure. It sends a lot of electrical signals. It can send it to the left atrium via a bundle called the Bachmann's bundle. So that's how it gets signals to the left atrium. It also then travels through all of these like little interconnecting pathways into the AV node. The AV node is the electrical window, if you will, between the atria and the ventricle. How does it connect to the ventricle? It connects to the ventricles by going and running through the septum and what's called the bundle of hiss. The bundle of hiss then sends the electrical signals down the interventricular septum where it then has to get ready to move into the right ventricle and into the left ventricle. So then we have to split that bundle up into the right bundle branch and then to the left bundle branch, also called the towarah branches. I like right and left. Then from here, we need to get this then go and then deliver it to different parts of the myocardium and projections like the papillary muscles, et cetera. So what do we need to deliver that final signal? That's your Purkinje fibers. So this is the normal way that the electrical signal should flow from the atria down into the ventricle. So then we can have everything kind of working as a syncytium. We want it to all contract properly. Now we can appreciate with this electrical signal if it's being sent in a very proper way and it's following a normal flow. The benefit of that is that the atria should then generate the signal to depolarize and then contract and that will give you a wave called the P wave. Then what happens, the electrical signal then sit in the AV node for a very small short time and that's gonna be this kind of PR interval, the timeframe where it's kind of just sitting there and it's getting ready to go down into the ventricles. Then the electrical signal will move down into the ventricles and it'll cause the ventricles to depolarize and that's called the QRS complex. And then what happens is usually during the QRS complex the atria should be kind of like repolarizing but you can't see it. It's hidden within the QRS complex. But we can see the ventricles repolarize and that's when it goes into what's called the T wave. So we can appreciate these electrical signals and sequences because they give us real time electrical activity of the heart that we can use to interpret if there's any pathology. So you can appreciate here that P wave, the QRS complex and the T wave. It's the electrical signal of the heart. That's such a great thing because we can identify if there is any pathology along the way. And again, without going too far in detail, if you see some abnormalities in the P wave you start thinking about something going on within the atria. If you think about some abnormalities in the QRS complex you think about something going on with the ventricles and then depolarizing. If you see the T wave abnormalities you start thinking about something going on with the ventricles repolarizing. That's what I want you to start thinking about. Let's now move into the innervation of the heart. Let's talk about the nerves that are also gonna supply the heart extrinsically. What does that mean? Well, these nerves aren't necessary. If I cut these nerves that we're gonna talk about the supplies the heart, it's not gonna change the way the heart beats intrinsically. That intrinsic activity of the heart is dependent upon what we just talked about. The SA node, the AV node, the bundle of his, the bundle branches of the Brickinji system. It's such a cool system that that structure can supply the heart on its own. It has the ability to intrinsically depolarize the heart and then cause the heart to contract. But let's say that you in certain scenarios where you needed to be able to change the way that the heart depolarizes faster or slower and you needed to increase the contractility of the heart, that's critical. And so that's why we have innervation that is autonomic in origin, meaning that it can be parasympathetic and sympathetically controlled. So when I talk about this, let's kinda get into the two divisions. You have what's called the sympathetic division and this is gonna be via what's called that cardiac plexus. We need to know which area of the cord is controlling the heart. And that's usually gonna be T1 to T5. So what happens is your sympathetic nervous system is really modulated by your medulla. There's something called the cardiac acceleratory center and that cardiac acceleratory center, it's sending signals down. And it sends signals down to the spinal cord where it kinda synapses in like the lateral gray horn via T1 to T5. And then those pre-synaptic neurons move out into the ganglia. And there's a bunch of different ganglia, like the superior, the middle, and the inferior cervical ganglia that then send these signals out via these sympathetic cardiac nerves, we call the cardiac plexus, if you will, that then goes to particular areas of the heart. It can supply the assay node, as you can see here. It can supply the AV node, as you see here, and it can supply the ventricular myocardium, the part of the myocardium that doesn't send signals. It's the parts that contract, that's all they do. They don't depolarize intrinsically. And so if you think about that, if it can control the assay node, the AV node, and the myocardium that contracts, what do you think could happen? Well, sympathetic likes to speed everything up and just make everything more intense. So it's going to increase the heart rate and it's going to increase contractility. All of these things are designed to be able to increase your stroke volume, your cardiac output, your blood pressure, and that is why it's really critical to know that, all right? The parasympathetic, on the other hand, it wants to slow things down. It doesn't intrinsically control contractility, but we have in the medulla what's called the dorsal nucleus of vagus, and that's controlled by this cardiac inhibitory center. The cardiac inhibitory center really, really controls that dorsal motor nucleus of vagus, which then, this nerve, it can send really long preganglionic motor neurons out, where it then synapses on these actual kind of cell bodies, which these are going to be your postganglionic motor neurons. These are really, really short, and they primarily only terminate in the SA node, the AV node. Can you appreciate how it doesn't really work on the myocardium? So because of that, what's the primary thing you would expect it to do? Parasympathetics like, chill, bro, I want to slow things down. So it's going to decrease heart rate. It really shouldn't affect contractility. And so I think that's a cool thing to remember because what we'll talk about as you get into medicine is drugs that can augment the activity, or if there's disease processes that occur that increase the activity of the sympathetic, and or increase the activity of the parasympathetic, or vice versa. So it's critical to know how drugs or pathology can alter these pathways. But also know that the heart isn't completely dependent upon the extrinsic innervation to allow for it to modulate the activity of the heart. All right, one other thing that I think is just kind of good knowledge to have an appreciation of is that visceral fibers, so visceral apharons, they basically pick up sensation from, as you know, visceral organs. So for example, if a patient had an MI and that MI causes necrosis of tissue, visceral apharons that are kind of around this will pick up the signal. And then it travels along the sympathetic pathway. And so what happens is the reason why I say this is this may cause something called referred pain. So if a patient develops a myocardial infarction, sometimes they can have referred pain. It may refer to like their jaw, it may refer to their neck, it may refer to their arm, and I think that's an important thing to remember. And with that, the myocardium is supplied by a lot of these structures that we talked about. But the pericardium has a nice good supply that comes from the phrenic nerve. And that's why when patients experience something like pericarditis, it's actually really important to remember this, it can cause that shoulder pain. So the phrenic nerve is supposed to supply the diaphragm, that's its primary function, but its nerves do run through the pericardium, so it gives off branches to the pericardium. And so sometimes that's important that if you develop pericarditis, it can irritate the phrenic nerve, which may cause some referred type of pain, particularly to the shoulder or the trapezius areas, what we kind of like to say. All right, now I wanna kind of finish this up with appreciating how blood flows through the heart, because I think it's a nice way of kind of ending off and appreciating how this amazing little organ can do so much. So let's start by kind of recapping with the deoxygenated circuit. Do you guys remember the three vessels? I know you do. The supravenicava, infirvenicava, coronary sinus, those are the three guys, or grouse, that empty into the right atrium. It's just they bring blood from different areas. Superior vena cava is above the diaphragm, infirvenicava below the diaphragm, coronary sinus from the myocardium. They all empty into the right atrium. Woo wee! Now from the right atrium, where does it gotta go? It's only gonna move one way. And from here, we're gonna move it down into the right ventricle through the tricuspid valve. Once we're in the right ventricle, we then are gonna contract the right ventricle. And then we're gonna send that blood up via the conus arteriosus up through what's this valve, the pulmonary semilunar valve, up into the pulmonary trunk. From the pulmonary trunk, it's then gonna divert into the right and left pulmonary arteries. From there, it's gonna go to the capillaries, undergo gas exchange at the alveoli, and come back to the left heart via the, which structure? The pulmonary veins. The pulmonary veins are then going to empty the blood. How many? Four. Two right, two left. Empty the blood into the left atrium. The left atrium is then gonna have blood move down through, what's the structure? The bicuspid or the mitral valve into the left ventricle. From the left ventricle, the left ventricle will contract and push blood up through the aortic semilunar valve into the aorta. And then from the aorta, there's two circuits. One goes to blood all over the place to your head and all the way down to your little toe. But then the other one is it's gotta go to the coronary circulation. So we're gonna have the systemic circulation, which supplies blood if we'll go via these vessels. You see these here, which is your brachiosophallic, your left comic carotid, your left sublaving. This is gonna supply most of the structures of the head, the neck, the upper extremities. And then what's gonna happen is we're gonna move down via the descending that's gonna give blood to the thorax. You're gonna have structures in the abdomen with the abdomally aorta. It's then gonna bifurcate, move down to the lower extremities. It's gonna supply so many areas, but we can't forget about those little vessels that come right off of the base. And what are those? You got it, the coronary arteries and they're gonna supply the myocardium. You see how we kind of brought this full circle. And the last thing that you can appreciate is that sometimes we're gonna get chest x-rays a lot as clinicians. And as we look at the heart, there's always something that you wanna do as you go through a systematic read. And that's for another video. I won't go through that. But I think that the nice appreciation of a chest x-ray is you can see here a lot of the times what kind of identifies maybe potential abnormalities. So we can see here what's called the right heart border. And we can see the left heart border. The reason why we mention that is that whenever you have a pacification or a loss of distinction of those borders, it could mean something is going on in the lung, sometimes pneumonia, masses, et cetera. On top of that, if that right border is bulging out more, it might mean right atrial enlargement. If the left ventricle is bulging out here, it could be left ventricular hypertrophy. There's a lot of things, right? So that's why it's important to identify this and you may then need to do something else. The other thing is you can appreciate this little bump here called the pulmonary artery, isn't that cute? And then with that, you can appreciate this aortic knuckle, which is kind of giving you where the aorta is. It's like a poor man's hand diagram, if you will, where the aortic arch is getting ready to kind of turn and getting ready to move down and behind the heart. And I think that's kind of the big things to appreciate in all of what the x-ray can kind of give you of the basic anatomy. And the reason why I say that is, in patients who experience maybe enlargement of this pulmonary artery, the pulmonary artery, potentially hypertension, that vessel can get big and it can cause enlargement there. You may see that. Aortic dissections or aneurysms may cause enlargement of this portion, which then widens out what appears to be the mediastinum. And that's why it's really critical to know just not only the anatomy of the heart when it comes to looking at it in a cadaver, looking at it on images like an illustration, but also appreciating it on diagnostic images and how it can be utilized to help our patients. All right, my friends, let's take a look at the right atrium. So we look here, we got the opening of the supravena cava. We got the good old opening of the inferior vena cava. We're gonna take a look at the anterior wall of the right atrium, and we're gonna appreciate the pectinate muscles. And then looking along the medial wall, you're gonna see that septum where the fossa ovalises. If we kind of take a good look here, we see the opening or the osteum of the coronary sinus where it empties into the right atrium. And let's now move through the actual tricuspid valve. You can see the cordate tendon here on the sides. You can see the good old papillary muscles. You see all this rigid, trabiculate carnaig. Oh, look at that. Good old pulmonary semilunar valve as we rush our way in to what? That pulmonary trunk. We get another view here, and we can see a good look at the pulmonary semilunar valve as we appreciate right here from multiple different views. Now, we can also see from the left side, we have the pulmonary veins that empty in to the good old left atrium. We can see the septum there with that fossa valus as well. And then we're rushing our way down through the tricuspid valve from the left atrium into the left ventricle. And we see the cordate tendon. We see all these big papillary muscles. Again, all those rigid, trabiculate carnaig. And there it is, the aortic semilunar valve that I'm gonna rush my way in to the base of the aorta. At the base, look what we see here. We see the ostea of the coronary arteries, the right and left ones. So let's move into the coronary arteries. We can appreciate off of the right coronary artery, there's a big branch called the marginal artery or the acute marginal artery. As we move posteriorly, we then move into this next branch here called the posterior descending artery. And you can also see off the left side, the left coronary, you got the left cirque. Again, appreciating that left coronary, we have two vessels here, the anterior and ventricular artery. And again, we also have a diagonal branch of it. Skidding a little bit more about lateral view, you can see the circumflex artery, that left circumflex. And we can appreciate another branch called the left marginal obtuse. This is good look at the actual veins that are around the heart. We can see the coronary sinus, that's the structure that empties into the right atrium. We have one vessel called the middle cardiac vein and that empties there. And then also we have the anterior interventricular vein which eventually becomes the great cardiac vein and that empties into the coronary sinus. All right, from here, if we take a nice look here, we can see a separation between the ventricles, the interventricular septum and the atria, the interatrial septum. And then if we wanna take another view, we can actually appreciate how thick the septum is and also the differences in thickness between the right ventricle and the left ventricle. Man, I really hope that you guys liked this video. Our team, Mirna, who really worked so hard on this, did such a great job animating it. If you guys can give her a shout out in the comments, she is an amazing animator and she did all the work here. I just presented it. So, man, I really hope that you guys liked this video. I hope that you learned a lot. I hope you kinda had fun along the way. Man, I'm just so thankful. I love you guys. I thank you guys. And as always, my friends, until next time.