What's up ninjers? In this video today, we're going to be talking about anti-platlets, anti-coagulants, and thrombolytics. Again, this is a part of our clinical medicine section. If you guys like this video, makes sense, helps you, please support us. You can do that by hitting the like button, commenting on the comment section, or subscribing. Also, do yourself a favor. Go down the description box below, click on the link. Do it now. Did you do it? All right, good. Now, go to our website. on our website. If you become a member, you'll have access to notes, illustrations, quiz questions, and even some exam prep courses that we're making. So, go check it out. All right, let's get into it. All right, so let's start this off talking about antiplatlet medications. Big thing to remember, antiplatlets are really good at inhibiting platelet aggregation. That's their primary goal, which basically prevents the clot from getting bigger. They don't break down a clot. Um, they just help to prevent clots as well as prevent the clots from getting bigger. Now, let's think about this. When you talk about antipllet medications, there's a couple different groups. The big one, the heavy hitter is aspirin. Aspirin is super common. The reason why when we think about aspirin uh you know pllets whenever they're either activated because of damage to the endothelium or uh they just stick to the platelet um the pllet stick to the endothelium for undesirable reasons when they do they have to tell other platelets to become activated and stick to it which makes this platelet plug get bigger. So what they do is they release things like thromboxin A2 uh ADP and another one called serotonin five hydroxyryptamine. Now once these pllets are activated they'll release these cytoines and these cytoines will come here and act on these pllet stimulate them and then make this platelet plug get bigger we don't want that right and we would also like like to give the pllets and activated in general so what I'm going to do is I'm going to give aspirin and it's going to inhibit thromboxin too and what that's going to do is that's going to inhibit pllet activation and therefore pllet aggregation so it's going to inhibit pllet aggregation that's my whole goal and also I would like to inhibit the platelets from becoming active and sticking to the endthelial lining in general. All right, so that's my goal. So when I think about this, how does it actually do this inhibit thoroxin A2? Well, you know, inside of the platelet here, we have a molecule. It is called aracha donic acid. Arachidonic acid is eventually metabolized into a bunch of different prostaglandins, which we often times abbreviate PG, right? There's PG I2, E2, H2, G2, all these different things. Really good for inflammation, good for fevers, right? The other one is thromboxin A2, which we're going to represent as TX A2. When we go through this pathway, all right, and there's other ones, lucatryins. When we go through this pathway, raidonic acid is metabolized um via an enzyme called cylo oxygenase. And the cycle oxygenase enzyme will help to catalyze this step. So we're going to put COX. Keep your minds clear, right? So there's COX one and there's COX 2. What happens is is COX will help to stimulate this process to convert arachidonic acid into prostaglandins and thromboxin A2. When you give aspirin that inhibits this enzyme which prevents this process, right? And so what happens is you get less prostaglandon production and less thromboxin A2 production. The benefit here is thromboxin A2 is for platelet aggregation. Prostag glands. We'll talk about this later. But these are supposed to promote inflammation and fever. So guess what you'll get from this? Just as a side note, that's why we use aspirin for this as well. You'll get a decrease in fever and a decrease in pain. So decrease in fever and really what we say is inflammation which may cause pain. So it can act as an anti-inflammatory and can also act as an antiparatic and as well as am inhibiting platelet aggregation. So an antipllet. So think about this thromboxin 2 it's supposed to be released from these platelets right to go and signal to other platelets. So now we're making less of it. If I make less of it what's going to happen? Well here's another platelet. Thromboxin A2 is supposed to come over here and act on these receptors. And when they act on these receptors, it triggers an intracellular mechanism which is supposed to help the expression. Where's my pink marker here? Here we go. This pink marker is going to represent what's called GP2B 3A. You're like, what the heck? That's a heck of a name. And then normally what should happen is you have platelets. They want to stick to one another, right? In order for them to stick to one another, they need that GP2B3A protein there. Thromboxin A2 goes on acts on this receptor triggers an intracellular mechanism which is supposed to help to phosphorolate these um uh generally will help in the basically in the there's what's called a intracellular pathway where will lead to cyclic AMP and protein kinases normally you phosphorolate them what happens is you actually want these to be in the active state so you don't want them to be phosphorolated and so that would make them active so what you're trying to do is is get these GP2B 3A to be active. You want to activate it, right? Once they're active, what happens is there's a protein in our circulation called fibbrronogen, which is supposed to stick between this GP2B3A from platelet one and this GP2B3A from platelet number two. And when they stick, that's how you get this big platelet plug. If I give thromboxin A2, what it's going to do is I mean if I give aspirin, it inhibits thromboxin A2. Now I have less signaling to activate the GP2B3A. This signaling will be shut down. The GP2B3A will remain inactive. Will I be able to allow these platelets to stick to one another now and form a pllet plug? No. And this will no longer stick. And that's how we inhibit this. Tell me that's not cool, right? All right, that's aspirin. Let's go to the next step here. Next one is a P2 Y12 blocker. There's actually a bunch of these little sons of guns. There's um most common one is going to be Clpidigil. I say we use this one a lot. Plavix. Another one I actually prefer is Tyagrore, also known as Berenta. And then you have another one called Prugil. I have to add out all of these. is the pursugal is the one that um so generally all of these are kind of like what we'd say blood thinners. Uh this one is probably has the highest bleeding risk out of the P2 whitel blockers. When we get these medications again what you're thinking about is how do they work? Well, when pllets stick to the endthelial lining, they release again what other chemicals throxine A2, ADP, serotonin, right? So, we'll go back serotonin. We'll go back. Thromoxin A2 and then we have ADP. Guess which ones these block? They don't necessarily block the synthesis of ADP. What they do is they inhibit the action of ADB. So let's actually only focus on that one. They inhibit the action of ADP on these platelets. So ADPs are supposed to come over here and act on these platelets. Guess what? We're going to inhibit that. We're going to inhibit the interaction of ADP on the platelets. If you do that, you inhibit platelet aggregation. You inhibit these pllets from becoming activated and sticking to the other platelets. You're going to prevent the platelet from getting bigger. So you're going to inhibit platelet aggregation. That's pretty cool. Right now, how exactly? All right. Here's your ADP released from a platelet. It'll go over here, act on this platelet, right? And there's a receptor here. And this receptor is called the P2Y12 receptor. That's what these little puppies are right here. Pop and pop. When you give ADP, ADP is supposed to act on the P2Y12 receptor. It's going to activate it. When you activate it, it should intracellularly work to do what? What it's going to try and do is it's going to increase. It wants to activate the GP2B3A. So, it'll send signals that'll hopefully do what? increase the expression or or activation of GP 2B3A. That's his goal. So it would increase the expression of this. So let's say here's that platelet that got activated, right? ADP hit it. It would express GP2B3A. Let's say this one was also ADP hit it. It would work intracellularly increase the expression of GP2B3A. Now, if I naturally, here's my GP 2B3A. My GP 2B3 A. Same thing over here. GP 2B 3A. These are all those proteins. This naturally when ADP hits it, it stimulates this pathway, right? So, naturally wants to stimulate this and turn this into the active form, right? When you give a P2 Y12 blocker, guess what they do? A P2 Y12 blocker blocks at the P2 Y12 receptor. When they block this receptor, they're no longer going to stimulate this intracellular pathway. They're going to inhibit this intracellular pathway. They're no longer going to keep the GP2B3A in an active state. It'll now be inactive. If this is inactive, is it going to be able to allow for a connection between fibbrronogen between this platelet and this platelet? No. And so this interaction will be inhibited. So these pllets won't stick to one another. You won't be able to make a platelet plug. Do you see why that's cool? Because you're inhibiting platelet plugs and you're also inhibiting them from getting bigger. That is the cool concept about these. Now it's also important to know um clipril is one of those drugs where it is metabolized via the liver. So let's say here I have the liver and clipitigril is metabolized by that right there's an enzyme uh let's represent this enzyme here in like blue. So here's my enzyme and here's going to be my clipil. So clipigril is metabolized via this cyp2c 19 from a inactive. So we'll put this as inactive or into like an active form, right? And so it has to get metabolized via this enzyme. Some people have polymorphisms in this enzyme. And so some people you may have a hyperactivity of this enzyme. and they'll metabolize and they'll be really good responders to the drug and you have other people who have decreased activity to this enzyme, right? And they'll be underresponders and that's why it's really important. So when patients who have what's called CYP2C19, so if patient has a CYP2C19 polymorphism, meaning that they have different activities of this enzyme, what you have to do is is you have to check a P2Y12 level. So, you always should check a P2 Y12 level. If that P2 Y12 level is high, it tells me the patient is a underresponder. They're not inhibiting that P2 Y12. You shouldn't keep giving them that drug. They're at high risk of forming a thrombus. And if their P2Y12 level is low, if their P2 Y12 level is low, that means they're a hyper respponder and that means they're responding very well to the drug, but they do potentially carry a slight higher risk of bleeding. And so that's an important concept to understand is that some people have this polymorphism. You check the P2Y12 level to see where do they fall in that. Is it a normal range, good responder, hyperresponder, or underresponder? That's the importance of knowing that and uh ticular doesn't have to go through this process and that's what makes him a little bit more attractive is that if a patient has a hyper under response you can give toagelar because it's not dependent upon that process. The next one is your GP2B3A inhibitors. There's a couple of these. So there's going to be what's called absomab. There is another one called tyro fibin. And I'd say this one I see uh commonly is epiba tai. This is really testing my spelling ability today. So, these drugs are cool, man. I really like these because what they do is remember the platelets, right? They're secretreting all those things like the ADP, the serotonin, the thromboxin 2. All those things are getting uh released from the platelets to go and like tell other platelets to come by, right? These are all intact. These are fine. You're not inhibiting these. What you're actually going to be inhibiting is remember this thing here, the GP2B3A. That's what you're inhibiting. you're inhibiting the connection. So if you think about it, it kind of goes back here. When you look at the platelet, it has a bunch of different receptors, right? If you really wanted to think about it, it has what's called a GP1B. These are important for connecting with um this is your GP 1B. This is important for connecting between platelets and bon factor. We can just annotate that. But the other one that's important between connecting from platelet to platelet is the GP2B3A. So here's your GP 2B 3A protein and what's supposed to connect between those is the fibbrronogen. So here's your fibbrronogen which is a coagulation protein that's normally going to allow the plates to stick to one another and form a plug. If I give a GP2B3A inhibitor, guess what they're doing? They're blocking this. They're going to directly inhibit this completely. There's no interaction intracellularly. There's nothing anything at all to do with the cycle oxygenase pathway. nothing to do with the P2Y12 receptor. It just literally goes right to the source. All of these inhibit the active state of GP2B3A. This one just goes straight and blocks GP2B3A at its source. Now, if that happens, you can't have these pllets aggregate. If they can't aggregate, you're not going to be able to make that platelet plug. So, that's the concept. Now, these are really, really strong medications. I'd say they carry out of all of these the highest bleeding risk. So when you think about this, it's really important to know that high bleeding risk with these. When you take all of these and you compare like which one of these would potentially give me the highest bleeding risk, this would be the one. Now with that being said, it also makes it one of the most potent antiplatlet medications. We don't always give this and we'll talk about when. But there is patients who are high risk and that's when we would consider this medication. And we'll talk about that a little more in the algorithm as well as when we get to the indications. All right. So your PD3 inhibitors are going to be including silostool and diyetamol. Now I would say for these they're not commonly utilized. I'd say if anything sales we'll talk about where it's actually kind of utilized. I I'll give you a little sneak peek. We kind of use it in people who have pad uh with like claudication. So like pain uh in their their calf muscles usually when they like walk up hills or they get some exertional activity. uh diarrheital ah we use it maybe in stress testing um and so that's something that you actually we'll talk about how it actually does that but in general uh it's kind of unfortunate we have to do a just a quick dive I promise just a quick little dive into the intracellular pathway so there's an enzyme in this pathway that's actually kind of critical and it's called phosphodieststerase 3 and it kind of keeps uh some checks and balances if you will on this pathway so what is this pathway uh you know there's an enzyme inside of all these cells. That's called adenolate cylace. You're like, "Oh my gosh, we're doing this crap, huh?" This guy converts adenolate cylace into cyclic AMP. Cyclic AMP activates what's called protein kinases, especially like protein kynis A. And that turns a molecule which we call VASP into the phospholated form, right? Which is that that's what a protein kinus does. They phosphorolate things. And so this is kind of the steps that we get here. And then this phosphorolated VASP protein what it does is naturally naturally it goes and uh acts on another protein which is called GP2B3A. Here's the thing when this VASP is in this state it's kind of like inactive if you will and so it's not able to kind of keep these GP2B3As in their active state. And so what I want you to remember is that these naturally help to do what to the GP 2B3A? Well, you use like a negative sign here that it keeps it kind of slightly inhibited. All right, PTE3 inhibitor, I mean PD3 actually works here and what it does is it degrades cyclic AMP. So now think about this. This pathway normally is trying to inhibit GP3B3A. This enzyme keeps your checks and balances. So it inhibits cyclic AMP. If I inhibit cyclic AMP, I end up with lower levels. I end up with less protein kynise A and I end up with less of the phosphorolated form which keeps this now in what? In a stimulated state. So that's how you get your checks and balances. If I give an inhibitor of this enzyme, this enzyme is going to be inhibited. I give salosol. I give diarrital. If that's the case, this is no longer breaking down cyclic AMP. So what's going to happen? Well, I can kind of say in a way I'm stimulating this pathway instead. And so instead, I'm not going to break down cyclic AMP. I'm going to cause him to build up. That means that my kinases build up. That means this pathway is catalyzed. And that means that this VASP is really really allowing the GP2B3A to be in a hyperinhibited state. And now this puppy is inhibited like a son of a gun. If I can't activate him, he's in his inactive form. This is a problematic scenario as we've seen because now this platelet here is under the effect of a phosphodeststerase inhibitor and this one here is under the effect of a phosphodeststerase inhibitor. These aren't even working. So you throw a fibbrronogen in here, it don't matter, bruh, what's going to happen? These things aren't going to allow for the activity and the clicking of pllets and the aggregation to occur. That's where we get this inhibition of platelet aggregation. But there's something else. So here you're going to get here you're going to get the antiplatlet effect right that's kind of cool right you get that anti-platelet effect but we you probably are thinking like dude I don't really see when I use these there's an important thing to remember PD3 inhibitors they not only um um represent like this right so PD3 and I'll just do it like this I'll at least start with a little abbreviation these also work on smooth muscle when they work on smooth muscle, they do the same kind of process. And so in smooth muscle, especially in our blood vessels, it causes them to relax, right? If these muscles relax, what will that do to the uh diameter of the vessel? Make it big, baby. That puppy going to dilate. You get some visod dilation. Now, if that vaso dilates, what would that be beneficial in? If I get an anti-platlet effect and a vasoddilation effect, you know what this could be really good in? It could be good in a disease where there's plaques in the vessel and there also little flow. This would really be a good scenario where we could consider this in P A. So we'll give it in patients who have P A but particularly they have claudication. What the heck is claudication again? They got pain whenever they exert themselves because what happens is the muscles need more oxygen. They're not getting it because they have a plaque and you're going to prevent that plaque from actually causing a thrombus but also you're going to vasoddilate those vessels to increase the flow. So it help to get more oxygen to the muscles. That's the time where we'll use salosol dipol. We primarily give this drug because of the vasoddilation effect that you get in the coronary vessels. So it's good in stress testing. All right. Nonetheless, we've talked about that one briefly. I want to focus on these. So in patients who we actually give this medication to um it's really good in patients who have aththeroscllerotic cardiovascular disease. So let's say a patient has a past history, they've had a stroke, right? So it's really what I would like to say is we utilize it in secondary secondary prevention primarily. And what that means is is they have let's say in the past they had a plaque that plaque fissured. When it fissured guess what decided to happen? Plus were hanging around and they started sticking. And when they stuck they ended up causing a clot. When they clotted off that vessel now what do you do? You reduce blood supply. And as you reduce blood supply, you reduce oxygen supply to particular tissues. And one of those most common tissues, the heart, the brain, and the lower extremities. As a result, a patient could get maybe coronary artery disease. They could develop a stroke or they could develop peripheral artery disease in their leg. When this happens, they event they develop these complications. Right? So in other words, they have a history. So what I mean is they had a prior CAD, CVA or P A. You want to prevent the next event. You want you don't want them to get another MI. You don't want them to get another stroke. You don't want them to get limb eskemia. And so that's when you'll give aspirin. And so generally we like to do aspirin 81 milligrams. And I'm going to abbreviate that ASA. We like to do 81 milligrams. And what that's going to do is prevent future em thrombotic events because what are you going to do? You're going to keep aspirin in there and guess what that's going to do? That's going to inhibit platelet aggregation. The platelets won't stick and if they do stick, they won't continue to stick with other platelets. So that's the cool concept here. So it's really important to use this as a preventative. There is scenarios in high-risisk patients where we'll do it as a primary prevention. So the only time that we actually do like primary prevention, so primary prevention is in a patient who has a high risk um so they have super super high risk of these events happening but they didn't develop clinical events. What the heck does that mean? You do a calculation on MD calc the atheroscatic cardiovascular disease risk if that over a 10-year period is greater than equal to 7.5%. Then you can do aspirin or ASA at 81 milligrams daily to prevent them from developing events like CAD, strokes and limousia. Okay. So aspirin is really the big one here for aththeroscardic cardiovascular disease prevention. Do I I don't use any of the other ones? No. Now, if a patient has a intolerance to aspirin, they develop like weird allergic reactions or something else, you could use a P2Y12 blocker, but that's not often too common. All right, acute coronary syndrome really important. Here we have a coronary plaque ruptured, you develop a thrombus. That thrombus does what? Reduces O2 supply, baby. You reduce that O2 supply to the mioardium. What's going to happen? was going to be pissed. I tell you that much. And it can start to develop eskeeia. Worst case scenario, you infarked. All right? Now, you don't fart, you infar. So, this is important to remember depending upon the degree of eskeeia um or the severity of thrombosis can determine if you have something like unstable anga, and STEMI or STEMI. Right? So that unstable anga is eskemia to the mioardium usually the bottom layer with no tropponent elevation. N STEMI is infar of the bottom layer in a tropponent elevation. And then STEMI is going to be infarct of the entire layer of the meioard myioardium transmural and a troponent spike right ST elevation ST depressions. When this happens and you see these patients and they come in with ripping tearing chest uh the not tearing chest pain the chest pain that's heavy right then what do you do first thing we do is we give aspirin 325 mg then we add on a P2Y12 blocker and usually this is a load um clipil maybe 300 600 milligrams or you can give um teagalore The next one is you add on IV Heperin and usually this is unfractionated hepin. These will be given to the patient as an initial therapy. What you're doing is you're giving these medications to try to inhibit that clot from getting any bigger. That is your goal. You want to give these to inhibit the clot from getting any bigger. You want to inhibit pllet aggregation, inhibit secondary hemostasis. Give yourself time because guess what you're going to do with these patients eventually? You're going to take them to the Kath lab and you're going to do a PCI, perccutaneous coronary intervention. And the hopeful goal is is that this patient will likely end up with a vascular stent. Oh, that's kind of cool how we like that. I got you, bro. So, we load them up with this triple therapy, get them to the cath lab, clean out the clot, and then put in a stent. So, now we've cleaned out the clot. Look, the clot's gone. You see that? We got rid of it. Now, one other thing, Zach, you talked about GP2B3A inhibitors. Do I ever do that here? Do I ever give it? Not too often. Now, what we may do is you may consider adding on like if they're going to the Kath lab, you could do a plus or minus GP2B 3 A inhibitor. I'm just going to add in an inhibitor. This is the one time where you could do it. Let's say that a patient comes in, they get, "Oh my gosh, chest pain, bro. Chest pain." They go to the Kath lab, they get loaded up with these medications. They're in the kath lab, they're trying to get rid of this clot, they got a big stinking clot. You may give that one. Another one is they get rid of the clot, but the flow afterwards, it's not good. Or they put the stent in and you claw off the stent. So bailout therapy may be a good one, but it's not too often that we give this one, but in certain scenarios it may be given to go along with that for that vascular stent. So once we've put once we've cleaned out the clot, we're going to we're going to balloon open the vessel and we're going to put the stent in and it's going to help to establish good flow. Your goal is is you don't want to get sten thrombosis. So my goal here is to prevent sten thrombosis. That is that's the the primary goal. I want to keep this thing Payton baby. So how do I do such a thing? Well again if you're in the actual interventional suite the may that what you may have to do this may be when you add on that GP 2B 3A and I just want to write it here. It's primarily as a bailout therapy and again just so that you know what this means when you go back and refer to it. What I'm telling you is you're in the vascular suite, you've already given these medications, you open up the vessel and it reclots or you get poor flow. Give this drug. It may help out. All right, that's really the only time. But after after the stent's been placed, we don't give that drug. What do we do then? Get rid of the hepin. Now, what you're going to do is is you're going to put them on aspirin. 81 milligrams plus what else? A P2Y 12 blocker. And you're going to do this for about 12 months. The whole goal is is you're doing it to give time for this the endothelium to kind of line that stent because you don't want them to not have that because once they endothelialize that stent, you're good. But you got to give them time to do that. So this helps to prevent thrombosis in that time frame. Then after 12 months, so post 12 months, guess what? You go on to prevent the stem from thrombosing in the future, but that doesn't usually happen. It's more preventing aosclloratic cardiovascular events, aspirin. Then it's just aspirin. 81 milligrams until they are six feet under, right? And not in a bad way. I don't mean that but like hopefully they live a long and and fruitful life where they don't have any of these events but that's the concept. So you see here how we can utilize these medications. They come in hey man I got a history aspirin. If you have these history uh my risk is high aspirin. I don't want you to develop these events. You develop an event especially acute coronary triple therapy as we talked about here but you're going to see this one and this one. Hepin add on here sometimes. Really the only time we add it on for the acute coronary is if they didn't get this or it's not working fast enough. Then they get to the vascular suite. They go clear out the clot. After they clear out the clot, if it reinosis or you get poor flow, give this one. If it's good, give them something to prevent that stem from thrombosing in the future. These two after the 12 months, then continue aspirin. All right, my friends, we covered that. Now, let's move on anticoagulants. All right, so now we're going to move into the anti-coagulant medications. So, these are really helpful at again preventing the clots from getting bigger. They don't necessarily inhibit platelets. So they're not designed to inhibit pilot aggregation and the primary hemostatic kind of plug. They inhibit the secondary hemostatic plug, right? So that formation of the fibbrin mesh, but they still help to prevent the clot from getting bigger or propagating as we would say. So we have to talk about these particularly discussing the coagulation cascade first. So if you guys remember we have an intrinsic pathway and an exttrinsic pathway. So when we talk about these I want you guys to not go too crazy because we talk about this in the coagulation cascade in hemostasis but intrinsic pathway do you guys remember in order which ones we're talking about here it always starts with factor 12 right and then factor 12 will become activated when it gets in contact with a negatively charged playlist surface that then will go and activate what factor 11 and then factor 11 when it becomes activated it goes and activates what factor 9 and then factor 9 when it's activated will combine with factor 8 and that combination will lead to what hopefully converting factor 10 from an inactive form into an active form. That's the whole goal is so that this intrinsic pathway will lead to what? The conversion of factor 10 into the active form. Right? That's the common pathway. Now the exttrinsic pathway is really looking specifically at what? At tissue factor. Now tissue factor is released by injured endothelium. And whenever it's or whenever you have an injured endothelium, it helps to really help the activation of tissue factor which is really factor three. And then factor 3 combines with the activated factor 7, right? And factor 7 and three, what do they do? They help as well. They converge onto a common pathway to convert factor 10 into the activated form. Right? So I like to remember intrinsic is 12 11 98. And I like to remember exttrinsic pathway is 3 and 7. Now 3 and 7 give you 10. And then for 12 11 9 8 you're skipping 10. The next part here is in order for the activated factor 10 to lead to the formation of thromben because you know thrombin is in the pro-throen state and then it has to go into the active state. So this is my thromben. I need the presence of factor 10. But I also need the presence of another factor here which is factor 5 a. and factor 5A is formed by the presence of thromben. Now when these two form they lead to that process and then thromben is essential for what? Converting fibbrinogen which is this one factor one here into one a which is fibbrin. You have to remember that fibbrinogen is kind of just like monomers and then fibbrin is a bunch of those fibbrronogen monomers polymerized together to make one big fibbrin strand. But this process is heavily dependent upon thrombin. And then what happens is thrombin helps to catalyze the cross-linking. And so eventually there'll be another process here where we'll need another factor. I'm just going to mention him briefly. It's dependent upon factor 13. And that's really where a thrombin helps to activate this one. So then we get this like cross- linked fibbrin. The whole concept here is that that cross-link fibbrin you already had the platelet plug. So the platelets will start sticking release ADP thromboxin A2 serotonin cause more platelets to come over and they stick to the other plates. How? GP23A that's formed primary heistatic plug is formed. You led to this pathway leading to fibbrin mesh. That fibbrin mesh will then anchor that down and that's how you get the secondary hemostasis. Right? And so that's why you'll get a secondary hemoasis. What we did before with all the anti-platelets is we were inhibiting primary hemostasis. Here you're inhibiting secondary hemostasis by giving anti-coagulants. And that's how you're going to get thrombosis. Right? We want to prevent that plug, that thrombus from getting bigger. So how do we do that? All right. Watch this. Hepin is a very commonly utilized drug. We use a lot. Okay, one of them is unfractionated heperin. Unfractionated hepin is really good. It's got a short halflife. Uh, one of those medications that is good to allow for ease of titration. So, one of the benefits of unfractionated Hepinim is that you have it can be used in a titration. All right? So, we can use it as an infusion because it has such a short half-life. So, it's great as a titrating medication. Because you're titrating it though, you need close close monitoring. And oftent times the way that we will monitor the unfractionated hepin is we will check their PTT. A lot of newer protocols though are going on to anti-10A levels. And you'll see why in a little bit. But remember what PTT is a a harbinger of or at least it's a monitor or parameter of. It tells me about the intrinsic pathway because hepin you'll see here in a little bit inhibits factors 10 which is a part of the common pathway and thromben which are part of the common pathway. You're like okay that's not for the intrinsic but it also inhibits these factors. All right the most of them is nine. That's the biggest one but it can inhibit all of these as well to less of an effect. The other one that we can give is going to be uh low molecular weight heperin. Low molecular weight hepin. This one isn't a titration. Um, so this one, this one's IV. It's an IV form. And so it's really good for like a titrating one, right? Because of a short halflife. This one we give as an injection. This one is a usually a subq and it's a usually a twice daily um subq injection. This is usually by weight. All right. We don't ever really have to monitor anything for this one. That's the benefit of it. But the thing to remember with low molecular hepin is it has a long halflife. So that's why we use it not as a titration but as a twice daily injection. The thing with this one is only time we would really monitor this one the anti-10A level. We would do this in patients who are very obese but more specifically severe renal failure. And the reason why is heperin is renally cleared. And so if a patient has severe renal failure and they can't clear the heperin as well, you should definitely be keeping a closer eye on their actual 10A levels. So I'll only really check this level if they're bleeding um or if they have obesity or renal failure. All right, those are the scenarios where I would have to be a little bit more cautious. There is another one that we give and this one is going to be a synthetic one and this one is called Fonda Paranox. So this is called Fonda Paranox. This one's great. It's a synthetic heperin. Um I'd say this one's great. Um we're finding a lot more utilization of this one. This can be produced a lot of prophylactic scenarios, but this one's also an injection. So this one I really like this one, but it's basically a synthetic hepin. The concept behind these is that unfractionated hepin. It just means that you have the heperin molecule. When you look at its structure, it has the heperin and it has this like glycosaminoglycin that makes it really long. Low molecular weightpin is it has the heperin structure with a very short glycosaminoglycan. Fondaraminox is just that heperin structure. No glycosaminoglycans. That's kind of how you get a little bit of the name. Now heperin in general what it does is it acts on a protein called anti-throen 3. And all it helps to do is is just increase the active um active state of anti thrombin 3. So basically kind of puts it into a hyperactive state. Anti-throman 3 is designed to inhibit a couple different factors. One is it will inhibit factors 10. Right? So it's going to inhibit factor 10. The other thing it's going to do is it's going to inhibit thromben. But the only one that truly out of all of these that inhibits thromben is unfractionated hepin. So let's put that down. Only unfractionated hepin inhibits both thromben and 10. So when you think about these, these are 10A inhibitors primarily with unfractionated hepin having a little bit of thrombin inhibition. Now heperin is a great drug. It's just important to remember the big things to take away from this one is it's more honestly utilized in a acute scenario. That's the best way I want you to think about it. And when you give one unfractionated usually for titrating it very close needed close-knit control monitor PTT low molecular weight you get more liberal you can give it twice daily you can give it for a lot of different scenarios you don't have to monitor things as well unless they have certain coorbidities and then synthetic fondarox is really great especially if a patient has a true allergy or a hepin induced thrombocyopenic reaction to these two. I had to move this guy out of the way. I'm sorry. Okay, so direct tenn inhibitors were over here, but I got to bring it over here because again, what do I want it to do? I want it to actually inhibit this. And so I didn't want to have some wonky arrow here. So the big thing to remember is for direct tenna inhibitors, they're unlike hepin. This one works indirectly. These ones, they go straight to the source, baby. They act right here and they shablink inhibit this puppy. So now this enzyme is straight up inhibited. So we got to think about the drugs that we would utilize in uh this scenario. All right, so there's a couple. I think the two biggest ones that are most often used is going to be a Pixaban. So that's a Pixaban. And then the other one, this often referred to as Eloquis. Uh and then the other one is Riveroxaban. And this one is often referred to as Zerelto. So these are great great drugs. The benefit of these drugs is that they don't require any monitoring. They don't need to get like monitor a a PTT, a 10A level. You could do a 10A level, but it's not often necessary. And so that's one of the benefits and the attractiveness of these drugs. So again, direct 10A inhibitors are going to inhibit 10A. Now, direct thrombin inhibitors. Oh. Oh. All right. So, look, Hepin's a, you know, he's a heavy duty hitter because the unfractionated version can do both of these. Direct thromen inhibitors, they go straight here. Look at that. Look at that. So, if you inhibit this one, what would these heavy hitters be? All right. So, direct thromen inhibitors, it actually comes down to two groups. So, let's actually group this off into two different areas. So you have two types. One is going to be the oral inhibitors. What would this one be? This is going to be deigatran. Uh deigatran baby. The other one is going to be your IV or your par parental throen inhibitors. What are these? These are going to be our gatriban and balerudin. When we talk about these, here's the thing. You're probably like, "Okay, you got IV version here." Well, I know you said that this one was IV and so it's really good for a kind of a titrating it and really you got a short halfife. So, it's really good for people who are in the hospital. This one you could be in the hospital, you could go home with an injection. This one's also an injectable as well. All right, cool. So, what's really the scenario where this would be more beneficial or attractive than these? Obviously, oral. I could take this home, but IV really the only time where this is truly utilized and I'll hit you with it now. We actually utilize this is an alternative. This is really the only true indication for these in clinical reality, but it's an alternative to Heperin in a patient in a patient with what's called HIT Hepin induced thrombocyopenia. That's really the only time we're going to use these drugs. We can use all these other ones in various different types of scenarios. But again, these we only use in HIT. That's the real big kind of takeaway. So again, what I want you to remember is the IV thrombin inhibitors really only use it in HIT. We see here that these act indirectly to inhibit 10 in certain scenarios. Thromben. These act directly to inhibit 10A. This one acts directly to inhibit thromben. What about this guy? This head honcho is insane. I like this guy. Um I like the mechanism. I don't like the drug itself unfortunately, but we'll you'll see why. So warfin what it does is and actually gets metabolized uh first by the liver and then it actually can act on the liver. So when warfin is taken up, it's important to remember that it's metabolized by something called the cytochrome P450 system. So I really need to tell you this. So it's metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system. So we call CYP F4 uh 450. Now, the reason why this is important is because other medications or drugs per se could interact with the CYP450. And so, it's important to remember this. So, because everything that we're going to talk about here, the mechanism of warfin, it could either be downplayed or overplayed and you can end up with super therapeutic levels of warfin or subther therapeutic levels of war. And so, it's really important to get an understanding of this. And so, because of that, there is two different things that we need to talk about. One is there's drugs that can act as inducers and inducers essentially what they do is they act on the CYP450 system and they metabolize warfin easily into what into the inactive state and if warrin is inactive it's going to decrease the activity of warin. One of the ways that we monitor warrin is the INR. It kind of gives us a level. So just like hepin we monitor the PTT warfin we monitor the INR. If a patient is on Warfrain and they're taking another drug that acts as an inducer and it lowers the effectiveness, what would you expect to happen to the INR? If INR is high means Warframe is working really well, too well. And if INR is low, it means Warfin's not working too good. So what do you think would happen? The NR will go down. Yeah. Yeah. So inducers decrease the INR, increase the risk of thrombosis. But if you take a drug with warpherin and that drug acts as an inhibitor of the CP CYP450 system then warrin will not get metabolized into the inactive state. It'll remain active. If it remains active then it can become super therapeutic. What can happen to the INR if warrant is working way too well? It will go up. What's the risk that you run if INR is super therapeutic? Bleeding. That's why it's really important to remember. So now let's talk very briefly here. Uh you know warin it acts on a really interesting enzyme. Vitamin K usually it's in two different forms. We're going to say here we're going to go from the oxidized form into the reduced form. And in order for me to go from the oxidized to the reduced form or from the reduced form to the oxidized form, I need enzymes. The enzyme catalyzing this step, I'll make it a cute little blue one. This is called vitamin K epoxide reductase because it wants to reduce the vitamin K. So we're going to call this one vitamin K epoxide reductase. So when warrin goes to the liver, it'll actually get taken up by the liver, get metabolized, get spit out, and then guess what? It then goes and does its job back on the liver. So here's going to be our drug. Here's our warrin. gets taken up by the liver. So first pass metabolism, then it gets metabolized and then it goes back and acts on the liver. And what it's going to do is it's going to inhibit this enzyme. It wants to inhibit the vitamin K epoxide reductase. Will this process occur? No. If this doesn't occur, then I don't have the reduced form of vitamin K. The reduced form of vitamin K is important because there's another enzyme and that enzyme is a gamma glutamile transferase. So it's a GGT enzyme. Uh what color should we use for that one? Let's use let's use this maroon color. Here's this enzyme. This enzyme is crucial because it uses the reduced form of the vitamin K. And what it does, the liver makes proteins. And these are going to be factors two 9 10. You're like, "Oh my gosh, wow, that's a lot of different factors." they're in the inactive kind of like they're not a truly functional state. But if vitamin K is present, this enzyme will then utilize this process to make them functional. So now you're going to have functional 2 7 9 and 10. Oh wow. So now watch this. If I inhibit this enzyme by giving warin, this enzyme is inhibited. I'll have less of this reduced vitamin K. If I have less of this reduced vitamin K, is this pathway going to occur effectively where this GGGT enzyme will use the reduced vitamin K and convert these inactive factors into the true functional factors? No, this process will be inhibited and I'll end up with less of these factors. So now look, I got less factor two. What's factor two? Thromben. This becomes affected. I got less factor 7. Where's factor 7? Right here. This becomes affected. I got less factor 9. Where's factor 9? This becomes affected. And 10. 10. Oh my gosh. This becomes affected. You see how heavy hitter of a warrant is? This dude attacks multiple different pathways. Intrinsic, exttrinsic, common. Now with that being said, warfin is going to have the most profound effect on our exttrinsic pathway. Let me explain why. Out of all of these factors, the first one to drop the level, the first one to drop I want the shortest halflife is factor 7. So factor 7 levels will drop because it has the shortest halflife. All right. So we're going to say here it has the this level will drop. Why? Because it has the shortest halflife and that's actually T1 half sorry T 1/2. So because it has the shortest T 1/2 its levels will drop quickly. All right. So if you have the shortest halflife boy that thing won't drop. If it drops what's going to happen? That means that the one pathway that becomes most affected is the extrinsic pathway more so than the other common and intrinsic pathways. What is the parameter that we use to monitor the extrinsic pathway? PTIR ptr. So warin you monitor the INR because why? because it's going to drop the factor 7 level first that will have a first effect on the exttrinsic pathway more than it will the intrinsic and other pathways. So that's why it's really really important to know that. Okay. So I think we've done a pretty good job discussing these anti-coagulants their mechanism some of the monitoring. So when I say hepin PTT when I say warfin INR but remember warpherin can also have an effect on PTT as well because it is inhibiting some of the parts of the intrinsic pathway but more so extrinsic. So we see how all of these drugs are working in different types of ways but I want you to look at the end point that in some way shape or form they're inhibiting the parts of the exttrinsic intrinsic or common pathway. in some way shape or form we're at least leading to downstream a decrease in thromben right why is that important if you don't at least lead to good amounts of thrombin that's supposed to convert this into this so if I have less of this one through all these pathways either they do it directly or indirectly that's going to lead to less conversion here less fibbrin less of the cross-link fibbrin I don't make the fibbrin mesh and then what happens I decrease the secondary hemostasis because I'm trying to prevent vent the clot from getting bigger. So, it's really important to remember all these. Now, one last thing, the inducers and inhibitors. It's really important. Sometimes on the uh MCQs, you'll get a little bit of a question on these. So, if you ever see a patient who comes in, they're on warfin and they're on another medication. They mention this and they have either a low INR and a high INR. Remember these things. So, inducers, we use anmonic. It's called crap GPS. So, what does it stand for? It stands for C carbomazipene. R rafampen A for alcohol use but this is more of chronic use P for phenotin and then GPS G is gristopulin P is phenobarbatl and S st john's wart which we don't use too often now the inhibitors you got to be careful of these if a patient has a super therapeutic INR what would that be remember the pneummonic sickfaces.com so sick for s this is going to be sodium valproate that's an anti-epileptic I is is a tuberculosis medication. Cementadine and antihistamine. Uh K is going to be ketoconazol and antifungal. F for the faces is going to be fluconazol and antifungal. A is going to be alcohol use but this time it's acute use or acute alcohol intoxications. C could be another C. So let's say cyprfluxin which is an antibiotic. And then E is going to be arythroycin. And then S is sulphonomides. Think about Bactrum as an example here. The next part is dotcom. So we're going to skip the dot and we're going to go to the comm. C we'll use chlorophenol. This is an antibiotic that can be used in tickborn illnesses. O is a merazol which is a proton pump inhibitor. And M is metroniditool which is an antibiotic. All right. So remember those as a little quick tip to understanding how they can act as inducers or inhibitors. Why do we give these drugs? Right? They're good at preventing clot propagation. They don't we don't want these things to get bigger. And so if a patient get develops a DVT. So let's say here I have a vein in the leg and they go get a hawk and goober right in there. Right? hot to right in there. Right? If that happens, it's going to cause a lot of pain, leg swelling, right? Swelling. That's not a good thing. The reason why is if that thing pops off, it going pop out. What can happen? That clot could then break off from becoming a thrombus, go up the inferior vennea. And then what could happen to that clot? Oh, the scary scary thing. That thing can get stuck in the actual pulmonary circulation. You can get a PE, right? So, we don't want these things to get bigger. I don't want the DVT to get bigger. I don't want the PE to get bigger. So, what I will do is and a patient who is a PE or a DVT that is not severe extensive will give these medications to prevent them from getting bigger. So, often times what happens is we'll start off with Heperin, right? One of them often times it could be low molecular weightperin. And then what we'll do is we'll do that for a little bit while they're in the hospital or outpatient. And then what we'll do is is for about 3 to 6 months. All right, we'll switch them over to some other kind of medication. Oftent times that is usually either warrin or a DOAC and we'll do that for about 3 to 6 months and then we'll re we'll do another ultrasound. So after the 3 to 6 month period, we'll come back and we may do another ultrasound to make sure that that's actually gone. All right, that's how we'll try kind of treat these atrial fibrillation. It kind of depends. So when you have a patient with atrial fibrillation, your prevention, what you're trying to actually prevent is remember when a patient gets atrial fibrillation, they increase the risk of clots forming right there, right in that left atrial appendage. If that puppy don't pop off, oh my gosh, if that thing breaks off, what's the most feared complication? There's a lot of different areas that this could embolize to, but the biggest one is a CVA, right? You don't want these patients to get strokes. That's the biggest concern. So my goal is to prevent these types of events from happening. So if a patient has valvular AIB, right? So you have to look at the AIB. Let's say here's my atrial fibrillation and I know is it valvular or non valvular? What does that mean? Do they have mitro stenosis or mechanical heart valve? If they do, it's warrin. If they don't, it's a DOAC. So here warfin because the evidence suggests this and nonvalvular is a doackac. Let's be clear I don't think I explained this enough a doac is a direct oral anti-coagulant. So when I say doac I'm actually referring to a direct thrombin inhibitor that is oral or a direct 10a inhibitor which is oral epixavan riveroxaban or devicatran. All right please remember that because the only time we usually use this one is hit. The next scenario where I would actually um utilize these anticoagulants is if a patient has a mechanical heart valve. Mechanical heart valves are super super thrombogenic, right? Highly thrombogenic. Not the prostatic ones um but these mechanical ones are super thrombogenic. And so they're because they're super highly thrombogenic. We want to prevent thrombi from forming on them. And so really the only one that we can truly give the evidence the base one is going to be warrin. Now it's important to remember when a patient has on warin you know that they can be on war for a mechanical heart valve they could be on warin for atrial fibrillation that is valvular or they could be on it for long-term anticoagulation for DVT or PE hepin will monitor PTT maybe antitenna levels if they're on the low molecular weight but Warfin we monitor INR for a DVTP you may aim for an INR of 2 to for atrial fibrillation valve uh the n the valvular form you may aim for a INR of 2 to three but for this mechanical heart valve you need a higher because they're so thrombogenic you need to have a little bit of a higher INR and so we aim for an INR of 2.5 to 3.5 all right so it's really important to remember these particular things now one other thing that we did talk about here and I I I want to mention it briefly is remember we talked about it over there. It's just an add-on. So acute coronary syndrome we I'll put in here discussed in antiplatlets. But just remind yourself what was the triple therapy? Do you guys remember it was aspirin plus P2Y12 blocker plus IV heperin. So out of all of these hepins, which one do you think it would be? The unfractionated hepin. So I think that's deserving of a conversation. But again, I wanted you to remember that we utilize these medications as well because we talked about it in the antiplatlet lecture. I mean the antiplatlet portion, but it's also going to be an indication for giving anti-coagulants, but the only one is really IV heperin. All right, we covered these. Oh, baby. Now let's talk about the thrombolytics. All right, so on to thrombolytics. I know it's a lot. I promise. I know. But I think we're going to have a really good understanding at the end of this. Just stick with me for a little bit, okay? I promise it'll make sense. So, thrombolytics are the ones where you're like, "Bro, this guy's got a clot. Yo, hold my beer." And you give this medication. Boom. Clots exploding. All right. They're they're truly breaking down a clot. These two, they're more inhibiting the clots from getting bigger or preventing the clots from forming. That's what they're truly designed for. This one, you got a claw, shaboom, right? You throw this one like a grenade, that thing's popping open. So, how do we actually do this? Let's go through the normal mechanism first. So, here we have um a molecule called plasmminogen. And plasmminogen is acted on by this enzyme called um tissue plasmminogen activator, right? TPA that converts plasmminogen into plasmine. Now you guys remember um that here I'm going to have this molecule we're going to call it factor one and that was called fibbrronogen and fibbrronogen as we indicated before is just a bunch of monomers but when you take fibbrronogen and you combine these together right in the presence of thromben and right that's the big one who's who's the one that catalyzed it because remember again factor 2 a was the one who catalyzes this step here catalyzes it and helps you to form what 1 A and 1 A is fibbrin now here's what's really important because fibbrin then goes on and you get your fibbrin mesh right this is going to form your fibbrin mesh and then eventually that leads to your thrombus right so we have this normal path pathway which plasmminogen is converted into plasmine via TPA tissue plasmminogen activator and plasmine will then go and break down fibbrinogen and break down fibbrin and what you break it down into is all these little degradation products. So I'm going to break this one into all these little degradation products. So now I'm going to stimulate this step here. Stimulate this step here. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to deplete my fibbrin so that I get less of my fibbrin mesh. And I get rid of I decrease my thrombus. I actually break the thrombus down. I also decrease my fibbrinogen so that I end up with less fibbrin. Less fibbrin mesh, less thrombus. And I break these down fibbrin degradation products. Fibbrin degradation products. Right? And you'll get a lot of these little suckers here, right? Sometimes we can get d-dimer out of this too, right? So you get fiber degradation products which includes d- dimers. So the concept here is that this enzyme which is your tissue plasmminogen activator, your tpa, this dude is catalyzing this step, right? He's catalyzing it. So, what if I had drugs that act like TPA and all they're going to do is they're going to literally work here and catalyze it even more. And then I'm really going to end up with a lot of plasma. I'm going to end up with a lot of fibbrin degradation products. I'm really going to deplete my fibbrronogen, deplete my fiber, deplete my fibbrin mesh, and really break down my thrombus. That sounds pretty attractive, right? And so that's what tpa is. And so there's a couple different types. Um, ALT place very commonly utilized drug. Um, tenectlace is becoming a little bit more commonly utilized now. And then retip place I haven't seen this one utilized too often but altplace and tenectlace pretty common. Now the benefit of these drugs is again they are breaking down a clot. So when you talk about antiplatlets and anticoagulants those are inhibiting clot propagation formation. Thrombolytics are literally breaking down a clot. So, it's really important to remember something. When you give this, it's actually kind of beneficial. Remember I told you like we monitor things. When you give TPA, monitoring the fibbrinogen could actually be helpful if a patient begins to develop bleeding from this. All right. Our goal is to keep it greater than 150. So if it's less than 150, it actually may indicate the need to reverse the actual TPA itself. All right? And so I think it's worthwhile to consider that as an important feature. All right. Let's talk about when we give these little TPA molecules. So we give this in really a couple indications. Patient comes in with a PE. And so when we say massive PE, I'm talking that they have what's called RV strain, which you can see on echo. and they have a decrease in their blood pressure. So they have hemodynamic instability. In these particular scenarios, we call this a very unstable PE patient. This is a patient you need to give TPA for and you give them a pretty good dose. Now if they have a contraindication, you may go and do like an pulmonary emilctomy um in that scenario, but often times this is the way to go about it. So you're probably like, "Oh, PE, don't you give anti-coagulation?" No. So you only give those in like the patients who are not having significant kinds of RV strain and hypotension. Um we could also give this in cardiogenic shock as well, but that's a big one there. Acute eskeemic stroke is a really important one. So if a patient comes in and they start having like let's say a clot here in the MCA and so as a result they develop some infarct within the MCA territory, right? And so they come in with a neurologic deficit that's suggestive of a particular uh vascular territory. They have um come in with a last known well uh less than 4.5 hours and on their imaging they have no bleed or no contraindications against this. In other words, they had a recent bleed. They're on anti-coagulants or something that's contraindicating it. Their blood pressure is way too high. They had surgery recently on their spine or on their their brain, something like that that contraindicates them, then you can't give the TPA. But in these particular scenarios, that's when you say, "All right, if these three potential criteria are there, then what I'll do is I'll go ahead and give them uh the TPA." All right. And then afterwards, you treat the underlying issue. Is there stroke due to an emolic source like aphib anti-coagulation? Is it due to atherosceratic cardiovascular disease, aspirin? Right? So important things. Now these are the two primary indications. There is additional scenarios. I don't want to go too much into them, but if a patient does develop something like a STEMI um so they develop AST segment elevation MI and there's no PCI. So let's say generally you want you have PCI available to you then you go to PCI all right which is when you get the stent placed right so if you have PCI available to you you go to PCI if you don't have PCI available to you so it's not available then what you're going to do is is you're going to do TPA and then if possible get them to a facility as quick as you can under that 12-hour frame to do a PCI. Um, so that's the ultimate goal for these patients. Another one could be it could be catheter directed stuff. So catheter directed. Um, what I mean by that is if you have like a central line that's clogged up, we can put tpa to kind of break down the clot in the central line. Another one is an extensive DVT. So, if you have extensive uh DVT or something like that, like a clot in a vein, then you could consider squeezing in a little bit of TPA into the catheter near that area. But those are some like, you know, niche scenarios. This is the two big ones I want you to remember. All right, that covers the thrombolytics. So at this point we should have a pretty good understanding of when we give antipllets when we give antiquagulants when we give thrombolytics right their overall mechanism what they're good for what we monitor for what's the things that we have to be wary of if these medications are taken aspirin you got to watch out for peptic ulcer disease constant hop behind this is actually pretty straightforward that aspirin what it does is it actually inhibits the cycle oxygenase enzyme and that leads to a decrease in prostaglandins remember that we talked about that. So it leads to a decrease in prosta glandins especially prostaglandon E2 and the prostagland E2 is supposed to help with mucus production in the stomach and that helps to form a protective barrier of the stomach. If you don't have that mucus production then what happens? you get erosion of mucosa. And so it can start off with the gastritis and in worst case scenario especially with chronic use um this could lead to ulcers and so having a drop in the prostag glands leads to less alkaline mucus production less protection against erosion and if you get more of that erosion you could potentially start forming a ulcer here. All right so that's one thing to be wary of and to be careful of. Another one is ry syndrome. So this one's kind of interesting. If a patient is taking aspirin, all right, aspirin is supposed to be taken up via the liver and it should get metabolized, right? But let's say that a patient has a viral infection. So they're less than 19 years old and they have a viral infection. And so the concept behind this is if you have a viral infection, you get like a fever. What may you reach to uh to get rid of a fever? An anti-inflammatory. Aspirin is one. You should give Tylenol instead. But if you accidentally give aspirin, what can happen? Well, the viral infection what it does is it can actually act on the liver and what it does is it alters this metabolism process. And so what ends up actually happening is you metabolize the aspirin into a toxic metabolite. So it's actually represented here as like being a toxic metabolite. This toxic metabolite then starts causing a decrease in the ATP production. So it actually causes mitochondrial damage. So that's the first thing it'll do. So it'll cause damage to the mitochondria damage and then that leads to a decrease in ATP and that leads to a death. So now I get mitochondria damage a drop in my ATP production. The the cells can't survive if they don't have the ATP. the cells die and then what happens is you you lose the ability to clear ammonia and they end up with hyperammia. All right, so that's one really scary thing here is they can end up with a very high ammonia level. They can't go through the ura cycle as well and they end up with a very high ammonia level and this can start causing encphylopathy. The other thing is if your hpatocytes die you lose the ability to make coagulation proteins. So they can end up with also liver failure and that causes coagulopathy. The other thing is if the apatocytes die you can end up with an increase in LFTs. So you want to watch out for an increase in their LFTs uh in sephylopathy and also a decrease in coagulation proteins that leads to a coagulopathy. This is often times we'll see a elevated INR. Right? So this is kind of the things that we look for is this acute kind of like hpatic failure that can cause coagulopathy with INR greater than 1.6 six elevated LFTs and encphylopathy is a form of acute liver failure. All right, P2 Y12 blockers, they're actually pretty well tolerated. Clip girl is pretty good one. Big thing I told you about before to watch out for is if they're a hyperresponder or an underresponder, you check that P2 Y12 level and that gives you a good idea. Uh Tagalore can cause like random disnia sometimes. Um and then pursue girls a higher bleeding risk, but for the most part they're good. There used to be an old age drug. So there was an older generation P2Y12s. We don't use this one anymore, but it's called tropopedine. And tropopedine is a terrible drug because what we found is is that this drug may activate kind of an immune response. And so your plasma cells may produce antibodies. These antibodies may be directed against certain types of proteins in your body. One of them is called the atom TS-13. It's going to inhibit this enzyme. If this enzyme is inhibited, it's no longer going to be able to break down the von wilderon factor moltr into monomers. This process is inhibited. You end up with more of these multimer. This combines with our friends, where is my maroon marker? Right here. This will combine with a bunch of your platelets. And what are you going to get out of this? you're going to get a good good thrombus in your smaller vessels. So, as a result, I'm going to end up with what's called a thrombus. So, I'm going to have a thrombosis. But the other thing is in order for me to form this thrombus, I have to consume platelets. And so, the platelets drop. All right? And so what ends up happening is you get a pneummonic that we often times use for TTP which is thrombotic thrombocyopenic papiraa. You want to remember the pneummonic. So let's actually write this right here. Pneummonic spelling challenge today. Huh? Is fat RN. F is for fever. A is for anemia because they consume the red blood cells as they run across that thrombus. T is thrombocyopenia because you consume the platelets to make more of that thrombus. R is because the thrombosis blocks the blood flow to the kidneys and you get renal failure. N because the thrombosis blocks the blood flow to the brain and you get neurological symptoms. All right, big thing to remember is the dlopodine. The other thing is that tlobidine can actually cause suppression of your bone marrow. So watch out for neutripenia as well. All right, now he big thing I talked about is hit. So HIT is when you give Hepin and HIT is more commonly associated I'd say when you talk about this one it's going to be unfractionated hepin more so than low molecular weight hepin another reason why this makes it attractive but when you give hepin hepin in certain patients after they take it about 5 to 15 days later the hepin will bind to the PF4 when it binds to the PF4 you get this hepin PF4 complex. So now I have a hepin and PF4 complex. Believe it or not, this is highly immunogenic. So then what happens is I develop anti-PF4 antibodies. The anti-PF4 antibodies interact with the hepermp PF4 complex. When this happens, it activates the platelets. So I'm going to stimulate my platelets. These activated platelets then start getting consumed and they start helping us to make clots. So now I'm going to end up with a thrombosis. And if I end up with that thrombosis, that could cause a DVT to form, a PE to form. I could even get clots in the arterial circulation. And so it's really important to remember that that's a potential complication. But on top of that, they also develop thrombocytoenia because they consume their platelets. So it's really important to remember a patient who has heperin use who develops HIT you want to remember thrombosis heperin exposure but also because of consuming the platelets to make the clots watch out for a drop in their platelet count at least greater than 50% after the use. Last one is warfin. So warfin can cause something called warpherin induced skin necrosis and this is one of the reasons why we give hepin as a bridge prior to kind of just starting off warfin on its own. So what happens is warfin when it's taken what it does is it acts on the liver right inhibits the vitamin K epoxide reductase and that leads to less synthesis of those essential clotting factors the functional clotting factors such as factors 2 7 9 and 10 but I didn't tell you about the other ones these are the ones that are going to help with the procoagulant activity but it also makes protein D and S. So whenever we inhibit whenever you give warphin inhibits the vitamin K oxy reductase you drop these levels and you drop these levels. But the problem is is that this has a shorter halflife. So the T halfife on this one is pretty short. All right. So what happens is these will drop quickly. All right. So if a patient has protein C or S deficiency, now add into the mix. Let's say you make it more complicated. If a patient has protein C or S deficiency, let's say that they have a true deficiency. This is an inherited thrombophilia. All right. If they have an inherited thrombophilia, what this will do is again let's actually say that this is inherited. Let's add that on. An inherited protein CRS deficiency. What it'll do is it'll drop their protein CNS levels even more. When you drop these levels even more, guess what this does? This causes, you know what these are supposed to do? They're supposed to inhibit uh so let's actually put it right here. Protein C, what it really wants to do is is it wants to inhibit factor 5 and it wants to inhibit factor 8. That's what this wants to do. It wants to inhibit these two factors, kind of inactivate them, right? These are supposed to help with clotting. If you have lots of protein C, then what will you do? you'll inhibit these guys and you won't clot. But if you have low protein C, what are you going to do? I'm going to actually not be able to inhibit these anymore. They may become active. This may become active. So then what ends up happening is you end up with a loss of control for factors five and eight. So your factor five and eight levels may go up or at least have increased activity. So say increase factor 5 and factor 8 activity. That means you're hypercoagulable, bro. If I'm hypercoagulable and this is during the first 3 to 5 days. So this is about approximately 3 to five days that means I have hyper coagulable state. In that scenario guess what I'm going to do? I'm going to lead to a thrombus because I'm going to end up activating my coagulation system and I'm going to end up with thrombosis bro. And if I end up with a thrombosis, especially of the cutaneous vessels, I caught off the blood flow of the cutaneous vessels, I can end up to necrosis to that skin. It actually looks a little bit like this. We really can prevent this warrant on board. While the warfin is working in the three to five days, you keep them on hepin because in that transient period, they're hyperquagable. The hepin will prevent them from developing thrombosis. Then after that 3 to 5 day window, guess what happens? The these levels start to drop eventually because these lag behind. This one drops first and these lag behind. After that 5day kind of time frame hits, drop the heperin and just keep your warrin on and now you're in an anti-coagulant state. So that's how we kind of do it. We put them on hepin warfin. First five days we kind of get them out of the hypercoagulable state. Drop the heperin off. We're in the full antiquagulant state. These are full flaming and depressed action. Boom. You get your antiquagulant activity. Now the last thing that I want you guys to remember is when a patient has any of these medications on board antiplas anticoagulas and thrombolytics they're high risk of bleeding. What I want to do is I want to tell you guys some of the big things to remember. Um, and so whenever a patient develops bleeding, I think it's important to remember what are the high ones that are high risk for bleeding. And actually, we're going to kind of go backwards. The most high risk for bleeding is with thrombolytics. Then anti-coagulants, but which one? Warin is the next one. Then after that, it's kind of a combination between your your doax, which is your thrombin and 10A inhibitors, and heperin. Those are kind of together. Then we go to the antiplatlet. GP2B3A inhibitors are the most. Then we go to the P2 wise blockers. Then we go to aspirin. So the bleeding risk is really important to remember. What are some of these things that you have to watch out for if a patient bleeds? First one, watch out for intraanial hemorrhage. Watch out for GI bleeds. Also be very careful if a patient is extanginating and bleeding and they're on these medications. In those scenarios, when a patient is bleeding or they're getting ready to have a surgical procedure, you may have to reverse these medications. Let's talk about that now. Now, if a patient by chance is taking one of these drugs and they start to bleed, we don't always just jump to reversing it, but I would very very quickly jump to reversing these drugs if they have severe bleeding that's uncontrollable. Or maybe it's other bleeding like, you know, gingal bleeding, epistaxis, you're, you know, hematia, he menstrual bleeding, and I've tried all my conventional methods, but they still continue to bleed. Obviously discontinuing the medication is first but reversal agents can potentially come into play. Antiplatlets we don't do this a lot but you could transfuse them with platelets and sometimes you can give them DDAVP if you remember DDAVP helps to activate our endothelial cells to produce von willon factor and von willilibbron factor is needed for platelets to stick to and that helps to form potentially a platelet plug. So that may be some ways that we can consider. I would say this is not often that we do this. Maybe in a neurosurgical scenario, we would give antiplatlets. If a patient's getting ready to get a surgery or some type of neurovvascular neurosurgical procedure, we may try to reverse the antipllets, but it's not guideline based. Heperin, this is one. So, if a patient is bleeding um and they are extanguinating or they're having a potential complication or they need to get a surgery and we need to prevent them from having massive bleeding, we will give reversal agents. And basically again this is going to be heperin is in increasing the activity of anti thrombin 3 which suppresses factors 10 factors 9 and thrombin. What I want to do is give something to inhibit this and that's where proteamine sulfate comes into play pretty commonly utilized. All right and that's going to suppress the anti-throin 3 which again is going to help to increase the activity of 10 9 and two and that's going to help them to be able to clot. All right? Because we don't want them to be bleeding if they are bleeding or they're getting ready to get a surgery which predisposes them to more bleeding. Warfin is a very common one. I see this a lot in the uh neuro neuroscience ICU patients who come in, they're taking warin for atrial fibrillation and all of a sudden they develop a uh intraraanial hemorrhage. Now this one is commonly given with a two-part drug. We give them IV vitamin K and proth thrombin complex concentrate. The concept here is you give the IV vitamin K because it's helped to stimulate the liver to produce factors 2 7 9 and 10. And then you give them four factor PCC which contains factors 2, 7, 9, and 10. So you rapidly replenish the levels and then over the next 24 hours the vitamin K kicks in and really helps to bump up that 279 production. All right, direct factor 10A inhibitors. Again, we don't have an actual guideline basis, but this one you can just give them PCC. The reason why what's in PCC factor 10 and what are you inhibiting factor 10 same thing there's another drug again it's not been shown to be super efficacious but it is considered to be a antidote in scenarios of direct factor 10A inhibitors and that is endexinate alpha super super expensive and has about the same efficacy as PCC but again it's a direct factor 10 um kind of drug where we can actually have an antidote in the sense that it's literally blocking these direct factor 10 inhibitors like a Hexabana Riveroxaban. Now this next one is super high yield. Really important to remember direct throbin inhibitors and when I say these I'm only talking about the oral drug deigatran deigatran if a patient is bleeding we would give them IDA recisumab. All right so the really important ones to remember hepin protein sulfate warfin ivy vitamin K and PCC direct thro inhibitors only debigotran iidisumab. Now for thrombolytics, these are scary ones. These patients can really really bleed. And really the only time whenever you have a patient who bleeds, we give them transexemic acid. But we also check their fibbrronogen levels to see what their cryoprecipitate level is. I mean to see what their fibbrinogen level is. If the fibbrronogen level is less than 150, oftent times we will also give them cryoprecipitate because cryoprecipitate, guess what? It's rich in fibbrronogen. And so you'll replenish their fibbrronogen also giving them TXA to help to basically inhibit that fibbrinolyis process pro process. All right. And this again gives an idea of how we're working to basically reverse these unfortunate mechanisms of action in patients who are taking these drugs for preventing clot propagation or preventing them from developing a clot or preventing or basically breaking down a clot but unfortunately they develop bleeding as a result. We will give these medications to reverse that. All right, my friends. This was a monster lecture on anti-platlets, anti-coagulants, and thrombolytics. I really hope it made sense. I truly hope that you guys enjoyed it. Love you. Thank you. And as always, until next time.