Welcome back to the Ninja Podcast. Today we're talking about a topic that gives med students absolute fear. Immediate panic. >> What's that? >> Anti-neoplastic agents. >> That'll do it. That Yeah, that that is the stuff that makes people go, "You know what? Dermatology sounds pretty good." >> Yeah. Seriously though. Seriously. And I know how much you're not you're not a fan of derm, but when you >> No, no. If I saw this, I'd be like, you know what? I'm gonna go to derm. Exactly. Going durm. Yeah. You see this topic and it's like, all right, we got a lot of stuff to talk about. But again, it makes sense because when you really think about it, this is such an important topic because it's it's these drugs that literally can make a difference for someone that they have cancer, they're dying, and you can help them. >> Yeah. >> Improve their quality of life. You can literally do something about that. I think that's the challenge is that when you're going through oncology when we went through we went through every single cancer right so we talked about breast cancer lung cancer prostate we talked about all of them and then we talked about all the different treatment modalities and obviously surgery is definitely an option for certain indications and then some respond well to radiation some are chemosensitive and so I think it's important to know all of those aspects but then I think one of the hard things and I think I felt this when I was kind of preparing all these lectures is there's so many chemo agents how do I tie which ones properly to that specific cancer and I don't think this is going to be Perfect. I don't think you're going to be able to out of all of this feel comfortable and say, you know what, and I know exactly which type of chemo drug goes with every cancer. I think it's going to help you at least for the exams because in clinical reality, we trial and error. A lot of medicine is kind of like, hey, this didn't work. Let's let's try this. And so, I think that's really important to remember that if you go into clinical, you know, it may not be this exact, you know, textbook kind of like process. But I think just at least for you guys for your boards, for your exams, at least having a good foundation for this, I think we're going to have an idea of how we can think about cancers. Talk about which kind of chemo regimen is kind of best fit for this. And then the other thing is to watch out for is whenever you put them on these, they carry a risk. There's obviously that's one of the reasons why people don't want to be on chemo is all of the side effects, the toxicity. So, we'll talk about that. And if there is any ways that we could monitor for those, we'll talk about that. And then if there's any rescue agents, we'll we'll discuss that. But I think this is going to be a fun one, right? >> Yeah. I think we've came up with a pretty good system for this podcast episode. I think we really organized it well because there's so many different aspects and there's so many different scenarios we have to talk about. >> Yeah. >> So, our goal today is to not make you memorize 9,000 different meds is to say, "All right, like we have to actually think think through chemo by class, >> by mechanism, indication, toxicity. We have each and every case to guide you along the way." Yeah. And then of course at the end we'll do a kind of like a little lightning round where I might give Zach a scenario and say, "Hey, what about this toxicity? What do you do?" >> Things you have to know. >> I think that's good because I think I think let's let's do this by working through like a couple cases and stuff like that. And then for each case I think like you said we we'll talk about okay what is the class of this drug where maybe in the cell cycle does it work and stuff and then and then what cancers actually would be best suited for this particular chemo agent or regimen and then and then like you said let's talk about toxicities and if there is any rescue drugs you know which ones can we use and we should really know. >> All right. Well grab your coffee grab whatever energy drink you might need. >> I'm tapped out. I already you know popped down that Celsius but >> Yeah. Yeah. That's a good one. That's a good that's a new flavor. That's a >> snowball. >> We're not being sponsored at all by Celsius. >> No. Celsius, if you're watching this, come on, baby. >> Yeah. No, but that that was that's a good one. I like it. It's a What is it? Snow >> sparkling snowball frost. >> Snowball Frost. I just got a fruit punch. >> Fruit punch. Okay. I like the orange. The orange is classic. >> I know. I know. But >> anyway, let's get into it. >> All right. So I would like first thing before we actually get into the cases, Zach, how about you give us like a big picture frame just an overview of there's so many different things to try and think about how do we organize how do we mentally organize all of these anti-neoplastics. >> All right. Yeah. So I think the first thing I like to think about is you know when you go through physiology and again we're not drawing this on the whiteboard so it's harder to kind of visualize but at least think about them in in buckets. So I say one is going to be cell cycle specific inhibitors right? So in other words, you have your cell cycle which is you take a cell, it decides that it wants to replicate and create, you know, two new daughter cells from it, right? So then you have to go through these specific phases and we go all the way back to our basic biology like you have to go through the G1 phase, then you got to go to the S-phase and you got to go to the G2 phase and you got to go to the Mphase and then from there you split and you make two daughter cells and then that new cell that you make it can go right back into the cell cycle or it can say, you know what, I'm just going to go ahead and chill and rest out here in the G's not phase, the quiescent area. And so I think that's the key basic kind of like cell cycle physiology. We have drugs that can target at different phases in that cell cycle. And so those are important ones to remember. For example, you know, the S-phase inhibitors are really important ones. Those are your anti metabolites. They're the workh horses. They're really powerful ones and they really like to act on cells with a high growth fraction. Cancer cells, which are they're constantly replicating like bunnies. So those are really, really important ones. The other one is you get into the next phase, which is your G2 phase. Your G2 phase really responds well to topoisomease inhibitors, but there's a specific one and that's topomease inhibitors type two. Topois isomerase inhibitors type one work really good in the Sphase as well. And so that's why I say S-phase is primarily going to be your antimabolites and your topic isomerase one inhibitors and G2 phase is going to be where your topo isomease 2 inhibitors work. Another one that you can kind of throw into the G2 phase specific drugs is bleomy. It's an anti-tumor that's a category. is an anti-tumor antibiotic and that one works pretty well there. And then the last one is your mphase. That's mitosis. And so there's a specific part in there called metaphase and anaphase where you're starting to line your chromosomes up along the metaphase plate and you split them apart to go to the opposite ends of the cell. So that whenever you pop those that one cell into two cells, you have the proper number of chromosomes, an equal number of chromosomes in each cell. And so we have microtubial inhibitors that really work pretty heavily in the Mphase at the part of mitosis and I'm sorry, particularly metaphase and anaphase. Well, that's kind of helpful. Mphase I you think M for microtubular inhibitors. >> Yeah, that is a good one. And so that's that's that's kind of how I would classify those and then we can we'll get into those names of them in a little bit because there's a ton of them and I'm sure that you know probably what will happen is when we get into these specific cases we'll talk oh you know what this one is this is a group of anti metabolites. This is some of the totopisome one two inhibitors. This is an example of a microtubial inhibitor. So I think we'll talk about those. But so yeah, the second bucket would be the cell cycle non-specific ones. So again, they don't they don't give a rip if they work in the G1 phase, the S-phase, the G2, the Mphase, they could even work in the Goff phase. It doesn't really matter. And so those are going to be things like your alkalating agents. And we again we'll get into a lot of these. Usually with with those, we'll talk about things like, you know, your cyclophosphomide, phosphomide, malfan, you know, we'll get into some of those. There's also platinum agents. And so that's going to be things like cy platin, caroplatin, anthrocycans are really good ones too. We use those a lot. Docar rubicon, donor rubicon, and then you also have these other anti-tumor antibiotics like dactenomy and mitoc and stuff like that. So there's a lot of those drugs, but again I think there's the cell cycle specific anti metabolites which are really good ones is your S-phase inhibitors with the topoase one G2 phase topo isomease 2 inhibitors and bleomy mphase microtubial inhibitors. Cell cycle non-specific don't give a rip which phase doesn't matter they can work in any of them alkalating agents anthroycans your platinum agents and then again if you want to add on these other ones dctenomy and mito but they really belong to the anti-tumor antibiotics but that would be the second bucket >> the third bucket is kind of like the miscellaneous ones >> so they don't really kind of have a specific thing they're not really like they they're kind of random in the sense that they kind of a lot they control a lot of the upstream pathways that come down that influence parts of the cell cycle. And so that's when you kind of start getting into different things like for example there's I call these like a group of protein kynise inhibitors. So you have tyrroscen kinace inhibitors which are going to be a lot of the drugs that work in this one. And there's so many different types of like tyrroscen kinases receptor and non-receptor types. You have things like alk receptors. You have things like eGFR receptors. You have things like jack re Jack receptors or jack 2 receptors. So many different types that are we we're going to talk about. We'll get into bcrable. There's so many different types of tyrroscen kinases and we can have drugs that can work to inhibit those specific pathways. So we'll get into those. Monoconal antibodies is another one that we're starting to use a lot of. So these are all your maps. So we'll talk about things like retoximab, trstusimab, satuximab, evacismab. There's all the frakamabs that you can think about. We use a lot of these. They're becoming really good ones now too. Hormonal therapies are becoming really like heavily utilized particularly more in the hormone sensitive ones. So we'll talk about this a lot in breast cancer and prostate cancer but any kind of thing like a serum which is going to be your usually your tmoxifen we'll talk about aromatase inhibitors like nastraol let you're going to have your G&R agonist and antagonist so the G&R agonist going to be things like lupalide antagonist is going to be things like decorlics and then you're also going to have your anti-andro which are really really good in prostate cancer we'll talk about that inolutamide or any kind of lutamide is usually going to be the ones for that one and the last ones which I I think are really great is immune checkpoint inhibitors they come with risks And we'll talk about all the I think they come with what's called the itis effect, colitis, thyroiditis, hepatitis. And you probably like, "Oh man, that sounds horrible." Yeah. But they they are pretty effective drugs, especially in the advanced metastatic stages of some of these cancers. And so those are going to be talking about your antiPD1 inhibitors, your antiPDL1, antiPD1, antiPDL1 inhibitors, and anti-Cta4 inhibitors. And we'll get into those. Usually those are also ending in MAB. So for example, antiPD1 is going to be things like pimberlymab, nivelamab. Things that are going to be the anti-PDL1 is going to be things like a tesalismab and dervalamab. And things that are the anti-Cta4 are things like epilimmaab. So there's lots of these. I know I'm putting you to sleep over there, Robert. >> No, no, I'm fine. >> I'm fine. It's a lot of drugs. >> Yeah, there's a lot of drugs and that's why this is so daunting, but if you can at least for right now, just trust me, three big buckets. cell cycle specific antimab is in one, right? Then you have the topo isomease one and two inhibitors. Then you go into the next part which is bleomy and then you got your microtubial inhibitors. Those are going to be spell cell cycle specific. Then you go to the cell cycle non-specific anthrocycans, platinum agents, alkalating agents. Those are going to be your primary ones. And then you have another kind of group like dacttomy and mito C. The hardest ones is those miscellaneous ones, the protein kynise inhibitors, the monoconal antibodies, the hormone therapies, the immune checkpoint inhibitors. And believe it or not, there's even other ones that we don't talk about that often, but they work like they're there also like ubiquitin liase inhibitors. There's things like bortees. We're not going to talk about that one a lot. We'll hit it when we get into the some of the maybe the like the can cancers that use it. But these are your biggest categories I want you to think of. I I hope that at least gets us kind of started here. I think the strategy will be if you're taking this on an exam, you see a drug on a question, you ask what bucket, what target, what signature toxicity. Yeah. So, you're going to find some kind of those high yield terms where you're going to know it right away. And hopefully with this episode, we can help you kind of paint that picture. >> But without further ado, I think >> let's get into the cases. >> Yeah, cases time. >> All right, case one. This one is all about all and anti- metabolites. >> All right, let's hit it. All right. So, we have a 21-year-old woman, newly diagnosed B cell alll. She's starting induction chemo with vinristine, prednazone, asparagus. Nope, sorry, not asparagus. >> Asper asparagus. >> Asparag. Yeah, I I'll take it with a side of asparagus, please. I promise I'm not making fun of the the person with the cancer, but >> that was that was that was crazy. asparagenase. >> Well, hey, it is important to eat your asparagus, right? >> Get your greens, baby. >> Get your greens. Oh, boy. Yeah, you'll never live that one down. >> Yeah, >> let me just run that back. She's on vin predinazone asparagenase. >> donor rubicon. >> All right. >> Oh, boy. All right, it's early. And she'll later get intratheal methatine. >> Yeah. Yep. Good. >> All right. Let's use her to unpack anti metabolites and some other big players. Where do you start? >> All right. All right. Well, so she's on a huge drug regimen, right? And this is the problem with all they're usually on a bunch of different types of drugs. And so just just really quickly, look at this vin christristine. That's you're looking at multiple drug classes. So you're tackling that right there is an example of a microtubial inhibitor. >> Okay? >> So right there, you're hitting the microtubules, you're stopping the cells from kind of forming two new daughter cells. Prennazone is a steroid that's always going to be good for immunosuppression. And so that's going to have a lot of that imunosuppressive effect, but it's also going to be able to kind of shut down some of the cell cycle growth as well. We're going to skip past the asparagus one. Donna rubicon is actually an interesting one. And so this one is actually so what it can do is it can work particularly by intercolating into the DNA. So it can get into the DNA and it can kind of like non like non-coovalent bonds. They're kind of like weaker bonds and they get in between the DNA nucleotides and kind of block DNA polymerase from getting in there and causing like the overall replication process. They inhibit a lot of the polymerases from going under replication and transcription. On top of that, it increases reactive oxygen species and that sucker can act like a topo isomease 2 inhibitor. So it can, you know, chop suie the actual DNA at the super coil sites, let it unwind like crazy and then never glue it back together. And so it's that's a powerful one. But here I think this is the thing we're trying to get to is that integral methane methtoate is an example of an anti metabolite. So I think one of the big things there when you talk about anti metabolites, we said that that's working in the Sphase. So it's a cell cycle specific inhibitor. So when we talk about these, there's a bunch of different classes. So for example, one of them is methtoresate. Very powerful drug. And what it actually does is to to not go crazy. It's what's called a dihydroofolate reductase inhibitor. Essentially all that means is when you take folate, which is a vitamin, it gets into the cells, you need folate to actually make DNA, particularly nucleotides. And so folate gets taken in gets converted into what's called dihydropholate then to tetroopolate then it goes to 510 methylene tetrahydropholate and then it interacts with another enzyme called thyodilate synthes to make a nucle it's deoxyodine monof phosphate it's a nucleotide that we need to make DNA right >> when we give when we give methtoraate it inhibits that enzyme the dihydropholate reductase and it shuts down that pathway so then you can't actually make thyodine if I can't make thymodine I don't have the nucleotide base that I need to make DNA. And if I can't make DNA, can I have a cell replicate and make more? >> No. And so that's the whole process that you kind of get for that one. And methtoresate is good. It's a very powerful one. We use it intratheally especially for prophylaxis because all can easily spread to the brain. And so that's what we're trying to do here is it's more of a prophylactic process to prevent meningial leukemia in this patient. But yeah, it's it's a good one. the we also use it a lot in other different types of cancers too. We'll talk about that I'm sure. The next couple drugs is like six more captopine and aithopine. Pretty powerful ones. I don't want to go crazy but essentially all of these do is when they get into the cell they turn into like this weird intermediate called six thiomp which shuts down a bunch of different enzymes that you need to make nucleotides. It shuts down things like making what's called imp. And then imp is needed to be able to make a bunch of things like adenosine monof phosphate and guanosine monof phosphate. So you don't make your purines and if you don't make purines you don't have nucleides on nucleotides ain't got DNA. If I ain't got DNA I can't share it to make more cells that need that DNA. And so that's a pretty powerful one as well. We'll talk about this one. This one can be used in a lot of different cases as well. I think the big thing to remember and I always got tested on this in the exam. You will see this one six captopine. If you use this with alopurinol because alipuranol is a zanthine oxidase inhibitor it interacts with that pathway and it actually increases this the toxicity of six captopine and so patients who take six more caperine if they take it with alipiranol they can end up with significant inhibition of the cell cycle that's terrible when it comes to your bone marrow because gitro bone marrow needs to be pumping out white blood cells red blood cells platelets and so what happens is these patients end up with a lot of myosuppression and they can end up with a severe pansyenia so it's always suggest suggested to say if you have a patient on six more captopine and alipirol reduce the the dose of the sixmer captopine or find another drug and so I think that's really important other ones that are kind of interesting is citerabene jimcytoine these are good ones we use them a lot in leukemias as well particularly I think AML and a lot of solid tumors we use gytoine a lot in like lung cancer too we'll talk about that but I think the big thing for this guy is that they are fake nucleotides that's the way I like think about They kind of like imagine like you got you think about it like you're kind of coming in a line you have your DNA polymerase and it's kind of it's kind of basically it's picking up a nucleotide and then finding which base a complimentary base it should go with right and so it's going it clicks the next one in goes clicks the next one in and then here comes citarabine and gyctoine and there's another one called cladrabine and flutarabene same thing they just act like different nucleotides the DNA pymerase is none the wiser it grabs the citarabine the gyctoine the the cladbine the flut derabine and it clicks it on, but guess what? It doesn't have a little piece on it that it can click the next nucleotide on. And so it terminates. You basically it kind of acts like a little termination point for DNA replication. So they kind of act like what's called nucleotide analoges and they shut down terminate. They terminate DNA replication. And again, you can't have a a new cell if you're terminating DNA replication. So those are really really good ones. Another one is called 5FU. No, I'm not swearing. All right, that was corny. But 5FU, this is a guy he shuts down. So imagine here is methtoate. It's working on the folate pathway, the dihydropholy reductase, which then shuts down the cycle to make thyodine that makes DNA. All 5FU does is it shuts down that direct pathway that makes thyodine. So it shuts down an enzyme called thyolate synthes. And so then you can't make that DTMP. So then if you can't make a nucleotide, you theoretically can't make DNA. So 5FU is also a pretty good one that we utilize a lot. And so that's the that's kind of the categories if you will for your anti metabolites and kind of how they work. They're all S-phase inhibitors. They all inhibit the DNA from undergoing the replication process. It's just they do it at different parts. Some they inhibit the nucleotides from even getting there to be incorporated into the DNA. Some they act like fake nucleotides and then inhibit the DNA polymerase from being able to add any more nucleotides on. or some of the again they can even just directly inhibit some of the enzymes like DNA polymerase and ribboucleide reductase they shut down a lot of the DNA replication in these cells pretty powerful ones too so that's what I think is the best thing for them >> awesome how about any major toxicities we need to think about for this alll patient >> yeah so with I think the biggest thing with anti metabolites is because they hit the cell cycle specific the S-phase when when cells are actively trying to go through the replication process it's going to hit those cells that have a high growth fraction. Epithelial cells have a high growth fraction. So any epithelial cells that are part of your mucosa or your epithelial lining are going to be affected. And so these patients oftentimes get mucositis. So they can get inflammation of any kind of mucous membrane. That's a really really big one. Another thing is that it affects the cells of the bone marrow because that's constantly replicating. So they're high risk for myoppression. So you want to watch out for like you know panytoenia, low red cells, low white cells, low platelets. That's the big ones for there. Some of the specific ones like methtoresate that's really that can be kind of harsh on the liver. So you can get a patto toxicity. It can cause acute tubular necrosis but it's it's it's a little bit lower in comparison to things like cyplatin which is a really nasty one which we'll talk about a little bit later. So I'd rather you remember that one's more nephrotoxic than methtoresate but keep methtoresate for like apattoxicity. Same thing with six more captoin that's a little hpattoxic as well. But I'd say that's kind of the biggest thing is that you're and then any kind of cell like this that works on the git or sorry that works on any kind of high growth replicating cell epithelial cells you got to watch the mucosa. So they can also get things like nausea and diarrhea. >> Oh G GI effects. >> Yeah. Exactly. So I'd say the biggest thing is mucositis. I'd say like myo suppression is some really big ones. Any kind of GI upset symptoms. And then hpatotoxicity for methtoresate would be a big one. Is that where you make the connection with cancer patients who are taking these these medications have these horrible side effects of nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, hair loss? >> Yeah, there there's another one. That's an epithelial cell. So hair is is basically it's an epithelial cell. And so any kind of patient who has that kind of process, you're affecting the the growth and the replication of epithelial cells. Not just the in this case our GI mucosa and not just the the the bone cells that are actually being produced the white blood cells red blood cell platelets but even the cells that are important for making the hair. >> Yeah, exactly. Alipcia is a pretty common one there as well. >> All right, quick board style check here. You have a patient on a highdosese methtoresate who develops rising creatinine and pansyenia. >> What's the antidote? All right. At this point, when you got a patient who has nephrotoxicity, which is the scary one, a miloppression, and it's because they're on methtoresate, obviously the first thing that you should probably do is stop the drug if you can, but you want to try to mitigate the continued damage. And so, there is a drug called luccovorin. Essentially, it's like it's like a form of folate that bypasses. So, you have folate go to dihydropholate, go to tetrahydropholate, and then between the dihydropholate and tetrahydropholate is the dihydropholate reductase. That's where methtoate is actually happening. If I had a drug that could just bypass and go straight to tetrahydroofolate, it could bypass the whole methtoresate pathway and it could help us to make the thymodine. And so you're kind of in a way you're trying to rescue them from that negative effect. >> So you're almost reversing what you're doing with methtoate. Yeah. Yeah. >> So lucorin can bypass that. >> Yeah. Yeah. So that's something you could consider. And again, it's going to help at least to prevent continued damage. you're probably going to still have to deal with the the unfortunate downfall of the drugs already. But >> and I know you said more often it might be cis platin that's causing maybe re rise in creatinine. We're worried about mephrotoxicity >> and maybe if methtores can be a little bit more reminded for hpatotoxicity. >> Hpatotoxicity. I definitely would think that miloppression really nasty for miloppression heavily myoppressive. >> How about another one? We have the patient with all on 6MPP and alipurol for tumor licis prophylaxis now has severe myo suppression. >> Yeah. Yeah. So that's the thing where six captopine if you give it with alipurol said before right. >> Yeah. And it's good. Alipuranol is great if you're trying to prevent them from developing tumorlyis syndrome because again whenever you have that tumorlyis you pop these cells open >> and you don't want to make uric acid and so that's why you give them a zanthoxidase inhibitor. Problem is is that when you inhibit the zanthinoxidase you build up the activity of six mercapirin and you get toxicity and so you probably have to just go ahead and and and either find another drug to go in combination with alipiranol or you need to kind of reduce the dose. So it's it's kind of going to be one of those scenarios. It's good to know though and and we're going to come back to all these when we do our lightning rounds later. I'll literally be like, "Hey, Zach, here's a scenario. What's the rescue? What's the toxicity? What's the re reversal or the rescue?" >> Good. Yeah. And I would definitely stick with the methtoate lucavorin sigma capirine. Just try and be careful when you use it with alipiranol. Probably got to reduce the dose so you don't get toxicity. Those are always questions that you're going to see on the exam. >> How about one more? Vincine. >> Oh, okay. Because they were on something like that, I think above. Yeah. Yeah. >> Anything to remember for vinristine? >> Oh yeah, neuropathy. Neuropathy is a big venine vinlastine is definitely going to be neuropathy. That's for sure. It can still cause a lot of the symptoms. Again, it's it's it's inhibiting cells that are a high growth fraction. So, you're going to get all the same things like the GI symptoms, the alopeescia, you're going to get the myoppression and kind of effect too. But I think the big one that you'll see on the exam when you give this kind of drug is the neuropathy. The peripheral neuropathy is going to be a big one. So, watch out for that So we can think maybe vinlastine blasts the bone marrow. >> Yeah, it definitely does. You're definitely going to get some hits on the the myo suppression. Yep. Exactly. >> But again, the added fact here is the peripheral neuropathy. >> Yeah. And and the the thing is you always got to remember the chemo man. So there's a little like like a weird picture of a person like they try to help you to visualize and kind of think about the complications or adverse effects and toxicities. And the legs they shape it in a V and the arms they shape it in a V to signify the Vinka alkaloids vin vin christristine vinlastine. They typically tend to cause peripheral neuropathy of those extremities and stuff. So definitely think about those. >> And then last one, how about something like Donna Rubeson? >> Oh, Donna Rubeson. Donna Rubeson I think for this one I would definitely worry about cardiotoxicity. Not as much as Docar Rubeson. Docar Rubeson is going to be a little bit nastier, but Donna Rubeson same. They're kind of similarish. And so they're going to have potential risk of dilated cardiammyopathy. You know, I think serial echoes would be a beneficial thing to watch their left ventricular ejection fraction and make sure that that ventricle is not getting blown out and stuff and and super dilated. So, those are definitely some things I would watch out for with the anthrocycles is is the cardiotoxicity. >> All right. Well, that was case one. We have case two now talking about testicular cancer and classic cytotoxics. >> Okay. All right. >> All right. Second case, we have a 28-year-old man with non-seommitus testicular cancer. He status postctomy and is now receiving BEP. That stands for bleomyctopicide and cis platin. >> And we just learned that a cislatin is very nephrotoxic. >> Yes, it is. And then you know add on to this we said bleomy was the G2 specific inhibitor and a toposi we didn't talk about this yet but that's a topoase inhibitor. So there is topic one inhibitors and then there's topic two inhibitors and so topic isomease you know one inhibitors you're going to have generally there's going to be things like arenotic and topikin and then topoisome 2 is going to be things like a topicide and tenipocide so this is going to be a topisome 2 inhibitor >> so he's on the beep regimen his question to you is Zach why does my hair have to suffer if the tumor is already gone >> oh yeah that's unfortunate I guess cancer's a jerk you know that might be But no, I I think a lot of this is the unfortunate process of, you know, again, when you're giving these drugs, they're targeting rapidly proliferating cells, and that happens to be epithelial cells, and epithelial cells make not just your skin, but your hair and your nails. And so, unfortunately, I think that pays the price as the result of the cancer. >> All right. Well, walk us through then, Zach, what each drug in this BEP regimen does and how to remember them. >> Okay. So, this is a pretty powerful one because again, you're giving different drug classes. I mean when you look at the example hey you good over there he's sucking down water like a fish >> staying hydrated. Yeah, when we talk about these ones, like if you take for example the alll patient, they had like a like multiple different drug classes, right? When we were looking at them, they had, you know, the vin the what were they on? >> Venistine a lot. Yeah. So ven Christristine is a microtub inhibitor. They had donor rubicon which is an anthroycline. They had methtox was a an anti metabet. So for this patient they're on bleomy which is it's actually a anti-tumor antibiotic but it's G2 phase specific and what it does is it actually acts it has like a little site on it which can actually it's kind of like an iron binding site. Pop boom guess what oxygen as it runs by can convert it into a super oxide annion or a hydroxal free radical. So you generate a lot of these reactive oxygen species and reactive oxygen species they're not great for proteins and DNA. So they can actually cause some damage and unfortunately when they do that it leads to some problematic issues with the DNA being able to replicate if you're causing damage to it. So that's usually what happens is you get a lot of breaks and fragmentation in the DNA as a result of that. The other thing with bleomy I I just I'm not a fan of is the the risk of pulmonary fibrosis that comes with it. And so that's one thing is whenever you use this, yeah, you got to watch out for the hair loss, but watch out for the pulmonary fibrosis long term. The topocide extremely powerful. It's a topoisomease 2 inhibitor. So there's tenipoy and a topocide. And all that sucker is going to do I'm not kidding. Top isomerase one causes one break in the DNA strand in the super coiled section. Topisome 2 causes two breaks, but it's in both strands of the DNA. So it's a double stranded break in the DNA at the super coiled section from the DNA kind of replication fork. And so when it cuts, that's fine. It's cutting the DNA to allow for the super coils to kind of like unwind. But then you have to have like the little bottle of glue. So one hand's cutting and the other one's got the glue to kind of stick it back together. It's cutting, but that sucker ain't gluing. And so it's cutting and then it's unwinding, cutting and unwinding. And you're allowing for that DNA to basically fragment. You're losing that ability to completely unwind the DNA properly. and then reglue it back together. And so that leads to unfortunately at least a lot of DNA destruction, fragmentation, but it also alters a lot of the replication fork upstream from that. And so that's usually the problem with this one. And that's a pretty good one for my suppression as well. So again, any of these are going to cause my suppression. What was the other one? Cy platin. >> Yeah. >> Well, you hit it. It definitely causes nephrotoxicity, but it also can cause odotoxicity. So it can jack up the ears, jack up the kidneys. That's one kind of big thing to think about for that one. Cis platin it's a platinum agent so it acts kind of like essentially almost in the same way it kind of acts like a little weak bonder so it has a platinum component to it and that platinum component to it can allow for this intercolation between the DNA strands and it basically creates this like little point where the nucleotides are sticking together and you alter the DNA polymerase is supposed to come and read the DNA imagine you have this like little chunk of area where the drug is kind of keeping the DNA tightly together and you can't it's hitting a wall. It can't separate the DNA. So that's what things like cy platin will do is they'll intercolate the DNA and make it hard for it to break apart and DNA polymers can't read, you can't replicate, you can't transcribe and so that's usually a problem with this one. So that's the big thing I would think about for the cyplatin. >> So basically when you think about testicular cancer, this is very common. You think BEP? >> Yeah. Yeah, that's right. I'd say and again I think one of the the key things with this is that the treatment of choice no matter what for testicular cancer is going to be surgery. So usually it's going to be an orectomy. So some type of radical inguinal orchtomy is going to be the thing for some of these patients but a lot of them can be cheosensitive and these cheosensitive agents is usually going to be really good in non-seomous testicular cancer and so for this thing yeah bleomy attopicide and the cyplatin is going to be pretty beneficial for this. Let me make sure I got this right. Cyplatin, we're worried about nephrotoxicity, otoxicity. >> Yeah. >> Bleomy, pulmonary fibrosis. >> Yep. >> Etopicide, miloppression, alopecia, secondary leukemia. >> Yeah. And I would keep it even more simple. Cy platin, nephrotoxicity, otoxicity, bloomy, pulmonary fibrosis, autotopicide, really just that mild >> suppression. Cool. Those are the big things you can't forget. >> Yeah, exactly. >> All right, Zach. Let's make sure you know what you're talking about here. >> All right. >> I'm going to put you on the spot. Oh, goody. All right, let's just say this patient comes in. He says, "Hey, doc. I I've been noticing that lately I've been having some ringing in my ears." So, I'm I don't know why, but I hear this this constant ringing. What's going on with that? And also, he notices that he had some blood work done, and he said, "Hey, my creatinine is really elevated. What does that mean?" >> Okay. Well, I mean, if he's on the this regimen, cis platin is the one that you got to worry about, right? So that's that's the one that I would say hey let's actually hold maybe this cis platin for a bit and let's make sure that we keep them hydrated because sis platin can cause nephrotoxicity so I' I'd make sure that you know if they aren't exe if they're aren't having difficulty producing urine so if they're like aliguric anoric all right I probably shouldn't give them fluids I can overload them but if they're pretty evilic and they're putting out what you're giving them I'd say keep them hydrated keep those kidneys kind of flushing but I think the big thing is if it's really getting nasty that's when you can kind of add on those like little potentially nefropotective agents in this scenario like amafostine and so that's something that you can give cyst platin as well I can't say I see that too often but I don't work in the oncology world that often as well but yeah you see nephrotoxicity you see ototoxicity in this scenario probably hold off on the cis platin you can switch to another type of platinum agent or some other one that has a similar kind of mechanism of action in this scenario and then I'd give him fluids and I would consider like the amostine as as an add-on >> and then one more let's just say he says hey doc also I'm I've been having some shortness of breath And then you're noticing Yeah. Noticing you you do PFTs and then you're saying, well, there's a progressive decline going on there. What's happening? >> All right. Yeah. So that's ble. So that's the one I was saying cause pulmonary fibrosis and so it can lead to restrictive lung disease. And so that's one thing getting PFTS on these patients is really important. Even if they're not developing symptoms, if you're doing it, at least get a baseline PFT, get a follow-up PFTS, especially if they're developing symptoms, and say, "Hey, what's kind of going on here?" If you see a restrictive pattern, you definitely need to be careful with that and then start talking. Should I even continue bleomy anymore? >> Okay. >> Yeah. >> All right. Well, let's move into case three then. I think that wraps up case two beautifully. >> We have now we're talking about a patient with her two positive breast cancer. >> All right. >> And also we're adding in anthrocycling. >> So, we have a 53y old woman with her two positive ERP negative breast cancer. She's currently being treated with docar rubisim cyclophosphomide followed by pletaxel and then trstusmab as the anti herto therapy. >> Oh yeah. >> 6 months into therapy she presents with shortness of breath and she has a reduced ejection fraction on her echo. >> Oh no. >> What's happening here? >> She jacked up. >> Um no I think this is the common thing with Dr. Rubeson. That's definitely one hit. And then on top of that the trstusimab is another hit. >> Oh yeah. I forgot you mentioned earlier it was donor rubison but you said even worse than that would be docub. >> Yeah I mean that's one you see a lot on the dilated cardiammyopathy eeologies and stuff like that. Doc rubusin but trusima mapab too. So double whammy. >> Oh wow. Yeah. >> So being on dox rubicon and the trousima mapab definitely increases the risk of developing a dilated cardiammyopathy having some cardiotoxic effects and so that's that's something definitely to be concerned about with that EF. You know cycloposomide is one of those that you worry about particularly I'd say most often is hemorrhagic cyitis. So they can have like hematia that's pretty nasty and it increases their risk pretty significantly for bladder cancer as well. So that's what I'd watch out for that one and pass pletaxel, however the stink you say it. That one right there is a microtubial inhibitor. So you you know that's actually a pretty good one as well that you want to think about. And so this one definitely microtubial inhibitors like this one. I'd watch out for those ones particularly with they also can get neuropathies. Okay. >> And so that's one thing to think about with that one. But yeah, I think that's the kind of the big thing I think about for this case is just hearing the EF. I think about the cardiotoxicity is >> well let's start by breaking down the regimens the mechanisms and then we'll talk more about that heart toxicity. >> Okay. >> So if you could how about just starting us off with anthrocycans. >> All right. Yeah. So that's your doc rubison, your dawner rubicon, that's going to be definitely those and and then again these are all part of the anti-tumor antibiotics class and so I like to consider anthroycans as a part of that but I also like to add on the other ones like you know dacttomy and mitoc and even bleomy isn't an antumor antibiotic but that's that's the class and again these are the they're the trifecta dude they can do three different things so they can act like an intercolator so they can kind of squeeze their way in between the DNA they don't form coalent bonds you know that's a jump street you always you always love Yeah, I love that >> coons. >> I love it. >> My name is Jeff. >> My name is J. >> But yeah, it it intercolates in between the DNA. Makes it harder for DNA polymers to kind of like run through the DNA. It's going to hit a roadblock and so it can't replicate. Creates reactive oxygen species. So it has an iron binding site where I can pop in to convert oxygen to free radicals and so that can cause breaks in the DNA. And then the other thing is it has a topoase 2 inhibitor portion. So it can actually you know chop sooie that DNA and then not glue it back together. So, two two strands, two breaking two strands, >> breaking two, baby. And so, this thing is a pretty it's a pretty powerful one, but obviously with that comes the risk of cardiotoxicity. I'd say that's the biggest thing to think about for your exam with with these is the cardiotoxic effects. And so, that's definitely one to consider. The cycloposomide, it's an alkalating agent. So, this one actually does form coalent bonds. So, it's going to get in there and that puppy's going to form a strong bond between the nucleotides. And it can be interstrand or it can be intrarand. And so, what the heck does that mean? Interstrand is it could be between you know this strand over here and this strand over here. So it's cross so it's kind of cross-linking if you will but it's got covealent bonds that make it almost really really hard to break or it can be intra strand so it could be on the same strand. So it can bind with a nucleide here of a or in this case adinine and then the other one it can bind with this one let's say it's a T and it can literally cross-link those two. It makes it almost impossible for DNA polymerase to kind of come through and replicate the DNA. So that's the problem with this one. But again with this one, watch out for usually painless hematia which can signal maybe a hemorrhagic cyitis. It can signal like bladder cancer and so that carries a pretty high risk with with cyclops mine. So that's the ones I'd watch out for with that one. >> What else we say? Pletaxyl. Pletaxyl is a micro inhibitor. Okay, here we go. Microbe inhibitors. They work in the Mphase, right? We talked about that. >> But there's two classes. There's a vena alkaloid which is your vinristine, your vinlastine. And so those ones particularly work by they they basically prevent the microtubules from polymerizing. And so what happens is you have to you you form at the end the poles of the cell you get your motic kind of like your your whole centrosome and then the spindles start coming out moving towards the chromosomes to connect to them right because those are going to be the things that drag the sister chromatids to the other ends of the cell is the microtubules. So when you want to form them to go to the chromosomes that's called the polymerization reaction. That's where vin christristine and vinl blasting work is they prevent them from going and connecting to the chromosomes and then you can't actually form them on that metaphase plate and then you can't separate them. Taxanes they work at the point where the microtubules are polymerizing properly but then once they're connecting to the chromosomes on the metaphase plate what do you have to do to get them to go toward the opposite ends of the cells? You got to start depolymerizing them. So you got to start breaking the microtubules down so that you can shorten them and bring them towards the other ends of the pole. That is where these kinds of drugs come in. Dosilaxel and pletaxel. And so they're going to inhibit the depolymerization. They're going to be stuck in the metaphase plate and they can't ever go into anaphase. And so that's where they they you don't actually allow for those cells to replicate. And so that's the thing you want to think about with those. And big thing to think about with dsotaxel, paxel or the taxane group is neuropathy just like vin christristine and vinlastine. And then the trstusab, you had already mentioned it briefly, the cardiotoxic effects, but anything else? >> The thing I think with this one is that this is a monoconal antibbody. That's really big. A lot of these are drugs where they kind of they don't have they're not monoconal antibodies that we've talked about so far. We haven't actually got into those. And so those are your MABs like and you can hear trust mab, right? So these they are monoconal antibodies and what they do is they target the herto receptor. Her two receptor is an extracellular receptor. you it binds lians like epidermal growth factors binds to it triggers an intracellular pathway that causes the cell to want to go through the cell cycle and so if you give a drug like a monoconal antibbody binds to that receptor blocks the lian now that signal going down to activate multiple pathways like raz map kynise pathways stat which is a signal transducer activator transcription pi3 kt pathways all these like things you probably think I'm making these things up but it's all these pathways that signal down to the cycle dependent kinace enzymes that control your phosphorilation of a protein called RB. RB is retinol blastoma. It kind of in its mouth, it holds this protein called E2F. If you phosphorolate that sucker, it spits the E2F out and that goes down and activates genes that causes the cell to go through the proliferation. If you give this drug hits blocks the heru receptor, you don't send those signals down. You don't activate cyclindependent kinace. It doesn't phospholate for RB. RB holds on to the E2F in its mouth and doesn't spit it out. E2F then doesn't go and activate those genes. The cell doesn't proliferate. So, you kind of shut down that cell cycle. And and you, like you said, cardiotoxicity is the is the big risk for this one. >> All right. Let's just say the patient's EF dropped even more while she's been on both docubes and trstuzzmab. What do we do? How do we who who's to blame? >> Oh, that's a good question. Wow. Okay. I think the thing here is that tstusimab is usually reversible. So you can act if you catch it early and you actually kind of modulate you modify things it can you can actually gain some left ventricular ejection fraction back with doc rubicon and dawn rubicon those can cause irreversible cardiotoxicity. So you may not be able to gain some of that left ventricular ejection fraction back. So that's a that's a commonly tested thing I've seen on the exams is remember the they're kind of like dose dependent but also there's to the point where it can cause irreversible or reversible trustab reversible Dr. Rubison Donor Rubeson may be irreversible damage. So yeah that's a good one. >> All right cool are there any other big toxicity like hits from this case? Anything else you need to mention? >> No I think we got that again the Dr. Rubicon, Donna Rubicon, Tstusimab, cardiotoxicity, cycloposomide, hemorrhagic cycitis, bladder cancer, and then your pletax, dosaxel is going to be your your neuropathies. That's the that's the big ones there. And then I if you ever do get te I think it's less the one that I think is the rescue therapy to remember is the lucavorn. That's the one you're probably going to get tested on. If you got the seisplatin, you got the amostine, cool, good. But I think all the other ones are less likely. For example, for cycloposomide, if you see that they're having hemorrhagic cyitis, you can give them something called mezzna and then help them to flush some things with the fluids. If you have a patient who's on the doc rubicon kind of thing and they get cardiotoxicity and you're worried about that irreversible kind of drop in the EF on the left ventricle, you can give them dexoxane. And so that's an that's another one to consider. But often times just with these patients good monitoring echo cardiography probably like every 6 months making sure that you're kind of telling them to watch out for any kind of hematia and then watch out for any kind of neuropathy that's involved >> and we briefly mentioned it before with our actual patient with breast cancer but can you give the most common indications for each one of these classes? >> Oh yeah. Yeah. So I think doc rubus and don ruben are really good for your you know I'd say like the solid organ tumors. So breast cancer, lymphas, leukemas and even sarcomomas is any usually they're they're not on their own. They're usually combined with something else. >> Okay. >> Tstusmab is really good for any kind of herto positive cancer and that's usually breast cancer but I have seen people with like metastatic esophageal and gastric adnocarcinomaomas that you can actually give this as well. Taxanes are good for solid organ tumors as well. You can use it in breast cancer. I'd say I've seen it more often than not though in ovarian cancer. So that's one. I've seen it in lung cancer. We'll actually probably talk about that a little bit later because you can definitely use this in the the lung cancer patients particularly. I think non small cell and prostate cancer. You definitely can use this one as well. Cycloposphomide. I'd say the biggest thing that you could probably think for this one is probably going to be lymphas. And we'll we'll get into this one a little bit later, but you I'd say that's going to be the primary one and used a lot in autoimmune. More often than not, cycloposate is heavily utilized in autoimmune diseases, but I I think you could definitely see it in lymphas. >> Okay, fourth case. This one's about CML and using our tyrroscenus inhibitors. >> Okay, so we have a 45year-old man with fatigue early satiety splenomegaly. CBC reveals white blood cell count of 120,000 >> with leftsided with a left shifted myoid cells. Bone marrow and cytogenics confirmed CML with a with a T922 with a transllocation of T922. >> My boy. That's my boy. >> Let me let me get let me >> let him cook. Let him cook. >> There's so many abbreviations. >> I know there's a lot. >> And BCR able fusion. >> Cool. >> He has started on immatib. Okay. So we have the nib ending there. Inib. >> This is the era of targeted therapy I suppose nowadays. But that it's honestly very beneficial. So what is immatib doing at the molecular level? >> All right. So again this kind of goes back to all your tyroscene kinasis. You have a bunch of them. You got a lot of them that could be receptor bound or associated with a with a receptor. So epidermal growth factor receptors is a really big one. Alk receptors jack you know 2 receptors. So a lot of them and then there's this con there's an non receptor kind of like non-membrane bound receptor tyrroscen kynise. And this is that BCR aable. So it's basically they're all these different types of enzymes and they're and what's cool about these is that usually any kind of tyrroscen kinace associated receptor or tyrroscen kynise non-membrane bound kind of like enzyme they all kind of trigger these intracellular pathways. So usually let's say that they're on the surface and you get a lian bind onto them like a growth factor of some sort or whatever it may be. They bind onto these tyrroscenus receptors that'll signal these pathways. Again, I might be speaking gibbers, but things like the PI3K, AKT pathway, the map kynise pathway, the stat pathway, and all of these things are trying to activate your CDK4, your CDK6 enzymes, which help to kind of cause the retinol blastoal protein to spit out the E2F, push it into the cell proliferative processes. When you give a tyrroscen kinus inhibitor, you're inhibiting those receptors or at least the portions of those receptors or you're inhibiting those enzymes that are triggering those pathways and you're shutting down those intracellular pathways that then shut down CDK4 CDK6 indirectly. You don't allow for retinol blastoma to spit out the E2F. You don't push the cells into the proliferative cycle and instead you kind of shut down that cell proliferation. So that's really what we think about with these. So that's where I would see these, you know, these drugs are really, really beneficial in a kind of scenario where cells are kind of constantly kind of going through the replication cycle. So that's what I would say for these is they're going to be great in certain situations like this BCRable. If you give a drug like a matnip, it's going to inhibit the BCR able tyrroscenase enzyme. It's going to shut down those pathways, the RAZ, RAF, mechase pathway, the PI3 KKT pathway, the stat pathway, and it's going to shut those things down. So, that's one of the things that makes this pretty beneficial. >> I think it's cool that this kind of ties into the bigger family of TKIS. >> Yeah. And there's a there's a lot of them, man. There really is because I think when you when you look at a lot of these a lot of these these drugs that we give, they're trying to just shut off these receptors or these certain types of enzymes. And so, let's say you go back, okay, you talk about the epidermal growth factor, tyrrosen kinace. You can give a drug to block that and that's more of a receptor site. So you're kind of inhibiting the tyrosen kindinus a part of that receptor. Usually those are things like oamerinib and they're very commonly utilized in like non small cell lung cancer. You have alk rearrangements that can occur on these receptors and then you can give drugs like electinib and that's going to block that kind of pathway. There's other ones that you can actually block the intracellular second messengers. So the receptors are up here and they signal down to these second messengers. So Raz, Raph, Ma, Mech, these are all the second messengers. I can give a drug like a BRFH inhibitor like Vimu Rafanib and it can directly inhibit that second messenger and shut down those pathways. So I can use drugs at the receptor. I can use it as an intracellular pathway like second messenger inhibitor and then I can even give drugs like CDK4 and six inhibitors where they directly inhibit the most downstream pathway like palpocyc. And so there's all of these different ways that we can use these kinus inhibitors to either shut down the receptor, shut down the second messenger or shut down the enzyme that controls you pushing it into the cell cycle. And so that's I think one of the coolest things about these. >> And like I mentioned earlier, it's cool when you kind of see that the the end of that term of the the tenib or the inib, you immediately think, oh, this is probably my my kynise inhibitor. >> Exactly. >> Well, which one? >> Yeah. And that's why it's important. And so that's why I say like people who have like CML, you're probably going to want to think about something's wrong with that BCRable tyrroscen kynise. This is going to respond well to the amatib, right? If you have someone with like a non small cell lung cancer, which they have an eGFR mutation or an aly arrangement or something like that, they're going to respond better to things like oamerinib or a lectin. If they have something like a CLL, that responds to a brutin tyrrosen kynise. So that's going to be like a brute. If they have myop proliferative neoplas where the jack 2 enzyme is constantly activated or mutated in these senses, you can give drugs like ruxalitanib to target that. And so if you have a patient who has breast cancer, you can give them CDK46 inhibitors to shut down those pathways. And so that's why that's what I want you guys to think about for these essentially. >> All right. Well, that was case four. We have one more left and then we'll kind of go through a little bit of a recap. >> Okay. So last case, case five. We are talking now about melanoma and immune checkpoint inhibitors. >> Okay. >> 49year-old woman with metastatic melanoma. This is the BRF V600E positive. >> She's started on Pembrly. That is a PD1 inhibitor. After a few cycles, she comes in with watery diarrhea 10 to 12 times per day, crampy abdominal pain, low-grade fevers. Stool studies are negative for infection. Colonoscopy shows diffuse colitis. I think you had mentioned earlier about those immune checkpoint inhibitors the the itis. >> Yeah, >> this looks like what this this looks like what it is is colitis, you know, from that. >> So that's a common finding from these immune checkpoint inhibitors. >> Yeah. I mean obviously I would 100% still make sure that they don't have another kind of like underlying infectious diarrhea. I send off like you know stool cultures >> and that's why I said stool studies are negative. So at least you got that away. >> Yeah. And so the fact that that is that's that's that's definitely a benefit and you know then I would probably then say okay what do I I maybe have an immune checkpoint inhibitor kind of reaction here and so >> usually in those you kind of just hold the drug and sometimes you'll give steroids to really kind of help to calm it down. I've even seen people give like really strong imunosuppressants like TNF alpha inhibitors like inflict some aid stuff but yeah that's that's kind of what I would say is whenever you think about these drugs they're they definitely can cause a lot of different types of itis effects like dermatitis, hepatitis, thyroiditis, pneumonitis. So the colitis, there's a lot of different things that you see from this. >> So there could be some negative things about this, but there's obviously a lot of good with this drug. So talk a little bit about how these checkpoint inhibitors actually work. Okay. >> And why they're they could be very beneficial drugs. >> Yeah. So they're basically trying to activate your immune system. They're trying to get your tea cells to kind of like, you know, get in gear and and attack these cancer cells and tumor cells. So usually what happens, I like to think about this. Okay. So you have a what's called on your tea cells, you have something called PD1, right? And on top of that, you also have your T- cell receptors and your cluster differentiation proteins like CD4, CD8. On a cancer cell, you have something called an MHC complex, usually like an MHC1, and then they present like a piece of an antigen on it that identifies it as either self or foreign. And then it has something called a PDL1. So it's a programmed kind of like lian programmed death liand one. And so what happens is in patients who have tumors or cancers, they increase the expression of PDL1 on their surface. And it's kind of smart in a way because what it does is is imagine the T- cell comes and it's got its PD1 poking out and then the cancer cells has a PDL1 poking out. And if they connect, it kind of tells the T- cell, hey, you know, back off, dude. Chill. All right. Daddy, chill. Kind of thing. And then you it kind of it bounces off and it becomes inactivated and says, okay, cool. >> Which sucks. >> Yeah. And so that's a way for kind of an kind of to evade if you will the immune system. Yeah. So if I gave a drug that could either kind of block the interaction between the PD1 and the PDL1, I would then say, "Hey T- cell, daddy get active." You know, >> daddy don't chill. Daddy kill. >> That's good. Yeah. So that's what happens is you give drugs like PDL1 inhibitors to target that on the tumor cell. And so that's where you can give things like a tesylismab or dvalamab or you can give ones that target the pey one. >> And so that's when you give things like pebrismab and niveamab. Right. So that's what I would say for those ones and it's basically kind of you know daddy kill kind of thing. >> Yeah. The other way that we can kind of get these TE-C cells to be active is that let's say that you have a antigen presenting cell like a macrofase and it comes to the T- cell and when you come to a T- cell that that macrofase has an MHC2 complex it has a little antigen on the surface of it T- cell has a T- cell receptor with a CD protein but then the other thing that the macrofase expresses is something called B7 and then on the and I know this is a lot of stuff but on the T- cell there's a CD20 28 and a CTLA4. CTLA4 competes with CD28 for B7 interaction. If CD28 and B7 interact, T- cell's like, "All right, daddy kill." But if the CTLA4 and the B7 interact, it says, "Daddy, chill." >> So, so it evades it then. >> Yeah, it evades it. So, I want to not let CTLA4 and B7 interact. >> So, you need a CTLA4 inhibitor. >> Exactly. And that's where you can use things like epilimab and it kind of basically blocks that interaction and it makes sure that the affinity for CD28 and B7 are strong. That's a co-stimulatory signal and that signal then triggers cytoines like interlucans to say hey T- cell get active get ready and daddy kill and that's when it's going to push it into kind of acting and functions. >> So yeah that that's I think the simplest way of remembering how these things really kind of get the tea cells to just absolutely go ham on these tumor cells. >> And then of course not forgetting the classic itis pattern. It can cause a lot of downstream effects that we don't want. >> Yeah. >> So, you just have to be very cognizant of that. >> Yeah. Watch out for colitis. So, if they're complaining of abdominal pain, diarrhea, those are really big ones. Pneumanitis. So, obviously watch out for cough. And I don't think you'd ever see hemoptis, but dysnia is a really big one. Hepatitis, watch the LFTs definitely. I would definitely, you know, serial LFTs on these patients. And then TFTs, thyroid function test, because it can cause thyroiditis. So it can cause a temporary transient hypothyroidism with then if it continues a permanent hypothyroidism. So that's what I would watch out for there. And then dermatitis. And then I think that would kind of be the the biggest things I would watch out for. >> Well, how do we manage our patient? So in our case, we presented that there was peerlyimmap induced colitis. >> How do we manage that in a stepwise fashion? I think we did did the right thing by getting stool studies first to rule out kind of some kind of like you know nasty infectious diarrhea like cadiff or shigtoxin or chageela you know him intera all those kind of nasty ones your ssyc is the way that you remember the infectious ones and then your ciff is a is a really big one so as long as they ruled those things out that's great and then from there I would say okay let's let's see how bad it is is it kind of like are they they shaten like you know 10 times plus a day >> yeah she was 10 to 12 times can you imagine >> yeah That's almost fulminant. Like that's pretty severe. So at that stage, that's >> that sounds like UC. >> Yeah. Yeah. And that's that's another thing you obviously got to worry about. And that's kind of funny enough. If you were wrong and you treated this patient with steroids and they had UC, you'd be fine. You probably wouldn't know because it's kind of you're going to give them steroids to kind of try to tamper things down. Yeah. And then funny enough, you'll give them infleximab, which is another treatment. It's a TNF alpha inhibitor that you can use for UC as well. But that's what it is. It's kind of an autoimmune disease, which is kind of what UC is. And so you're trying to basically kind of shut that down. So you hold the drug. You can try and challenge them again with it later, but you just got to be careful. If they develop symptoms, you might have to try something else. But yeah, hold the drug. I would give them steroids probably first and then if they weren't getting any better, I'd probably give them like infleximab to see if that could shut it down. >> But yeah. Okay. All right. And we talked about peerlyimmab being mainly used with metastatic melanoma. Is it is it good for anything? Because you had mentioned before it's good for metastatic cancer. So for our patient metastic melanoma, that's wonderful. Anything else? We we talked about non small non small cell. >> Yeah, you can use a non small cell lung cancer es especially if you know you check their PDL1 status and that's like greater than I think it's usually greater than equal to 50%. If that PDL1 is greater than that then I definitely would give something like that. If it's low you can still give it but you sometimes you can combine it with chemo and non small cell. The other one is in colorectal cancers especially those with lynch syndrome. >> Okay. >> So that's going to be pretty beneficial in that one. So that's that's the things I would remember is usually any kind of metastatic like solid organ tumor colctal cancer usually if they have Lynch syndrome kind of like features non small cell lung cancer if they have a PDL1 that's usually greater than equal to 50% on that and then metastatic melanoma as long as it's not a br like technically this patient with a bra v600 mutation they should technically be on something called vimarafhanib it would actually be more beneficial for them but in this case if it was just metastatic melanoma with a bra v600 negative pimberly would probably be good for them >> gotcha gotcha Okay. Well, we have our mini lightning rounds now, so I'll kind of give you out. >> Yeah. I mean, this is a lot, right? Even Even even doing this, I'm like I'm like, "Holy crap." I hope everybody like understands these things and feels good about it. But maybe this can kind of >> I I hope to a nice end and help us out. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Hopefully, it can kind of maybe bridge all of this information. >> At least give the most important things to take away from this. >> Yeah. Seriously. I mean, this is probably the thing you'll get tested on most likely. >> Yeah. Yep. >> So, I'll kind of give you a scenario and then you just say, "Hey, what do we do in that scenario?" >> All right. Cool. So we have first one dilated cardiammyopathy in a patient who received chemo for lymphoma. >> All right. So I'd want to know are they on the docar rubis and donor rubisonin because that's going to be the big thing for the those >> anthrocycles. >> Yeah exactly anthrocycans and then you know rescue ones you definitely can consider dexoxine for that. So that's something to consider. >> Dexoxine. Oh cool. Nice. The next one is hemorrhagic cyitis with hematia and supra pubic pain. >> Cycloposomide. So that should be cycloposomide until proven otherwise. And then you can do mezna and give them some fluids. >> Okay. Next one is we we hammered this one earlier. The nephrotoxicity and otoxicity with solid tumor chemo. >> Yeah. So that's any kind of platinum agent, but usually cy platin is the most important one. And I' I'd hydrate them if they have some nephrotoxicity and amoposine can help a little bit too. >> Severe myosuppression from highdose methtresate. >> Yeah. So that's lucav. That's you got to remember that one. >> That's one you can't forget, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. Luca. >> All right. pulmonary fibrosis in a testicular cancer patient. >> There's another one, don't forget, bleomy. So definitely bleomy for this one as well. >> And the PFT monitor. >> Definitely monitor PFTs to see if they would develop any kind of like restrictive lung patterns. >> Okay. Peripheral neuropathy and constipation from leukemia regimen. >> All right. Well, leukemia, I know that you're getting, you know, the vin vin christristine or the vin blasting, but usually vin christristine. So yeah, that one I would definitely worry about with peripheral neuropathy and the constipation part. I think you can, you know, again, I would focus more on the peripheral neuropathy. But yeah. So you hear peripheral neuropathy, you're thinking the vin christristine or vinlast. >> Yeah. I'm thinking the vin vinka alkaloids because I I think about the chemo man. I think about the V's for the legs and the arms. >> And and hey, if you watch the whiteboard lecture, you'll see the chemo man. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Another one here is cold induced neuropathy after what? What's the drug for that? >> Yeah, you might oxaloplatin. You might see this one. So that's just a little like you got to just memorize that one. There's nothing to oxaloplatin. Yeah. Sometimes for some reason they can get cold induced neuropathy. So you want to try and avoid cold exposure if they're on oxal platin. >> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. >> All right. Good to know. Last one. Zach. Migraines from trying to memorize all this. >> Nah, it's not FDA approved. >> I don't know. Coffee and, you know, a walk maybe will help you. >> Yeah. >> All right. Well, here we go. Let's close if we if you could a structured recap for everything we've talked about. Try not to >> No, I'm just kidding. I was that's funny because I was about to say try not to ramble on. >> Yeah. Yeah. I know. All right. I I think let's let's start from the beginning again. I would say if you're going to start about thinking about these drugs, think about are they cell cycle specific, cell cycle non-specific or miscellaneous. Cell cycle specific is your S-phase inhibitors, your G2 phase inhibitors, your Mphase inhibitors. For the S-phase, it's anti metabolites. Methtomer capirine, citarabine, cladine, fluorabine, jimcytoine. All of those guys are going the beans are going to be there and these are going to be I think the really important ones. Topoisomease one inhibitors which is your arenoticanin and topotin are going to be a part of that group. G2phase that's your topoisomease 2 inhibitors that's a topicide tenipide and bleomy which is a type of anti-tumor antibiotic. Mphase is going to be your microtubial inhibitors. There's two groups. There is the inhibitors of polymerization which is your vinka alkaloids your vin christristine your vinlastine and then there's the inhibitors of depolymerization and that is going to be your taxines that's going to be pleataxel and dosilaxel so that's going to be that part of the cell cycle specific if I said cell cycle non-specific you'd say anthrocycans doc rubicon donor rubicon don't forget your dctenomy your mitoin and then your platinum agents and alkal alkalating agents. So the platinum agents is cy platin caroplatin and your alkalating agents are going to be things like your cycloposomide, ih phosphomide, teemazolamide, goodies like that. All right, so that's what I want you to think about for those. All right, then we say okay, what's the mechanism? How do they work in that whole cell process? Antimabolites, they fake the nucleotides or they block the synthesis of making nucleotides in DNA. Microtubules they again do what? They inhibit polymerization or depolymerization. Topois isomeraases is they're supposed to help to cut super coils and unwind. They don't allow for the reloation of those DNA strands and they end up causing massive unwinding and inhibiting DNA replication of the replication fork. Anthrocycans they kind of come in and they cross-link the DNA and they form basically a roadblock for DNA polymerases to come through. Just like platinum agents, same thing. They do that same kind of process. The only thing I would say with anthroycans is that they have they're that that trifecta. They increase reactive oxygen species. They have a topoisomease 2 function and they cross link. All right. Any of your protein kynise inhibitors, they're inhibiting either the receptors at the surface. eGFR, ALC, Jack 2, all of those ones are your BCR. shutting those down or we're shutting down the ty we're shutting down the kinases that are in the intracellular pathway like raph or we're shutting down the kinases like the CDK4 and six level we can shut those down so those are going to be the ones to remember for that so your BCrable inhibitors your eGFR inhibitors your alk inhibitors your jack 2 inhibitors your graph inhibitors your CDK46 inhibitors are going to be important ones then you got your MABs your monoconal antibodies this is your satuximabismab tstuzumab All of those are going to be targeting particularly the receptors on the cell or the lians that bind to those receptors and shutting down those pathways. The ones I want you to remember is things like rettoximab. It's a monoconal antibbody against CD20 tusumab a blocker of the her too your your bevicismab an inhibitor particularly of veg f vascular endothelial growth factor and then the receptor by which usually epidermal growth factors bind on to is satuximab. So those are going to be inhibiting those puppies. Hormonal ones. This is going to be shutting down the estrogen, the progesterone, the testosterone pathways. That's your ser. So tmoxifen, relaxophene. They're going to be shutting down making estrogen. So this is going to be your G&RH agonist, your G&R antagonist. And those are also going to shut down the testosterone production as well. Then you're also going to have your particularly the aromatase inhibitors. They prevent androgens from being converted into estrogens. That's your anastrazol, your letol. And then on top of that, we have the androgen receptor blockers like enzolutamide. And then you kind of get into the last point which is your checkpoint inhibitors. And these are going to be the ones that we talk about which are the anti PD1 and antiPDL1 and anti-CTA4 where they put those kind of guys into the daddy kill you know kind of thing. So that's the that's the drugs in which I want you to think about how they actually work. Then you got to kind of start thinking about indications. So for example, if I said, "Hey, they got Hodkins lymphoma. What do you treat them with?" Usually that's ABVD therapy. So with these ones, we kind of get really far, but you start getting into adriomy, which is a type of ant anthrocycan. B is bleomy. V is going to be some type of like usually vinine or vinlastine, which is a microtubial inhibitor. And then D you get more into like some kind of like docar rubicon kind of thing. Oh, that's actually not right. All right. I think it's dexamethasone. >> All right, just say that D part then. Dexamethasone. >> And then D is >> all right. And then D is usually going to be some kind of thing like a steroid. Usually like dexamethasone would be something like that. A matnib great for CML. Beep, which is the bleomy, a topicide and the platinum agent like cisplatin great for testicular cancer. Full fox fully regimens which these ones are crazy. Usually these are going to be things that where you give them you know 5FU you also give them oxoplatin you give them usually some kind of thing like lucavorin kind of combined there or arenoticanin and that's going to be treating them for colorectal cancer fulfinox is going to be something for pancreatic cancer usually things that we give particularly I think one of them is for multiple myoma we like to remember the vrd regimen this is usually something again I told you guys about this you have something called bortezamib Ortzamib is a proteosome inhibitor. So we can give that one usually. You can also give it sometimes with like linolyomide and dexamethasone. Tstusmab good for her two positive breast cancer. Usually for non small cell lung cancer we prefer to target with eGFR ones. So oamerinib or alry arrangement inhibitors. Electib those are going to be really beneficial for that scenario. PD1 inhibitors like your pimberlymab great for metastatic melanoma great for non-smell cell lung cancer. are great for colorectal cancer as well especially if they have the the lynch syndrome. So that's what I want you to think about for those. Then you got to match the toxicity and that's I think the most important thing cardiammyopathy what's the rescue agent dexane bleomy pulmonary fibrosis what do you do you monitor with PFTS cycloposomide hemorrhagic cyitis what can you do to treat it usually that's going to be mezna and giving them fluids cy platin nephrotoxicity otoxicity monitor those renal functions really really carefully but big thing is if they get into the weeds with that sometimes you may have to give them aostine and some fluids Vin Christine and Vinlastine. Definitely watch out for neuropathy. For taxines, watch out for neuropathy. For anti metabolites like methtoresate, really watch out for milo suppression. So watching that CBC and making sure that they're not developing any severe miloppressions. And if that is the case, lucavorin is going to be the key one to give for a patient with methtoresate. And then checkpoint inhibitors. You got to watch out for the itis effect. If they start developing some of these itis effects, obviously you're going to have to maybe hold the drug and you can rechallenge them later. But sometimes if it's bad enough, you got to suppress them down and give them some steroids to chill them out a little bit. >> Meanwhile, I'm over here like this. Like, I It's a lot of dude. It's a crap ton of info. >> Yeah. And I I get this, guys. I I get why it's really stressful >> and I wouldn't honestly blame you guys if you're like, "Man, I felt like I just got waterboarded with information and I don't know how much to take away from this." I think the big thing I really want you to think about is just pattern recognition. And it's going to take a lot of practice. It's going to take time where you have to sit down and draw these things out. But really put the drugs into specific categories. Okay? Are they cell cycle specific, cell cycle non-specific, or do they get into these miscellaneous ones? Then from there, you start to form a at least an idea of their names. you get a good idea of how they work. That's an important one for your step one. Your step two is going to be focusing more so particularly not as much on the indications. That was a little additional part that I like to add in. They're going to focus more on, hey, you have a patient who had this cancer. You're treating them with this. Which one most likely caused this adverse effect? And if they have that, how do we make sure that we or if they don't have it, how do we monitor to identify that before they develop that complication? And if they do develop the adverse effect, how do we actually potentially treat it? And so that's what I really want you to take away. So step one is going to hit more of those MCQs on the mechanism, the drug class. Where does it really fit? What does it do? And then the step two is going to talk more about like, hey, particularly which one of these is the likely trigger of this patient's underlying adverse effect? And then how do we go about identifying it, monitoring it, and treating it? >> Well, you can't go wrong with just doing the whole entire thing. >> Yeah. Exactly. You started from the start to finish >> and you know, hey, it it was a great episode. A lot of a lot of information, but >> I think it was boiled down pretty nicely. >> Good, good, good. That's what I hope. I know that is a lot of memorization, but I hope at the end of the day there was some degree of at least pattern recognition, maybe having a better approach and maybe you understand things a little bit more because that's that's always the the goal is to make things a little bit easier for you who are listening and and try to actually enjoy medicine, enjoy science, and have some fun when you're you're looking for something else to do while you're doing something that you don't want to do like cleaning, you know, washing the dishes, cleaning your car, you know, cleaning the house, I don't know, you're on a drive and you just want to listen to us, which is probably not the best thing. But hey, I think we try to make things fun. I hope that you really enjoyed this. I hope you learned a little bit. And man, I just I thank you guys so much. I love you guys. And as always, my friends, until next time.