Alright Ninja Nerds, we are going to take a look at Atlas and Axis. So what we're looking at right now is Atlas, C1. We're looking at the superior surface here. If you look at the superior surface, we have these little depressions here, these are called your superior articulating processes with facets right there. These are what articulate with the occipital condyles of the occipital bone to form what's called the synovial condyler a joint. Right here we can see little bump, a tubercle. That's the anterior tubercles, this is obviously the anterior side of the cervical vertebra and over here is the posterior tubercle and so this would be the posterior side of the tubercle cervical vertebra. Over here we have these little bumps out here, these little bumps out here the transverse processes. Okay I have the cervical vertebra and then we have these holes where the vertebral arteries run through and those holes are called the transverse foramina. Okay then I got this big hole and that is your vertebral foramen. We look over here and they get vertebral foramina, that's where the spinal cord runs through. If we look back here, we have like an articulating surface right here for the dens or the odontoid process or c2 and that will allows for that rotation around that point or that pivoting point of it. Alright so again that's the articulating surface for where the odontoid process or dens of our axis articulates with. Now what I'm going to do is flip it over, so we can get a different view here, alright. So, take a look at the inferior view here, these are here your inferior articulating processes with facets and they articulate with the superior articulating process of facets with C2 or axis and that's what allows for a specific type of joint that I'll talk about here in a second which is called a synovial pivot joint. We'll take a look at it in a little bit and then again, this is going to be the anterior side as the anterior tubercle. And over here there'll be a posterior tubercle and these are your arches. They call them arches. This be the anterior arch and this would be the posterior arch back here. Again vertebral foramen right here, is where the spinal cord runs through and again you can see these transverse processes over here, you can still see the transverse foramina which is where these holes of the vertebral arteries run through okay. So again, this is going to be our C1 or Atlas let's take a closer look now at C2 or Axis. So you can its Axis because it has this like a dens or an odontoid process, this little something sticking right up again. This is dens or odontoid process. These over here are the superior articulating processes or facets and these articulate with the inferior articulating process with facets of the upper cervical vertebra or C1. This is our vertebral foramen where the spinal cord runs through. This is our spinous process right there and that's what's designed to be able to protect the spinal cord. Right now we're going to flip it over so we can take a better view of some other structures. Alright, so now we're going to do is, we're going to take a look. If you see this is a chunky part of the bone right, there it's called the body or the centrum, that's the weight-bearing effect right there. The cervical vertebra is going to be where a lot of the weight is being applied okay. Then over here you can see these little processes over here, these processes are again they're transverse processes. They're better seen from the inferior surface and then again you got these little bridge your transverse foramina right there, transverse foramina and again that's where the vertebral arteries run through. And then here these little articulating surfaces right here, these right here called your inferior articulating processes with facets, okay, and they'll articulate with the superior articulating processes of the lower cervical vertebra, our C. And again, here's the spinous process protects the spinal cord, and again there's your vertebral foramen where the spinal cord runs through okay. That's our C2 or axis Alright guys, so now I wanted to show you the articulation between C1 and C2 or Atlas and axis. So again you can actually see that part right there, the odontoid process how it's articulating and pivoting around that point right there. And that articulating surface right here or the anterior tubercle is or the anterior arch. I wanted to show you that and then also you can see the articulation here, I kind of turn this over a little bit you can see. Here's your inferior articulating surfaces process with facets for your C1, how it articulates with the superior articulating process facets of C2. And again that interaction the articulation between those two points and where this odontoid process is sitting is what allows for this this joint to move from side to side or pivot around central access, so it allows for the C1 to kind of pivot around that odontoid process and the forms what's called a synovial pivot joint alright. So that covers again in this video C1 and C2 or Atlas and Axis.