Welcome back to the Ninja Podcast. I'm joined by the lovely Zachary Murphy today. Well, hello there. And we're talking about brain tumors. We're continuing our talk through our oncology series. And next up is brain tumors. Yeah, there's a lot of them unfortunately, but I think it'll be a good one to talk about because um when you hit brain tumors, a lot of it's going kind of like a pretty scary especially like for your step one, you know, students or people out there viewing that. Um you can definitely see this a lot, but we're going to pretty much simplify it into superentorial, infratoral tumors, and metastatic brain tumors. And I think we got a couple good cases to really highlight that. Three to be exact. Yes, sir. Okay. All right. Let's begin. We have case one. A 42-year-old male presents to the ED after experiencing a generalized toniclonic seizure. The patient has had his first ever seizure witnessed by co-workers. It lasted around 2 minutes followed by confusion and lethargy. Over the past month, he's had headaches, subtle personality changes, and forgetfulness. There is no history of trauma or recent illness. The patient's pretty well pretty healthy. Besides this, he's has he has no past medical history, no medications he's on. family history is negative for any neurological disease or cancer. Okay, for his exam, we do a pretty standard exam. His vitals are BP 132 over 78, heart rate is 74, temp is 36.9 Celsius. His neuroexam, he has a slight right-sided pronator drift, and we also note slowed mental processing. We do a fundoscopy exam, and he does have papadeema present. All right, Zach, we've got a 42-year-old guy. He's pretty healthy overall, but he has has a new onset seizure, headaches, personality changes, which is pretty scary. Y and now paplade demon fondoscopy. What are we thinking? Well, first thing I always think is this is definitely an intraanial lesion. I'm not sure if it's a bleed. I'm not sure if it's a mass. I'm not sure if it's a stroke. I'd say I'm leaning more towards the mass because usually with strokes or bleeds, it's a little bit more acute and a little bit more aggressive onset, but you can still get that. So I'm pretty concerned for an intraraanial mass and we are talking about brain tumors, right? So it's likely a brain tumor but the question that you want to start asking yourself is can you localize where the tumor could be? In other words, is it a super central tumor meaning it's above the centurium cerebelli or below? And often times symptoms like if I have focal neural deficits to the point where it's like contraateral side is weak or I have sensory deficits um I have field cuts those are definitely concerning even hemi neglect where I can't appreciate an opposite side of my body whether it be visually or sensation those are concerning for more superal cortical signs. So I'm I I see with this a new onset seizure seizures with tumors they don't happen unless they're cortical. As much as people want to will cerebellar seizures into existence or brain stem seizures, they don't really happen. It usually has to be near the cortex for you to truly generate a seizure. So that right there tells me it's likely it's a superenatorial one. Headaches, you can get that with both infraral and superenatorial. Personality changes and that fact of it being new really tells me a frontal lobe pride tumor because maybe they're having some loss of inhibition, some behavioral emotional changes. I'm definitely concerned about it being a frontal lobe tuber. And then papa edema, that's just an evidence of elevated intraanial pressure potentially. Um, now the other thing that was on there was the the pronator drift, right-sided pronator drift. So I'm starting to wonder, do they have like a left-sided superal or frontal lobe tumor? Um, and when you have that in a person who is of adult age, you think about it being things like a GBM, you think about it being things like a meningioma potentially, um, or maybe even oligodendro, but I'd say those are probably like on the top of the list. Uh, there's a lot of other ones that are like pituitary adenomas, cranial fingomomas, those aren't like as super common. So I'm definitely putting this in probably either a GBM category, meningioma category because those are probably the two most common uh superal tumors given the the findings that I see here. Zach, walk our viewers through really how how age plays an important role in deter or distinguishing between a superal or an infratorial tumor. Yeah, so we say for the most part there's slight exceptions but um superenatorial tumors are more common in adults. So you'll see GBMs usually GBMs are high-grade astroytoma so grade fours um oligodendricomas are also common u meniomas very very most common benign tumor GBM is the most common malignant and seriously aggressive tumor uh you have pituitary adenomas you cranoparangiomas those are usually going to be the the bulk of the superenoral tumors and you're going to see those probably most common in adults the infratorial tumors That's going to be more common in the pediatric population. So that's going to be occupying the below the tenorum cerebelli. So that's going to be tumors that we get worried about like medeloblasttoomas that we'll talk about. Pyocyic astroytoomas, appendimomas, those are the big ones. There is other less common ones like hemangio blastoomas, vestibular schwanomomas are also another one of pinealomas. But yeah, age pediatric one think infrarctoral adult think superentorial tumors. All right. Now that we've laid down some groundwork, let's get back to our patient here. What imaging are you starting with? So, if we say firstline test, I get a CT scan of the head because I I can't tell you if this is a a stroke or a bleed or a subraact hemorrhage or a tumor right off the get-go. I just know that they have some concerning features of an intraanial lesion. So, I want to get a CT first non-contrast just to rule out a bleed, rule out like a large hemispheric stroke, rule like a subacoid hemorrhage right off the get-go. Especially before I like if I have a person who comes in with the worst headache their entire life and neuro deficits and I'm concerned about a subacoid hemorrhage. You don't go do a lumbar puncture if they have a big old mass because of the concern of herniation. So I do something like that first. But if I said the best gold standard test, it's an MRI. But I'll just wait till I get the results for my CT scan first. Got it. Well then let's just say we do go ahead and get the MRI. It's gold standard. And the MRI does show ring enhancing lesions in the front in the left frontal lobe with surrounding edema. Okay. What's your differential for that? So definitely supertorial tumor. All right. And it's in that left frontal lobe. So that's localized to the area that we kind of like put it given the right pronator drift given the uh behavioral changes and things like that. But for this again it's GBM, it's a menioma um and I would even consider potentially a um alodendrioma. But the other things here is whenever you see ring enhancing lesions there there's a couple other differentials that you want to add into the mix. So we can actually say that GBM menioma and um aliodendricoma are primary tumors. I would even consider sometimes metastatic brain tumors can have ring enhancement as well. And then two other things that are super rare and you have to just be a clinician have some you know actual just clinical just and say um a brain abscess can actually cause a ring enhancing lesion. I'd see some concerning history. Um, brain absis don't often happen unless you have like something where it spread. So, did they have like really bad history of sinusitis or some type of perorbital infection or otitis media or they had brain surgery? Something that opened up the opportunity or where bacteria can spread. It's not common for brain absis to form otherwise. And then in our patient, there's no infectious context. He's clear his his past meth. He's good to go. Exactly. So that kind of says is unlikely probably like a brain abscess and then the other one is primary CNS lymphoma. So any ringen enhancing lesion metastatic primary CNS lymphoma brain abscess and then lastly is a primary brain tumor. So I don't think that this is primary CNS lymphoma as well just because you see that more often in patients who are imunocmpromised usually um AIDS. This is actually an AIDS defining illness and so we would see that in patient who has an imunocmpromised state or particularly AIDS and this is another patient again perfectly healthy. If you want to be super sure about the type, do you have to go a step further than MRI? You could. Um, I'd say if you So, if this tumor, given the symptoms, I'm going to be reaching out to my neurosurgical colleagues and saying, "Hey, I have a patient here. They're coming in with a new onset seizure, they have really bad headaches, papadema, they have focal deficits, they have personality changes, they're of good kind of like fitness, I think that they should be a candidate for a resection or the tumor." And they would kind of take a look at it. They would determine the potential need for that. And then usually the neurosurgical team will actually just probably go in and do one of two things. They could either do a stereotactic biopsy if they wanted to depending upon the size and things like that and the overall look of it. Um, but sometimes they'll end up just resecting it. And when they resect it, they try to get the best margins that they can. And then based upon the tissue that they resect or they biopsy, they'll send that out to get evaluated and that'll tell you exactly if it's a metastatic lesion, if it's a potential primary brain tumor like a GBM, a menioma, etc. Well, that makes sense because if you're going to be there resecting it, you can easily get a biopsy. Exactly. Get a tissue sample. Yep. So, the biopsy does confirm glyopblastoma multififor Idh wild type. What next? Uh, so that's a that's a pretty bad um prognosis. So, obviously GBM especially Idh wild type is a pretty poor prognosis. So, that's usually a patient who probably won't like live very long unfortunately, but it is going to be one of those that's again high in the differential for a ring enhancing lesion, frontal lobe um and again superal tumor. So for this one, we'll do the best that we can to reect as much of the tumor as possible given the location and the symptoms. And again, that's also up to the discretion of the neurosurgical um attending if they're even going to be a candidate for that. I think this person has all the reasons why they could actually be a candidate to get the resection. So they often do a lot of different things. They can actually give these patients like glein, which is a kind of like a dye, and it really highlights the tumor margins really, really well. So you give them glean the night before and you actually, it's funny enough, you actually keep every single light, the entire door, everything is pitch black for them throughout the entire 24 hours prior to their surgery. And it really helps to highlight the margins so that you get the cleanest possible margins able. Um, so that's going to be the best to try to get as much of the tumor, but a nuros surgeon can't pick up small little tumors that is invisible to the naked eye. And that's where we have to follow up with like concurrent chemo radiation to kill some of that small little remaining uh you know cancer cells there. Um usually the chemotherrapeutic agent that we've seen in this one is teemolamine especially with the IDH wild type. So but either way you could probably do a lot of this and the chances is that you probably won't get the best margins. It's probably going to have an aggressive prognosis and they probably won't survive very long. Well for our patient we are concerned with some underlying complications as well just to help with the overall best quality of care we can provide. He's had now seizures and edema. Yeah. So what can we do to help prevent that or limit that? Yeah. So seizures, we only treat seizures if they have them. So if you have a brain, if you have an intraanial lesion, unless you have a subacoid hemorrhage, then we give um a and some people even don't even agree with this, but if you have a subacoid hemorrhage, that's kind of one of the only true indications of where if you don't seize, you can get anti prophylactic antibaptic. Most of the time, if you have a stroke, if you have a bleed, if you have a mass, we don't give seizure prophylaxis. is very controversial. Um, but if you have a seizure, then we will reactively give you an anti-epileptic. Just obviously with anything you want to minimize drug interactions and other complications. So this patient did seize. I'll put them on pry levatorazzam also known as keera. Probably do that for about 3 months and then after that we can start seeing if we can wean off. The edema that was picked up on the MRI. Y probably explains some of the headache. um maybe a little bit of the pronator drift because as you get a lot of swelling um that can get mass effect and that can cause headache that can cause some of the papal edema that may be worsening some of their drift but definitely the headache is the big one I would worry about edema can be treated in this case since it's vasogenic edema we can give dexamethasone and that can help to fix that bloodb brain barrier and help to reduce some of the edema um and so we would do that probably for a bit probably do four um of dexamethasone every six hours for a bit and then eventually taper that off but That's probably what I would do to get some of that vasoggenic edema down for this patient. But unfortunately for this patient, prognosis is is fairly poor. Yeah, you can continue, you know, antiptics for a decent amount of time. Give them steroids eventually for a while and try the best to rect as much of the tumor. Some people can actually do well, but again, it's a tough aggressive aggressive tumor. All right. Well, then let's move into case two. Okay. All right. For this this case, this is a pediatric patient. We have a seven-year-old boy. He's brought in the morning vomiting, gate instability, and headaches worsening over the last three weeks. His parents report clumsiness and several early early morning episodes of projectile vomiting. He complains of blurry vision and difficulty walking straight. For his past medical history, he's healthy, fully vaccinated. Medications, none. His exam, heart rate, 88, blood pressure 110 over 70. Neuro, he has an atic gate. That's that clumsiness. That's what we're talking about from his parents. Dysmetria and horizontal nestagmas. And then finally on fondoscopy, he has bilateral papadema. Yeah, I got to just interject. Um, so Rob's probably not going to be happy with this story, but when I heard the projectile vomiting, um, so we were I got to say it, man. I gotta We were uh we went to Hawaii, right? And and we um we were out snorkeling all day. He was uh putting some white claws down. Massively dehydrated probably from swimming and all that. Didn't drink too much water. Didn't have probably a drop of water. He looked like a crab from being so sunburnt. We go to this one place to get some food. And we got like we got some pretty good food. It was burgers, fries, and then this son of a gun after just baking out there all day, probably dehydrated as crap. He's like, "Let me get a a mint chocolate chip like milkshake." And he gets this big mint chocolate chip milkshake. He he puts it down. We walk outside, go into the car, and all of a sudden, you just look at me. He's just like, "I don't feel so." I've never seen such a green. It's like one of those Nickelodeon like uh like things where the slime comes down. I just see I hate you for sharing that. I'm so mad at you. And it's I'm probably making fun of this kid. I'm not trying to be. It just reminded me of him that just walking outside and I just I've never seen just green vomit just shoot out of somebody like that. I'm pretty sure it was like neon green. Yeah. Yeah. It really was. Yeah, you lit up the entire like parking lot that day. They're like, "Oh, man. The lights are on." I felt better afterwards. Yeah. Yeah, I bet you did. All right. I hate you for that. Yeah. Let's get back to it here. Let's get back to it. So, we've got a kid that has cerebellar signs. You know, he's got atic gate, dysmetriia, horizontal nestagmus, bilateral papadeema, vomiting, morning headaches. What are you thinking here? Um, so yeah, that's the the big thing. So superal tumors we worry about seizures like focal deficits depending upon the area. Again headaches and papadema are common in both but cerebellar signs like atexia. So whenever the kids walking and they're kind of clumsy or they kind of can't walk in a straight line that's definitely concerning. Dysmetria which is you know the ability to kind of go from finger to nose that they're not able to kind of accurately do that testing is concerning. Sometimes they can even have the disdoinesis or if you have if you have them do the rapid alternating movements it's kind of like very erratic and not consistent and estagmas. Yeah. And you kind of get like an estagmus like vertical or horizontal estagmus. You kind of get worried a little bit about some type of potential involvement especially if we're kind of smashing near where the cerebellum and the ponds are kind of located. So yeah, I definitely have some concerns here with that. So I definitely think it's an it's a probably a posterior faucet tumor infronttorial wise. Again I think that's probably the big thing. The papal edema being bilateral that also suggests it's probably a tumor that's relatively kind of more midline. Yeah. So that because I'm probably getting kind of a good compression there midline. It's probably building up a lot of the cerebral spinal fluid that's getting transllocated into both of the optic nerve sheets. So that that's definitely concerning. So I definitely have a lot of concern here that this kid's probably got a pretty good posterior fossa tumor and they probably have some hydrophilis because it's probably a tumor that's really compressing and a facing the the fourth ventricle. So what's your differentials then? Oh well I mean when you got infantal tumors um me medelobasto is pretty up there in the differential for a kid. Um appendimoma not too common pineal is not too common is not too common. I don't really think this is vestibular schwanomomas. And the last one is a pyloitic astroytoma. So I'd say I'm in between a medelb blastto and a pyloitic astroytoma. But again I would have to I'd want to get some imaging and take a better look on that one for so same as before start with your first line CT and then probably move into an MRI. Yeah. And with this one I mean I I I would start with the CT but I'd probably be pushing pretty hard to get an MRI for this kid. So yeah, CT, especially with it being a kid, you want to be careful. Radiation exposure is one concern, especially even with pregnant and young individuals. So yeah, I would probably still get a CT if I have any question, but I'm not going to lie, I'm probably going to push a little bit harder to just get an MRI probably up front, too. And I'm guessing for this patient, you noted that you probably think he has obstructive hydrophilis. So I'm sure that that's something pretty obvious on imaging. Yeah, CT would get that right away. uh it's harder to actually so the one of the problems with CTS with posterior fossa stuff it depends you can see obvious tumors if it's a big goober and it's and sometimes you actually can make out a little bit of the tumor but the thing about um really what the CT is going to give us if it's a posterior fossa tumor is mass effect I'll see if there's shifting of things like particularly if there's shifting of the brain stem if there's compression or a facement of the fourth ventricle obstructive hydrophilis you may see a mass um some of these masses even bleed too. So, it's definitely possible, but I'd say given the kid, given the presentation, I'd probably I may forgo the CT and probably just go straight to an MRI for this one. The MRI comes back, it shows a midline posterior fossa mass obstructing the fourth ventricle. It's solid and enhances. Surgical re resection is done and pathology confirms a medeloblast. Okay. What next? Well, that's a pretty rough one. So just like GBM in the adult, this is like the GBM of like you know pediatric patient. So it's a pretty rough one. Very very very malignant. And the reason why is is when you think about brain tumors like okay so you think about for example lung cancer. You got a cancer that spreads pretty rapidly like especially if you get like a metastatic type right? So small cell or non small cell particularly a stage three four. Once they get to that point of stage four and they start spreading they can go to the bones they can go to the liver they can go to the adrenals they can go to the bone. Brain tumors don't really do that. that they don't really like cross the bloodb brain barrier and get out into the circulation and go spread somewhere. So, what's weird with this one is it actually can kind of seed the tumor cells right into the fourth ventricle. And then imagine, I'm not even kidding, just imagine drops down into like the lower central canal where your lumbar spine is. And so then get what's called drop metastasis. So they can literally spread the cancer from that tumor there that kind of like is pushing against the fourth ventricle. just pops right in and then drops down through the central canal to the spinal cord. So that's one of the big things I get scared of with this one is drop metastases. So obviously with this one, you're going to try your best to resect it. It's going to take a pretty aggressive and super, you know, skilled neurosurgeon to get into the posterior fossa. Um, funny enough, remember when we were in that trip in Portugal and we got to see like the live video? Yeah, it was that was crazy. It's it's kind of crazy to see like how tight these spaces are. And funny enough, I think that that neurosurgeon was removing a posterior fossa tumor in a in a kid. And so it's kind of scary, but um this is definitely something where your nurse colleagues, they're they're they're beasts, man. And they're going to come in, they're going to actually say, "Let's actually kind of get um sometimes they'll do what's called MRI with fidutials and get a really really good look um of the actual tumor and get a good idea of it." And again, go in, resect as much of it as you possibly can to get good margins. Problem is is that I told you this one you you don't it's hard. it can spread right into that CSF. So, sometimes you can do a lumbar puncture, but you're probably just going to prophylactically um radiate the um part of the brain stem and the spine just to kill any remaining kind of like malignant cells that you didn't cut out or that already did spread down or drop. Yeah. Um so, craniospinal radiation, rect as much of the tumor as you can and probably chemotherapy too. But I think the big things is cut it out and then really radiate the spine and the brain stem to make sure that it hasn't spread. But that's the that's the big thing for this one right here with our patient. It seems to be that his biggest complication is going to be obstructive hydrophilis. So what can we do? Let's say we remove the tumor or or let's just say you you can't remove the tumor. Yeah. What would you do then to try and help the flow of CSF because it's being blocked? Yeah. That's the that's the key point is that really the answer is is if you remove the tumor should you fix it, right? Some people you can remove it and they still have some potential residual tumor and mass effect and they get a little bit um but often times if you had an inoperable tumor I just can't get the tumor out. You might have to put a VP shunt in. Uh and so you just take a shunt and you run it from the ventricle all the way down through the neck into the paritinium and drain. kind of provide an alternative route because right now it's being mashed by the fourth ventricle. Yep. And so I can't get it down into the little subberactnoid space and into the central canal. So I just got to divert it. So I'll divert it into the paritinium. If it's an interoperable tumor or they're still having obstructive hydrophilis despite me removing the tumor, that's kind of going to be the the big thing there. Okay. All right. Those are all my questions for case two. Let's move into the last one here. Case three, we have a 66-y old female presents with worsening headaches, nausea, and new onset left arm weakness. I think it's actually pronounced nausea. It's not it's it's not. But you can do you can do your own thing, though. Yeah. Listen up. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She has a known history of non small cell lung cancer diagnosed eight months ago. Okay. Uh so this metastasized, right? Probably. Yeah. Okay. It seems like it g given the clinical context, right? uh six months ago she was treated with chemotherapy. Okay. Now she is complaining of daily dull headaches and difficulty using her left hand. So her past medical history as I stated is stage 3A lung adnocarcinoma and hypertension. H you know sucks too with adnocarcinomaomas. This is like one of the most common in females who don't smoke. Ain't that suck? It's just that's just bad. That's horrible. Yeah I know cuz it's like you know I I avoided it. Yeah. you did everything you can to prevent like, you know, potentially causing lung cancer, but it's still one of those like it's just weird like genetic mutations can kind of come into play. You know, that does suck. Yeah. Kind of sad. Sorry. Go ahead. Her medication, she's on carboplatin and peatrexed. Nice. And she completed that six months ago. Shut up. I was practicing this and I had a couple little issues with pronouncing the words. Couple shut up. I think it was like 17 takes. I was like, Pemmitrax, Pemmitrax, bro, come on. But I got it now though. But you got it though. I got it now. You got it though. And then uh she's also on amloopene for hypertension. All right. For her exam, her BP is 126 over 80, heart rate is 82. Neuro, we note mild left upper extremity weakness four out of five, and she does have hyper reflexia. Here's a patient with a history of lung cancer, stage 3A adnocarcinoma, now presenting with focal neuro deficits and a worsening headache. Where does your mind go? I think it's you already said it. I just think it's it's pride brain mets. I mean, that seems like it's likely the the the problem here is that they had a lung tumor that was the primary one, the adno. Um, it continued to grow and then potentially seated into the bloodstream. Um, and then from there, we've got it spreading to the brain. So, I I think we just got to go ahead and image the brain to confirm that. Probably an MRI right away. I wouldn't even go with I was going to say, do we even bother with a CT at that point? No. I mean, I I think you can do it if you really are concerned, but I'd probably just go with an MRI. Just get straight to that. Would CT show you anything? It could. I think is the concern here is especially with lung cancer, it's a nasty one. So like if you get pretty good deficits, you can actually get bleeds. And so one of the things is that you can get what's called hemorrhagic mets, especially with lung cancer, breast cancer, what is it? Melanoma and renal cell carcinoma. And then papillary thyroid cancer. Weird enough, those cancers if they actually spread to the brain, they can actually cause bleeding. And so yeah, that's one thing I may see like lesions, but CT is not really good at identifying brain lesions. MRI with a contrast will show those lesions a lot better. Well, MRI shows three ring enhancing lesions. One frontal, one parietal, one cerebellar. Okay. What next? Well, I think like you know, we can obviously say that if they have a history of lung cancer and then they have these brain lesions, it's likely done. you you've obtained the concept of it being metastatic uh lung cancer at this point that then you know you unfortunately have brain mets for. But I would say it's not a bad idea to just get a a a pan CT scan. Scan the chest one more time. Scan the abdomen. Scan the pelvis. Just make sure that there's nothing else going on. First off, I think it's probably just the lung cancer. Look to see if the lung cancer's gotten any bigger. Look to see if it's also spread anywhere else. Lung cancer doesn't just spread to the brain. It can spread to the to the liver, to the adrenals, and to the bone, too. Yeah. So, I'd probably even look to see that because the problem here is that if a patient has multiple metastatic lesions all over the place, like if you have it to the brain, there is some things that you could do. Yeah. But if you have metastatic lesions is in the brain and the liver and the adrenals and the bone, it kind of changes your course of treatment. And so, it's really really important to have an understanding of that. So, that's the first thing I'd probably do there. So let's just go ahead and say that we have confirmed metastic lung cancer to the brain. Y what would be your treatment options for this patient and I'm kind of wondering about does the treatment regimen change whether it's a few small like lesions or multiple what do you do? I mean generally if it's like small and it's near like the the cortex you could probably do like just stereotactic like radiation surgery. um um like where you you kind of you have you hone in on one potential lesion and so you spare the other areas of the brain. Uh that would be if like you have like a couple like I no less than no greater than three. It would have to be less than three like lesions and so and then that would be surgically accessible. Yeah. If it's pretty close near the cortex you could do you could probably do stereotactic radius surgery but in this patient's case they got them like all over the they got frontal parietal cerebellar. Yeah. you probably got to do like whole brain radiation therapy unfortunately for this one. So you don't you don't spare the brain in this case. The entire brain gets radiated. Whereas a stereotactic radius surgery, it's just hitting that one potential tumor. So that's probably what I'd probably do is especially with it being cerebellar, it's a little bit deeper. That that's a tough one. And so I'd also probably just reach out to my neurosurgical colleagues too. See if they would even be willing to to even reach at this area and do any kind of resection as well. That's always an important thing to do. They may go I've seen people who've had like I'm not kidding. I've actually seen people who've had three uh lesions and then they've gone and they removed one at one time, they removed the big one. Um and then a little bit later they came back and they removed another one and then a little bit later they came back and they removed another one. So it's all about reaching out and kind of consulting that neurosurgical team and letting them kind of determine is this something that the patient would first off want that we would go through all of these steps. Is it something that if we do these neurosurgic procedures is actually going to provide an improved outcome and it's not going to cause increasing morbidity for the patient in in the long term. So that's all questions that the neurosurgeon and the actual patient would have to discuss to determine if they want to go through that. But I think reaching out to radiation oncology would be good to talk to them about whole brain radiation therapy if they got like a bunch of them and they're kind of deeper and not accessible. If there's like one or two of them maybe and they're pretty close to the cortex, I could probably do stereotactic radio surgery. Reach out to my neurosurgical team to see if they would even consider doing any kind of resection. Um, and then again there's going to be swelling. I think they noted that there was some a little bit of edema, right? They didn't really noted that, but usually there's going to be edema with metastatic lesions. So probably dexamethasone and then they didn't seize. Yeah. So I'm not going to do any kind of levator. Yeah. No prophylactic. No need for prophylaxis unless they do have a seizure. So that's probably what I would do for this one is reach out to radiation oncology, determine if they do whole brain or just a localized stereotactic area. Reach out to nurse surgery, have them go over the goals of care and discussion about what the patient would want and if this could actually change outcome, treat some edema with some dexamethasone. And that's probably all that I would do on this case here. Just for a high yield fact here, what out of curiosity, what other primary cancers commonly metastasize to the brain? So we actually said a couple of them. I I missed one. So So hemorrhagic mets and then just met for the brain are different. So hemorrhagic Mets funny enough is what we said is lung breast um melanoma is a really really nasty one. Um renal cell carcinoma and then papillary thyroid. But if it's actually just generalized METS not hemorrhagic METs it's the same thing but just switch and get rid of papillary thyroid and put colorectal cancer. Got it? That's all. So I think they say that uh you can remember lots of bad stuff might reach cortex. So lots is lung cancer uh bad is breast might is melanoma reach is renal cell and then cortex is colctal cancer. I don't know if it's helpful. Sometimes these pneumonics they're helpful. Sometimes I think they're completely useless. At a certain point you only have so much room for all these pneumonics cuz I feel like every lecture we do there's like 45. Exactly. It's like oh wait and then you start to mix up pneumonics. That's why like sometimes I'll use them, sometimes I don't even know. They've got some overlap. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Awesome. Well, that was my last question for case 3, but overall as a final high yield recap for our viewers, give a quick run through on this topic just a high yield parts really talking superal, infanttorial, imaging, treatment. What do you got? I like it. Yeah. So, I think the big thing super tentorial associated with adults have a couple differentials. I say GBM is a big one. Menioma is another really important one. Alendricoma. Those are going to be the the big things to talk about. How they would usually present is, you know, you're always going to get like the classic intraraanial pressure related headaches, maybe some nausea and vomiting that could be associated. Usually the headaches, the key thing here is that they're worse in the morning. Um, so that's one thing that's also associated with like early morning like nausea and vomiting because of the uh increased pressure. Yeah, exactly. Especially when they're laying flat. Laying flat. Yeah. Um, personality changes especially if it's in the frontal loes, seizures if it's near the cortex are really really important things. And then focal deficits especially if it's near like a motor cortex you can get some hemiparesis as well. inferred associate with pediatric patients. The big differentials here is pyloitic astroytoma, medeloblastoma, appendimoma. I'd say those are the primary ones to think about and they'll usually present with posterior fossil symptoms, atexia, um nestagmus, they may have some vertigo, they may have some intention tremors um and ddyochinesis. Anything that suggests that poster fossil even cranial nerve palsies, watch out for those too. But they'll also present with all the symptoms of of an increased intraraanial pressure. So headaches, maybe some nausea, vomiting, and then papa edema. So that's the way that I would kind of differentiate those. When you talk about a patient of when you need to know, you know, how would I consider even like doing imaging? It's that patient. If they come in with new onset seizures, personality changes, focal deficits, I'm going to I'm going to image them. Yeah. Um, if I have a patient coming in with atexia, nestagmas, nausea, vomiting, bilateral papilade edema, um, and intension tremors, I'm probably going to image them. You're just going to have to think about what would I be suspecting based upon the differential in my head. Um, CT, you can't ever go wrong with it. Just be careful in a patient who's a pediatric one. You don't want to expose them to unnecessary radiation. But really, you're always going to be confirming if you have a high degree of suspicion for a tumor with MRI with contrast to look for ring enhancement. Um, usually after you kind of determine that this is a brain tumor, neurosurgery is going to be your go-to. You're going to reach out to them. They're going to go in there and determine, can we just take a piece or we just going to resect it and then once we rect, send it off and figure out what kind of tumor it is so we can kind of guide our management. It might come back and tell you, oh, this is a GBM. Oh, this is a meningioma. This is an alcoendoma. This is a metro blastto. and it's going to guide your treatment. For our one patient, GBM, you're going to resect it and you're probably going to do some chemo radiation therapy for them. Big chemo one is the teosolomi. Okay, we use the measurable blasttoma as the other example of a posterior fossil tumor, infratoral tumor. For that one, again, you're cutting it out as much as you possibly can, but it can drop down. It can metastasize via the CSF to the lower spine. So, probably going to have to radiate the spine and that portion of the brain to kill the remaining tumor and probably have some follow-up chemo. But, I think that's the big thing. And then with the last example that we talked about was METS, right? The brain mets. You have to think about it in certain clinical context. If a patient has esophageal cancer, you're not going to be thinking, oh, it's does it spread? It's not a common one that spreads to the brain. But if you have a patient with lung cancer, all right, that definitely is a high degree of suspicion. So if they have that and they come in with neuro deficits or seizures or whatever it may be, that's going to trigger you to get the imaging. From there, what we do in those decisions is we determine, can we do some radio surgery? Can we do some potential wholeb brain radiation? And is the neurosurgeon even going to do anything about this for me? Um, that's kind of the big thing to do. And then lastly, complications. Seizures is the really big one that you want to watch out for. Treat it with antiptics only if they seize. Vasogenic edema, dexamethasone, obstructive hydrophilis. Treat the cause, which is getting rid of the tumor. But if that doesn't work and you can't operate on it, a VP shunt's the way to go. All right, that covers brain tumors. I know that was a pretty beast one, right? It was beast one. It was It was not too bad. It was It was beast, but it was still like uh She was a little thick. It was a little thick, but reasonable, though. Yeah. All right. Good. Yeah. Definitely reasonable. I uh but hey, you heard the man, Ninja Nerds. We thank you. We love you. And as always, until next time.