 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам What's up, Ninja Nerds? In this video, today we're going to be talking about brain tumors. Again, this is a part of our clinical medicine section. If you guys haven't already, continue to keep going back. Watch these in order. So before we talked about breast cancer, after that we talked about lung cancer, and today we're going to be talking about brain tumors. If you guys are really liking these videos, they make sense to you, please continue to support us by hitting the like button, commenting down in the comment section, and please subscribe. And also, if you guys want, if you go down in the description box below, you go to our website. There's a link there that'll take you there where if you guys become a member, you'll get access to notes, illustrations, quiz questions. We're developing exam prep courses, and there's so much more. So go check it out. All right, without further ado, let's get into the pathophys, my friends. All right, my friends, we're going to talk a little bit about brain tumors. When we talk about tumors, you've got a big old goober hanging inside of the head. We got to know particularly, is it a primary tumor? So in other words, it'll originate from some of the tissue that's already present in the brain, things like astrocytes or oligodendrocytes or Schwann cells that arise from something else. Tissues that were in or very, very near the actual central nervous system. Or did it start somewhere else, somewhere else outside of the central nervous system, and spread and broke across the blood-brain barrier to get into the brain tissue? And that's called brain metastasis. So there's two different types of tumors that patients can form. A primary brain tumor, and believe it or not, this is actually less common. So when you actually look at the percentages of tumors that are primary, this is somewhere around approximately 30%. And then with brain metastasis, that could be somewhere around approximately the remainder, so it's about 70%. So this is definitely going to be something that you want to be more aware of. Brain metastasis, whenever you have a tumor inside of the brain, which again, can manifest in a bunch of different ways, which we'll talk about, or can be seen similarly on an image that metastasis may look something like a primary brain tumor, it's important to remember that this came from somewhere else, and we'll talk about that. Focus our attention though, because this is going to be the portion where you can get tested on for the exam. Primary brain tumors, as I said, arise from glial tissue, or neural tissue, or something similar, but it arrives from tissue that's native to the actual central nervous system. The way that we like to organize it to make things easier and categorize it for us is we base it upon the relationship of the tumor to what's called the tentorium cerebelli. You're like, oh no, dude, the anatomy. I know, but it's actually very easy. So imagine here, you have these dural septa. The big one that most people know is the one that comes right here. Right down your fissure, that longitudinal fissure we have, it's called the falx cerebri. Well, we have another one right here, and it goes right between the cerebellum, and actually kind of the occipital and parietal lobe area, and that's called the tentorium cerebelli. So it's this little piece, you see this blue tissue that comes here? We have what's called the periosteal layer of the dural matter, which is that baby blue color. And the one that breaks away and dips into that space is called the meningiol layer, the dural matter. That chunk right there going in between this part of the upper lobe and then the cerebellum, that's the tentorium cerebelli. So let's actually write this one right here. That's the tentorium cerebelli. And again, this is a coronal section. So if you imagine I'm taking a section like this, and I'm slicing this off, and you're looking at the actual brain that way. This one is a sagittal section. So I'm taking a section like this, and I'm looking at the brain when I take that piece off this way. Again, look, here's the occipital lobe. Here's the cerebellum. You see that tissue fishing right in there? That's again the tentorium cerebelli. So again, let's write this structure out. It's a fox. I mean, it's kind of a dural fold or dural septa, and it's called the tentorium cerebelli. And we just sometimes call it the tentorium. Now imagine there's actually a hole. So there's a tentorium cerebelli that comes like this from both sides, right? And so it creates a little hole called the tentorial notch. The tentorial notch is where sometimes parts of brain tissue and brain matter starts actually getting under pressure. It can squeeze through the tentorial notch. We'll talk about that later. But what I want you to imagine is this tentorium cerebelli separates the brain into two compartments. So what I mean is everything above the tentorium cerebelli is pretty straightforward. It's called, let's actually do this in the red, this is called the supratentorial compartment. And then everything below the tentorium cerebelli. So these structures here is called the infratentorial compartment. The reason why this is so nice is that whenever we actually have tumors, we can determine if that tumor is again present here. So if I have a tumor that's actually present inside of the cerebellum, what kind of tumor would I call that? I would call that an infratentorial tumor. If I have a tumor that's somewhere located up here in the frontal parietal lobes or things like that, this is a supratentorial tumor. That's really important. And the reason why this is important is supratentorial tumors, which we can find up here above the tentorium cerebelli are more associated with adults. So when I think about a supratentorial tumor, I'm thinking about it's more likely and more common to see this in an adult patient. Whereas if I had a tumor here in the cerebellum or near the fourth ventricle or near the vermice, here that infratentorial tumor is most associated with pediatric patients. Do you see why this is an important epidemiological fact? So again, tentorium cerebelli is your landmark above it supratentorial. That's where tumors occur in mainly adults. There's a few exceptions. And the infratentorium or that compartment of a tumor is there. It's an infratentorial tumor that's associated with pediatric patients. Now brain metastasis is interesting. So again, we use our landmark here. What's this landmark again? It's called the tentorium cerebelli. Let's just remind ourselves of that. And again, the purpose of the tentorium cerebelli is really to be kind of like a, it's really just imagine it, imagine like a fold that encloses veins. So it's supposed to protect some of the veins that are actually present there. Now this tentorium cerebelli, what's really important is with brain metastasis, it's not just one location where the tumors occur. Brain metastasis is interesting. You can have a tumor that can occur here in the supratentorium. You can have another tumor that could still occur in the supratentorium. You could have another one that occurs here in the infratentorium. So one of the interesting things about brain metastasis that makes it different is usually primary brain tumors are more solitary. Usually have one big tumor. Brain metastasis is usually interesting in the fact where you can actually have, so let's bring all these here. There's one tumor, there's two tumors, there's three tumors. So with this, you can have multiple brain masses, right? Whereas in primary, it's oftentimes more solitary. Now here, I want you to remember, this is not always the case. Just because the patient has brain metastasis, they can have just one tumor. It's just the way that they're going to talk to you about it in the exam is it's usually going to be multiple brain masses. And these brain masses can be both supratentorial or infratentorial. So here's what I want to add on to this. So with brain metastasis, something that is important, so here we'll put important to remember. So that way you think about this when it comes up on the exam. Usually this patient will have an underlying history of a primary cancer. But here's the big thing. When imaging, whenever these patients come in and they get imaging, if you see usually multiple brain lesions, that's one thing. But they have a very characteristic location, alright? So again, multiple, oops, I forgot an L here, multiple brain lesions. But one more thing is also important, that it occurs most commonly along the gray white junction. The outer cerebro cortex is gray matter and then inside is white matter. Right at that junction is where we see those tumors. So they occur, that's what's really characteristic, occur at the gray white junction. And lastly what's important to remember is they can occur in both tentorium. In other words, they can be infratentorial or supratentorial. They don't always follow that classic presentation. As we said, supratentorial tumors are usually adults, infratentorial tumors are usually pediatrics, there's a few exceptions. These can occur in any and sometimes both. They're usually along the gray white junction and they usually have multiple scattered lesions. Really important to remember. Alright, primary brain tumors, I want to dig into this a little bit because we talked about the tumors that can occur super tentorially and infratentorially. Let's talk about some specific characteristics. We talked about this one a lot. Let's talk about each individual one and get a good understanding because sometimes they can test you about this on the exam. Again, you may see it more in your step one MCQs but it sometimes can come up relevant within the step two clinical vignettes. So let's say we talk about supratentorial tumors. Again, I want to highlight here that we say for the most part this is adult. There is two exceptions of where a patient can have a tumor as an adult and it's not present in the supratentorium. I'll talk about them because they're in the infratentorium. Two exceptions, so we'll actually let's write that out here. Two exceptions to this is going to be two tumors. One is called a hemangioblastoma and the other one is called a schwannoma. These can also occur in adults but they're actually in the infratentorium. So that's one little exception to think about. But for the most part, it's going to be these particular tumors. All right, so the most common malignant tumor, the scary tumor that's a primary brain tumor, is what most people refer to as glioblastoma multiforme. It's a type of tumor that's a primary brain tumor. It's what most people refer to as glioblastoma multiforme. It's a type IV astrocytoma. What happens with this one, let's actually write this out, it has a precursor. So it has to start, I told you, brain, they start from somewhere else. It spreads via the blood and it gets to the brain, breaks across the blood-brain barrier. These arise in the brain tissue. So some type of tissue in the brain had to become mutated and then turn into a malignant cell. That cell, that precursor, is actually an astrocyte via the name. That's why we call this a stage IV astrocytoma. So it actually arises from astrocytes that develop mutations. Usually it's in the isocitrate dehydrogenase enzyme. What happens is location is key for a tumor. So you want to know location. So remember I told you, supertentorial is going to be all of these. But sometimes when we look at the image on the MRI or the CT scan, we actually want to know where is it most characteristic of? What is the tumor most characteristic of? And so location for glioblastoma multiforma is usually frontal or temporal lobes. But here's the thing. Let's say here I start off with a tumor. Here's my glioblastoma multiforma, right? All of a sudden I see this tumor here, it's in the frontal temporal lobes. But here's what's characteristic. You see this structure, it's actually fibers that go across from communicate side to side. It's called the corpus callosum. This tumor can span across the corpus callosum. And what it does is when it spans across the corpus callosum, it actually tries to give, I'm not even kidding, they call it this a butterfly look. It's called a butterfly glioma. So what we talk about location-wise is usually it's a tumor that when we see it, it spans across the corpus callosum. That's the big thing is it can move from one hemisphere to the other. So it spans the corpus callosum. And so this is one that's really, really scary. It actually ring enhances. And it looks, I'm not even kidding, has that butterfly. Let's actually write that out. Just so you know, it's called the butterfly, the butterfly glioma. And we will talk about this when we get into the diagnostic section. So just hang in with me for that point now. All right, glioblastoma multiforma. Its astrocytes that started off normal, mutated, became a nasty tumor, and then grew like this. This is a stage four. This is a bad prognosis. The most common malignant tumor in adults. With that being said, the most common benign tumor, it's usually benign. There is chances of it being malignant, but it's not always the case, is a meningioma. This is the most common benign tumor, brain tumor, superdentortional tumor in adults. The meningiomas, what happens is, you see the blue tissue here? That's called the arachnoid matter. Now originally we said there was a dura matter, but remember, there's different layers to the meninges. There's dura, then there's arachnoid, then there's pia. We're going to represent this blue as being the arachnoid matter. I know prior we talked about it as being the dura, but in this case, I'm going to represent it as the arachnoid matter. There's cells in there that are actually called arachnoid cap cells. The precursor cell is going to be, what is it again? Come on, spit it back to me. Let's go. The arachnoid cap cells. It's called the arachnoid cap cells. Now these cells are once normal. They decide to get all jacked up. What happens is they mutate and they start to become abnormal. What they do is, usually, most common location, remember the structure here, it's called the falx cerebrae. It loves to form right around that area. Imagine I'm going to get rid of some of this tissue because it actually is what we call an extra axial tumor. It means it occurs outside of the pyränchoma. Isn't that crazy? I'm going to get rid of some of this brain tissue here. What I'm going to do is I'm going to take this tissue here and make it kind of bulgy. Usually it has somewhat of a crescent shape to it sometimes. It can really get, these things can get super, super big. I've seen some pretty large meningiomas in the neurocritical care. Look at this thing. It's pushing on brain tissue. That's a meningioma. Funny enough, they form these things which really anchor them down called dural tails. They really, really hold it down. But it's basically a tumor that most often occurs within the sides of the falx. We say they're oftentimes parasagital. They can occur really anywhere, but the most common location is right on the side of the falx cerebrae. We call that parasagital. Let's write that down. Where it is most often seen is the parasagital region. All that means is on the side of the falx cerebrae. It's usually along side the falx cerebrae. All I want you guys to remember is we often say that is called parasagital. All right, cool. We got the meningi down. All right. Spanish corpus glosum, GBM. It's occurring within the parasagital regions, makes kind of a more of a crescent shape, meningioma. Most common in the lignite, most common in the benign. We go to these two. These are less common, but they're something to definitely consider. This is called an oligodendroglioma. Now it kind of occurs in somewhat of a similar location in GBMs. It's usually frontal lobes. It can actually be sometimes bilateral, but most of the time what we see is we see a tumor that oftentimes occurs in the frontal lobes and it has a lot of heavy calcifications. One of the big differences is, look at this. This one may have started in the frontal lobe. Does it cross the corpus glosum? No. That's really high yield to remember, but it's also important to remember what does it start from? Well, look at the name. This one may have been hard to understand, glialblastoma, but I want you to remember it's a type of astrocytoma, astrocytes. So dengeroglioma. Take a second, think about it. What type of glial cell could that be? Oligodendrocytes. So it arises from your oligo dengerocytes. They become mutated. They get jacked up. They start to multiply and they occur where? In the frontal lobes. Just like you can with a GBM. Big difference here is this does not cross midline like the GBM does. That usually crosses midline. So it's usually frontal lobes, heavy amounts of calcifications. And also this one doesn't have that significant degree of ring enhancement as GBMs do on MRI with contrast, which we'll talk about in the diagnostic section. But again, big thing does not cross. No crossing of midline. All right. That's really important to remember. Does not cross midline like the GBM does. Potuitary adenoma craniopharyngeomas. These I like to group together because funny enough, they tend to occur in a similar location. So start off with the pituitary adenoma. So with the pituitary adenoma, what I want you to know is this starts from specific cells. The most common type of adenoma is usually from lactotrophs. So there's all these different types of like, you know, you have the corticotrophs, you have the somatotrophs, you have the thyrotrophs, all of those that produce hormones. Which type of cell usually develops a lot of them is the lactotrophs. And lactotrophs make what hormone? Come on, scream it out to me. Prolactin. So oftentimes when you get a pituitary adenoma, the precursor, if you will, is going to be what? It's going to be lactotrophs. So it's going to be oftentimes it's going to be those lactotrophs. Now here's another really important thing. When these occur, they occur where? Well right on the pituitary. It's usually around the anterior pituitary. So location is, we just like to call this, we like to say it's around the seletorsica. That's that anatomy term that we like. It's usually a cellar, we call this a cellar mass. I mean it's a mass, and we're going to represent this here again. It's a mass occurring in this little groove here. What is that? The seletorsica. It's a saddle. So that tumor is sitting in the saddle and it's usually along the anterior pituitary. Craneoforengiomas, and they love, you got to pay attention. Wake up. I know you're tired. I know. Believe me, I get it. But hang in with me for a second. Pay attention right now, because this could be a test question. For craneoforengiomas, they also like to occur in this area. They occur, again, they can kind of really get to decent size. And they can actually start to engulf. Let me actually do a different color. Let's do it just for the sake of it. Let's do it in like this pinkish color here. So I'm going to say craneoforengiomas, they kind of get here, and they can get a little bit above the pituitary. Now here's the big term here. This tumor arises, you know there's what's called the Rathke's pouch. There's a remnant of the Rathke's pouch. And this thing right here really starts to kind of get around the post here pituitary and around the stalk and just mashes on that son of a gun. So this one I want you to remember, precursor is going to be Rathke's pouch. Write this down, keep it in your brain. It's the remnant of the Rathke's pouch. Sometimes they'll ask that. And this is a little bit digging into your embryology. Location-wise it's still in the cell atersica, but it can sometimes just get a little bit above that. So sometimes we actually consider it to be like a cellar or supracellar mass, but they're often times we kind of say they're very, very difficult to completely distinguish. And sometimes you need the tissue to really get to that. But we'll say that this is again going to be more of a supracellar mass, but they are relatively close in proximity. So what I want you to take away from this is primary brain tumors, if it's above the tentorium cerebelli, it's super-tentorial. There's mostly adults, too little exceptions to consider just to add that into the brain space there. But the big ones, GBM, what do I want you to take away from it? Frontal lobes crosses midline via corpus callosum. Oligodendroglioma, frontal lobes does not cross midline. Meningioma is not even a part of the brain. This one, it's actually important to remember this term. This is extra-axial. That means that it does not actually arise from the brain perincoma. So extra-axial, where? Along the side the phalx cerebri, parasagile. Potuitary and cranioforengioma is near the cell atersica. If I said one is from lactotrophs, you say a pituitary adenoma. Most likely it's called a prolactanoma. And if I say it's coming from a Rathke's pouch remnants, you would say cranioforengioma. And we'll talk about this again. Remember Rathke's pouch, it's derived from the nasopharyngeal mucosin, it migrates backwards. That right there, there's remnants of it that actually occur and that's what causes that kind of cancer. We now have an idea of locations. When we get imaging, we can say, oh, it's in this location, does this, it could be this one. Oftentimes, though, you've got to get the tissue to make the definitive diagnosis. But say now, I talk about tumors below the tentorium cerebelli. They're infertentorial. I told you that these were for adults. I bet you could make some kind of assumption here, couldn't you? Let's make an assumption here. My red marker is starting to suck a little bit here. Let me switch it over. Switch it over to this bad boy. Infertentorial tumors are usually pediatrics. So let's write that down. That's going to be something you see. Oh, look at that. Look how juicy that is. The pediatric population. All right. Now with these, again, exceptions is the schwannoma and the hemangioblastoma. These still can occur in the pediatric population. Don't get me wrong. But these, again, can also be in adults. So there's always these fine-tuned exceptions. For the most part, the biggest one is pylocytic medjolabastoma, appendemoma, and again, these ones can also still be in the pediatric population. But again, these oftentimes, we see them a little bit more in the adults. Pylocytic astrocytoma, again, below the tentorium cerebelli. Pylocytic, this is a tumor where usually precursor, guess what? It's the term astrocytoma. This is a grade one. So there's always grade one, grade two, grade three, grade four. The grade one is your pylocytic. Grade four is glioblastoma multiformate. So this one is actually the most common type of, usually we'd say benign, brain tumor in the pediatric population. Now precursor here, it's actually pretty straightforward. It's within the name, thank goodness. But what's the precursor, my friends? It's astrocytes. Now I know you're probably like, Zach, can I just really just say simply that these tumors that really when I talk about them, they're present specifically in just the infertentorium or the supertentorium? Yeah, you definitely can. But again, it's important to remember that when we talk about the location of these, we can have a little bit more specificity. We're going to be good clinicians. So location-wise, when we look at this tumor, it's oftentimes more in the cerebellar lobes. And these can be pretty like large and cystic appearing. So this right here is going to be where you would see your pylosidic astrocytoma. So location-wise, it's usually going to be in the cerebellum. So it's usually within a cerebellar hemisphere. All right. Now my next one is medulla blastoma. This is actually the most common malignant type of infertentorial brain tumor in the pediatric population. Now precursor, this one actually doesn't have a good name. It's like, oh, it comes from the medullary tissue, bro. No, it doesn't really come from the medullary tissue. For this one here, let me set up here for a second. For medulla blastoma, what's really important to remember with this one is this actually arrives from neuroectodermal cells. So let's actually talk about this one here. Here's my precursor cell. This one is actually from neuroectodermal cells. So called neuroectodermal cells. And they're kind of like primitive parts of it. But here's what I really want you to remember. We talk about the medulla blastoma. The location is usually the big, big one to remember here. So location-wise, it loves to occur. So here's your lobe of the cerebellum. Here's a lobe of the cerebellum. Guess what's right here? You have this middle part of the cerebellum. It's called the vermus. That's the most beloved location for these medulla blastomas. You know, it's also really, really scary about medulla blastomas. And this is definitely a test question. So perk your ears up here a little bit right now. I want you to really, really pay attention. So again, location is definitely going to be the vermus. So the cerebellum vermus. Here's what's really interesting. This tumor is super scary. And guess what it can do? The tumor can actually get really close to the fourth ventricle. It can seed into the fourth ventricle. If it gets into the fourth ventricle, where does that go? Fourth ventricle comes out. You have the superior apertures, superior medial apertures. And then it can also move downwards into the central canal. Where's the central canal move? Down through your spinal cord. All the way down to the lumbar spine. This medulla blastoma is high risk for what's called drop metastasis. I want to write that down. So this one has a very high risk for what's called drop metastasis. So meaning that this thing can spread. It can spread. Metastas... Oh, I said stasis twice, bros. Come on. Metastasis. So it has a very high risk of drop metastasis. All that means is that these tumor cells can get into the actual fourth ventricle and the cerebral spinal fluid and can seed through the cerebral spinal fluid. Tell me that's not scary. So sometimes what you actually have to do is, when a patient gets diagnosed with medulla blastoma, you also have to do an MRI of their spine to make sure that the actual tumor hasn't spread to other parts of their spine via doing the drop metastasis. But that's just a little fact to what I wanted to tell you about. All right. Appendimoma. With appendimomas, this one's actually kind of nice because you think about appendimoma. That's the appendimal cells. Oh, boy. Oh, daddy. So precursor cells here. This is the appendimal cells. So if I got my appendimal cells, the one thing I want you to remember here is that these things really occur within the fourth ventricle. So they usually arise. It's a tumor that seeds itself within the fourth ventricle. So this one can also spread, believe it or not, via drop metastasis. It's just where you see it more common with medulla blastoma for some reason. But location-wise is very key. So if I ever kind of just popped quiz-dian and said, all right, tumor that occurs in the verminus, medulla stoma, tumor that occurs in the cerebellar lobe, pylosetic astrocytoma, tumor that occurs in the fourth ventricle, you would say appendimoma. So that's a really important thing to be able to remember. Just like if I said, hey, tumor in the frontal lobe crosses corpus callosum, GBM. Tumor in the frontal lobe does not cross the corpus callosum, oligodendrogelioma. Tumor that's actually located, again, within the extraaxial parasagile region, meningioma. Tumors that are within the cellis hercica, pituitary adenoma, or cranial pharyngeoma. So you get the point of why that can actually be helpful. So now we got this down. The next one to think about here is homangioblastomas. Homangioblastomas can kind of be somewhat tough to differentiate from pylosetic astrocytomas. We actually have to think about these a little bit. But usually, I'm going to do this in a different color for a reason. These are actually going to be like from vascular tissue. So it originates from vascular tissue. And it also likes to occur within the cerebellum. So within the lobes of the cerebellum. Problem is that homangioblastomas can also occur other places. They can occur in the retina. You know where else pylosetic astrocytomas can occur? They can occur in the optic nerve. That's one thing that they can test you on. So pylosetic astrocytoma, remember, optic. It can occur in the optic nerve, optic gliomas. Homangioblastomas can occur in the cerebellum as well as the retina. But they also have other tumors associated with it. This is actually associated with what's called von Hippel-Lindau syndrome, which we'll talk about. But again, precursor is the key thing. So if I say, where does it arise from? It's actually arising from a vascular tissue origin. So I just want you to remember it arises from vascular tissue. But here's the big thing is again, where would it be located in the infrectorium? And location-wise, it's usually in more within a lobe of the cerebellum. You're not going to find it in the vermus. You're not going to find it in the fourth ventricle. You're going to find it more within a lobe.  this is going to be within the cerebellum itself. All right, this next one's really, really important to remember. It's called a vestibular schwannoma. So schwannomas, these are cool. These are oftentimes associated with neurofibromatosis, particularly type II, which is usually a type of genetic syndrome. But with neurofibromatosis type II, you can actually get bilateral vestibular schwannomas. Schwannomas are usually tumors that, okay, here we go. So look, here's our pons, right? Here's our pons. Here's the cerebellum, and here's the verminus here, the fourth ventricle. The tumors usually occur right on the junction of where the cerebellum and pons kind of meet. So we call this the cerebellar pontine angle, or the cerebellar pontine angle. So let's actually write this down. So precursor, oh, I bet you like this one. What would the precursor cells be for this? This would be the schwann cells, yeah. So this is from our schwann cells. So they become malignant. This is usually a benign tumor, though. It's usually more of a benign tumor. But location-wise is really, really critical. Where is it going to be located? It's usually here at the cerebellopontine angle. So again, where is it? Cerebellopontine or pontine angle. This is a very, very, very important one to remember, okay? So schwannomas right there on the sides of the pons where it joins with the cerebellum. Really important one. Last one's a funky one, because you really, when you look at it, pinealomas, here's my tentorium cerebellus. So some people be like, bro, Zach, come on, look. Here's my tentorium. And all of these, here was the tentorium, but it was below. Because we're all talking about cerebellum and your brainstem. All of these make sense. But then you look at pinealomas. The pineal gland is kind of within the area of the diencephalon. So you'd be like, how does that kind of fit? Well, really what kind of happens is we kind of consider this tumor when it originates from the pineal gland, it kind of dips down here in below the infratentorium cerebelli and compresses and kind of starts to move in through the tentorial notch to the midbrain. So that's really where the pinealomas starts. Is that, again, it starts from the pineal gland. I don't know how to write that. So this is actually supposed to be precursor. So precursor, this is gonna be from the pineal gland. But the big thing here to remember is really, when you think about it, it originates in the diencephalon, but the tumor tends to spread just a little bit more into the dorsal midbrain, which is technically below the tentorium cerebelli. So when we talk about location, location, location, again, the big thing to remember is we really consider this to be more of a dorsal midbrain tumor. So we say it's more of a dorsal midbrain, especially lots of compression there. And we'll talk about the characteristic features that suggest a dorsal midbrain tumor, like a pinealoma, like perinatal syndrome. We got a lot here that we talked about, my friends, with tumors, primary brain tumors, less common, but arrives from tissue that's native to the CNS. Brain metastasis, these ones are usually coming from somewhere else outside the body and going to the brain tissue. Much more common, supertentorial tumors, adults. I want you to think about the differential. GBM, oleodendrioma, meningioma, cranioforengioma, pituitary adenoma. Infra-tentorial tumors, more common in pediatric patients. Pylocytic astrocytoma, medroblastoma, appendemoma, homangioblastoma, schwannoma, as well as the last one here, pinealoma. When I, from this tell you metastasis, it's usually not as much of a solitary tumor where primary tumors are more solitary. Metastasis, it's usually multiple lesions. They're scattered, they're diffuse. Gray-white junction is really important, but they can occur in the supertentorium, or the inferententorium, or both. Now let's move in really quickly to talking about the causes of metastasis and the causes of these tumors forming. We got tumors in the brain, right? You got these honkers hanging out there. We got to understand, again, more particularly, we're building our foundation, right? So I know it seems like, Zach, I feel like we're talking a lot about the introduction stuff. We are, we're gonna get some more of how this clinically applies, but we gotta build our foundation. So when we talk about brain metastasis, we have to know where are these tumors coming from? Because as you kind of go in and you actually evaluate a patient who comes in with clinical symptoms, things like headaches or focal neuro deficits, or maybe they have papilla edema, or they're having nausea and vomiting, and they have particular diplopia, and I don't know, just a bunch of different symptoms that scream that there's something structurally going on inside of the brain, that would make you start getting imaging. Once you obtain that imaging, then you would find, oh, this is a brain mass, and you could use the things that we talked about to kind of think about it. But what I want you to think about is also if a patient's coming in and they have these symptoms, you get a bunch of different lesions on their MRI, or their brain CT, you have to start thinking, okay, could this be metastasis? Look through their history. Do they have a history of a primary cancer they could have spread? Or if not, I gotta look and make sure that I rule out that primary cancer from the lungs or somewhere else. So where are those primary cancers most likely gonna be that spread to the brain? So oftentimes, it's gonna be most commonly a tumor that comes from the lung. So lung cancer by far is going to be the most common cause for brain metastasis. And when I talk about these, I'd say with that caveat that it's most likely small cell lung cancer. You can see it in the non-small cell, but again, it's gonna be way more common in small cell lung cancer. The next one's breast cancer. Again, when I talk about breast cancer, there's different types of breast cancer. But breast cancer usually when it's more likely the most common type, which is invasive ductal carcinoma. The next one is renal cell carcinoma. Renal cell carcinoma is a really important one to remember. The other thing that's actually really important to remember that kind of sucks, it's really, really sad with any of these tumors, right? If it occurs here originally, occurs here originally, and it spreads. These, when they get to the brain, really all of these, except for this one, when I'm gonna talk about this one next, when they get into the brain and they actually break across the blood brain barrier and they form that mass, they actually can cause hemorrhaging within that mass. And so you can actually get what's called hemorrhagic metastasis. So you can get bleeds in the brain, especially from lung cancer, breast cancer, renal cell carcinoma. And the next one here is a particular type of skin cancer. This one is obviously the most malignant and scary type of skin cancer. It's not squamous, it's not basal cell. Yes, you got it, it is melanoma. Melanoma is that scary one that if it metastasizes to the brain, it can cause pretty nasty hemorrhagic metastasis. So all of these can cause hemorrhagic metastasis. This one is actually, I'd say, one of the least common ones, but it is something to consider if a patient has underlying cancer of the large intestine or the rectum. So colorectal cancer is also another one that should come up. And also, we'll talk about this a little bit later, there's specific genetic syndromes that predispose certain patients to having brain tumors and colorectal tumors. We'll talk about it, it's called Turco syndrome. But when I talk about all of these, it's really important to remember that this is the most common, second most common. These right here, when they spread to the brain, they actually cause bleeding to occur. So hemorrhagic metastasis. This one, less common, doesn't usually cause hemorrhagic metastasis. How do I remember these? Because a lot of times it's hard to remember all of these. Lots of bad stuff kills the cortex. L, obviously for the lung. Bad is gonna be for what? The breast. S is gonna be skin. So I want you to think of skin. When you think of skin, you think of melanoma. When you think K kills, think about kidney. When you think about kidney, I'm gonna abbreviate this. Renal cell carcinoma. When you think about C, you're gonna think about, what, colorectal cancer. So those are the things I want you guys to be thinking about here as potential causes of something that spreads to the brain. Again, they occur here, and then what happens is any of these tumors, what do they do? They take, they get into the bloodstream, and they spread and get into the brain. They break across that blood-brain barrier. All right, let's get into the primary brain tumors. Okay, so we got the metastatic causes down. What about primary brain tumors? We don't really have a lot of good reasons as to why these dang things happen. A lot of the times, one of the ways, it's, you know, we, as clinicians, I'm gonna get on my soapbox, just for a second, I promise. When you do imaging, and it comes with radiation, you run the risk of potentially giving a patient, there is that chance of cancer. You're giving radiation that can damage DNA, cause mutations, and if those mutations don't get repaired properly, you bring about the opportunity for this to transform into a lignite cell and cause cancer. So when patients are getting frequent radiation, this, I'm not even kidding, this could be things like just getting CT scans very frequently, getting whole brain radiation therapy. Any of these kinds of things right here, this can potentially stimulate this cell to undergo a mutation. So it can stimulate, let's actually make this very, very clear here. It can stimulate a mutation. If you stimulate a mutation, you bring about the opportunity of this normal glial cell, or some type of brain tissue of the CNS turning into a malignant cell. And this is when you can get tumors, all right? That's one reason. A lot of the times though, we don't really have a good reason. They had no exposure to ionizing radiation, it just happened, it's unfortunate. You got the crap into the stick here. What happens is you have usually just like these progenitor cells. These are cells that can really become a specific type of glial cell. So here's our progenitor cell. If the progenitor cell for some reason develops a mutation, usually the most common mutation that you wanna think about and test for is called the isocitrate dehydrogenase, and there's one and two. This mutation, if it occurs, it causes the progenitor cell to turn into a glial cell tumor, which we call and we term a glioma. So let's actually, I'm gonna make this blue line here, so just so I can have some room. This is called a glioma, all right? Now, if I have a glioma, the problem with this is that this glioma can then decide, do I wanna become another type of tumor cell, or another type of tumor cell? If this then develops another type of abnormality within the genetics, and we call this abnormality, I know this is a lot, trust me, but it can be tested on. On chromosome number one, you have that short arm. If that becomes, you have a deletion, plus on chromosome 19, on the long arm, if that becomes deleted, this can transform this glioma. If you develop this type of mutation here, this can transform this glioma into a malignant oligo dendrocyte. So this would then become what's called a oligo dendro glioma. And now this thing can start replicating, replicating, replicating, and you get this brain mass that forms, all right? If you don't get the one P, 19Q, co-deletion, but you develop other weird mutations, maybe it's in the TP53, right? So the P53, which is a tumor suppressor gene, maybe that becomes mutated. Whatever it may be, that mutates and it becomes a nasty cell, but there's no deletion. That's the key, no deletion present. Here, we'll even write this down just so we're super clear. One P, there's no one P, 19Q, co-deletion present. If that happens, this turns into what's called a astrocytoma. So you get the point here. We can get brain masses from ionizing radiation exposure continuously or just sporadic mutations due to unfortunate genetics. IDH mutation can occur in both of these, but an IDH mutation and a one P, 19Q, co-deletion suggests oligo dendro glioma. Really important to remember. Oftentimes, this helps us because these types of co-deletions and mutations tell us if a patient will respond well to a specific type of chemotherapy called temozolamide. All right, that's why I mentioned that. Another reason why these brain tumors can form inside the essential nervous system because of these gliocells just mutating, not just because of radiation, not just because of sporadic mutations, but it could also be due to genetic predisposition from weird syndromes. One is called neurofibromatosis. There's a type one and type two. What I want you to know is that neurofibromatosis type one is often seen and it's associated with pylocytic astrocytoma. Now, that's one thing. Neurofibromatosis type two is oftentimes associated with a couple of them. It can be associated with appendemomas, it can be associated with meningiomas, and we'll write those down. So appendemomas, meningiomas, there's one really, really important one. It's bilateral vestibular schwannomas. That is what I want you to remember. So what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna kind of say that this is the important one to remember, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop. Neurofibromatosis type two, bilateral vestibular schwannomas are the awesome thing that they can be tested on in the exam. Now, one of the things about neurofibromatosis it can cause like weird neurofibromas to form, but one of the things that they'll test you on the exam that are oftentimes associated with neurofibromatosis is skin lesions. And I wanna actually show you what they look like, but these skin lesions are called cafe au lait spots. They look a little bit like this. So whenever you see these kinds of spots, I want you to think about neurofibromatosis. And if I said type one, pylocytic. If I said type two, I really want you to think about bilateral vestibular schwannoma. The other thing that's really important here is pylocytic astrocytoma for type one. Usually just remember this, it's on the optic nerve. Remember I told you it's gonna occur in the cerebellum? Where else is it gonna occur? Optic nerve, if it's associated with neurofibromatosis type one, it is optic. So look for a patient who has weird skin lesions, cafe au lait spots, and optic nerve compression. Bialytofibromatosis, think about cafe au lait spots, plus tumor that's located within the cerebellum, and then the contine angles. Now that deserves a little time to talk about something. When we see a patient come in with this triad of symptoms, think about schwannomas, what is that? Well one is they'll come in with what's called sensory neuro deafness. That's one thing. Second thing that they'll come in with, vertigo or balance problems. And the third thing that they can come in with is tinnitus. So if a patient comes in with tinnitus, which is ringing of the ears, if they come in with balance issues, and if they come in with sensory neuro deafness, not, and so there's conductive deafness, and there's sensory neuro deafness. We have to use what's called the Weber and Renee test to really determine that. Sensory neuro deafness, vertigo and tinnitus, really suggest a vestibular schwannoma. And if it's on both sides, it's associated with neurofibromatosis type two. If I said optic leoma and cafe au lait spots, you would think neurofibromatosis type one. All right, cool. The next one is turco syndrome. Now I'm not even trying to be mean. This is usually someone where they use different tricks of thinking about a turban. There's brain tumors that are also associated with colorectal cancer. So there's two tumors which kind of go hand in hand. So usually patients can have like colorectal polyps, which put them at high risk for cancer, right? So it puts them at high risk for cancer. And they can also have two different types of brain tumors that can be associated with these colorectal polyps, the lots and lots of polyps. So they can have lots of polyps, lots of them that can be associated, it can lead to cancer. The other thing is that you have two different types of brain tumors which can be associated with this. One is called a glioblastoma multiforme, or it could be a medullo blastoma. The one that's oftentimes more tested than not is gonna be this medullo blastoma. So you're gonna think about a child who comes in with symptoms of infertitorial tumors and who now has a ton of polyps in their intestine. There's actually different types of variants of Turco syndrome. There's the Lynch variant and that's associated with GBM. So that's actually due to a mismatch repair kind of problem. And so usually that can be associated with like colorectal cancer, endometria cancer, ovarian cancer, but also can be associated with GBMs. The FAP variant, which is the familial adenomatosis polyposis, they have tons and tons and I'm talking just tons of polyps in their colon at a young age, 20 year old with hundreds upon hundreds of polyps in their colon, plus a brain tumor like a medullo blastoma. This is the one to remember, that's the one that tests you on, where Turco syndrome. Turco syndrome, colorectal polyps, and I mean, tons of them, plus a tumor in the, usually an infertitorial compartment, cerebellum hermits, medullo blastoma, that's something to remember. All right, multiple endocrine neoplasia, type one. This one is associated with three particular tumors. I know we talked about this in endocrine, so you have men one, that's the three P's. It's pituitary adenoma, it's a parathyroid adenoma, and it's a pancreatic tumor, right? So let's actually write those down. So again, we had them right here to remind us, it's a pituitary adenoma, all right, so you'd have a tumor right here. It's a parathyroid adenoma, and this is gonna be associated with what? Hyperparathyroidism usually, and then there's gonna be a pancreatic tumor, and usually this is associated with what's called Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, releases tons of that gastrin that can cause peptic ulcers. So pancreatic tumors. When I talk about this, it's the three P's. So remember the three P's, pituitary parathyroid pancreatic. If I said men two A, just to test your knowledge a little bit, it's two P's and one M. So it's actually parathyroid tumors, they have pheochromocytoma and medullary thyroid cancer, and if it's men two B, it's two M's and one P. And so for that, it's medullary thyroid cancer, it's a morphinoid body habitus, and it's usually pheochromocytoma. All right, next one here, Von Hippolendau syndrome. This one is actually really high yield. This is a mutation that occurs on chromosome number three, and it's also associated with this type of triad. And usually what happens here is you get the tumor that's occurring due to vascular tissue origins inside here, inside of the cerebellum, but it can also occur in the retina. So it can also occur in the retina, which one's that one? Homangioblastomas. So you can get a homangioblastoma. And again, two locations, because we're talking about brain tumors, we really care about the one that's occurring inside of the brain, but it can occur where else? Just remind yourself, let's here draw it. Where else could occur? Here in the retina, all right? The other component here is what? A tumor here, renal cell carcinoma. All right, so renal cell carcinoma is also associated with this one. And then the last type of tumor here that can also be associated with this is you can sometimes get a tumor right here in the adrenal medulla. What's that called? Pheochromocytoma. So you can get a pheochromocytoma and multiple endocrine neoplasia, right? But you can also have it here in von Heppel-Lindau syndrome. So pheochromocytoma. So if I told you, hey, by a lot of vasibilishonomo, you would say nerve-vibranthosis type two. If I said optic glioma, right? And I told you it's a pylocytic one. That would be nerve-vibranthosis type one because they're associated with the cafe alle at spots. If I said, oh, this patient has potentially a ton of polyps and they're 20 years old and on top of that they have a tumor in their mid, their cerebellum, you would say. This is turcosyndrome. If I said that they have three different tumors, it's the three P's, you think about men one. And if I told you that they have, they're a young child and they have tumors inside of the retina and in their cerebellum, they also have renal cell carcinoma and pheochromocytoma, you think about von Heppel-Lindau syndrome. My friends, this covers really the causes and kind of gives us an important kind of understanding of how these really tumors form. Now that we've done this, what I wanna do is I wanna say, okay, patient comes in, they present with these symptoms. How do I actually get to the point where I can then say, let me move through, think about these symptoms, determine my diagnostic approach and then from there, determine the proper treatments. And one of those treatments is gonna be getting imaging to figure out what does it fit in and maybe getting biopsies to figure out what is the tissue makeup? And then thinking back to their history, what could have caused this? So now that we've done that, let's move now into the next step, which is thinking about how they will present. All right, so now we have a patient coming in, they're presenting with classic findings of brain tumors. What would that be? Well, there's a try, but just cause a patient comes in with a headache, don't just be like, oh, there's definitely a tumor up there. No, there's specific ways that patients present. A headache could be a tension headache, it could be a migraine, it could be a cluster headache. It could be from a lot of different things. It doesn't mean that they got a big old tumor hanging out in their cerebrum. So you have to kind of think about this. There is specific red flags that may make you decide to get an image of a patient. So if a patient says I got the worst headache of my entire life, it's a thunder clap headache, get an image. Another thing that may, it's not as like a grade of a red flag, but it's something to consider, is if a patient comes in with a headache, and that headache is usually, it's worse in the morning. So it's worse in the AM. Now you can also get this in patients with obstructive sleep apnea, but that's one particular thing. The reason why is this headache is usually due to elevated intracranial pressure. And so whenever they're laying flat, and then they get up in the morning, that usually is one of the big reasons. Oftentimes it gets a little bit better during the day as if they're upright and they're moving, because it helps to remove the cerebrospinal fluid and I'm sorry, the venous blood out of the brain. Another thing is that it's also associated with nausea and vomiting. So if they have vomiting right away in the morning, that's also concerning. So it's usually associated with nausea and vomiting in the early AM. Those are things that should definitely concern you. The other triad that you wanna be thinking about here, and this is what really, if a patient comes in with a headache and they also have this, this is another reason to scan them, get an image of the brain, see if there's a structural lesion there. But it's focal neuro deficits, or focal neurological deficits. And these deficits really depend, so we're gonna write this down, the type of deficit they have depends upon the tumor location. So it really just depends on tumor location. And I actually wanna talk just a little bit about that and really differentiating focal neuro deficits. If it's a supratentorial tumor or an infertorial tumor, we'll come back to that. If a patient comes in with headache and they also have weakness on one side of their body, get an image, right? That's really, really important. Headache, weakness, visual defects, they can't appreciate one side of their body, they have loss of sensation, numbness thing. Those are reasons to say, hey, I should probably get an image and make sure that there's not a brain lesion going on, whether it's a stroke, whether it's a bleed, or whether it's a brain tumor. The next one here is also something that they like to hit on for the exam. And it's usually someone who comes in and they have just a complete change in personality and memory and executive function. That is really important. So think about cognitive and behavioral changes. So if someone's just acting completely different than their normal self, that may not just be that they're a little bit of a douche. They could be because they got a tumor somewhere in their temporal lobe or their frontal lobe that can determine a lot of their personality, their memory, their executive function, their determination of inhibiting inappropriate thoughts. And so this could indicate potentially, maybe there's a tumor that's embedding itself in the frontal lobe or the temporal lobe. That may be the reason why, especially frontal lobe. So temporal lobe or frontal lobe. All right, so these are things that definitely would be thinking about if a patient comes in with a headache, think about the headache a little bit just because they have a headache doesn't mean that they have a brain tumor. Not everybody has to go running to the ER. Sometimes the focal neural deficits associated with a headache, you should definitely get imaging. And if they have these weird cognitive behavioral changes, guess what? If patients have differences in behavior, differences in memory, differences in personality, obviously work them up for things like delirium or an altered mental status. And oftentimes that comes with a good thorough laboratory but also imaging workup to make sure that you rule out structural brain lesions. And so that could be in the workup there. All right, let's say that the patient comes in with focal neural deficits. It's actually really important to think about, could it be a supertentorial tumor before you get the image or an infertorial tumor? It's always good to try and localize lesions. So supertentorial tumors, one of the big things to think about is what if I represent this in different colors? What if I had a tumor that's sitting here on the primary motor cortex? What would that potentially represent? Well, one thing it would do is that may have a patient come in with motor deficits or they may come in with weakness, right? So if it's sitting on the motor cortex, compressing on the motor cortex or compressing on the corticospinal tract, they can end up with weakness. And maybe on the contralateral side of the body, but there's weakness. If there's a tumor compressing here on the somatosensory cortex or the somatosensory association cortex, that's controlling sensation, that's controlling proprioception, that's controlling a stereognosis. So a lot of those things are proprioception or your sensation of self, all of that. So that's really important that they could have sensory deficits. So vision has a tumor that's causing a headache and they also have sensory deficits. That's also something to consider. And then the third is what if they have a tumor that's either compressing here on the optic tract or that's compressing here in parts of the occipital lobe where the primary visual cortex is. If I got a tumor that's sitting right here in the primary visual cortex, that could be a big issue, right? Because the primary visual cortex is the one where a lot of the visual field is moving. So that's really, really important. This could cause field cuts. That's really important to remember. So do they have visual field cuts? Right, because if you have a pituitary tumor or a cranial pharyngeal, what's pressing on this, this will cause what? Bilateral temporal hemianopia. But if it's compressing here, it'll cause contralateral homonymous hemianopia. And then the fourth big thing that always tells us if there's some type of cortical thing going on is usually if there is hemi-neglected. It doesn't mean that the patient is being neglected or I don't know, neglecting other people. All it tells me is that they're losing an appreciation of their opposite side of where the lesion is. Usually this occurs in the non-dominant hemisphere, which is the right side for people. So if there were brain tumors somewhere within that frontal parietal loberia, they may lose the ability to recognize or appreciate the opposite side of their body. You may touch their left arm and they don't even know it's there. You may ask them to move their leg and they move the opposite leg. You may tell them, hey, look over here, but they don't appreciate or see you on the opposite side of the body. So that's called hemi-neglect. Now, for infertentorial tumors, it's also really important to remember, if I got a big goober that's sitting here somewhere within the cerebellum, the cerebellum controls a lot of my balance, a lot of my coordination. And so this obviously could present with things like ataxia. That's one potential thing. Another thing is it may also cause abnormalities within my finger-to-nose testing. What's that called? Dysmetria. So looking for dysmetria should be something that you would think about here. And even we do other testing. You know what's, when you have their patient do rapid alternating movements, what's that called? And if they can't do it, it's kind of like, it's improper kind of like rapid alternating movements. It's called dysdiatokinesis, right? The third thing here is you also wanna consider if a tumor is somewhere near and compressing or near the vicinity of a lot of your cranial nerves. So imagine here, I'll represent this in orange. Let's say here, I have a bunch of different cranial nerves that are running out here. If I have a tumor that's either in that vicinity, right? And it's compressing on or I have a tumor right there. So let's say I have a tumor and it's compressing on some of these cranial nerves. What else could you get? Cranial nerve palsies. So cranial nerve palsies are also really worthy of considering some type of thing going on. And then I think the last thing is besides ataxia, you could also consider things like vertigo. Vertigo, usually central vertigo, is something also to consider. Again, this is all usually due to interruptions within the cerebellum. But these are the things I would want you guys to think about. So if a patient comes in with a headache and any of these symptoms you would think about, oh, could it be an infertitorial tumor? If they come in with a headache and some of these symptoms you'd think about a supertitorial tumor and then you would work them up from there. Let's now move in and say, okay, patient comes in,  there's a thing I got a headache, it's really bad in the morning when I get up, as I move throughout the day it gets a little bit better, I do have some nausea, some vomiting associated with it, and I've noticed that I also have some weakness on an affected side. Then you start thinking, okay, dude, I'm a little bit concerned for structural lesion. Other things that may start making you think about something else is really, really going on is do they have features that are associated with intracranial pressure that's really, really high? We can't talk about intracranial pressure unless you discuss the beloved Monroe Kelly doctrine, and all that says is the skull is a fixed structure. It doesn't allow things to, allow the skull to expand. Anything that's inside of the brain, whatever those components are, if it gets bigger, the skull will not expand. What are those three components? Well, I'm representing it here in kind of like a little chart for kind of an easy way to remember this. Here is blood. This consists of arterial blood and venous blood. Here is brain matter. So this is going to be brain tissue, all right? And then third here is CSF in blue. If we increase any of these components more than what they're supposed to be, they'll start compressing on those other structures. And also it'll build up inside of the skull and the pressure will go up. So let's think about what happens in a brain tumor. If a brain tumor starts to occur, what happens is the brain tissue starts to get worse, all right? So here's what I'm going to say. Let's say that I decide to increase the brain tissue. I increase the brain, I'm sorry. Let's say I increase, in this case, the CSF. So if I increase the CSF, if I increase the CSF, the reason why that would happen is you have a tumor that's somewhere within the central nervous system and it's compressing on your ventricular system, all right? As it compresses on the ventricular system, let's say for example, it's in the cerebellum and it compresses on the fourth ventricle. You can't get CSF through the fourth ventricle. And so it backs up into the cerebrate. The liquid duct backs up into the third ventricle, backs up into the latter ventricles. And what happens? They balloon up and they get big. What's that term called when you obstruct the ventricular flow and the ventricles get big? It's called obstructive hydrocephalus. Obstructive hydrocephalus is definitely due to, in this case, can happen and patients who have brain tumors. And this is going to do what? Well, think about it. Now you increase this compartment. That starts squishing on the brain and squishing on the vascular system. So you get less blood flow coming into the brain and you compress on the brain tissue. That's not a good thing. This right here is what increases a patient's intracranial pressure, all right? Intracranial pressure should normally be less than 20 millimeters of mercury. If the intracranial pressure is greater than or equal to 20 millimeters of mercury, we consider that to be pretty high. We don't want that. So that's something that we want to try to avoid. Another reason that patients with brain tumors develop high ICP is because you increase the brain tissue. You increase the amount of brain components. So if I increase the brain components, and what I mean by that is a tumor. So now I have this tumor, which is accompanying for it. And guess what else happens when you get a tumor, especially brain tumors? The secret chemicals that break down the blood brain barrier, especially the tight junctions. And those are supposed to maintain a controlled degree of permeability. If I break the tight junctions down, fluid leaks out from those vessels into this space around the tumor. And then you get edema. So vasogenic edema is another component here. Well now I have more brain tissue than I want. And guess what it's doing? It's compressing on the blood supply coming in or out of the brain. And it's compressing on my ventricular system so that I get less movement of CSF. So this right here will also increase the patient's intracranial pressure. Because again, that skull is not going to say, oh, increase in size for you. No, not unless you have a baby who still has those fontanelles, which will allow for a little bit of stretching. So that's the concept here. So when the patient has an increased ICP, that number gets above 20, it's usually due to hydrocephalus or the tumor and the swelling around the tumor. The question is, how will that usually present? Well, we already talked about one of them. If I got a tumor and that thing's compressing on the meninges, the meninges have lots of pain receptors here. Those pain receptors send signals to the trigeminal nerve and that triggers a headache. So headaches are oftentimes very, very characteristic. All right, and this is usually due to meningial irritation from the tumor compressing. Second one is you can activate this purple structure. You see this purple structure? If the pressure comes up enough, then it starts to activate specific structures, especially this one in the medulla, that's called the emetic center in the medulla. The emetic center in the medulla controls your emesis process, your vomiting process. And so guess what that's associated with? Nausea and vomiting, this is very, very common. All right, that's why when we talked about the classic symptoms, the classic triton is headache, which is associated with nausea and vomiting and headaches usually in the morning. It's due to a high intracranial pressure. So the nausea and vomiting is due to what? It's due to stimulation of what's called the chemo trigger zone or the emetic center. So a medic center, which is located in the medulla. All right, the next thing that I also want you guys to think about is we can also have this tumor getting big enough and the pressure rises enough that it compresses on this structure. What is this structure that runs from the midbrain to the pons of the medulla? It controls your level of wakefulness and arousal. It's called the reticula formation. If I compress the reticula formation from high pressure, guess what that can do? That can lower your level of consciousness. So you can end up having a declining, a decreasing level of consciousness. So a decreasing level of consciousness. This can vary in how it presents. Oftentimes the patient may start off as being just a little bit lethargic, a little tired, but they can wake them up. Then they can get a little bit worse where now, hey, I got to kind of like, I got to move your out a little bit or yell at you. Now you're at the point where it's like, you're not really lethargic. Now you're like really somnolent and it's hard to get you up. And then from there, they can get even worse to where like, man, I got to really, really stimulate them, but they do wake up. So now they're kind of an uptunded state. And then eventually I got to really, really, really move them and give painful stimuli to get them to wake up. So then they're more of a stupor. And then eventually I can squeeze and do anything to them, but they won't wake up and they become comatose. So due to the worsening, worsening intracranial pressure, you can move through that systemic process or that progression, if you will. The next thing that can happen here is, you see here, if the pressure is big enough. So you know, there's CSF, right? So not only could it be because of pressure, but also, if you have a buildup and intracranial pressure, you know there's fluid that's around this optic nerve sheath. So you know it's called the optic nerve sheath and there's cerebral spinal fluid there. If the pressure inside of the brain is going up, the cerebral spinal fluid, it can kind of transmit that pressure around the optic nerve sheath. And it can kind of squeeze down on the optic nerve. And if you squeeze down on the optic nerve, guess what drains the, coming through this area? There's a drain veins there. Can't drain the vein. And so what happens is you get a lot of venous congestion right here around the entry called the optic disc and it gets swollen. And these patients can experience something called papilla edema. So papilla edema. The next component here, and this is the last one, is if I have enough pressure, you see this nerve here? So watch this. Sometimes you can get enough pressure, enough shifting, where it squeezes right there. So there's a nerve here. It's called the abducens nerve. And it actually kind of comes from the pons and it works. So let's actually move this a little bit here because it's not technically where it should be. It should be right there, just me being a little anal. But it should be in the pons and it's going to move its way through here. You see this right here? This is called the clivus. And then as it moves up the clivus, it makes this turn. You see a little bone there? Whenever you actually have pressure that builds up, it smashes that nerve against the bone, the little pointy part of the bone. And now that nerve, when you compress it, you lose signals. Guess what this nerve is? This is the sixth cranial nerve. Guess what the sixth cranial nerve goes to? It goes to what's called the lateral rectus. And so now you don't have good signals running down the abducens nerve. And you inhibit the lateral rectus. And it's supposed to control your lateral gaze. What this does is this changes their ability to see objects as one entity. And it causes double vision. And so oftentimes these patients get diplopia. So double vision. That's really important to remember. All right, so again, headache is due to meningial irritation from pressure. Nausea and vomiting is pressure on the emetic center. Decreasing level of consciousness is pressure on the particular formation. Papillodema is pressure that's being transmitted via the CSF and squeezing down in the optic nerve sheath, causing blood to not drain from the retina, especially around the optic disc. Papillodema. Diplopia, or diplopia, is whenever the abducens nerve, because it runs up and it gets right on that sharp part. It presses down and smashes on the nerve and the lateral rectus can't contract. Now this is not the cli- this is not like how all patients present when they have intra-cranial pressure. It may just be a headache. It could be nausea and vomiting. It could be they're a little bit more sleepy and harder to wake up. They could, if you get a fundoscope, look at their actual retina and you see, oh yeah, the optic disc is pretty large. They may have double vision, but sometimes they may come in with very severe presentations, like herniation of brain tissue, where brain starts moving through spaces, where it's got to find somewhere, if the skull won't expand, I'll find a hole and I'll shove myself through there. Not trying to be weird, but that's what it will do. Let's now talk about that whenever there's herniation symptoms. Alright, so now if a patient comes in again and they have elevated intra-cranial pressure, you obviously want to watch out for things like we talked about headache, nausea, vomiting. You want to watch out for again, potentially is there any signs of papilla, demon, fundoscopic exam? That's definitely very concerning. And is there any diplopia? Declining level of consciousness is really, really important. But when a patient starts presenting with the classic findings of what I mean, the tell-tale sign that the pressure's up and the patient's at risk for herniation, we use the Cushing's Triad from the exam. And so the Cushing's Triad basically looks at three factors. One is it looks at the heart rate, it looks at the blood pressure, and it looks at the breathing. And what we want to know about this is what's happening with the heart rate. What happens is you end up, is the pressure builds up in the brain, you compress in the medulla. And the medulla is controlling a lot of your cardiac activity, especially cardiac acceleration. And so if you lose that cardiac acceleration, you lose extrinsic supply that helps to speed it up. And so unfortunately, it will start to go down. Your body will try to compensate to increase the blood flow to the brain in that time frame. And what it'll do is it'll try to push your blood pressure up so that you can still try to profuse the unfortunately very hurt and injured brain. And then on top of that, whenever we have compression on the medulla, guess what else is there? Your respiratory groups, your ventral, your dorsal respiratory groups, your pontine respiratory groups, all of these things control your breathing patterns. And if a patient has compression of the brainstem, your breathing patterns will be very, very irregular. And so that is what we get concerned about is having irregular breathing patterns. All right? So that's what I want you guys to be thinking about. When we talk about pressure building up in the brain enough that it actually, again, skull won't expand, it's going to start popping through spaces or holes where it can find it. That's when we get worried about herniation. So there's a couple of different syndromes I want you guys to be able to pick up. So whenever they talk in the exam, hey, if a patient has subfouscine herniation, what's the biggest thing to remember? They have contralateral hemiparesis or hemiparesis or sometimes it can be contralateral paralysis of the muscle. But what I really want you to understand is big, big takeaway features, but I'm going to try to walk you through on how that actually happens. So subfouscine herniation, usually this is a supertentorial tumor. Let's say I have a tumor sitting right here. It's in the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, and what happens is it pushes, it has a mass effect. So it pushes on structures that are nearby. There's one structure here. It's right this portion here, right next to the foc. So you have the foc cerebrae, which is running right here. Right here is what's called the singulum. If it's getting mass effect from a nearby tumor, it actually tries to push. And what it does, it pushes this way. And so as it pushes this way, guess what happens? I'm going to try to herniate underneath the foc, but what it does is it squishes everything in its path. What's right in the path here? It literally is running right here. What's that vessel? The anterior cerebrary. So when a patient develops subfouscine herniation, the biggest concern is that the singulum moves under the foc cerebrae and compresses the anterior cerebrary. And when you compress the anterior cerebrary, what does the anterior cerebrary do? Well think about it. You have different zones, right? So you have a zone technically, if I were to do, let's say I do this one in like blue. This is kind of like your anterior cerebrary territory. And then here, if I did in red, this is going to be most of your middle cerebrary territory. And then if I did this one, let's say in this like baby blue color, this is going to be most in this actually, let's actually use a different, let's use orange. This would be your posterior cerebrary territory, right? And so when a patient has, like they have compression of the ACA, they can actually develop infarction. And so what actually ends up happening is you're going to get infarction of the frontal lobe. And so this area will become compromised, the one I have in this blue color. So this area is going to become damaged. And again, it's going to be on the opposite side of where the tumor is. So now they're going to end up with a potential frontal lobe infarction. Now the frontal lobe, or at least in that potential area, you're going to have the motor cortex. And the motor cortex, if you think about the motor homunculus, the motor homunculus always goes for the foot, is going to be closest to the medial portion. And then it goes, you know, maybe you got foot, then you got the legs, then you get the torso, then you get the face all the way over here. So what area is going to be most predisposed? It's going to be the legs. And so your lower extremities tend to be the most affected structure. And so what happens is, let's say here, I have my corticospinal tracts that are going to be here from that frontal lobe, they're supposed to all kind of give me my corticospinal tracts that run here, they're run through the internal cap, so they come down the midbrain, the ponds, they decosate here at the medulla, they go to the spinal cord. And from here, it's going to go to the muscles. And it's going to cause these muscles to contract. It's going to be the contralateral muscle, right? Well, if I end up causing infarction here, all of this gets injured and damaged. It loses the signals. I lose this signal. I lose the contraction of the muscle. And if I do that, that's how the patient experiences what's called contralateral hemiparesis. And this is because they ended up having an infarction of that frontal lobe area here. And that is, again, going to cause an infarction on the contralateral side. But it will be on the same side as where that mass is. And this was the problem as the mass was here. It was exerting its mass effect. And that mass effect is what ended up leading to the cingulum herniating underneath the fox and pushing on the anterior supranary and farkting that tissue. That's what I want you to take away. So subfousin herniation, the biggest feature here to take away is the muscles will be weak on the contralateral side of where there was an infarction. But it's because the mass effect pushed the cingulum underneath it and compressed the anterior supranary. All right, cool. Uncle herniation. With uncle herniation, what happens here is there's a tumor. And it's usually going to be somewhere within the temporal lobe. And it can be pretty big. Sometimes it can be a little higher. But if it's really, really big, there's a lot of edema. There's a lot of swelling. Then what can happen is, again, it'll exert its localized mass effect. But what happens if that mass effect is enough that when it pushes here, let's say this is the most medial portion of the temporal lobe. It's called the uncus. If that starts slipping here, you see there's the tentorium cerebelli, these little blue things that come inwards. Right here, if this thing slips over the tentorium cerebelli, what it'll start doing is, imagine this, I'm going to squeeze on the midbrain now. I'm going to push and mash on that midbrain. And as I mash on that midbrain, I'm going to get damaged to a lot of different surrounding structures. So, again, what happens in this scenario is that the uncus moves through this notch. What is that space called between the tentorium cerebelli, the tentorial notch? So moves through the tentorial notch. And when it does that, it compresses a couple of different structures. But particularly, it compresses the midbrain. With this being said, when it compresses the midbrain, there's a couple of different structures that are important to the midbrain and then surrounding that area where the midbrain resides. One of those areas is it's going to cause compression of the PCA. So it compresses the PCA, the posterior cerebratory. So that's actually, so you come up here, you get the verts, you got the basilar, and then here's your PCA. If that thing herniates, it can compress on the PCA. Now, again, think about your territories. Here's my frontal lobe area where the ACA is going. This is frontal and sometimes even parietal, right? And then we'll go to the next part here, which is going to be the MCA territory, which is going to be like all this portion right here. And then here, we're going to have the PCA territory. Now the PCA territory, there's one really, really critical area that actually gets hit here. And that's near the occipital lobes. Now, if you hit near the occipital lobes, the problem with this is that you lose the primary visual cortex. And so what can happen here is you can actually get occipital, or at least around that area, you can get an occipital lobe infarction. Now if that happens, let's take a second to think about why that would be absolutely terrible. If that happens here, that's where the primary visual cortex is. So think about this for a second. Let's say here, I have my visual pathways, right? Let's say here I have a visual pathway right here, and that's going to be picking up information from the medial visual fields or your nasal visual fields. And let's use pink as the other color here. This is going to be the medial hemorrhagna. This is going to pick up your temporal visual fields. Same thing. Here's the medial portion here. And then we'll come over here and we'll say that again, this is going to be the temporal fields. So what happens is these pick up their visual information from here, and this picks up visual information from here. And then again, this one picks up visual information from over in the medial field, and this one picks up visual information from your medial fields. When that happens, when they pick up that information, they carry that down via their fibers. The lateral fibers never cross. They go to the lateral geniculate nucleus, and then in the lateral geniculate nucleus, they get sent outwards to the cortex via the optic radiations. Same thing for this one. It's going to go here. It's going to move out. They go to the lateral geniculate nucleus, and then optic radiations are going to go to that primary visual cortex. The medial fibers, these cross. So they go over here. They go to the lateral geniculate nucleus, and they come over to the optic radiations. And then same thing. This one's going to move here, and it's going to cross lateral geniculate nucleus, and then you're going to go to your optic radiations through the occipital lobe. So if you're noticing what's happening here, you're getting this information, let's say that we enfarcted this portion. So say this is the area that got destroyed because we enfarcted that PCA territory. If you follow it back, it's going to give you the lateral fiber, so you're going to lose this field. And that's going to be, so this field right here, gone. We lost this field. So let's actually put some red axis here. This field is gone. Then we have to follow the medial fibers, so we're going to bring this one over here, come over here, and you lose this field over here. When you think about it, if you lose this visual field, and you compare it, and you look at this within the aspect of the patient's vision, we actually look at vision kind of a little bit like this, as our visual fields. And then same thing here. What do you notice about their visual fields? This visual field and this visual field is preserved, but these visual fields that are technically, if you want to think about it on the right side. So they're homonymous, but it's going to be contralateral in that aspect. This is contralateral, homonymous, hemianopia. So that's one potential presentation that you want to watch out for here. It's called contralateral, homonymous, hemianopia. And that's usually because of the PCA compression causing occipital lobe infarction. Now the other thing that can happen when you compress the midbrain is when you compress the midbrain, there's a couple different structures here. Let's say that we have this one here, and this one is actually going to be the third nerve. So you have the third cranial nerve, and we have this guy here, and we'll have this guy here, and it's associated with parasympathetic fibers. So there's two different types of fibers. There's somatic fibers, which are going to be going to the muscles, the extracula muscles, and then there's parasympathetic fibers, and these specifically go to the pupil. They control the pupils and accommodation reflexes. And so it's really, really important to remember this. If you have this herniating and smashing on the midbrain, let's say that this is occurring here on the left side, we're going to damage these. So let's damage these. If I damage these, and this is all the cranial nerve 3, cranial nerve 3 nuclei, I lose two pathways. One is the motor pathway that is more somatic, if you will. And that controls the extraocular movement, so it controls the EOMs. And I lose the pupil pathway, which is the pathway that is going to control whether the pupil dilates or constricts. That's going to be interfered with, because again, I'm compressing on these structures and I'm losing that supply. So if that happens, let's think about this. I lose the motor supply going to these muscles, and there's a bunch of different muscles. I'm going to just quickly list them for a second. This one will be the superectus. This one right here is going to be the, we're going to say in this example, it's on the medial side of the eye, medial rectus, inferior oblique, and inferior rectus. Superectus, inferior rectus, are supposed to have specific jobs. Superectus elevates, inferior rectus depresses, and then you have the medial rectus that helps to adduct the eye, bring them inwards. And then the inferior oblique does what? What helps to elevate the eye, right? And it usually helps to move it. Now here, let's think about this. If I lost the cranial nerve three supplies, all of these muscles, you're going to lose the ability to do what? To adduct the eye? You're going to lose the ability potentially to elevate the eye via the superectus. What muscles become completely unopposed now? You end up with the lateral rectus being unopposed, and you end up with the superior oblique being unopposed. The lateral rectus does what to the eye? Pull it out. What does the superior oblique do? Depresses it, and then it causes it to go out. So what ends up happening to the patient's eye is they end up with what's called a down and out presentation. So they end up with a down and out eye. And the reason why is because you lose the motor supply to which muscles? You lose the motor supply to the superectus, the medial rectus, the inferior oblique, and the intra rectus. Which muscles are now unopposed? Lateral rectus pulls the eye out. Superior oblique is supposed to do what? It's supposed to naturally bring it down. So now that lateral rectus is going to pull it out, and then that superior oblique is going to pull the eye down because they're completely unopposed. That's the concept I want you to remember. All right. The other thing is that we interfere the pupil pathway. So we also decrease the motor pathway, and now we're going to decrease the pupil pathway. Now I told you that there's two parts of the cranial nerve 3 nuclei. One is there's somatic, and the other one is the eddinger Westfall. So there's the somatic, which controls the motor pathway, and then there's the eddinger Westfall nucleus. And this is the parasympathetic pathway that goes to the pupil. If we interfere with that, we damage that. What is parasympathetic supposed to do? Do you guys know? It's supposed to constrict the pupil. It's supposed to constrict the pupil. You're going to lose the ability to constrict the pupil. Now what happens? The pupil starts dilating. So because of this, you lose the ability to constrict the pupil. The pupil will dilate. So now you end up with a dilated pupil. Because again, I don't want to go crazy through the physiology because this is supposed to be more of the clinical aspects. We've talked about this more in step one and more about our pathophys. But again, if you injure the somatic fibers, you lose the movements of superior, inferior rectus, inferior oblique, and medial rectus. So then superior oblique and medial rectus become unopposed. If you lose the parasympathetic supply to the pupil, it's supposed to constrict it. Now it's going to be unopposed and it's going to dilate. So these patients can have a dilated and pupil with a down and out movement. And it's on the ipsilateral side of where the herniation is. So ipsilateral, that's important to remember. For down and out of the eye and dilated pupil, it's ipsilateral. One more thing for uncle herniation. There's three things. First of all, contralateral hamanum semianopia from PCA infarction. Second thing is a down and out movement of the eye with the dilated pupil that is usually not going to be as well as responsive to light. And then lastly, they're going to have another problem. There's motor fibers that run through this way. So let's actually do this. Let's pick, let's do orange. Let's say there's motor fibers that are supposed to be coming through this portion here called the cerebropiduncle. And what they do is they run down here through the midbrain. They come down the pons. And then eventually they do what? They decasate at the pyramids and the medulla. They come downwards to the spinal cord. And then what do they do? They end up going to the muscles and causing contraction. But what side of the body is it on? Contralateral. If I'm pressing on that side of the midbrain, what am I going to do? Damage that nerve. I damage the corticospinal tract as they move through the cerebropiduncle. And if that does that, I don't send signals down to the contralateral muscle. So what's another potential presentation? I'm going to put down here. Let's make some room here. This is going to be contralateral. We're going to really mash this in, guys. Contralateral hemiparesis. So if I say, patient has a tumor, they're starting to herniate it. I say they have a down and up movement of the eye with a dilated pupil. They have loss of visual fields. And it's usually on the same side. In other words, when I talk about this, it's like this visual field here for the nasal portion on my left eye, and it's going to be the what? The temporal field on the other eye. So it's on that right side if you want to think about it, but it's opposite visual field. So contralateral hematomas hemianopia. And then if I also say that they have contralateral hemiparesis, you're going to say uncle herniation. There's this weird phenomenon. I'll talk about it more in the intracranial pressure lecture, but there's something called a Kernighans-Nach syndrome. And Kernighans-Nach syndrome is basically whenever the pressure is so high that you smash the midbrain, and then this other midbrain gets smashed against the tentorium. And so you can actually end up compressing the corticospinal tract here. So the patient can actually get ipsilateral hemiparesis, which is kind of weird. But we won't go too far. I just want to keep it at that. So subfalsine, contralateral hemiparesis. Boom. That's the ACA infarction. Uncaherniation, uncus herniates compresses the third nerve in the associated eddinger west ball. Dilated, pupil, nonreactive to light, down and out movement, compresses the PCA, contralateral hematomas hemianopia, compresses the cerebral peduncle, contralateral hemiparesis. Now what? Let's move to the next one. The next one here is called central trans-tentorial herniation. This is essentially when a patient has so much swelling and usually it has to be kind of a symmetric pushing down. So I'll say that I have a tumor right here and a tumor right here. So it's usually whenever a patient has significant amounts of cerebral edema or they have like two big tumors and these tumors are causing kind of a, I don't know, I guess I would use the term like a equal amount of downward or surrounding mass effect. As it does that, this whole portion here, which we're going to kind of like, I'll do an dotted line here, this is called the diencephalon. This is called the diencephalon. The diencephalon is going to get pressure from above and what it's going to do is it's going to literally smash down through this space. What's that space called? The tentorial notch. And so what ends up happening is the diencephalon shifts.  this downward through the tentorial notch. That's what we call trans-tentorial herniation. So what ends up happening in this patient is they end up having a diencephalon. Their diencephalon pushes through the tentorial notch. And when it pushes through the tentorial notch, it literally squishes on the brainstem. And what that's going to do is that's going to push on, that's going to compress the upper portion of the brainstem. So it usually starts off as compressing the midbrain, and then it progresses to compressing on the pons and even the medulla in certain cases. But here's how I want you to think about this one. So with sub-falscene, it was a structure moving over and compressing. With oncus, it was the thing moving through the tentorial notch and compressing on the midbrain. This one, it's an entire deep structures that are smashing down on the midbrain. I'm not even kidding. It's like, imagine it like an accordion. Like I'm playing the midbrainstem like an accordion. I'm smashing this thing down. By doing that, you can actually smash this thing down so much. There's little vessels here. So imagine I have a downward traction here on the brainstem. There's small little vessels, the little perforator vessels off the basal artery going into the pons. These things get shredded to bits and they cause like little hemorrhages to form inside of the pons. And this is actually characteristic of central transitorial herniation. We call them direct hemorrhages. These are called direct hemorrhages. And so that's something that you can kind of see due to like the destruction of these pontine perforator vessels. But one of the big things to remember for this one is you can press a bunch of different structures. So what I want you to know is pupil changes, motor changes and brainstem reflexes that get affected here. In this scenario, we have pupil changes first. If I have this thing smashing down, the first thing that it does is it smashes down on these sympathetic nerve fibers coming from the hypothalamus. So sympathetic is supposed to do what? Is supposed to cause dilation of the pupil. And then here I have the Ettinger Westfall Nugle. So this is my Ettinger Westfall, which is the parasympathetic fibers. This one's to cause constriction of the pupil, right? What happens is when you get downward pressure, the diencephalon that includes the hypothalamus, you compress the sympathetic fibers first. And so if you compress the sympathetic fibers first, what would be the first thing to happen? You would lose the ability to dilate. And so this is the first thing to happen. So first thing that's going to happen is you'd lose the ability to dilate. So if you can't dilate, now you have all constriction. What's going to happen to the pupil? It's going to get small. So what will happen first is you're going to get small, small and kind of like pinpoint pupils. So let's say small pupils. Then what happens? That's the first thing. As the compression worsens, you then start squeezing and compressing on the Ettinger Westfall Nucleus, which is the parasympathetic fibers. And then you lose the ability to constrict. So if you lose the ability to constrict and the ability to dilate, then what happens? They stay the same size. They stay mid position. So then what happens is the pupils will then change to become mid position and relatively fixed and fixed. So that's the first thing I want you to realize when you start seeing this. The second thing is motor changes. So you guys remember there's a structure here called the red nucleus. And the red nucleus controls what's called your rubro spinal tract. If you don't remember that, go back over to our tracts video. But the descending tract here is it goes to muscles that control flexion. So it's supposed to control our flexors. It's supposed to control flexion muscles, particularly of the upper arms, or the upper extremities of your arms. When you have injury that's above, let's say the injury starts above the red nucleus, which is usually where this is going to be coming down, super nuclear fibers. What happens is this causes the red nucleus to still be able to fire on its own. And so you can still flex. And so what happens is these patients, sometimes they have almost excessive flexion. And we call this posturing when a patient's like this, it's called de-corticate posturing. And so sometimes that can be seen when you have a good enough compression above that red nucleus or damage above the red nucleus. So we say the first thing is they may start off with what's called de-corticate posturing. Then as compression gets worse and you start mashing on the brainstem, especially the midbrain, you may start damaging structures either at or below the red nucleus. As that happens, do you lose the ability to have, you lose the ability of flexion then. And so flexion is lost and you get unopposed extension. Then the patient starts doing this. And this is called de-cerebrate posturing. So that's the next thing that can start to develop as the pressure continues to rise and compress further on the brainstem like an accordion. So de-cerebrate. The next thing that I want you guys to remember, as as we compress on the brainstem, you have different reflexes. And as we compress further and further and further like an accordion, you lose these reflexes respectively. So if I compress on this one, and this is going to be going to my pupil. So this is the third nerve. This is for the pupil reflex. Then I have the trigeminal nerve, which controls the corneal reflex. And then I have the eighth nerve, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, the tenth nerve, the vagus nerve, which controls your cough reflex. And even the gag. What will happen is you may start to lose the pupil reflex first. All right, so this may be potentially the first one to go. And this will be the second one to go. And this may be the final one to go. So it may kind of go in this order as the progression gets worse. This may be the first one, and the second one, and the third reflex to go. All right, that's what I want you guys to be able to remember. So if a patient comes in with central transcentral herniation, what I want you to remember is they may come in first with small pinpoint pupils. As it gets worse, they get mid position and fixed. They may start off with de-corticate. They then progress to de-cerebrate. They may start off with potentially having a loss of the pupil reflex, but then you lose corneal and then potentially you can lose cough and gag. And then lastly, remember, sometimes if you get imaging, you can see that they can have these hemorrhages on their ponds due to complete shearing of those basilar perforators. The last type of herniation is tonsillar herniation. Tonsillar herniation is whenever you have a tumor that's usually pretty decent size here in the cerebellum. And enough that the local mass effect from that tumor is squeezing on the cerebellar tonsils, enough that when the cerebellar tonsils have to go somewhere, they go through the foramen magnum. And when they go through the foramen magnum, guess what's the structure right here that they start mashing on? They start mashing on the medulla and the upper parts of the cervical spinal cord. So in this scenario for trans—so tonsillar herniation is the cerebellar tonsils move through the foramen magnum. And then they compress the medulla. Now as you do that, it's important to remember what's going to happen with them. The medulla has so much control, especially cardiopulmonary control, I told you guys. And so what we think about with this one is as you lose cardiopulmonary control, you can start developing features of near death. So let's say first off, I cause damage and destruction to the respiratory centers. This is supposed to control nerves like your intercostal nerve, your phrenic nerves, all these nerves that go to control breathing. I'm going to lose this. This is actually going to end up getting destroyed. And then what happens is the patient can have apnea breathing. So they stop breathing at all. That's one characteristic feature that we get a little bit worried about with herniation. The next thing is I lose the control or the information that goes to my heart. And this can start getting injured and destroyed. If this gets destroyed, I lose signals to the heart. This may start off, as we talked about, with a low heart rate that can then progress. Sometimes I've seen it and a cardiac arrest. You may see hypertension that then eventually they lose all ability to regulate their blood pressure that can progress to hypotension and again, cardiac arrest. So sometimes this is how these patients unfortunately will present as they may come in with bradycardia and go into cardiac arrest. They may come in with crazy high blood pressure and then all of a sudden their blood pressure tanks. The other thing you want to watch out is motor changes. And you never have enough compression of the medulla, I guess, what runs through here, your corticospinal tracts. And you can actually damage these enough that you, especially if there's the decavation point that you're compressing on, you can lose, I'm not even kidding, you can end up with flaccid paralysis. And then lastly, I think the same thing goes for this, is that when you notice with brain sim reflexes, again, it's the same concept. You're going to be causing damage to these. Usually the one, if you have it near the medulla, it's going to be that loss of the cough and gag reflex. So that's what you're going to potentially notice is that these patients will have a loss of their cough, reflex or their gag reflex. But other potential things that could start arising is they may start having other features that start to arise. It could be completely indirect or unrelated, but they may start losing things like their corneal reflex and losing things like their pupil reflex. But again, it's usually going to be the cough reflex that we worry about first, because again, it's very, very close proximity to where this herniation is occurring on the medulla. These may occur due to other potential pressure changes and shifts within the brainstem. But my friends, this is going to cover the herniation. There's many other features that can occur. Let's now talk about some other things that can happen as a result of a brain tumor. All right, so next thing is if a tumor is actually pretty, unfortunately very, very close near the cortex, it can really, really agitate the cortical neurons. So you have to have a cortical mass. This is very, very, very important. So essentially, the only way that you can truly get seizures is with a supratentorial tumor, except that supratentorial tumor has to be very, very close or pretty much at the cortex. That's where a lot of the actual control of what really initiates seizures is going to occur. So if I have a cortical mass, this creates a focus for potential things like I can have a firing here. And if this is like in the motor cortex on the left side, then the patient may have some tonic-clonic jerking of their right side. So they can develop something like focal seizures. So that could be one potential thing, is you want to watch out for like focal seizures. But the thing that we get really, really concerned about is if that focal seizure starts off with them twitching their opposite arm, and all of a sudden they go into full tonic-clonic seizures as a grand-mall seizure, a generalized seizure. So it may start off just this focal firing, but then what happens is that continues to spread. And then you get loss of awareness. You get multiple other territories that start unfortunately firing. And then you can get what's called a generalized seizure. So here's what I want you to remember. And this is really important. When a patient comes in and they're presenting with headaches as a potential feature, and that's that classic feature of the headaches with nausea, vomiting, papillodema, those are usually key things to think, patient has a high ICP. The worrisome features is do they start exhibiting signs of herniation, contralateral hemiparesis, only you think about subfalsine. Contralateral hemiparesis with the dilated pupil that's down and out, and contralateral hematomastomy and opiate, uncoherniation. They start off with potentially small pinpoint pupils become mid position. They start de-corticate, go de-cerebrate, they lose their reflexes progressively. You think about central transcentorial. They start off with cardiopulmonary changes. That's your thinking about the medullary one as well, the tonsular herniation. But sometimes with this, they may come in with a new onset seizure. So the biggest presentation that we see in patients who have brain tumors is a new onset seizure. This is the first seizure they've ever had. Any time that happens, it is always a structural brain lesion until proven otherwise. So it's a brain lesion until proven otherwise. Because it's like, let's say that the patient had a history of a seizure, right? Maybe they're not taking their medications or maybe they use drugs or something like that. There could be a lot of different reasons of the patient has a seizure. But if it's a new onset seizure, no true provoking factors, you always going to think it's a brain lesion. You got to get imaging and you might find a tumor. That's something to think about. Now the next thing is obstructive hydrocephalus. I already talked about this a little bit with brain tumors when we talk about increased intracranial pressure. When a patient has obstructive hydrocephalus, usually it can happen. You can have, for example, if I have a tumor right here that's deep seated and it's big enough, it can mash here. It may squeeze on like the third ventricle. But most of the time where you see most severe obstructive hydrocephalus, oftentimes and not, it's going to be infratentorial. And the reason why is this is because most of the CSF is going to start passing through here and then out into the subarachnoid space or down the central canal. But this is where you're going to see a lot of it. And so any kind of infratentorial tumor, medula blastomas, pylosidic asterisytomas, things like that, they're pretty big and they mash right here onto that fourth ventricular cerebral aegoduct. If you compress this area, what's going to happen? This is going to start backing up all that CSF. If that CSF backs up, what's going to happen to these ventricles? They were once this size, now these things are going to start ballooning up. And then this is going to cause the ventricles to become gargantuous. That's when we start getting worried about obstructive hydrocephalus. Now obstructive hydrocephalus, because we're impeding CSF flow, how would this potentially clinically present? Clinical presentation of this is almost often always going to be with features of increase in jocranial pressure. So it's going to be your findings of increased ICP, which is everything that we really spent a lot of time talking about. And I know you probably hate me after doing all of that. But I think now you'll know if ICP is high, they can present with headache, nausea, vomiting, papillodema, decreased level of consciousness, diplopia, they can present with herniation syndrome, tons of stuff. But here's the big thing. Remember I told you that the most common way that you'll see obstructive hydrocephalus is because of an infertitorial compressing here? Who often gets infertitorial tumors, pediatric patients? Sometimes if you have a very, very, very young child, very young, and their skull hasn't completely formed yet, their fontanelles are still present. You know what's the problem with that? They can move. And so sometimes in pediatric patients, this is really important to remember, pediatric tumors, this can lead to something called macrosephaly and bulging fontanelles. So this can cause their, literally their skull does actually expand a little bit and it causes something called macrocephaly. And you can even get these things called bulging fontanelles. And it looks actually a little bit like this. All right, so now from here, when a patient has obstructive hydrocephalus, it's a tumor that's compressing on this area and obstructing cerebral spinal fluid flow. If it happens, their ICP can go up. If their ICP goes up, they can present with all the symptoms that we talked about. So if it's in a pediatric patient, this is the one that you want to remember, the enlargement of the skull and potentially the bulging of those fontanelles because they do have some give to them. They aren't a fibrous joint just yet. All right, let's move on to this one over here. Vasogenic edema, this should sound familiar. Yeah. So if a patient has a brain tumor, what happens is they can get swelling and fluid that can really extend around this. And sometimes like GBMs, GBMs can have scary amounts of like vasogenic edema. And this can really occur around the tumor. What really happens is this tumor can secrete a bunch of different inflammatory chemicals. So it can secrete a bunch of different inflammatory cytokines. And when it does this, what these inflammatory cytokines do, here's the tumor, it releases that, there's vessels around this area. So there's always vessels here. These inflammatory cytokines, there's normally, there's these little blue things here. You see what these are? These are called tight junctions. They're supposed to be there. So they're supposed to be tight junctions. These inflammatory chemicals, what they do is they rip apart the tight junctions. So now this guy's going to come in here and let's say that I'm going to target this one right here. I'm going to destroy this tight junction now. As I destroy the tight junction, what do I do to the permeability here now? I open it up. If I open up this area, guess what's going to happen now? I'm going to allow, so let's actually bring this here up back here a little bit. So what happens is this guy's going to target the tight junctions. When he targets the tight junctions, he's going to cause damage to the tight junctions. They're going to open up. Now this is going to be super permeable and fluid is going to start leaking out of the blood brain barrier. This is naturally your blood brain barrier here. And so what's going to happen is you cause destruction of the blood brain barrier and now fluid is going to start leaking out across these capillaries into the peritumoral tissue. So basically what happens with this is there is what we would say as, let's write it as destruction of the blood brain barrier, if you will. There is destruction of the blood brain barrier because you rip apart the tight junctions, now fluid can leak out and guess what you end up getting? You end up getting peritumoral edema. So peritumor edema. This just means that around the tumor, you're getting a lot of swelling. That's vasogenic edema. Now if I have more brain and it's associated like fluid around it, what is that going to do to the actual modern rachealodotrin? I'm increasing my brain tissue and the surrounding tissue around it. So what's that going to do? It's going to increase my intracranial pressure. So oftentimes this will precipitate with classic findings of increased intracranial pressure. Which again, do I need to remind you? Ah, why not, right? Headaches, nausea, vomiting, papilla, edema, dyplopia, right? And again, with this being said, if it's worse, worse, worse enough ICP, it gets too high it can start causing herniation features. Alright, that's vasogenic edema. So so far we've hit the really big stuff here, which is patients coming in with very high intracranial pressures on ICP crisis is the thing we get scared about. You can start off generalized and mild. What we get concerned about is herniation. They can come in with a seizure. They can come in with obstructive hydrocephalus. They can come in with vasogenic edema. What's another way that they may present with? Alright, so if you also have a tumor that's actually located again a little bit more within the pituitary region, obviously in that cellotersica, you get like a pituitary adenoma. Pituitary adenomas are kind of problematic. And the reason why is, yeah, not only can they cause things like potentially headaches, they also can cause things like endocrine dysfunction. And usually the endocrine dysfunction is the form of prolactinomus. I told you prolactinomas are the most common type of really a pituitary microadenoma. So usually it has to be a pituitary microadenoma. But right now I'm just going to say we're going to call this a pituitary adenoma. Now one of the big things about pituitary adenomas, and we again, we talked a lot about this in pituitary disorders and our endocrine playlist, so make sure you guys watch that for more info. But these things are pumping out a very specific type of hormone. What is that hormone that we're worried about? Well it's pumping out prolactin, usually levels that are greater than 200. And as that prolactin levels really, really go up, what does prolactin do? Well normally it's supposed to help with breast tissue particularly. It's helping with milk production. That's one of the biggest things. But unfortunately if that level is a little bit too high, it's higher than it should be, one of the things that can happen is that this can cause breast tissue enlargement. So one of the things that it actually can do is it can lead to gynecomastia. So the patient can get gynecomastia and unfortunately it can cause inappropriate milk production. So two things can actually arise here. It can cause gynecomastia and also it can cause inappropriate, unfortunately milk production. So we call this galactoria. And then the next thing here is it also can act on the, what? Particularly the uterus. And it can change the estrogen production levels. And so they can actually have very funky menstrual cycles. So menstrual irregularities is another really important feature that you want to watch out for. So watch out for menstrual irregularities. Alright, so when a patient comes in and they present with a headache and on top of that they also are presenting with these weird endocrine features like gynecomastia, galactoria, menstrual irregularities, definitely be thinking could this potentially be a pituitary adenoma. Now the other thing here is central diabetes and syphidis. So this is something that you always want to think about potentially. If a patient is coming in, they have polyuria, polydipsy, hypernatremia, maybe some dehydration, you should definitely consider could this be a central diabetes and syphidis. And one of the big types of tumors that is associated with this one is cranioforengiomas. So if a patient has that tumor, let's say that they have that tumor and it's kind of like usually around here and it's kind of around the posterior pituitary, it's compressing on the stalk here, so the stalk here between the hypothalamus and the pituitary. When that happens, you lose the ability now to do what? If you're compressing on the pituitary stalk, you lose that crosstalk between the hypothalamus and the posterior pituitary. Now this is an area that's supposed to be making hormone called ADH. But because there's compression here, you lose that crosstalk here and you lose the ability to produce ADH. If you make less ADH, ADH is supposed to go to the kidneys and act on these receptors here. What's this receptor here called? It's called the V2 receptor. It's supposed to act on the V2 receptor, send signals to cause aquaporns to be expressed. But if aquaporns are not expressed, do you reabsorb water? Well again, less ADH. Is it going to act on this receptor? No, this interaction will occur. And so this signal to that aquaporn will be gone. If I lose that, then I can't reabsorb water. And so where does the water end up going? The water ends up being lost into the urine. And so what ends up happening is I get less water being reabsorbed and I get more water ending up in the urine. When I get tons of water in the urine and less water into my bloodstream, what can happen? More water causes the dilute urine. But it also is going to potentially cause you to potentially lose so much volume that you can become dehydrated. So it can potentially cause dehydration. So that's one of the things that we get really, really concerned with. One of the things that prevents this in these patients, thankfully, is that not only are they losing lots of urine polyuria, they get super thirsty to try to bring back that water. So they have polydipsia. The other thing is when the water in the blood gets really kind of like lower, potentially what this can do is it can ride that serum sodium up. And so that's one thing that we worry about is potentially a hypernatremia. So one of the big clinical presentations to think about this is if a patient comes in with polyuria, polydipsia, and potentially due to the effects of polyuria, this is where we get concerned. Could they come in with complications like hypernatremia and dehydration? Now, the reason this would happen is that the patient is peeing a lot, so much that they're losing so much water in their actual urine and they're not getting into the bloodstream. That can cause hypernatremia, right? But they have to drink enough water. So if there's heavy polyuria with not enough drinking of water, this will cause hypernatremia and it will cause dehydration. That's why that can actually happen. But again, this is highly and heavily associated with which type of tumor? This is associated with craniofaryngeomas. All right, so that would cover that one. So a lot of these tumors that we've talked about, they really can increase your intracranial pressure. They can cause seizures. They can potentially cause obstructive hydrocephalous, vasogenic edema. But the ones that are a little bit more unique is the pituitary adenoma and the craniofaryngeoma. Those can cause hyperprolactanemia. Those can potentially cause central the eye and guess what else they can do? They can cause the next thing, bite temporal hemianopia. All right, so next is bite temporal hemianopia. Now, again, we can see this with tumors that are usually kind of going to be within that cell ataristic region. And then what it's going to do is it's going to be big enough that it compresses on this structure right here. What's that? So this is going to be a tumor that compression. So it's usually due to compression of optic chiasma. If I have compression of the optic chiasma, again, there's going to be two particular tumors that are within that region that I need you guys to think about. What are they? Pituitary adenoma. Usually it's a big one. Pituitary microadenomas, they don't cause as much mass effect. Pituitary macroadenomas, which don't usually carry that hyperprolactanemia type effect. Those are big enough that they can actually smash on that optic chiasma. So again, you're going to see this with types. This is going to be the pituitary adenoma. Again, if we're being really, really specific, what you're talking about in the pituitary disorders, it's a macro. And the other one would be a craniofringiomas, little pop quiz. What was that derived from again? The remnants of Rathke's pouch. Yes. All right. So these are the two tumors that we get worried about. Now, when they compress in the optic chiasma, what's the problem with that? Let's think again. I know that this was really annoying because we talked about it over there with the uncle herniation. I'm sorry. We talked about this a little bit with uncle herniation, particularly the compression of the posterior cerebral artery. Now in this one, it's a little bit different. So we're going to follow through again. It'd be a good kind of test. Here we have the medial fibers. They carry this information and they cross. They go to the lateral geniculate nucleus. From here, they send optic radiations to the primary visual cortex. Same thing here. This is when I carry this information here. Latter geniculate nucleus. And then where does it go? It goes to the optic radiations. If we were to just be thorough though, and we add this little part on here, where we have these parts of the retina, which is picking up from the nasal field, these are going to come here and they're going to stay on the same side. Go to the lateral geniculate nucleus, optic radiations. Same thing here. Stay on the same side. Lateral fibers here, lateral geniculate nucleus, optic radiations. Where is the damage occurring? The damage is actually occurring right here. Right in this portion is getting damaged. This is the medial fibers. The medial fibers pick up visual information from which parts? So again, they pick up visual information from over here. So again, if we have the eye here, and we just kind of squeeze an eye right here, what is it picking it up from? It's going to be picking it up from out here. So this area is going to be the one that we get worried about, this potential visual field. And then again, for this portion, it's going to be picking it up what? Over here, this one. So these are the ones that we're going to be losing. Now, if you think about that, this is your temporal visual fields. Your temporal visual fields are going to be lost. What is that called? Bitemporal hemianopia. All right. Now, with Bitemporal Hemianopia, how will the patient usually present? They'll present with peripheral visual field cuts. All that means is if I take my fingers and I have the patient look at me, and I kind of come out here on the periphery, and I say, hey, how many fingers do you see me pointing up? They wouldn't be able to tell me that number, because they're losing that peripheral visual field. For the comparison of uncle herniation causing contralateral hamonomous hemianopia, they would lose this visual field. So if I had them, if I were to try to basically cover their eye, and I said, hey, can you see how many fingers I'm pointing up on this side? They wouldn't be able to do it, because this visual field is being affected, that medial visual field. And then if I asked them, how many fingers am I pointing up on this side? Over here, they would lose that peripheral. So they lose their medial, and they lose their peripheral. That's why we call it contralateral hamonomous hemianopia. All right, so again, it's on the opposite of the particular visual field, but it's on that same side, which is in this case, we're going to say they're both on the right side. All right, in this case, you're losing both temporal fields. So we got that now. I think we got this. Bithemporal hemianopia, pituitary adenoma, craniofringiomas. The last one that I want to discuss is called perinaut syndrome. Perinaut syndrome is almost exclusively seen in a specific type of brain tumor, called a pinealoma. So we see this in what's called pinealomas. So again, we're going to have this tumor here, which is kind of moving downwards through the tendorial notch and compressing on that dorsal midbrain. As it mashes and damages the dorsal midbrain, you get some potential features. Let's take a look here at the midbrain. So here's a cross-section of the midbrain. We have portions of the midbrain, like you have what's called the tectum, and you have the tegmentum, and then you have the peduncles, which is the cerebral peduncles. Within that portion of the tectum is the superior nympherecliculi. The tegmentum is where we have things like your pre-tectal nucleus and your cranial nerve-3 nuclei. What happens is that you're going to damage a couple of different structures in this scenario. The first ones that get damaged are these guys in pink. These are going to get damaged, and these are called your visual gaze centers. So you're going to have damage to the visual gaze center. The next thing is you're going to damage the pre-tectal nucleus. So the pre-tectal nucleus is another one that gets damaged, so damage to the pre-tectal nuclei. And again, I'll explain what all of these kind of do relatively to the disease process in a second, but these are going to get jacked up. And then you're going to have cranial nerve-3 nuclei, which is going to kind of be both of these, which again, you have the somatic fibers in black, and then your parasympathetic fibers with the eddinger Westfall nucleus here in green. These are going to get damaged. All right? So this is going to be your cranial nerve-3 nuclei, which includes the somatic fibers as well as what other fibers? The eddinger Westfall nucleus fibers. So let's think about what would happen here. Three potential presentations are going to occur. The first one is these patients have what's called pupil-light-near disassociation, another term just to be-  arigatis, argal-robercin-pupil. What happens is, is you have damage, son of a gun, to the pre-tectal nucleus. You're jacking up the pre-tectal nucleus. The pre-tectal nucleus is supposed to, and very simply, receive information. So let's say here it's getting information from your pupil pathway, the light reflex pathway, right? It'll go to the pre-tectal nucleus and that'll communicate to your, adding your Westfall nucleus which causes your pupils to constrict. That's the pupil reflex. Light will come in, you hit the eye with light, send signals down, goes to the pre-tectal nucleus, communicates that to both of your, adding your Westfall nucleus, goes to your pupils, your pupils constrict, and you have a direct and then a consensual response. All right? The thing that we have to remember is, that's being damaged. And so whenever you do the light reflex, there will be no pupil constriction and response to light. So you'll do light exposure and there will be no pupil response. In other words, they will not constrict. So you'll expose them to light and when you do the light, there'll be no pupil response. They will not constrict. But then what you do is, you say, okay, look at my, so you shine the light in their eyes and when you do it, you're not going to get that actual constriction response. But then you say, okay, look at my finger. And when you look at your finger and you have, you kind of come in, their eyes should be able to constrict, but also they can accommodate. So they'll have the near response. And so they will be able to constrict with their accommodation or their near response. And so when you test accommodation or their near response, they will have that type of response. All right? That's really important. The reason behind this is that you have damage of the pre-tectal nucleus, which goes to the adiagra Westfall nucleus. The accommodation or the near response is from coming from cortical pathways and they're able to bypass the dorsal portion of the midbrain and they go straight to the adiagra Westfall nucleus. And so you still have an intact near response. So you're going to have a normal near response. So a normal near response, but whenever you shine light into their eyes, they will not have pupil area constriction. Funny enough, you can also see the symptoms of tertiary syphilis. I always thought of syphilis in there sometimes. All right. The next thing is they can have what's called convergence retraction nystagmus. Convergence and traction nystagmus is again, you have cortical fibers, cortical bull bar fibers that come down in the third nerve nucleus. What happens is this is all getting kind of compressed. And this is supposed to be inhibitory fibers. So the cortical fibers are inhibitory fibers. They're supposed to inhibit the third nerve from sending signals to the muscles all the time, but now you lost the inhibitory fibers. So what's going to happen? You actually gain a loss of inhibition. So then this, this puppy's like, all right, I'm going rogue. And it becomes super stimulated. When it becomes simulated, it sends lots of these signals to two different muscles that we really want to think about. One is it highly stimulates the superectis and heavily stimulates the inferior rectus. We're going to stimulate the superectus, the inferior rectus, and we're also going to stimulate the medial, medial rectus. Now watch what happens, which is kind of like, it's kind of cool when you think about how this works. When you contract on the superectis and inferior rectus, what's it going to do? It's going to really pull the eyeball in because you're not going to have that, they're going to have, these both, these muscles are going to be opposing each other. So you won't be able to go up or down. It's literally going to jack the eyeballs back into the socket. And then the medial rectus are both going to contract. What's going to happen? That adducts. So you get this convergence of the eyes and I'm not even kidding, the eyeballs get sucked into the globes, like the globes get sucked back into the socket. So it's called a convergence retraction nystagmus. And then lastly, you have destruction of the vertical gaze centers. The vertical gaze centers are supposed to communicate between the fourth nerve, so they're supposed to be the fourth nerve or cranial nerve four, which is the trochlear nerve and cranial nerve three. Both of these are supposed to be communicating with one another, controlling your vertical gaze. But this vertical gaze center is jacked up. So you don't see signals as well appropriately to the fourth nerve and to the third nerve. And so what happens is your ability to lift the eye upwards is impaired. And so because of that, the eyes actually, they have a limited upward gaze and actually they can sometimes in worst case scenarios, they can sit down. We call it sun setting eyes. So one of the things that we get worried about is that if we ask them to look upwards, they can't. And then on top of that, not only can they not look up, sometimes the eyes sit downwards and it can cause something called a sun setting eyes. So sun setting eyes that we get kind of worried about. That was a lot for brain tumors. At this point, we've covered the path, though, we've gone over the causes. We've talked about how these patients could classically present. We talked about findings of increased intracranial pressure. We talked about how they could present with seizures, obstructive hydrocephalus, vasogenic edema, endocrine dysfunctions like in hyperprolactamemia, central DI. We talked about how they could come in with loss of visual fields from both temporal visual fields or peripheral visual fields. And we talked about they can come in with limited ability to put their eyes up, how their eyes can bead inwards and get sucked back in. And on top of that, sometimes they can't even have a pupil response to life, but they will upon an accommodation reflex. So now the question is, how in the heck am I supposed to determine if a patient has a brain tumor? Let's put all of these things together and go through our algorithm. All right, my friends, let's dig into this. We're going to talk about the diagnostic approach. So we spent a lot of time talking about the different types of brain tumors, primary versus secondary, really talking about them and dividing them into supertentorial, infratentorial. We talked a lot about the classic clinical findings that we can see with these diseases, oftentimes depending upon the location of where the tumor is, determines the focal neurological deficit, the associated headaches, nausea, vomiting. Obviously, those are a lot of things that we talked about. Plus, we really, really dove into the complications that could be potentially possible, especially with that of vasogenic edema, obstructive hydrocephalus, potentially seizures if it's a cortical lesion. And there's a lot of things that we discussed. So what I want to do is I want to take the time to say, let's put this together in a way that hopefully is systematic. It's organized and it helps you to be able to think about these clinically. So when you're on the wards and you have to evaluate a patient, or if you're presented with a clinical vignette, you know how to stepwise go through this process. Let's dig into it. First thing is, when a patient presents with classic findings or complications of brain tumors, you should start thinking about just in general a structural lesion of sort. So if they come in and they present with a headache that's usually worse in the morning, if they have associated nausea, if they have vomiting, if they have focal neurological deficits, a first onset seizure, new onset seizure, never had a seizure before, think structural brain lesion. I think the other thing that's really important is if you do happen to pull up that ophthalmoscope and you take a look and you're like, oh, look at the fundus. I know that's not always easy, but looking for evidence of papillodema is also crucial as well. So I think those are really important complications. Oftentimes these patients will present very, very sick. If you have a brain tumor that's large enough, it could cause herniation symptoms. And so watching for a fixed and dilated pupil, watching for a declining level of consciousness, watching for worsening hemi-pareeces or loss of sensations, breathing, cardiovascular changes, these are all really, really crucial to consider. So when we think about this, whenever a patient presents with a new onset seizure, focal neural deficits, a really bad headache that's worse or it's becoming associated with the morning headache, the nausea, the vomiting, any signs of herniation, you get a non-contrast head CT. The reason why we go with a non-contrast head CT first is you're trying to suss out other differentials. And what I mean by that is if I have someone coming in with a new onset seizure, if I have someone coming in with a headache, if I have them coming in with focal neural deficits, I don't know if it's a stroke, I don't know if it's a bleed, I don't know if it's a tumor, I don't know if it's something else. And so it's really, really crucial to take a look at that. Now let's say that we do that and we end up finding, hey, there is a brain mass. It's always important to categorize that as is it supertentorial or infratentorial. So one of the most common masses that we see in adults, unfortunately, is a glioblastoma multiforme. And this is a really, really nasty type of mass. Usually what happens is when we look at this one, you can see that it spans across the corpus callosum. And so it crosses midline. When you take a look at this one, it's not easy to see it crossing that midline as much, but you can see here there's definitely what looks like some kind of changes in color, some hyperdensity, and you see a lot of this darkness here. This is probably the tumor and all of this around this is probably surrounding vasogenic edema. If we look at the MRI though, we're just to say, hey, let's get an MRI to get a better look, a definitive look, and get an idea of what's going on here, you can definitely see how this crosses midline, right? Lots of central necrosis, lots of this kind of hyperintensity around the tumor. This is definitely classic. You see a tumor crossing midline, you definitely want to think about a GBM, all right? Now another one is extremely common. It's probably one of the most common benign supertentorial tumors is meningiomas. And so this is usually extra axial. It's not usually intraparynchymal, and it's because it's a part of the meningiogrowth. Usually these can occur perisagely, parafalsine. So this one is an example here that you can kind of see. This is a really solid, very hyperdense mass that's near the kind of like falx. That's a pretty common one. So if I took a look at an MRI, you can really appreciate how this is causing massive compression of the brain tissue and leading to some, like just minor midline shift here, probably causing some degree of compression. Another one is an oligodendroglioma. These are relatively rare. I wouldn't be first to think about these, but if you do see these, they can occur bifrontally. And they also are just generally a pretty common frontal lobe mass. So this would be something that you may see. If you take a look here, you can also appreciate it here. All right. The next one is a craniopharyngeoma. These don't oftentimes present like super easily. One of the ways that they can present that we talked about is they can't present with central diabetes and sypidus. Craniopharyngeomas are kind of one of those where they are possible for them to cause optic chiasma compression. I'd say that's more likely with a pituitary tumor, but craniopharyngeomas definitely can do such thing as well. With this one, you're definitely looking at the supercellar area. And so you can appreciate here, look at this. So here's our pituitary gland, and it's going to be right here, supercellar. So it's just above the cell atersica. We can appreciate a pretty good mass right there. And if we look to the next one, a pituitary adenoma, this one's definitely sitting within the cell atersica of the sphenoid bone, and we can appreciate that all right here. This is a pretty nasty pituitary adenoma. It's a pretty decent size one. And one of the things you can actually see here is the sheer volume and size of this thing. It's definitely easy for this to cause some significant compression of the optic chiasma. That's where you get that bitemporal hemianopia that's associated with this one as well. So we can really appreciate supertentorial tumors. These are the big ones that I want you guys to be thinking about. When we talk about the next one, we're talking about infertentorials. So infertentorials below the centurium cerebelli, it's that kind of like dural septa that really separates the upper part of the brain, supertentorium, from the infertentorium. And so we'll kind of talk about these. One of the big ones that's really important to remember is pylocytic astrocytomas. So this is kind of like a type one glialblastoma. And so you can see here that this is a cerebellar mass. And so when we look at these, these are usually in like a lobe of the cerebellum. And they're pretty like cystic appearing. So you can see here in pretty nasty looking pylocytic astrocytoma. Another one that they can occur is along the optic nerve. So I would remember that one as well. So these are pretty nasty ones and they definitely can cause some mass effects. So you could see some changes like ataxia, some vertigo, some changes in their overall coordination would be pretty common. And if it's pretty decent, it can compress on the fourth ventricle, you face that and need to obstruct the hydrocephalus. Here you can definitely appreciate with the MRI how cystic appearing this thing is. And again, don't forget that these can occur along the optic nerves. You can get optic nerve gliomas. A medula blastoma is a really, really high yield one. This one usually occurs along the cerebellar vermis. And because of that, it is very, very likely to cause mass effect on the fourth ventricle. You can see just by looking at this thing, you see how this is really a large mass and it's compressing and it facing the fourth ventricle. That cerebrospinal fluid can't move and gets what happens. The third ventricle gets ballooned up and then here's your lateral ventricles and the temporal horns of the lateral ventricles. These things are huge. So obstructive hydrocephalus is very, very common with this type of tumor. And again, you can appreciate it here with the hyperintensity that we see here, especially on the T2 imaging. This is really causing a lot of obstructive hydro. All right. So epidemomas, these are not very common, but when we think about these, these are kind of derived from the epidemal cells. So they're going to really occur in the fourth ventricle and they can kind of extrude out a little bit, but they're mainly going to be a fourth ventricular mass. And so these will definitely cause obstructive hydrocephalus. You can already see the temporal horns. They're pretty decent sized. You shouldn't be able to see them this big. And so you can see here this mass, it's kind of encroaching. It's definitely in the fourth ventricle, but you can see it's kind of encroaching into the cerebellum, causing a decent amount of mass effect. MRI, you can definitely appreciate how well defined this is inside of the fourth ventricle, really occupying that. This is a pretty nasty one. Hemangioblastomas are not something I want you to spend a lot of time about, but I want you to think about these, especially associated with the exams with von Hippel-Lindau disease. So von Hippel-Lindau, this is a mutation that occurs in the von Hippel-Lindau gene, just on chromosome number three. And this is usually associated with hemangioblastomas, which are going to occur in the cerebellum, can occur in the retina, but it's also commonly associated with renal cell carcinoma and even pheochromosyton, which is the tumor of the adrenal matula. So definitely something to think about with this one. So cerebellum mass is going to be what you'll have, and it's very vascular, highly, highly vascular type of mass that you would see here in the cerebellum. But you definitely want to think about this in patients who have also associated retinal hemangioblastomas, maybe a pheochromosytonoma, and on top of that, maybe even a renal cell carcinoma. So that's something I would think about for this one as compared to the other ones. It's not going to be super high yield, but in a classic clinical vignette in someone who's presenting with renal cell carcinoma, retinal hemangioblastomas, pheochromosytonoma, then I would definitely be thinking about this one, especially associated with von Hippel-Lindau. All right. Here we can definitely appreciate the size and sheer kind of like description of the tissue surroundings within hemangioblastoma. A vestibular schwannoma, I would say, is really important. Remember, we'll talk about this a little bit more in EENT, because it has an effect on balance and also on hearing, particularly tinnitus. You might get some vertigo associated with this. And so, and even some deafness too, some sensory neural deafness. So it's really crucial to think about this one. So what I really want you to think about with these ones is they occur on the cerebellopontine angle. And one of the key things that we talked about is that when it's associated with a genetic condition called neurofibromatosis type 2, it's usually bilateral. So you can appreciate here a decent sized here on the right, a nasty looking cerebellopontine angle mass, which is likely vestibular schwannoma. And you can appreciate a smaller one, but still kind of a hyper dense sign over here on that left side, around that petrus portion of the temporal bone. All right, here we can clearly see the differences and the hyper intensities here that are showing a lot of enhancement at that cerebellopontine angle. So this is a bilateral vestibular schwannoma. Definitely think about these when you see this, when you see bilateral, think neurofibromatosis type 2. All right. Now, pinealomas not common, but again, something I would think about, especially in a patient presenting with sun setting eyes, which we can see, we can also appreciate that they can have other signs of perinode syndrome. So perinode syndrome, they have that vertical gaze palsy, so the sun setting eyes, and they kind of have that weird contraction, retraction, nystagmus as well. And so these are something I would think about with the perinode syndrome as well. All right, you can appreciate here kind of the pineal gland kind of sticks backwards, because you should generally have, you know, when we think about these, you'll have a portion called the hypothalamus, and then you'll have the pituitary gland here, and then you should have in this vicinity the thalamus. And then over here is your pineal gland, and that's going to be where this tumor is really forming, and this is going to be kind of pushing dorsally, and that's where you get that dorsal kind of like compression of the midbrain, and that's where you see that perinode syndrome as we can kind of see written here. All right. So this is really kind of covering our infrecentorial masses, and I think this gives a really good picture, you know, literally, as to what these could look like. And I think oftentimes looking at them based upon an image like a CT or MRI, it doesn't diagnose the tumor, it just gives you based upon what you've gathered from their history, what you've gathered from their physical exam, what you've gathered from other potential labs and other findings, what it could possibly be. But the differential should remain the same, that when you think about a supercentorial mass, you go through the list, you think about a GBM, an angioma, an oligodendroglioma, a cranioforengioma, a pituitary adenoma, and you think about those. When you have an infrecentorial mass, you think about a pyrocytic astrocytoma, a medula blastoma, an appendinoma, you think about a schwannoma, you think about a hemangioblastoma and a pinealoma. Obviously, depending upon the locations, the look, the overall effect of that, that's going to give you some ideas based upon these images of what it's most likely like. But I think the other thing that's really beneficial of, again, the non-contrast head CTs is ruling out other complications. Look at this. You can appreciate when you get a pretty nasty mass, this is likely a GBM, because you can see it's really getting close to crossing that midline around that corpus callosum. But this is a tumor-price sitting right here, and you see all of this on T2, all of this hyperintensity spreading out, that's vasogenic edema. You can really, really appreciate that on the T2 image, but really more so on that T2 flare, because the T2 is going to fill up the ventricles as white, too. But this one, you don't see that. This T2 flare really shows you a lot of vasogenic edema. It's really going to cause a lot of problems with headaches, midline shift, which can lead to some symptoms of herniation. Here we can appreciate obstructive hydrocephalus to the maximum. We probably have an infertentorial tumor, as we can see. It's likely what would happen with these patients is it compresses and it faces the fourth ventricle, and everything above that gets filled up. You can see that third ventricle is huge. Look at these. These are like watermelons. They're lateral ventricles. They're huge. The hormones are really big. You can see here this ventricle is really, really large in this view. This is an appreciation of seeing how a mask can cause compression on that fourth ventricle if it faces it. Then unfortunately, we end up with a lot of backflow into the ventricles. Sometimes if you look closely on MRIs, you can even see some trans-dependable flow across the ventricles. That's a really, really important thing, but this is definitely classic for obstructive hydrocephalus. You can really appreciate all of these enlargements. Here's another appreciation. CT is really the best thing. It's the easiest thing. You can see here is a big tumor, and it's compressing, and it's causing all of this backflow. Look at the third ventricle. It's gargantuous. Look at the temporal horns. Lateral ventricles with the anterior horns. They're pretty big. This is definitely a sign of compression. What I wouldn't want to see, and I'd be scared to see something like this. This is a tumor that's got lots and lots of surrounding edema that's causing the uncus. You can see it here to push out over the centaurium. Unfortunately, that will cause compression in the midbrain. You can see that there is a lot of compression here. That's nasty. That's usually a sign of uncle herniation. That can lead to a fixed and dilated pupil. In this case, on the right side, they can even have some contralateral hemiparesis. If you get it really bad enough, you can actually smash it to the other side. You get what's called Kern-Hans-Knot syndrome, where you get ipsilateral paralysis as well. This is definitely something I would want to think about. We can also appreciate here that because of the surrounding edema, it can push some of the parts of the tissue on this side, the right side, underneath the fox. It can actually herniate underneath the fox's rib. We call that subfalsic herniation. That can actually cause compression of the arteries of the anterior cerebral artery. You can actually get, unfortunately, you can get compression of those. You can start losing. If you imagine, let's say that the tumor is here on the right side, they would compress this side. All the nerves go to this. You could potentially start developing some symptoms of hemiparesis. Unfortunately, that would be unfortunately, in this case, it would be on the same side. They can definitely develop some ipsilateral hemiparesis due to some subfalsic herniation. That would be pretty concerning, especially over the lower limbs. We can just see and appreciate that the midline shift is significant here whenever you have a lot of mass effect, like a big tumor, like a vasogenic edema, like a bleed. All of these things, according to the Monroe-Kelly doctrine, says that if you have more blood, more brain tissue, more CSF, it's going to cause, unfortunately, shifting in movement of that tissue because of the brain is in a fixed space, which is the skull. That's going to lead to pressure rising and unfortunately, herniation. This gives us a look at why non-contrast head CT is a really good go. I showed some MRIs in there to just help you to appreciate a little bit more about what it will show us for these masses. I think the most important thing is, although I did show you the brain MRIs in this, I want you to understand that it is the gold standard. The purpose of an MRI is that it really gives us a contrast. Particularly, whenever you have a patient who has, let's say, a CT scan, it looks like it could be a mass, you want to see if the mass enhances. You want to see if you get some enhancement. That usually is an indication of a lot of vascular supply to that area and some breakdown in the blood-brain barrier. That's really, really crucial. Another thing is that when we get MRIs, it's really helpful to see if the lesions are more like one lesion in one location or if it's scattered. It's all over the place, especially near the gray-white junction because those are more likely to suggest metastatic lesions. Again, if I see one lesion as we showed above and it really has some ring enhancement, that would more likely suggest a primary brain tumor. Again, if it's super-tentorial, then you go through the list at GBM. An oligodendroglioma, a meningioma, a pine... I'm sorry, a craniopharyngeoma or a pituitary adenoma. If it's an infrincentory, you go medjoblastoma. You go appendemoma. You go to a pylocyticastrocytoma. You go down the lines of a vestibular schwannoma or a pinealoma, et cetera. Once you have done that and you say, okay, I did the CT scan, showed me a mass, showed me maybe some complications, got the MRI, definitely showed some ring enhancement, showed the location of the tumor, gave a better look at it as we saw already, then I need to figure out which one is it. We got imaging diagnosis. I need tissue. That's where I would say getting a brain biopsy or doing a craniotomy with a resection would allow for us to first off help therapeutically by removing that tumor and some of the mass effect, but also it's going to be diagnostic. Here you can appreciate a stereotactic brain biopsy where we make a small little hole and we stick this needle downwards and take out some pieces of that tissue. You can also just fully do a craniotomy and resect a large portion of that tumor and send it off to the pathologist to figure out which type of tumor it is. That's really what you're going to be looking at, is you're going to be looking at that histopathology. This is going to fit more in the step one categories. You may see some questions on your step two, but not as likely. What I want you to take away from this is really that the histopathological diagnosis is going to be paramount to determining what type of tumor it is. GBMs, yes, you can make an assumption based upon the imaging for the most part, but histopathology would be the best way to go here because it's going to show you that pseudopalacidine necrosis as you can see right here. This is a pseudopalacidine necrosis and if we stained it for the GFAP, then that's definitely going to be able to show me a positive GFAP stain. If I said meningioma, this one usually shows these things called somoma bodies. You're going to see what looks like these swirls and whirls of tissue here. This is classic for an area of what's called a meningioma. Oligodendroglioma has the classic term, a fried egg appearance. If you check for what's called isocitrate dehydrogenase mutation, that'll come up and they could even have some co-deletions. You can see here, here's the white of the egg and here's the yolk of the egg. That's that fried egg appearance that we look for with an oligodendroglioma. Cranioforengiomas have these things called cholesterol crystals. If you can look here, this is a huge chunk here of where we would have these cholesterol crystals. This would definitely be more suggestive of a cranioforengioma. This is some basic histopathology that I would want you guys to be considering. When we think about infrasentorial masses and if we were to take biopsy, that area or resect that area, again, you're thinking about things with a pylosidic astrocytoma. Same thing to a GBM, they're more just like a stage one. They'll still have that GFAP staining. When we look at these, they have these really bright rosenthal fibers that really stick out here. The next thing is a meduloblastoma. Meduloblastomas are really, really nasty ones because they can have drop metastases. What we look for is the Homerite resets. You can see this similar to the pseudopalacidine necrosis, this central pink core with lots of cells surrounding it. This would be a Homerite rosette. A pendemoma is, again, going to be a pretty uncommon one in that fourth ventricle mass, but when you look at these, again, they have the pseudorosets. They're a very vascular one. You can appreciate it. Look here. Here's the vasculature. Here's the vasculature. You have these rosettes around it. That's a pseudovascular rosette there. Meduloblastomas are just super, super vascular. When you look at these, they're highly vascular lesions. You can see here all of these red blood cells, and you can see all of the tissue surrounding it. This is really going to be pretty common of a hemangioblastoma. The last one's a vestibular schwannoma. This one actually is kind of important when it comes to these. I think that, similar to the fried egg appearance that we see with the oligodendroglioma and the pseudopalacidine necrosis with the GBM, I think this is one that is worth remembering because of the antony A and antony B areas. You can appreciate here on this kind of like whiter or let's say kind of like the lighter pink colored side, there is a tissue difference. Then over here, there's this kind of like more purple appearance. The dense, hypercellular environment, which is this darker color, is called the antony A bodies. Then over here, this loose, hypercellular kind of lighter pink color is your antony B bodies. They can have some really, really important things to kind of distinguish this. That's really going to be common for vestibular schwannomas. All right. We've taken a pretty good look here at understanding that when we talk about masses, you see them with imaging based upon their symptom presentation. CT is kind of the first way. Get a better look with an MRI and then get a tissue diagnosis to determine what type of primary tumor we have. When you got a tumor that is not just one, but multiple all over the place and they enhance, I would be concerned again about a metastatic lesion. Could it be things like toxoplasmosis? Yes. Could you have one ring enhancing lesion? It could be primary CNS lymphoma? Yes. Could it be a brain abscess? Yes. There's a lot of different things, but when you see scattered and they have an underlying history of a primary cancer, lung, breast, I think those are really, really important to remember. Melanoma, renal cell carcinoma, papillary thyroid cancer, all of those things are very common for these tumors to spread. When they get into the brain, they occur everywhere. As an example, this is more characteristic of a metastatic brain cancer as compared to a primary brain cancer. I can look and point out multiple metastatic lesions that are enhancing. That's more suggestive and they really occur very commonly along that gray-white junction. That's going to be important. Now, when we think about if we find this, let's say that a patient came in and they had a nuanced, that seizure, you get a brain CT, you find some potential lesions, you get an MRI, you say, oh my gosh, there's scattered lesions all over the place. This is brain metastasis. Where did it come from? You have to go and find that. You probably have to pan scan them, get a CT chest, abdomen, pelvis. I think PET CTs are pretty good as well, especially if the chest, abdomen, pelvis doesn't come back with anything. PET CTs are pretty good, but either way, these are going to show something. For example, in this patient, we got a PET CT and we can see lots of different areas as we can appreciate here of enhancement. Once you've done that, we should probably biopsy that area. If you say that you find a lung mass somewhere, you find a breast mass somewhere, a colorectal, a renal mass somewhere, you should probably go and biopsy that area because it's probably a primary cancer that is metastasized. That's what I would do is I would definitely get a biopsy of that primary area to confirm and say, okay, this is definitely from this area. That is the likely source. That's not a primary cancer.  so that's a lot, and I know it's a lot, so what I want you to do is, okay, let's say now, we've gone through, we say, okay, patient who comes in, they got nuance, that seizure, they got focal nerve deficits, worsening, morning headaches with nausea, vomiting, maybe some papillodema, they got some weird presentations, I get a CT, I find that there's no other causes, but I see some weird mass-like structure, maybe some associated complications. What do I do now? Get a brain MRI, brain MRI is gonna show an enhancement, it's gonna show if it's a one lesion, and it's gonna make sure that it's actually in this particular location that may suggest maybe one primary cancer over another, but you may have to get a tissue diagnosis to confirm. If it's multiple scatter lesions along that gray-white junction, I can think that it's metastatic, look for the cancer somewhere else, pan scan them, get a PET CT, find that, and biopsy that area to say it's a primary cancer that's metastasized, all right? When we think about treating these though, it's obviously always treating the emergencies or the urgent kind of things first, so I think one of the big things is if a patient comes in and they're herniating, your first goal is not gonna be, hey, let's get an MRI, no, no, no, no, no, we should definitely figure out how we can prevent them from herniating and unfortunately succumbing to brain death, and so oftentimes in acute scenarios like this, I'd say it's not as common because they don't just rapidly expand as much, I'd say that's more common with a subarachnoid hemorrhage or a brain bleed or a stroke that has malignant cytotoxic cerebral edema, but it can happen. I've seen it a couple times with really large brain tumors with significant amounts of vasogenic edema. You'd wanna give them hypertonic saline or mannitol, that's really just a temporizing measure, it's only gonna help a little bit to kind of reduce some of the swelling, and it's not gonna be a great therapy, but it's gonna be the best that you can do to kind of reduce the ICP temporarily. Surgical resection would be kind of barren on the top thing because you don't wanna remove the structure that's causing a lot of this problem, and that's usually the problem with a brain tumor is that unless it's bleeding or it's causing a massive amount of obstructive hydrocephalus or vasogenic edema, the osmotherapy will only help for a very, very short period of time, you have to surgically resect these, put an EVD and get them on steroids really. So this is where I would do like a craniotomy and I would remove that tissue, that's gonna be the definitive therapy. All right, now external ventricular drain is great, like I said, if you have a tumor, the big things is obstructive hydrocephalus and vasogenic edema. Osmotherapy, like mannitol, hypertonic saline, those are really, really quick things, but you need to get to the surgeon and say, hey, we need to remove this or we need to put a drain in. And the point of the drain is because if you have a tumor that's really compressing the ventricles and building up CSF, it can't flow, you're building up CSF in the skull, and it's gonna cause the ICP to go up. So I'd pop in an EVD. That'd be the first and quickest way is where you would access this. This is usually a bedside procedure, they pop it in around the terion and they try to get that into the area of that third ventricle. And then you're gonna kind of pull off that fluid. Usually if you look here, this is a very common one when you work in a neurological ICU, they like to zero this off of the tragus, which is that's what it's representing, but it's gonna help to allow for the increase in pressure inside of the ventricles to have an alternative source, to divert it somewhere else. If it's not moving down because there's some kind of mass compressing here, you wanna provide an alternative source and that's where it's gonna drain into this bag. And so that's the whole point of that is to really drain off any of this excess fluid so that the pressure, because the CSF as it starts to reduce, the pressure starts to go down. This would only be, again, another temporary thing. It would be temporary to do before I can get them to the surgery and get that actual tumor out. Cortico steroids are great. I think initially upfront, if a patient's in an ICP crisis, it's not gonna be the best thing, but it's something that will help at least to reduce some of the vasogenic edema. Because what it does, it actually helps to re-endothelialize the capillaries and help to reduce some of that leakage that you're getting with these kinds of problems here. That vasogenic edema is really gonna be a lot of capillary leakage, breakdown of the blood-brain barrier, and you're gonna try to help to re-endothelialize that and kind of reduce that loss of fluid. All right? Obstructive hydrocephalus, like, overall, when you think about this, an EVD is definitely good upfront. But long-term is what you have to say. Am I surgically resecting the tumor? If you're surgically resecting the tumor, great. But let's say that you have a patient who you surgically resected it, but there's still some residual tumor, or they're still having obstructive hydrocephalus, or they can't get a tumor removal because of the location or because the surgeon's not gonna do it, you need a way to continue to divert that fluid. So how do I do that? Why do I need a chronic CSF diversion? And so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna tap into the ventricle, but I'm gonna reroute it down through the neck. I'm gonna go all the way down here into the peritoneum. And I'm gonna do what's called a VP shunt. And when I do that, it takes a way of instead of draining it out of the body because a person can't live walking around with a pole where it's diverting fluid into the EVD bags. No, we have to have something where it kind of goes based upon gravity. And that's what the whole purpose of the VP shunt is, to allow for CSF when it is building up to divert down via this gravity mechanism into the peritoneal cavity. And that's the whole purpose of this. Visogenic cerebral edema, again, we talked about this, it can cause an ICP crisis. The only thing that really helps with this is like dexamethasone. So hitting them with like, usually if you really wanna know 10 milligrams of dexamethasone upfront, and then putting them on scheduled dexamethasone after that, every six to eight hours will help. And eventually you'll have to taper them off that because you don't wanna keep them on that forever. But that's gonna help with some of the associated visogenic edema upfront that's causing some of their symptoms, like ICP changes or headaches and neurological deficits. All right? So the last thing is seizures. When a patient comes in seizing, obviously if there causes a brain tumor, you have to treat the underlying tumor. But sometimes if you can't remove that tumor, you have to treat them. And so it's really, really, really important that we commonly use things like levatorazetan. We can use things like valproate or phosphinitone. These are very common anti-apileptic drugs. The key thing that I think is really important is that we don't give these to a patient who has a brain mass and have never had a seizure. It's very controversial out there. But the guidelines do suggest, unless the patient has had a clinical seizure, you should not be giving them anti-apileptic drugs as a prophylaxis. It's given primarily if the patient is actually having a new onset, seizure clinical events. That's when this would be truly indicated. But that's again, relatively controversial. So the last thing I wanna talk about is when we're trying to treat these like inevitably, which is kind of trying to remove the underlying source, surgery is the key thing. It's just a matter of how we're going to surgically resect these. Usually craniotomies are even removing a larger portion of the actual skull, like a craniectomy, and trying to resect that tissue is gonna be the best way to go. That's gonna help to remove the tumor mass. It's gonna help to be able to relieve any of any kind of like mass effect that can cause complications like vasogenic edema, midline shift with herniation, ICP changes, hydrocephalus, et cetera. All right. Radiation therapy is something that we can do. External beam radiation therapy, I'd say that's gonna be something that we would do if they have metastasis. So whenever a patient has diffuse metastasis, so they have a primary lung cancer and it's spread to the brain, external beam radiation therapy would probably be the way to go for that one. You can consider it after a patient has had a GBM removed, but I want you to primarily remember that it's gonna be more likely to be used in metastasis that is all over the place and you can't go and pluck out each one of those metastatic lesions. So hitting them with focal beam radiation would be the best, better way to go. All right. Now, stereotactic radiocergery, which is a type of radiation therapy, it's called Gamma Knife. It's a very localized, it's super localized. You have a bunch of gamma, kind of like a bunch of radio waves and the gamma rays that are coming, shooting in on one specific location. Gamma Knife surgery is a really, really good one that we do with... All right, the other type of radiation that I want you to know, it's particularly for vestibular schwannomas, is a stereotactic radiocergery. This is essentially Gamma Knife. It's like a really like high localized, focused area beam of radiation on a tumor, especially vestibular schwannomas. You can hit those with a pretty good, focused area of radiation. So you can kind of see how these rays are really, really highly focusing on one particular location. That would be a true benefit for something like this. We also use it a lot in trigeminal neuralgia, too, to help to kind of destroy where that kind of like, trigeminal ganglion is at, and especially near where there's compression, where the actual vessels are. So this is a really, really common one that you can use in vestibular schwannomas and trigeminal neuralgia. A chemotherapy, Tema Zolomide is really the go-to for patients who have GBMs. When you have a GBM, Tema Zolomide is interesting because it plays a role with the blood-brain barrier. When you think about the blood-brain barrier here, you can appreciate that we have the vessels. So we have the endothelial cells. They have really, really nice tight junctions. And then on top of that, you have the associated astrocytes, which are helping with the formation of that blood-brain barrier. When you have a drug like Tema Zolomide, it has a good ability to be able to cross the blood-brain barrier. But what it actually does is, and especially if there's breakdown on the blood-brain barrier, it's gonna cross a lot easier, it can find a glioma. And when it gets into the glioma, basically what it's gonna do is, it's gonna try to shut the DNA off. It produces an active molecule that basically controls your DNA methylation. And so you end up with a lot of these double-stranded DNA breaks, which causes these cells to unfortunately go through their death process. And so that's really what Tema Zolomide will be utilized as an patient who has a high-grade GBM. So when we think about GBMs, the best thing to think about upfront is, do they need surgery? Okay, try to, you can obviously consider a surgical resection if possible. After that, you can consider some radiation therapy if it's a very high-grade one, and you can consider Tema Zolomide. Oftentimes, GBMs have a very, very poor prognosis, though. But this is what I want you to think about with that. Man, this was a lot, and I really hope that at the end of this, you feel a little bit more comfortable with brain tumors. I feel like you know what to do, step by step, that if you ask, what's the next test? What will this test show me? What will it give me? Will it actually help me in my diagnosis? Okay, if I do that, what's the next test to confirm it? I really hope that at the end of this, you feel confident with that, and also being able to decipher and differentiate between other types of disorders, or between primary and metastatic. I hope that whenever you think about treatment, treat the emergent cases. Oftentimes, it comes down to surgery if you need it. An ICB crisis, temporizing measures are usually the best thing until you get to that surgery. Things like osmotherapy, mannitol, EVDs, and steroids. Ultimately, seizures should be controlled if they're having a seizure with anti-epileptic drugs. If not, we don't really give them prophylactically. Oftentimes, what these kind of conditions, surgery is the way to go, but sometimes you may need some associated external beam radiation therapy, especially for the higher grade GBMs, but it's more beneficial for the diffuse metastasis with a primary lung cancer somewhere else. And then Gamma Knife was the last one that we talked about, being more particular for things like trigeminal neuralgia and vestibular schwannomas. And then don't forget about the team as old line, especially if they have the IDH mutation, the one, the decode deletion. I would definitely consider that one. It's gonna be a little bit more beneficial. All right, my friends, I hope you guys liked this. I hope you learned a lot. I love you. I thank you guys, and as always, until next time. Thank you.