 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам What's up, Ningenerts? In this video today, we're gonna be talking about breast cancer. Again, this is a part of our clinical medicine section. If you guys like this video, it makes sense. It helps you please support us. You can do that a couple different ways. Hit the like button, comment down in the comment section, subscribe, or become a premium member on our website. We have a link down in the description box below. Go check that out. We have our notes, illustrations, quiz questions, everything that you would need to truly succeed in all of your courses. All right, let's get into it. Let's talk about the pathophys of breast cancer. I'm in front of this. Let's start talking about the pathophys. When we talk about breast cancer, it's really important to understand that when you look at the basic anatomy of the breast, that there is all these mammary glands, and really it's made up of ducks and lobules. That's really all it is, and that's what helps us to make the milk, is those cells. That's where cancer arises. Cancer arises from those lobules, or from those ducks, and from those epithelial cells, then fortunately, they undergo mutations of sort to become malignant. They start to proliferate. They grow, and you get these clumps of abnormal malignant cells within the lobules, or within the ducks, and then eventually they can spread. That's what generates breast cancer. Now, the reason why these cells start to abnormally proliferate, why they gain the capacity to become abnormal, and they continue to grow, and they break past the basement membrane, they get into the blood, that comes down to a couple of different things we'll talk about later. It could be that the estrogen exposure over a long period of time is a little bit higher than normal. They could develop mutations in specific genes that predispose them to this cancer, or there could be other scenarios where we don't really have a good reason, but for some reason, these patients over express specific receptors that increase the signaling for proliferation and survival of malignant cells. So let's take a look here at the breast. Let's say, again, when cancer arises, they usually arise in two locations. They arise in the lobule, or in the duct. And so let's imagine here that we kind of just zoom in on the structures here, and say, here's what we're looking at. We're looking at a zoomed inversion here. And here, we're gonna see we have a lobule, and there's gonna be a mass in this lobule. Or here we're gonna have a duct, and there's going to be a mass in that duct. And these are the tumors that are basically making up a patient's breast cancer. So this right here is a duct, is a ductal tumor, right? And here is a lobular tumor. And these are the two different ways that we can really think about breast cancer as it comes down to a tumor that arises in the duct of the mammary gland, or the rises from the lobules. What really helps us to kind of dig in a little bit more into this is let's say that we take, for example, we take like a section here of this duct, right? We zoom in, or we take a section of this lobule, and we zoom in here, and we look at the progression. So whenever we take like this cross section, and we zoom in on the lobule or on the duct, how do these actually become tumors? Really, how does that occur? And so let's say that we take, for example, this is a normal duct or a normal lobule, right? So this is a normal duct slash lobule, right? So when you look at the cells there, they look normal. Have they invaded this red structure called the basement membrane? No, it looks pristine. However, over time, the patient develops mutations. And these mutations cause the cells to become a little bit more atypical, and they don't look as normal cells. And so then they progress, all right? And so from here, we start to see what's called atypical hyperplasia. And this atypical hyperplasia, it usually can result in two different locations, right? So look at these cells. Look how jacked up and funky these stinking things look. Look at that. This dude has got some kind of like little goober hanging off the top. That's an atypical appearing cell. It doesn't look normal. And again, this can occur in the duct or it can occur in the lobules. Now, out of these, which one's most common? Most of the time, when malignancies arise, they arise in the ducts. That's usually the most common location. Lobules, it can occur, it's just not as common. Let's say now, atypical hyperplasia is kind of like a pre-malignant condition, is the way you wanna think about it. Patients who have atypical hyperplasia on their biopsies, when you look at them, they have a very high risk of that converting into cancer. How? Let's say that these patients experience more mutations. Cause really everything that happens here is it's a mutation. Mutations, you get the point, they experience more mutations. Every single time there's abnormalities here that are causing mutations to arise, that are causing proliferation, all of these things are occurring, right? Now, when that happens, these cells continue to become abnormal and become malignant. Now, we technically have a cancer. This is technically as defined as a cancer at this point, where you have cells that have accumulated and taken up the entire concentric portion of the duct or the lobbyal. They're confining that entire lumen. This is now referred to as a carcinoma in situ. And what this cancer tells us is that this cells, these malignant appearing cells, have not broken past that red structure, which is the embasement membrane. So they're proliferating, they're not dying, they're surviving, but they haven't developed the point of where they have a lot of blood supply coming to them, angiogenesis, they haven't released the matrix metalloproteinases yet that are breaking through the basement membrane, they're not there yet. But once they accrue more mutations and they become abnormal, then they gain that capacity to do that. And then from here, this start off as a carcinoma in situ. And again, where could it be guys? Think about it. It could be in a duct, which is gonna be the most common, or it could be in a lobbyal. Now from here, once it actually does dig to the point where these cells start releasing matrix metalloproteinases, they break down the basement membrane and they get a lot of blood supply coming to them and they can spread. At this point, this thing is invasive. This thing has the ability to spread. And this is now referred to as an invasive carcinoma. It's no longer in situ. It's an invasive carcinoma. And again, out of the two locations, where would this occur? It could be in the duct, or it could be in the lobbyals. The thing that I want you to think about here is look at the normal trend. Most of the time when we think about a patient developing breast cancer, they develop a mass in their breast. Most of the time it's ductal. So usually starts off as you have a normal cells within that duct. You accrue mutations or abnormalities that cause proliferation and eventually, it turns into atypical ductal hyperplasia. Then they accrue more mutations and it becomes carcinoma in situ. But it's ductal carcinoma in situ. That's technically, we'll talk about these. You technically can write these, or I'll read them later, ductal carcinoma in situ and lobular carcinoma in situ. Then from ductal carcinoma in situ, if it accrues more mutations, becomes abnormal and eventually gains the capacity to break past the basement membrane, it's now invasive ductal carcinoma. That's the most common progression that we think about with these cancers. Now, the scary thing about cancers is that from here, these cells, they can start to become a little bit more liquid and they don't become solitary in the sense that they're staying in one location. They can start to spread. And once they do that and they break off and these things get into the circulation and they get into the lymph nodes, now we're having cells break off and go into different locations in the body. At this point, we refer to this as metastatic breast cancer. So this is referred to as metastatic breast cancer. And we'll talk about the most common locations that these things go. Usually they start at the lymph nodes, but they can go to the lungs, they can go to the liver, they can go to the bones, they can go to the brain, and this can cause a lot of havoc on the body. So you get the point here. When we talk about breast cancer, which is the most common cancer in women, you see that a cancer rises in a duct or in a labial really starts off normal, becomes atypical. This is a marker for a significant high risk of developing breast cancer. Then they become carcinoma and situs and then they become invasive. Then they break away from that local region, go to nearby lymph nodes, or they can get into the bloodstream and spread to other organs. Then we have metastatic breast cancer. What I wanna do now is, I wanna take a little bit of time to talk about what is the true difference in ductal carcinoma and situ, lobular carcinoma and situ, invasive ductal, invasive lobular carcinoma, and then also talk about a couple other variants like pageants and inflammatory breast cancer, because there's some slight differences in those pathophysiologically. Let's do that now. Let's think about this at this point. We've developed an understanding of the progression, kind of like microscopically histopathologically of breast cancer, that it's normal, atypical carcinoma and situ, invasive metastatic. So when we talk about these, I wanna break cancers down of the breast into noninvasive and invasive. Most of the time, whenever we see these patients and they come in with symptoms, they're usually at the stages of invasive. But let's talk about some of the noninvasive ones that you need to be able to recognize and consider that they do carry that risk of becoming an invasive cancer. So noninvasive cancer is one of them, we talked about it. It's a carcinoma and situ. What's the most common one that I told you that the cancers usually start off in? It's in the ducts. So we're gonna start off and talk about ductal carcinoma in situ, which again is DCIS. So with this one, where does the cancer actually arise? Think about this. It arises in the ducts. So there's gonna be some type of mutation that occurs where the cells start to proliferate and grow, but they do not break past the basement membrane. Now, when this happens, because they do not invade past the basement membrane, how will these patients usually present? Well, the thing with ductal carcinoma in situ is that they don't usually present with a breast mass or symptoms. Most of the times these patients are pretty much asymptomatic. Most of the time they are asymptomatic. How do we usually find this then? It's usually an incidental finding. And so what happens is a patient goes, they get an ultrasound or they get a mammogram. Usually it's a mammogram, and on the mammogram they see calcifications, like microcalcifications. That's somewhat indicative that it could be a patient who has ductal carcinoma in situ. You would biopsy that if you had some concerns and you would find that type of histopathology that we talked about, that it would be these cancer cells that are confined to the duct, not invading the basement membrane. So oftentimes it's microcalcifications on mammography. That is usually how this presents. It's almost always asymptomatic and it's incidentally found as microcalcifications on mammography. Now one of the big things with this cancer is that again, it can have that risk of developing and converting into invasive ductal carcinoma. So it carries a very high risk of uni or ipsilateral breast cancer. That's really, really important. So I wanna add one more thing into this one is that there is an increased of ipsilateral breast cancer. Now you might be wondering why I'm telling you that. I promise I'll tell you a little bit later. It's gonna come into play with lobular carcinoma in situ. But again, big thing to remember for ductal carcinoma in situ is again, it's a cancer that arises in the ducts and it does not invade the basement membrane. It usually doesn't produce palpable or any kind of mass lesion that's gonna be symptomatic. They're asymptomatic. And oftentimes it's an incidental finding. So let's add that last thing in there. It's oftentimes it's a incidental finding. Whenever you get a mammography during your screening processes that we'll talk about later, that's when we find it. And it may have some concerning features to it. We may biopsy and find that. The next one that I wanna talk about is called Padgett's disease of the breast. But I'm just gonna put it down here as Padgett's disease. So Padgett's disease is kind of like, it's actually kind of interesting. It starts off as a ductal carcinoma in situ. So imagine this, imagine it's kind of like you have a cancer right here in the ducts. It's confined to it. But then what happens is the cancer cells start migrating. They don't invade past the basement membrane, go into the surrounding fat tissue or anything like that. Look at this. They move along the lactiferous ducts and sinuses. And they move out here onto the breast. So now you see how these cells are kind of migrating. So look, it actually starts to, in a way you can think about this, it's migrating towards the nipple and then outwards from the nipple onto the skin. That's weird, right? So that's one of the big differences with this one, is that this starts off as a ductal carcinoma in situ. So we can say it's a ductal carcinoma in situ and then spreads to the nipple and the lactiferous sinuses, which are kind of right around that area. So that's really what happens. It doesn't invade the basement membrane, which makes it noninvasive. But it does move along these and then move onto the skin. And so really what happens with these patients is they have a characteristic picture. They often time have what's called nipple eczema. I'm not even kidding. It literally can look like a red, inflamed, itchy nipple for these patients. It looks actually a little bit like this. So whenever you see that type of picture, a very itchy, little bit red, inflamed nipple, you should be thinking about pageants. Here's another concern, anything. Not only can it cause nipple eczema, but these cells, they may start to ulcerate the nipple. Isn't that sad? It is, man. And so if it does do that, sometimes these patients can also get bloody nipple discharge. That's another thing that you wanna watch out for. So another thing here is watch out for, bloody nipple discharge. Bloody nipple discharge. Okay, so we got it. Pageant disease is kind of like a ductal carcinoma in situ. Sometimes it can even actually be truly. I'm not even kidding. Sometimes you can actually get invasive ductal carcinomas and they can also spread. But oftentimes it's ductal carcinoma in situ that moves through these ducts to the sinus, to the nipple, to the areola and causes an eczematous lesion to appear. Itchy, red, inflamed nipple with sometimes associated nipple discharge. Now, one of the things that actually is important to remember here is you'd think, oh, I gotta do a core needle biopsy. You do, but sometimes, what's actually kind of high yield to think about here and I wanna add in for this, is that sometimes with pageant disease, we can just, if we see, son of a gun, if we see that a patient has this nipple eczema, we can take a skin biopsy. And so if we do a skin biopsy of this lesion, right around where that eczema appears, and it produces pageant cells, that's almost diagnostic when it comes to the USMLE exams. So definitely think about that, that they may present a patient who has nipple eczema, maybe some occasional bloody nipple discharge, they do a skin biopsy, and it shows pageant cells. That's a ductal carcinoma in situ that's spread to that nipple areola region. All right, cool. So I say noninvasive, I got these two. The last one, some people don't really consider this to be a cancer. They consider it more of like a very high risk, kind of marker, it's like a marker of badness. So it's called lobular carcinoma in situ. And you're like, what do you mean, Zach? Can't this kind of like, it's the same thing, like Zach, you said that these can go normal, atypical, carcinoma in situ into an invasive. That's the funny thing, for some reason, when you think about this, this is a cancer, it's confined to the lobules, yeah? Doesn't spread past the basement membrane. Usually same thing, completely asymptomatic. So they don't really present with any kind of symptoms. It's usually oftentimes, it's an incidental finding. It's the same thing, you actually go, you get a mammogram, and it shows like this weird appearing lesion. However, there's not microcalcifications. So it appears sometimes like a fibroadenoma. So it's not a classic mammography finding, but it is something that is an incidental finding. So usually it's a finding on mammography. Or sometimes there's a thought that this is a fibroadenoma, and they get a biopsy, and it comes back lobular carcinoma in situ. The whole point I'm trying to make of this is, is that lobular carcinoma, it's pretty much never going to be one of those that goes from lobular carcinoma in situ, to invasive lobular carcinoma, which is odd, right? One thing that this disease tells you, and they can try to test you on this on the exam, is if you see lobular carcinoma in situ, this is what you should be kind of telling your patients. These patients have a high risk, pretty scary risk, a pretty high risk of bilateral cancer. Whereas ductal carcinoma in situ carried a risk of ipsy laterals, usually that same side. This, if a patient has lobular carcinoma in situ on their left breast, they have a high risk of developing invasive carcinomas in both breasts. Why is that important? Because sometimes on the step two, what they could do is they could say, hey, you have a patient who has lobular carcinoma in situ. They're at high risk for bilateral breast cancer. What would be a preventative strategy? Get rid of both breasts. That's something that could come up on the exam, and so that's what they'll try to say, is that to consider this, you may need to remedy this. That's the big kind of like telltale thing for this one, is you may have to do a bilateral mastectomy. And by doing that, and this is prophylactic, you're trying to prevent them from developing that bilateral breast cancer. That's the big thing I want you guys to take away from this. All right, non-invasive breast cancers, done. We have a pretty good idea. Out of these non-invasive, which one is the most common ductal carcinoma in situ? That's the one that you're gonna see. It's usually microfialcifications. Padgets is a weird variant of that. They usually cause nipolexma. Lobbidocarsinoma in situ, it's not symptomatic. It's usually diffuse, and it's more likely going to affect both breasts. Because of that, you have a high, high risk of bilateral cancer. Consider it for these patients, talking to a surgeon about removing both breasts. Now, invasive breast cancer is the next big thing that we have to talk about. With invasive breast cancer, there is really two types, and we talked about them a little bit over here, that you have what's called invasive ductal, and I'll write both of these, ductal carcinoma. Now, when I talk about breast cancer, dude, most of the times, probably 70 to 80% of cases is this. That's the most common. Another one is invasive, so we'll bring this one down here, invasive lobular carcinoma. But this one is not very common. We'll talk about one more, and this one is really, really, really sad. It's super, super scary. Usually when patients present, they're already stage three, getting ready to go to the point of stage four. And so this is a really, really important one that I wanna talk about. So let's differentiate these, because we were able to differentiate these, right? Let's differentiate these. With invasive ductal carcinoma, you're gonna start off with this cancer here. It's in the ducts, but guess what it's gonna start to do? It's gonna break past the basement membrane. Do you get the difference there? It's spreading beyond that. Is that gonna produce a palpable mass? It definitely can. So this one definitely can present as a palpable mass, and sometimes, if you think about this, if you present with a palpable mass, what's the most common location? So when you think about the breast and you cut them into four portions, the upper outer quadrant is the most common. 55% of the time, it's usually gonna present in the upper outer quadrant of the breast. Because there's a little axillary component here called the tail of spence. That's usually, right in those areas there, is where you're gonna have most of these cancers starting to arise. That's one way that a patient will present. Sometimes, they may present on their screening mammography. So it can be a palpable mass, or this could be an incidental finding on mammography. Most of the time, when you think about a patient having breast cancer, that's the type that you're gonna be thinking about. This is the one that can start here, and it can spread outwards. What you'll see later is that these patients, usually, because of that mass, it latches on to the suspensory ligaments, and then the suspensory ligaments become tethered and fibrotic, and they pull on the skin and the nipple. And then the skin becomes retracted. The nipple can become retracted. And then the other thing is that sometimes, these cancers can cause a little bit of nipple discharge. It's not as common, but the biggest thing is looking for a palpable mass with associated dimpling of the skin and the nipple. That can be kind of a telltale sign. Again, invasive ductive carcinomas, these are the most common. What about inflammatory breast cancer? Inflammatory breast cancer is interesting. So usually, at the terminal ductal lobular unit, kind of like right here, is our cancers. From here, here's where it's different. They break off like little tumor microemboli, let's call them. They're like little tumor emboli, and they can get out and spread, but they don't do it in chunks. They do it in like little microemboli. From here, these tumor microemboli, guess where they go? They go right over here to your neulomphatics in the dermis. When they get into these areas here, they start clogging up your dermal and lymphatics. And so you get lymphatic obstruction. Now, imagine you obstruct these lymphatics, because naturally what's supposed to happen is, is the lymph should drain some of this interstitial fluid and take it out, right? That's naturally what should happen. But guess what you're gonna do if you have these obstructions there? You're not going to be able to do that. And so what happens here? This gets inhibited. This fluid builds up. Oh dude, if I obstruct my lymphatics, I'm gonna cause a lot of edema. So then a lot of this fluid will start accumulating and accumulating and accumulating here, and you'll get a lot of swelling of the breast. So that's what you're gonna start seeing is you're gonna see breast swelling. And dude, it's usually bilateral. It can present bilateral, it can present unilateral, but the key characteristic features here is you're gonna get a lot of breast swelling. And whenever you have a patient here who has that breast swelling, it's gonna look like mastitis. And that's one of the biggest things that they'll try to talk to you about with inflammatory breast cancer, is that when you look at these patients, they're gonna have basically, let's say, swollen, red, and painful breasts. And so when you look at this, if you actually see what this actually looks like, it actually can be really problematic with inflammatory breast cancer. It can look like mastitis, which is an infection of some of the mammary gland tissue. What would happen is, is you would take this, you would say, oh, I think it's mastitis. And if you gave these patients, and usually with mastitis, there's maybe some fevers, there's maybe an elevated white count, but what you would do is you would say, okay, let me give this patient antibiotics. And if you gave them antibiotics, and they gave a positive response with antibiotics, and they got better, it's probably mastitis. But if you had this patient with swollen, red, painful breasts, you gave them antibiotics, and it didn't get any better. And if anything, it continued to progress, poor response, this suggests inflammatory breast cancer more often. That's something that they can try to mess with you with on the exam, is they'll say, hey, a patient came in, they had swollen, red, kind of like really painful breast, I gave them antibiotics, they didn't get any better, what's your concern? I'm concerned for inflammatory breast cancer. Now, one of the big things that is important to remember is that with this cancer, because of the dermal lymphatics getting so obstructed, they get swollen, this skin, when you look at it, it looks like an orange peel. You get all these little dimples, and it's called a pewdie orange, which is kind of an orange peel appearance to the breast. It looks a little bit like this. With inflammatory breast cancer, it is really, really important to remember that this is often characterized by lymphatic obstruction by tumor microemboline. This one is a big palpable mass, it's cohesive, it can spread, can become metastatic. But this is the one that's really scary, and when these patients are found, here's what's sad about this one, is they present, usually at stage three. They present at stage three. And I'll tell you what stage three means when we get to it, but with invasive ductal carcinoma, you may catch a patient at stage one, you may catch them at stage two. Usually, when inflammatory breast cancer, when you have these tumor microemboline, and they're in the skin, they're in the mammary gland tissue, that's already at that point, the tumor has spread and metastasized, that's how they get these symptoms. So usually by that time, it's in the actual skin, chest wall area, that's why these patients usually have stage three breast cancer. All right, invasive lobular carcinoma. This one's not very common, but again, you can kind of imagine here that it's a cancer that starts off in the lobules, and then eventually it breaks out. And you might wanna kind of go the route and say, oh, this is a lobular carcinoma in situ that became invasive. For some reason, that's not usually the case. It's very rare, very, very, very rare for that to happen. Oftentimes, it's just a cancer that usually arises there, and it starts to really, really again, spread beyond that. But it's uncommon for lobular carcinoma in situ when you find it to become invasive lobular carcinoma. Now, with invasive lobular carcinoma, there's something really, really weird about this one, because sometimes when you look at these and you think, okay, lobular carcinoma, ductal carcinoma, how would they really test me? Well, with this one, again, these patients are oftentimes going to be asymptomatic. And therefore, because of that, they would have usually, this is an incidental finding on their imaging, usually a mammogram, so mammography. And so this is usually gonna be asymptomatic. It's usually gonna be more of a diffuse, multi-centric and lobular involvement. They'll appear very abnormal. Here's what's really important, and this is how they will try to test you on the exam. When you think about invasive lobular carcinoma, when you look at the cancer, and this is really what's interesting, is let's say that I take a piece of that cancer here. And here's the cell, and it's all starting off here, where you're having all this build up inside of the lobules. All right? And then, what it wants to do is, is it wants to break past the basement membrane. And so it gains those matrix metalloproteinases, right? When it does that, it helps it to move, and they move in a single file fashion. That's the characteristic thing that you guys wanna take away from invasive lobular carcinoma, is that when it spreads, and it breaks past the basement membrane, it moves in a single file fashion. So when it moves in a single file fashion, so it migrates in a single file fashion, you have to ask yourself the question, okay, so it doesn't do that for ductile, why? And the reason why is, when you actually look at their microscopic structure, and some of the proteins, there's a specific protein,  and the protein that actually helps these cells to kind of be linked together. And it's called e-cadherins. What happens is, these patients lose, they have a loss of e-cadherins. That's the big difference. They have a loss of e-cadherins. So they develop some type of mutation or change that causes them to break off those proteins between cells and move in a single file fashion past the basement membrane. So when you think about this, and this is that lobular cancer right here, we're kind of just zooming in on it here to look at this in a cross section, these things, they move in a single file fashion. That's because of a loss of the e-cadherins. Reason why I tell you that is that sometimes what you can do is you can actually check an e-cadherin test on these patients. And if they have that loss of e-cadherins, it supports more of a lobular carcinoma that's invasive as compared to a ductal. All right. So again, that's the big thing to think about for these things. Now that we've talked about our non-invasive and invasive breast cancers, and we have a pretty good understanding that most often the time whenever a patient presents, they start off with ductal carcinoma in situ and they progress to this. But sometimes the scary one that you could miss and it's already too late is inflammatory breast cancer. Another way that they could present from ductal carcinoma is the variant of pageants. But these two are not very common. This one, very high risk of bilateral breast cancer. This one, it's most oftentimes an incidental finding. And really one test to be considered is the e-cadherin testing. All right. Now from here, what I want to ask ourselves is how in the heck, what in the same heck is causing these cells to mutate and to grow and to proliferate? The reason why I tell you this is these patients can either present in a bunch of different ways. Lermass, incidental finding on screening, bleeding from the nips, they can have eximidus lesions, a lot of different things. You have to be able to look into the patient's history and say what puts them at high risk? Because sometimes you may need to screen these patients earlier, use specific modalities, or do specific types of therapies that really is key to know. Let's talk about that now. We really established a baseline on how these cancers, particularly within the breast, grows, how it actually starts. So when we think about this, what are really the triggers? What's the risk factors that are associated with jumpstarting these cells to become atypical, to become malignant, to really spread? And so one of the big ones that we talk about, and that's why we have to do really good histories, we have to assess a patient's risk. And that comes with estrogen exposure over time. And so let's kind of have an understanding as to why this happens. Your ovaries are responsible for producing something called estrogen. So I'm going to write this out, right? But there's another way that you can write out estrogen. Because estrogen comes in like estrone and estradiol, the most common form is estradiol. And so I'll also write this as E2, which is estradiol. Now that's one way. So the ovaries for females will produce estrogen. Now whenever the ovaries produce estrogen, what happens is estrogen can go and work on the breast tissue. It works on a bunch of different tissues, right? It's a hormone. It can go and work on breast tissues. It can work on the muscles. It can work in the bones. It can work in the brain, all the kind of areas that you can think of. One of the big things with estrogen is that it has to work, especially in the breast. It can work on two different ways. One, it's primary way is intracellular. But you do have some small amounts of extracellular receptors. But estrogen is primarily going to cross the cell because it's a lipid soluble type of medication, it's a steroid. And so it'll cross over, and I'll represent this as E2 with like a circle. And what happens is E2 will bind onto a receptor, an intracellular receptor. And then once this happens, this E2 and receptor will then move into the nucleus, right? And it'll basically bind onto specific genes. When you bind onto a specific gene here, this will cause this gene, usually it's the cyclin D gene. That's usually the primary one, is the cyclin D gene. You'll activate this cyclin D gene. And this will cause these patients to kind of increase the expression of cyclin D and cyclin dependent kinases. And so really what it'll do is it'll increase the expression of what's called cyclin dependent kinases, CDK. And this is usually four and six. And what these things do is, dude, they like ramp up your proliferation, right? Because think about it, estrogen can kind of cause some of the breast tissue to grow. That's why usually breast tissue starts to arise when a patient hits their point of where their actual ovaries are producing estrogen, right? That's why breasts usually develop during the secondary sex characteristic staging. So whenever this happens, the CD4 and CD6, basically this will cause the cell to proliferate, dude. I mean, these cells go ham. And so you get cell proliferation. Now here's the problem. With cell proliferation, every time a cell proliferates, what's the issue with that? How in the heck does that cause cancer? It doesn't. It's just the more that a cell proliferates, the more chances a person develops the risk of developing cancer. So every time a cell proliferates, the DNA has to replicate. Every time the DNA replicates, there's a chance of DNA damage. And every time the DNA is damaged, there is the risk that that could actually become mutated if you don't repair it properly. And with that, that mutation can cause normal cells to become cancer cells. So every time a cell proliferates, all you essentially do is you increase the risk of mutations. That's all it is. And every time you increase the risk of mutations, you turn a normal cell. So let's say here I have a normal cell. You take this normal cell and you turn it into an atypical or malignant cell. That's really what is happening, is that every single time a cell mutates, it can become the high risk of that cell becoming malignant. And that's what you get scared of is now I have a malignant cell as compared to me originally having a normal cell. So that's where we get scared. And so if estrogen is being produced consistently and consistently over time, what's the issue? It's constantly being produced due to prolonged exposure to having high estrogen levels. So the higher the estrogen levels are over time, the more it stimulates this intracellular and extracellular receptor, the more it activates the genes to increase the expression of CDK 4, 6 cause cell proliferation. Over time, there may be other things that can occur besides the proliferation. You may cause the cells to stop undergoing apoptosis. You may cause the cells to trigger angiogenesis and cause more blood flow to the area. You may cause them to gain the capacity to release things to break down the matrix and spread. So you get the point. What would be a reason that the ovaries would be producing a large amount of estrogen over time? So here's what I want you to think. We usually see this. So let's say here we think ovarian, so the ovarian estrogen is up. So you have an increase in the ovarian estrogen. What are a couple of different reasons for this? And I want you to think about it not necessarily as an acute increase. It's an estrogen increase over a longer period of time than normal. So one reason is early monarchy. What in the heck does that mean? Well that means that your first menstrual cycle was really, really young. So think about this, dude. If a menstrual cycle was at 11 years old and then you go into menopause at like 55 or something like that, that's the amount of time that you had estrogen levels these consistent times during the follicular period, the luteal phase, where you had estrogen levels that were up. That's more proliferation of the breast tissue. That's more chances that they acquire mutations. What if the menopause was really, really late? You see the thing with that one? So what if menopause was late? That's another thing. So if you had early monarchy or if you got into menopause way later than you were supposed to, that's expanding your timeframe of prolonged estrogen exposure. So late menopause is another really, really important one to consider as a risk factor. Another one is a patient who never has breaks in their menstrual cycle. So you know when there would be a break in the menstrual cycle is whenever you get pregnant. When a woman gets pregnant, they have a period where they're not having this abrupt rises in the estrogen production as compared to during their normal menstrual cycles. And so that affects their breast tissue, right? So that's another really important one is a patient not undergoing pregnancy. And so null parity is a really, really important one. So when we think about this, these are potential things that really can cause ovarian estrogen exposure levels to be high over a period of time. Sometimes even late parity. So if you have a child later in life, that also can potentially increase that risk as well. Another reason is it could be due to adipose. So adipose, estrogen is really high. So you know adipose tissue, it's kind of really interesting when you think about this. So normally we have different hormones that our body makes. One of them is called androgens. And so this can happen also kind of in even the adrenal cortex too. But androgens are actually things like testosterone or dihydrotestosterone, androsine, dione, all of these different types of androsine. So dihydropion, androsterone, androsine, dione, testosterone, all of these things. So what happens is we can take these and the fat tissue contains an enzyme called aromatase. So there's an enzyme here and it's called aromatase. And that enzyme stimulates the conversion of androgens into estrogen. And technically this estrogen is, you know, estrone. But I'm just going to again, I'm going to kind of say here that this is going to be estrogen. It's technically not going to be as much the E2, but you're still going to have this increase in estrogen. And so I'm just going to write here E2. But the thing is, is that the mechanism is all the same. So the same thing would happen here, that this would do what? Well, the estrogen would then go, and again it would combine onto this receptor. More often than not, it's going to go intracellularly and stimulate this pathway. Question is, is why in the heck would adipose estrogen levels be high? What's going to cause an uptick in the aromatase expression or activity that's going to continue to convert androgens into estrogen? If you've got a lot of adipose, you'll have a lot of these enzymes. That's a really big thing to actually remember. Morbid obesity definitely contributes to a risk of developing breast cancer. And so this is important because sometimes we think about on the step two, they'll ask you exam questions. And they'll say, okay, they'll present the clinical vignette, and they'll say, this patient is at risk for breast cancer. Which one of these risk factors with regard to estrogen exposure is modifiable? Obesity. You can't change when you have a period in the start. You can't change when you go into menopause. Technically, null-apparity, that is a modifiable risk factor. You technically, you could actually get pregnant. But obesity is a true modifiable risk factor as well. The other things that are important to remember that can increase the risk of any kind of mutation is alcohol. So alcoholism definitely is a modifiable thing that actually increases the risk of developing breast cancer as well. But nonetheless, the last thing that I want to talk about here is, what if it has nothing to do with the adipose? What if it has nothing to do with the ovary? What if this is exogenous estrogen is high? So exogenous estrogen is high for longer periods of times. And usually this is in patients who are postmenopausal and who are on a drug that is trying to replicate estrogen and progesterone. What would that be? Hormone replacement therapy. I'm going to put HRT. So HRT. And usually they've been on HRT for a decent amount of time, five, ten years. So they're prolonging their estrogen exposure. Except this, it's a pill. So this scenario here will represent it as though this is a drug. And this drug contains estrogen and progesterone. And so all this is doing is, it's just getting into the body and acting like this. You get the point here. All of these things are leading to an increase in cell proliferation. So whenever a patient has these particular risk factors, you have to consider that. Now this is really, really important because guess what? Not only can these patients, when you think about it, let's say here, we take this, this is their cancer. It starts here in the upper outer quadrant. When you really look at this and you examine this, again, it starts off normal, becomes atypical, becomes carcinoma in situ, and becomes an invasive breast cancer. The real reason this is happening is, is the estrogen levels over time. So they're having elevated E2. Elevated E2. Elevated E2. And that's stimulating the increased proliferation and therefore mutations that cause you to go from normal to atypical to carcinoma in situ to invasive. You get the point. That's why it's actually super critical when a patient has cancer. We biopsy their tissue and we look to see, because guess what happens with high estrogen exposure? Guess what you do to these receptors? You up-regulate them. You overexpress them. That's another thing. We'll talk about that down there. But oftentimes we'll biopsy these areas. We'll send it off for immunohistopathology and see, is there an overexpression of estrogen and progesterone receptors? All right. That's the increased estrogen exposure. Let's move to the next reason that a patient can also develop these risks of causing a cell to become cancerous, and especially in the breast. And that's a decrease in tumor suppressor activity. All right. So now we move on to the next component here, which is again, what are causing these cells to either proliferate, become abnormal, gain the capacity to break past the basement membrane? And another really important one is the genetics. So tumor suppressor gene activity is really critical in preventing malignancies, right? And there's a lot of different genes, but there's really, really important ones that are critical to discussing in breast cancer. So let's say here I have a normal cell, a normal ductal cell. And all of a sudden, this cell experiences some type of DNA damage. So here we're going to cause some damage to the DNA. So there's some DNA damage. Gets hit with whatever it may be. You cause some damage to the DNA. Now I'm going to represent that with an X. That's a damaged DNA. Maybe there's a break in the DNA. And so we need DNA repair genes to come into play and say, okay, cool, I'm going to go ahead and fix this. So let's say that you have these DNA repair genes, and they're going to go ahead and fix this. So if there's good DNA repair, so we're going to have DNA repair going on here, then we'll have these enzymes come in and basically help us to fix that actual damaged DNA. And so we can take and generate a normal cell. This is a cell that's not going to undergo mutation now. This here is our damaged cell. And if you repair that DNA, there's less chances of it mutating and becoming a cancerous cell. But if you don't have DNA repair occur, and there's a lot of genes that are critical to DNA repair. P53, the TP53, which is like the tumor suppressor P53 and BRCA genes, there's P10, there's a lot of them. But this is a really, really important concept that if you don't have those genes working to undergo DNA repair, what's going to happen? That damage will not get fixed. So here this one, we're good. We fixed it. Look, it went from a damaged DNA to a normal. Here we're still going to have that damage. And maybe it progresses and it becomes like a double-stranded DNA break instead of a stingle. And then from there, you end up causing mutations to occur because you don't allow for this cell to really undergo the normal process that it should. So now that I have inadequate DNA repair, now I take this cell and I increase the risk of causing gene mutations. And eventually this right here is where we can see issues, where we start off with a normal cell. Here's a normal duct. Here's a normal duct. And this is these cells. You cause increased risk of gene mutations. Now what's going to happen? Because I didn't fix that damaged DNA, I can increase the risk of the mutation. That mutation can cause my cells to transform and to become malignant. And then from here, this is where I see cancer starting to rise. All right? Now I've taken this cell, which was normal. It's become abnormal. And now I have cancer. And the cancer cells all riddled within these ducts. And then from here, this thing is going to build up in the breast tissue. And you're going to get this breast mass here. So that's the problem with this. And so we have to ask ourselves the question, what's really playing a role in this? And so the tumor suppressor genes are really what are aiding in our DNA repair process. There's two really, really important ones that get tested. One is the BRCA1 and the BRCA2 genes. If you have mutations in these genes, this can be a problem. These are natural tumor suppressor genes which aid in DNA repair. So if you have abnormalities or mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2, guess what's going to happen? You're going to have no adequate DNA repair. So that's one problem. So let's say here, I have a BRCA1 or a BRCA2 mutation. That's going to lead to this problem here. So if you have mutations in these potential genes, then guess what? That can actually lead to the inhibition in DNA repair which causes this risk of malignancy. The question that comes here is, these are tumor suppressor genes? Yes. But when we talk about this, obviously family history is key because this is an autosomal dominant condition. So since this is something that can be autosomal dominant, you really have to look at this as being a factor that can come with a family history. So a patient who has a very strong family history of breast cancer, you really want to be thinking about BRCA1 and BRCA2. Here's the other thing about BRCA1 and BRCA2. The other thing is here is not only is it a familial thing, but also it increases the risk for breast and ovarian cancer. So it's not just breast cancer that becomes a little bit of a higher risk. It significantly increases the risk of breast and ovarian cancer. Now sometimes when patients find out that they have the BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation, they may say, oh my gosh, I'm very, very high risk for developing breast cancer and especially ovarian cancer. And sometimes these patients, they'll go the route of maximum prevention and they'll remove their breast bilaterally and they'll remove also their ovaries. And so that's called a bilateral mastectomy and a bilateral salphingo ooferectomy. That's something that's relatively common if you have this BRCA mutation. The reason why is with BRCA mutations, not only does it carry this risk and not only is it seen with the family history, but here's the concerning feature. With BRCA mutations, they cause breast cancer. They cause breast cancer at a young age and younger patients. And the other thing with this one is it's very, very aggressive. So that's a really, really important thing to remember is that we'll see this breast cancer being a little bit more common in younger patients and also being kind of aggressive. That's one thing I want to think about. When I talk about to a patient, I say, hey, what's the family history? Does your mom have breast cancer? Does your grandma have breast cancer? This is going to show an autosomal dominant pattern. So that's really, really important to take into consideration and you can go as far as testing for these and doing gene testing. The next one that is also really important, they like to ask us on the exam just because of sometimes there's big names. Whenever you hear the name of something, it's actually helpful. So this next one is actually, we'll see with a TP53 mutation. And so this is something that we see in a disease. It's called Lea from any syndrome. Now, Lea from any syndrome is really important. It's a genetic mutation in the TP53 gene. Now, the TP53 gene is a tumor suppressor gene. So if you have a mutation in the TP53, guess what? You don't allow for adequate DNA repair. If you don't allow for adequate DNA repair, this can cause those cells to no longer be able to survive as normal and become malignant because you don't repair those damaged DNA. With Lea from any syndrome, one of the biggest things to remember is that this presents not just as this one is usually breast ovarian. That's a big thing to remember. With Lea from any, remember the mnemonic BLAST53. BLAST53 is that these patients can have a high risk of breast and brain cancer. They have a high risk of lymphoma, leukemia. They have a high risk of adrenal carcinoma. They have a high risk of sarcoma. And they have a high risk of the TP53 mutation. So this is something that is a really helpful mnemonic. So if you see a patient who has multiple cancers, think about the BLAST53. Do they fit that category? It may make me think about Lea from any syndrome. This one, really bad. These patients have a very, very, very aggressive and young cancer. So they present with cancer at a very young age. We'll talk about this a little bit later. I don't want to get too far ahead. But these types of mutations cause the patient to often times present with triple negative breast cancer, which is a very aggressive type of cancer. Meaning that these cause mutations in the cells and it has nothing to do with estrogen exposure, progesterone exposure, HER2 signaling. It's all due to these mutations that cause these cells to, again, not undergo this repairing. And then they can cause these damaged DNA to cause mutations that lead to these cancer cells just going haywire. This can be a very, very aggressive cancer. So these are usually your triple negative ones that we think about here. All right. So we've gotten down to risk factors is think about estrogen exposure over time, whether it's ovarian, exogenous, or adipose. Think about mutations. With these, think about younger patients. Look for family history. Look for other types of cancer risks in them or in their family. The last thing I want to talk about is receptor overexpression. All right. So the next component here that I want you guys to think about is receptor overexpression. Really, this kind of goes hand in hand with like estrogen exposure to a degree, but there's also maybe some mutations that are playing a role in this. So when we talk about, again, looking into risk factors, this is one of these things where we don't really like look into the history for this. This actually comes from a biopsy to really determine this. But there may be a lot of epigenetic. There may be mutations. This could be due to estrogen exposure. There could be a lot of different reasons why this is happening. But what usually happens in this scenario is that you have different types of receptors. You have hormone receptors. And so let's actually categorize this. So you have hormone receptors on the breast and then you have what's called your growth factor receptors. Now the hormone receptors, there's actually two types here that are really important. The most important one is the estrogen receptor and we're going to represent that as ER. And the other one is the progesterone receptor. The other one for the growth factor receptors is going to be HER2. All right? HER2 or ERB2, but HER2 is the big thing here. Now what happens if these receptors, you increase the number of them? I increase the expression or upregulation of these receptors on the cell membrane. So here we have the estrogen receptors. We'll just use these as estrogen receptors here. So you have some kind of extra extracellular parts, but here you're going to have the intracellular. That's primary the way that these receptors will present. So here, E2, which is going to be the example we used, it can bind here, but most of the time it's going to bind intracellular. And then when it does that, you have this combination of them. And then these will then do what? Well, they'll use this kind of like, you know, receptor ligand complex and then they'll move downwards and they'll bind on to a specific gene in the DNA and increase the expression usually of the cyclin D genes, right? So we know that. And so basically the overall effect that we're going to see from this is that you're going to increase like the cell proliferation. That's going to be a really, really important one via the cyclin dependent kinases, right? You can also potentially see other effects here, which is you can see some decrease in apoptosis as well. So you can even see some decrease in apoptosis from some of these genes because you're trying to cause the cells to proliferate, so therefore you don't want them to die. And this basically allows for increased survival of these tumor cells and cancer cells. So that's one way that we can think about this. If you increase the number of receptors, basically you're increasing this response. So if a patient already has increased estrogen exposure and you increase the number of receptors, you're facilitating this type of process. You're really amplifying it. And that's going to increase the risk of these cancers becoming pretty, pretty rough. If you have an increased estrogen exposure and a lot of receptors to tolerate that increase, you have a recipe for a lot of proliferation in cells that don't die. Her 2 is actually a little bit more scary though. So this is basically for growth factors. And so her 2, if you have a mutation or you increase the expression of these her 2s, they're supposed to bind on to what's called epidermal growth factors. And so epidermal growth factor can bind on to these her 2 receptors. When they bind on to the her 2 receptors, they activate a bunch of different pathways. I don't really want you to go crazy, but it can activate the jack stat pathway. It can activate the RAS, like MAP kinase pathway. So there's a lot of different pathways, but either way, these are going to be kind of like tyrosine kinase receptors where these epidermal growth factors bind on. Causes the tyrosine residues to get phosphorylated and then activates these pathways. And then these pathways will send signals down to the genes, right? And then whenever you do that, you trigger these cells under proliferation to decrease apoptosis. And on top of that, you want a lot of blood flow. So this can even cause a lot of vascular endothelial growth factor to get released from the cell and cause more blood flow, which can cause that tumor to really get a lot of oxygen nutrients and also to metastasize. So this can also increase angiogenesis. The whole point here is that if you have increased expression of those her 2 receptors, basically you're going to stimulate these receptors more intensely. You're going to increase your intracellular signaling pathway. You're going to really activate these genes to cause proliferation, drop in apoptosis, and increase in angiogenesis. This is going to cause these cells to become super, super, super scary. That's the important thing to remember. So let's say that I take a patient who has breast cancer. We diagnose that from their mammography, maybe a combination of ultrasound. We see that it's a suspicious lesion. We say, OK, we got to go on biopsy. We do a corneal biopsy. When we do that corneal biopsy, we send off that tissue to look at it to see if it's lobular or ductal carcinoma. And if it's other kinds of features like pageants or inflammatory breast cancer, we kind of get to the bottom of the type. And then from there, we also want to know which receptor type is most particularly over-expressed because that determines the way that we'll treat them and also determines their prognosis. So let's say here I took a biopsy and I have these different types of cancers. And what I find is I find that I have my different receptors. I have my estrogen receptor, my progesterone receptor, and my HER2. And let's say for this cancer, it's increasing the expression of your hormone receptors. And so they're positive for the estrogen and progesterone, but they're negative. They're not over-expressing the HER2. This is hormone receptor positive.  cancer. This is a specific type of treatment that will give them things like tamoxifen, aromatase inhibitors, luprolide, CD46K inhibitors, things like that. What if I took another tissue and I biopsied it, looked at the immunofenotyping, and I found that their estrogen receptor really wasn't overexpressed, or progesterone receptor wasn't predominantly overexpressed, but the one that really was is the HER2. If that's the case, this is a HER2 positive cancer. This is a very specific type of treatment. It's more aggressive than this one, and this is going to need something like Tristuzumab and maybe even chemotherapy. The last one, this is the scary one. This is the worst prognosis. What if I look at it? I look at the estrogen receptors, the progesterone receptors, the HER2 receptors, and I want to see which ones are overexpressed, but all of these are not overexpressed. This is called triple negative breast cancer. There's different types here. Again, this is our hormone. This is basically the estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, sensitive. This is our HER2. This one, I really want you to know the name of. This one, we call triple negative breast cancer. This has the worst prognosis, very, very, very aggressive. Usually we see this with the BRCA1, BRCA2, P53 mutations. Very important to remember. The big thing to take away from this is this determines prognosis, but again, it also determines the likelihood of these, or it kind of explains to a degree why these cancers are actually arising. What's actually happening? Well, if you have more receptors, they can bind estrogen, they can bind to growth factors, and they can trigger the proliferation, shut down apoptosis, and get a lot of blood flow to them. That's how you get these cancers. All right. Now that we've really talked about all these different aspects of the pathophysiology and how breast cancer arises, we need to now say, how will they present? Let's do that now. All right. Let's now discuss the classic findings of breast cancer. When we think about breast cancer, funny enough, when you say classic findings, I'd say more often than not, breast cancer is usually asymptomatic. It's found on imaging. So that's why we do screening, is unfortunately, during a screening process, we see, oh, there is an abnormal or suspicious lesion that we found on mammography, or we found on ultrasound. Sometimes though, unfortunately, the breast mass, if it becomes large enough, and it's in the right spot, it can cause symptoms to occur. So what are some of those symptoms that you should be readily thinking of? So one is a breast mass. Now, location wise, we already talked about it. It's usually going to be in the upper outer quadrant. So that's going to be the biggest thing is look for the upper outer quadrant to be one of the locations. So again, we kind of like, we cut the breast into different sections here. And when you do that, you're going to find that the most common location is going to be in this vicinity. Now, another thing that's also really important to remember about this breast mass is that usually it's going to be firm. It's going to be palpable. It's going to be usually, most of the time, painless. And so that's something that you want to be thinking about is when we think about the breast mass, it's usually going to be firm. It'll be palpable, and it'll be painless. The only reason I say that most of the time is that you think about inflammatory breast cancer, usually it's not like a mass. It's the entire breast is enlarged. It's swollen. It's really painful in those patients. The next thing to also consider is that whenever these masses, they start to encroach, right? So they start from a duct, they start from a lobby, or they start to expand and invade. When they do, they can start to invade onto these ligaments. Do you guys know what these ligaments are called from your anatomy? They're called the Cooper's ligaments. And if they can enlarge and they get tethered to those Cooper's ligaments, what can happen is it can cause them to generate a little bit more tension because they kind of get shortened. And if they get shortened, they pull. And when they start to pull, what could this do? Well, this could start retracting on the skin or on the nipple. And so that's what you see here is you see that the Cooper's ligaments, so these are your Cooper's ligaments that are kind of getting tethered by these tumors. And that's causing retraction or pulling of the Cooper's ligaments would try to attract the skin or retract the nipple. And so that's what you could start to see here is you could see retracted skin or a retracted nipple. And I think it's important to understand what these look like. So retracted skin looks like this. And then a retracted nipple looks like this. So if we have a patient coming in, they have a palpable breast mass, they come in with a retracted nipple, retracted skin. These are important things to consider. Now, one other thing that I want to talk about is nipple discharge. I'd say that this is something that you can see. It's not as usually common with truly invasive breast cancer. Sometimes what can happen is you can have an intraductal papilloma. And this can kind of ulcerate and it can cause bleeding here. Or pageant's disease can also present like this. So usually it's bloody nipple discharge. It's oftentimes going to be more likely bloody. So bloody nipple discharge. So bloody discharge is a really, really important one to think about. This is oftentimes seen more likely in a patient who has pageants or an intraductal papilloma. So we can write that down here. Really, you're only going to see this one in two different types. You're going to see it in pageants and they'll also have that associated what? Nipple eczema. That's really, really important to remember. Please don't forget that. And the other one is an intraductal papilloma. We'll talk about this a little bit more when we get into OBGYN and some of the other types of like benign appearing breast masses. Now, if a patient has nipple discharge, definitely be thinking about this one. Pageant's disease a little bit easier because you're going to see that nipple eczema associated around it. And again, if you did the skin biopsy around that area, what would you get? Pageant's cells. Pute orange is going to come up on your exam one way or the other. With this one, it's again, you have that tumor that's occurring here. It's a determinable doctor lobular unit. And then it starts to get these tumor microemboli. And these tumor microemboli start to spread and they get into the lymphatics. And whenever they get to the lymphatics, they cause lymphatic obstruction. When you get lymphatic obstruction, we already kind of talked about this. With that lymphatic obstruction comes a lot of backflow of lymphatic fluid. And when you get that backflow of lymphatic fluid, that's going to cause all this swelling to occur. And this is going to cause a very, very enlarged, erythematous, painful occurrence of the breast tissue. And when you look at it, it can have this orange peel-like appearance. It's kind of like a little dimpling that may be evident there. This is what you would see in inflammatory breast cancer. And it looks like this. So we've seen now that if a patient has this type of appearance, where they have the peel to orange, they have the nipple discharge, they have the breast mass, they have the nipple skin retraction, that's important to remember. But again, what did I tell you? Oftentimes, more than not, the patient will come in asymptomatic, they'll get screening, and we'll find the breast mass. With that being said, when a patient has breast cancer, there's a complications that one needs to think about. And the first thing is lymphadenopathy. That's usually the first place. I mean, come on, imagine here, you have a breast cancer that's occurring in the upper outer region of the breast. What is literally right next to it? The axillary lymph nodes, dude. So these tumors cells can actually spread to the axillary lymph nodes. That's going to be the most common. They can spread to the internal mammary lymph nodes. They can spread to the superclavicular and infraclavicular lymph nodes. But by far, most often, axillary lymph nodes are going to be most often affected. The next one, again, I'd say this is way less likely, but you could see them spreading to the internal mammary lymph nodes. And then another area that they could potentially spread is the clavicular ones. And so you can have two different types here. I'll write them all as though as the kind of like one entity, but it's going to be the supra or infraclavicular. Now, out of these, which one is by far going to be the most common? It's going to be the axillary lymph nodes. Now, these can become enlarged, right? So a patient may present with a breast mass, maybe some nipple skin retraction, but then what's the next thing that you want to look for? Look in the axilla to see if there's any large palpable, firm, and usually painless lymph nodes. That's something that you definitely want to be assessing for. And if that happens, that's really, really important because it determines the staging. And it's also really important to know that if you have axillary lymph nodes that are getting hit and involved and they're getting enlarged, you want to know if they're mobile or if they're fixed. And so because the reason why is this kind of also adds to prognosis and staging. So you have to ask yourself the question, is it mobile? That means it's not really as bad, right? Or is it fixed? So that's also really, really, really kind of helpful in thinking about that. So now that we have lymphenopathy is a really, really important thing. This is usually the first area where a cancer can start to metastasize. Other areas of like distant and usually hematogenous metastasis is going to be the brains, bone, liver, and the lungs. So let's say here you have a cancer and again, what's the most common type? It's usually going to be ductile. That's going to be the most common type. And it's going to invade past the basement membrane and it's going to start seeding. When this cancer starts seeding, so here we're just taking a kind of zoomed in look at this cancer. You see how it broke past the basement membrane and it's starting to seed these cells, these cancerous malignant cells into the bloodstream. And from here, they're going to go all over the place, man. These things are just going to go haywire. One area that they're going to go is the brain. When they get to the brain, this is something unfortunately as working in a neuro ICU, you have seen a lot, is that these masses, they get into the brain and they can definitely cause what we would say is brain mets. But one of the big issues with these is that sometimes they can bleed. So you can get the risk of this mass bleeding kind of around that vicinity. So some of the things that I've usually seen with these brain mets from breast cancer or renal cell carcinoma or lung cancer or melanoma or thyroid cancer is that they can bleed. And so one thing that you could see is a mass and these masses do have the potential to do a couple different things. One is they can bleed and they can become an intracranial hemorrhage. Another thing is that usually these masses can be near the cortex and so they alter the cortical activity. So they increase the risk of seizures and also they increase your intracranial pressure. So these are the things that you get worried about when you have this mass that's kind of like in these areas is you can get an ICH, right? You can get seizures or you can get a bump in the intracranial pressure. And so seizures are obviously pretty simple to see how they would present. ICH they could present with focal neural deficits and headache and increased ICP they can present with headache, nausea, vomiting. So these are definitely things to be thinking about. Also they could present with focal neural deficits too. And so you can see how this can become problematic when you have what we refer to as brain mets. Now these are pretty sad and oftentimes we'll find this of a patient has breast cancer and they present with headache, nausea, vomiting, blurred vision, they present with seizures, they present with a bleed and therefore present with focal neural deficits or let's just add this on it's confining an area where normal tissue is supposed to be and you can get focal neural deficits. If they present with these symptoms you need to get imaging. And so what we would oftentimes do is we would say oh this is definitely not normal we need to proceed with a brain MRI with contrast. Find that mass and say oh dang it it's metastasized to the brain and that changes the management. Another thing is that these tumor cells, these dang pesky tumor cells, they can get into the bone. When you get bone mets the problem with this is is they like to activate you know these cells here what are these cells here these are your bone eating cells what are these called your osteoclasts right so these are called your osteoclasts. These cells will activate the osteoclasts they can see create osteoclasts activating factor they can do a lot of different things there may be other kind of cytokines but these osteoclasts will start chewing away at the bone and when they chew away at the bone they liberate calcium and they lead to lesions and so you can get these things called lidic lesions and you can also get hypercalcemia and so that's another thing that you want to be watching out for is does the patient have any hypercalcemia do they have the presence of lidic lesions. So with lidic lesions they can present a couple different ways one of the concerns is that with lidic lesions what can they do well if that happens to a bone and you start eating away at the bone you're going to cause pain right so that's a couple ways that they can present one is they can present with pain bone pain another thing is that this bone now is eaten apart and you got chunks missing out of this dude you know it could fracture dude it could fracture so you can get pathological fractures the other concern is that if these lidic lesions are near the vertebrae so a really scary area is when you get what's called spinal met and these spinal mints give you like these lidic lesions these dudes man they cause pain obviously but one of the concerning signs is that if it's enough in that area that it can start to compress on the spinal cord so that's where I usually would get worried is the spinal cord compression so you could have a patient coming in and they're presenting signs are going to be you know that they have weakness in their lower extremities they have urinary incontinence or they have fecal incontinence they have loss of sensation down there and so these are definitely concerning features from these these lidic lesions so that's something I would want to watch out for as a patient presenting with a lot of bone pain they're presenting with history of pathological fractures I get imaging I see spinal mats or I see lesions all over the dang place or they come in and they present with like a caudoquina syndrome kind of thing that's scary another thing I would also consider is that whenever you break down bone and you get a lot of bone cell turnover there's an enzyme that's released this is called alkaline phosphatase and so that's another one where if you have alkylphos that's really really elevated in combination with calcium you can think about a malignancy there as well but if I see the presence of these bone mats then usually what you got to do is you got to go as far as to say okay I need to consider for this patient I got to go far and really evaluate them with what's called a bone scan so then I got to get a bone scan and sometimes we'll just get like a CT scan of their chest abdomen and pelvis and you'll probably find these lidic lesions by doing that work up now if these puppies metastasize to the lungs you know then you get these kind of lesions that occur usually near like the the bronchi and stuff like that and in some of the lung tissue near the periphery like near the pleura and so oftentimes if it's near like the bronchi you can kind of compress on the bronchus and so you know these symptoms are usually super vague but you can get things like cough and dyspnea so that could be one thing I'd say the the other thing is that if a patient keeps getting pleural effusions so you get inflammation right or this deposition near the this malignancy near the pleura you can definitely cause increased capillary permeability here and so this can definitely cause pleural effusions pretty like recurrent ones so pleural effusions and a patient who has like underlying history of breast cancer I definitely consider has it spread and so usually for this we'd have to go as far as to say okay we got to look for this let's get a chest CT really to find this and then finally these these dang pesky tumor cells man these little puppies they can deposit here and they can get all up in the liver all up in that sun gun and when they do that it usually doesn't do too much it may make the liver a little bit bigger maybe a little bit of a pattern of megalithia but oftentimes they're not really symptomatic if it is big enough and if it's affecting liver tissue sometimes you may see a bump in their LFTs but I'd say that that's not always going to be the case it may be a little bit mild bump in the LFTs but oftentimes I'm telling you you get an imaging for one of these things because usually what happens is for this you get like a CT of the chest abdomen pelvis and you may find these you know these lesions here so this is where you may progress and say okay let me get a CT of the abdomen and pelvis so the whole point here is like looking for metastasis and we don't order these tests unless they present with symptoms because it's unnecessary just like for axillary lymph node involvement guess what the only way that we truly want to know is if they have lymph node involvement is we biopsy that and so usually what happens is we'll talk about this a little bit later we can do something for these patients called sentinel lymph node biopsies and so for example if I have an axillary lymph node that I'm really really concerned is is really it's inflamed it's bigger it's larger sometimes what we can do is and we'll talk about this we do something called we'll do what's called a sentinel lymph node biopsy so there's two different types you can do what's called a sentinel lymph node biopsy or an axillary lymph node dissection to really see if these axillary lymph nodes have a lot of tumor cells in them all right so these are the things that we'll talk about as we get into our diagnostics which is super crucial so let's do that now and really say how do I put all of this together how do I really look for those patients who are high risk and screen before they have these symptoms or these classic findings what if I have a person who comes in with classic findings or complications how do I really get to the diagnosis of it once I've diagnosed it how do I know the receptor types how do I know what to do with these patients and how do I stage them that's what we got to talk about all right my friends let's move into the diagnostic approach now so we got to put everything together everything we talk about on the whiteboard let's really have a good way of summarizing it so the first thing you always got to be getting a history and physical you got to ask the good questions you want to know particular things because it determines their risk so you're going to be on the computer you're going to be plugging these things in you want to know okay do you have any family history of breast cancer oh you do okay cool um do you have any personal history of breast cancer okay let's put that down as another risk factor okay do you have any bracket mutations we see this a lot in the Ashkenazi Jewish population right that's another potential risk factor did you have an early menstrual cycle oh you did okay did you have late menopause all right it's another one and then the other thing is that if you ever had a baby no all right so null parity that also adds risk and so there's all these different things that become a big big ball of risk that we plug into something called the tyrolyphusic score and it spits out a number or percentage and tells us where the patient falls if they're average or high risk so that's one thing we have to think about the physical exam is going to be key obviously the patient we should be in examining themselves if they notice any kind of abnormalities they should come to a doctor and say hey this is what I'm noticing when you physically evaluate them do you see or palpate a breast mass do you see any nipple or skin retraction anywhere in the vicinity of that mass is there any discharge that's either intermittent or while you're there do you notice any diffusorathema edema hot tender those could be a potentially mastitis so then what you do is you start them on antibiotic they don't get better oh could this be inflammatory breast cancer that's a classic clinical vignette and do they have any nipple eczema that just doesn't seem to go away that could be pageant's disease right so these are all things that you're thinking about so what you want to know is does their physical exam suggest any classic presentation clues if it does and they have any of the things that we just talked about you go straight to diagnostic imaging you're trying to figure out is there a lesion that supports these symptoms if they're less than 30 because of the more density of the breast tissue the likelihood of seeing cysts or fibroidonomous probably better to go with the targeted breast ultrasound but if they're 30 or plus that if you can get enough primarily with a diagnostic mammogram and you could consider agon adding in a targeted breast ultrasound as well but again less than 30 ultrasound greater than equal to 30 it's going to be a diagnostic mammoth that's the way I want you guys to think about this for the exam now if a patient does not have symptoms but they have all those big risk factors and you plug it into the tyroquusic assessment and it spits out a percentage that's high greater than equal to 20 percent that's a high risk patient man we gotta we gotta do something where we gotta do screening mammograms to see if we can find these masses but we want to go a little bit better and so we're gonna add in a breast MRI and that's really only for your high risk patients and then on top of that we're gonna screen them per guidelines which is it's going to be earlier than most patients and it's going to be more frequently than most average risk patients now if they fall within the average risk of less than 20 percent we just do a screening mammogram we don't need the MRI and we can do things a little bit differently we don't need to screen them every single year for a long time so let's discuss what these screening guidelines truly mean so it's funny enough in 2024 I think it was like late maybe not it was either September October the USPSTF actually came out with new guidance it used to be 50 to 75 years of age we'd screen them every two years and then stop at greater than 75 now it changed and so now they're going earlier so this is the most commonly tested one is USPSTF they say 40 to 75 stop at greater than 75 and do it every two years ACS is kind of stuck with their guidelines that you go 45 to 54 every year so it'll be aggressive up front and then once we get to greater than 55 we'll go to every two years and you stop when you think that less than 10 years of life is expected in that patient obviously this could be based upon just if they're an 85-year-old patient can they still get breast cancer yeah but do they also have congestive heart failure do they have other potential things that are going on that potentially could shorten their lifespan and it's not going to make truly that much of a difference all right then we probably shouldn't even do any of these assessments because we're going to find something and then do nothing about and and then just kind of expose them to unnecessary risk and that's why we kind of stop at that age range now high risk we got to be aggressive we got to catch this thing early so we do MRIs breast MRIs at like 25 years of age and then once it gets to 30 we do add on the mammogram and that's why I want you guys to remember we're doing this every single year so the big numbers is USPSTF 40 to 75 stop at greater than 75 every two years high risk breast MRI at 25 annually once you get to 30 add in the mammogram annually all right now from here the next thing is once we've found these lesions let's say that we get the mammogram we get the MRI we get the ultrasound they show some concerning findings usually a buy rad scores always reported by a radiologist on these and so a buy rads of zero probably just means it was like not conclusive wasn't a good image you should probably just repeat it usually when you get to like one to three it's like yeah it's likely but not but it does carry a risk of malignancy probably just screen them a little like scan them again a little bit and like maybe six months three months if it's really concerning but if it's greater than or equal to four that's high risk of malignancy and you can't ignore that you can't just like wait and say hey we'll come back we'll screen you in a little bit later no you got a biopsy this right so if you see things like on the ultrasound where you see I'd appreciate here a hypocholic lesion next to the nipple and then down here we're actually kind of taking a better look at it you can see this is a little bit more concerning this is definitely an ultrasound that shows a kind of hypocholic lesion that could be suspicious for breast mass especially a malignant one and then here we can appreciate in the MRI you can see that kind of like this coin shaped lesion pretty bright opacity that you can appreciate that's pretty suspicious as well so if they reported that this would come out as a greater than or equal to four then you got to go to the next step which is biopsy in that mass so you're going to do a coronetal biopsy the benefit of this is going to tell you the type of breast cancer that we discussed is an invasive ductal carcinoma lobular carcinoma ductal carcinoma and situ inflammatory breast cancer pageant cells do they have estrogen receptor progression receptor over expression do they have her to over expression do they have no expression all of these things come into play when you get that coronetal biopsy so that's why it's so clutch so you're going to go ahead do an ultrasound find it over the mass once you find the mass you're going to stick a needle down and take out a chunk of that tissue that you're going to send off to histopathology pathologist is going to take his you know things you're going to look under his oh yeah okay I see everything it is going to be if it's a tumor confined to the ducts and hasn't broken past the basement membrane that's dcis right ductal carcinoma and situ if it's in the ducts and then it's actually broken outside of the basement membrane then that's an invasive ductal carcinoma this is the most common 80% of the time it's this one if it's in the lobules and it's broken past that then that's when we get the lobular carcinoma and situ right but here we can appreciate before we actually do that look you can see here here's going to be the duct you can see a mass confined to that kind of extending outside of it and here's the lobules right so this is going to be the invasive ductal carcinoma and the next one was again if you see it in the lobules invading the basement membrane that's invasive lobular carcinoma so I'd expect it to be in one of these guys and so here you can see it's kind of like enlarged there all right next one is if I see tumor cells that are in the dermal lymphatics is kind of spread throughout the chest wall the skin the dermal lymphatics this is pretty much like pathodontics for somewhat for the inflammatory breast cancer so kind of you know showing this is kind of indicative of that and the last one is if it's kind of confined to the nipple the skin the areolar area that we do biops and we found these things called pageant cells that'd be concerning for pageant's disease of the nipple all right so these are ways that we can determine and kind of the the overall type of breast cancer but that's not always like super helpful what is helpful is the immunohistochemistry so I want to look at the tissue cells in that tumor and say hey what kind of receptors are they overexpressing and so if I see estrogen receptor progesteral receptors that are really really overexpressed but not any HER2 that's hormone receptor positive breast cancer so ERPR positive breast cancer if I see that they have no ERPR positive but they have lots of HER2 expression that's HER2 positive breast cancer the reason why this is so important to remember is because this is different therapies we can do tamoxifen if they're premenopausal we can do aromatase inhibitors if they're postmenopausal if they're getting really towards the like end stages where they're getting really really bad like stage four we can add on things so we can do things like adding on CD4, K4, 6 inhibitors which I'll talk to you guys a little bit about we can do LH, RH, agonist like luprolide so there is alternative options here that we'll discuss when it comes to HER2 we really only have one drug and that's Tristuzumab you can do chemotherapy sometimes but Tristuzumab is going to be the one that they'll test you on the exam so you see HER2 anywhere I think Tristuzumab now ERPR negative and HER2 negative tells me that none of the receptors all three of these receptors are negative that's called triple negative breast cancer this is a very aggressive one HER2 positive breast cancer and triple negative breast cancer have a very high risk of recurrence they're aggressive they're nasty ones so we just really want to be able to identify that now if a patient has breast cancer and they're pretty young less than 45 that brings about a concern of like them having a genetic you know susceptibility to this like a BRCA or a TP53 mutation like leaf or mini syndrome if they have triple negative breast cancer that also carries the risk of a BRCA mutation of some type of like genetic problem and I think a really big one is a strong family history right so strong family history where multiple first-degree relatives or relatives in that kind of like chain or generation have recurrent episodes or episodes of breast cancer so that's something I would actually go ahead and get genetic studies for I would test for BRCA1 and BRCA2 I would test to see if they're coming back positive the reason why is not only do these carry the risk of breast cancer they carry the risk of ovarian cancer as well a lot of patients will talk about later they may elect if they know that they have these to do a bilateral mastectomy to remove the breast and a bilateral subhingal ovarectomy to remove the ovaries just because they want to reduce their risk completely of developing breast and ovarian cancer if they have the TP53 mutation that could suggest leaf or mini syndrome we see that these patients have risk of not just breast cancer but like lymphoma leukemia they have adrenal cortical carcinomas they have sarcomas and so these are really really important to remember as well a lot of times we can even do these things called an oncotype it's a little bit beyond the scope of like what you'll need to know for the step two but the oncotype diagnosis can kind of help us to guide how we'll treat patients with adjuvant chemotherapy and so it really kind of helps us to say okay we should we should kind of modify our therapy plan because their oncotype diagnosis diagnosis tells us this now either way after we've done genetic testing it's just telling us is there hereditary is there a familiar is there a genetic potential cause to this that I need to address that's what it's going to tell me but from here I've diagnosed breast cancer I've determined the type of breast cancer I've determined the receptor type of breast cancer I've taken the time to consider could there be a genetic cause to this patient's breast cancer what's the next thing to determine what's the stage of the breast cancer and so the first thing I got to do is go back to my imaging and assess the tumor size and look at the T for the T and m staging is it less than two centimeters that's T1 that doesn't necessarily determine the stage but it helps us is it two to five that's T2  is it potentially greater than 5 centimeters? That's T3. And then lastly is it invaded the chest wall, the skin. And that's T4. And this is all really helpful because it's gonna come into play at the end to tell us what type of stage this patient falls in. All right, so here we can have a less than 2 centimeter. Here's 2 to 5, here's greater than 5, and here we got a decent sized mass, but it's kind of all over the place. And the chest wall and the skin, that's something that we gotta think about. Now, from here, we've determined the size. Next thing we need to know is the lymph nodes. Are any of the lymph nodes enlarged? Or they have lymph adenopathy? Because if you can palpate those, great. If you can't, you don't know that those tumor cells haven't spread from the breast to the axillary or the clivicular nodes yet. And so what we'll do is we'll do something called a sentinel lymph node biopsy. We often do this during a lumpectomy. So we're in there, we're cutting out the tumor, and then what we'll get ready to do is we'll say, okay, here's the tumor. What I wanna do is I wanna take a radiotracer dye and inject it into the tumor and see which lymph nodes it goes to. And I wanna take that lymph node, right? So I'm gonna inject it in, I'm gonna see where the radiotracer goes. Okay, it goes into these lymph nodes. Let me test these lymph nodes. And then what I wanna know is, do any of the lymph nodes have tumor cells in them? Because if they do, that's concerning. But I need to have a specific number. And if it's three or more of those lymph nodes that are just infiltrated with tumor cells, aw, shoot, son. We gotta cut these puppies out. So we gotta do an axillary lymph node dissection. So again, no nodes that are palpated, sentinel lymph node biopsy, usually done during the lumpectomy. Inject it, see where it goes, test it. Oh, we got tumor. Boom, we gotta cut them out. Especially if there's three or more. The next thing is if they do have palpable nodes, you probably wanna test those to make sure that they're actually consistent with breast cancer. And they don't have some kind of other cause. And so we'll actually do a core needle biopsy on those and see if they come back with tumor cells. What you wanna know is how many kind of nodes are being involved. And so the way that we kinda do this is we say, do they have one to three axillary nodes involved? This is very arbitrary, but if they do, it's called N1. Do they have potentially four plus axillary nodes involved? That's N2. And the last one is we say, do they have any clavicular nodes, like super clavicular, infraclavicular nodes involved? Okay, that's N3. And the reason why is we've now developed the T, we've got the N, the last part is the M. And so from here, all I wanna know is, is there distant metastasis. Has this cancer gotten through the bloodstream and spread to the other areas? Like the brain, the lungs, the adrenal glands, the bone, that's what I wanna know. And so we often look for symptoms. So do they have a headache? Do they have focal neural deficits on one potential side? Do they have a new onset seizure? You gotta get a brain MRI, man. You gotta look to see, do they have a mass? And if you see something like this, you're like, ah! You got brain mets all over the place, man. This is something that would be very, very concerning for a metastatic disease. And that would probably be in this case, in this patient scenario, from their primary breast tumor. The next thing is if they have presentation of bone pain and maybe some pathological fractures, you check their calcium levels through the roof because they're having lots of osteolysis. You check their out-foss, that's high because there's lots of bone cell turnover. Maybe the tumor even got near the spinal cord and it's extra-dural and it's mashing on the spinal cord and they got some neuro deficits or they have some weakness, some peristegias, they have fecal urinary incontinence. These are all things that we gotta be concerned about. So we get bone scans oftentimes. And look to see, do we see any big radio tracer uptake? Oh yeah, I got multiple areas here in the spine that it's getting taken up from. And that's another common area that the breast cancers like to go to, to the bone. All right, a paddle megalee increased LFTs. This is something that's probably not often you're gonna see. It's probably incidental that you're getting a CT scan for the patient of their chest, maybe their abdomen, their pelvis, and you happen to find some hepatic lesions that could be present. But if they do complain of like right upper quadruped pain, their liver feels a little enlarged, you're getting some baseline labs and you find that their LFTs are bumped, I would get the CT abdomen pelvis and see if you find any hepatic mets. This is a really big one to find as well. All right, and the last one is do they have any cough, dyspnea, recurrent pleural effusions that just you keep tapping and draining and it's not getting better? That's something I'd be really, really concerned about, especially even like homoptysis too, about getting a CT chest to see if they got any mets that spread from their primary breast cancer to their lungs, all right? This is a really big one. You can see they got tons of these all over the place. All right, so these are all really things that make me think about metastatic breast cancer. So we've determined the type of breast cancer, we even diagnosed breast cancer based off the coronetal biopsy, we determined the type and we determined the receptor type off of that. We then looked at the size of it based upon the T, we then looked if there's any node involvement and I can really do that by palpating if I have palpable ones, biopsy, those of I don't have them sent in a lymph node biopsy, and then scans based upon symptoms to see if it's spread. From here now, I've determined the T and M stage. So it's kind of like take and put this all together. If I really say that a patient has ductal carcinoma and situ or there's stage zeroes, which we kind of say, then the tumor is not really something that you're looking at the size of it, you're looking to see if it's confined to the ducts. If it is, that's ductal carcinoma and situ. But stage one, that tumor size usually less than or equal to two centimeters. So that would be consistent with this one. The node involvement though, you shouldn't see really any node involvement with stage zero or stage one. So they're not gonna have any node involvement. If we go to stage two, now let's think about it, what's the next size, two to five. So now we got a tumor that's about two to five centimeters. Do we have any node involvement? Well, it could. And usually at this one, it's about one to three axillary nodes that are usually involved. If I have that, that's N1, right? And that's gonna be suggestive of stage two. When I get to stage three, this could be greater than five centimeters, right? Or it could be a tumor that's invaded the skin, the chest wall, it's more diffuse. That's very common of inflammatory breast cancer. Nodes, well now we gotta go N0 and N1, guess what N2 is? N2 is if they're getting to like, greater than or equal to four axillary lymph nodes. Or any clavicular nodes, right? So we can have an N2 and an N3 here. That's gonna be your stage three. Stage four is really easy. And the reason why is any of these, stage zero, one, two, three, they shouldn't have any distant metastasis. But guess what stage four has? Stage four, we don't care really what size it is if they had node involvement. That doesn't matter as much. What matters is did it spread to a distant organ. And so that's why I want you to think about these breast cancers again. If it's less than or equal to two and they have no node involvement, that could be stage one. If it's two to five, one to three nodes, that's gonna be stage two. If it's five centimeters or greater or it's invading the skin in the chest wall and they have any kind of N2 and three multiple, four plus axillary nodes, clavicular nodes, it's stage three. And lastly, if they have distant metastasis, it's instant stage four. This is the one that you can probably get tested on because it's the one that's pretty obvious, all right? Now, really, really important node because this is another thing that I'd like to do is because when you think about inflammatory breast cancer, it is a tumor that usually is diffuse. It's widespread and involves the skin, the dermal lymphatics, lots of different parts of the chest wall and the breast. So whenever a patient has inflammatory breast cancer on diagnosis, it's stage three, always. Make sure that you remember that. Inflammatory breast cancer is always stage three upon diagnosis. All right, so we've diagnosed breast cancer. At this point, we then need to say, how do we treat it? Well, there's so many different therapies and oftentimes we can look at this a couple of different ways and we'll put it together at the end. So targeted therapies, you're looking at really trying to target estrogen is really the key thing. Tamoxifen is a really beneficial one, especially in those who are premenopausal. And so the concept behind this is that when a patient has androgens, right? Androgens usually can get converted into estrogen and this is gonna be helpful to remember because estrogen, then what it does is, it actually binds on to a receptor, right? And this is usually inside of the cell. So this is actually the plasma membrane, this is gonna be the nucleus. There's gonna be a receptor, probably intranuclear receptor, or at least some type of intracylic receptor for estrogen. It's gonna bind on to that estrogen receptor. What it's gonna do then is it's gonna help to activate a specific cyclin enzyme, cyclin D1. When it activates this enzyme, that then is gonna be really, really important because it couples with another one called CDK, cyclin dependent kinase 4-6, who then phosphorylates other different types of proteins. One of them is called RB, retinoblastoma protein. When it phosphorylates this protein, that protein gets rid of E2F. E2F is a very powerful transcription factor that stimulates the cell cycle to undergo the proliferative phase, to go from G1 to Gs, I mean to G1 to S to G2, and to go through mitosis and to split and make a cell. So it's gonna trigger that cell proliferation response. When you give a drug like Tamoxifen or even one like Rheloxaphen, what they do is they block the estrogen receptor. So if estrogen is present, it's blocking it. That blocks the cyclin D1 signaling. That blocks this phosphorylation reaction. This blocks this transcription factor from triggering the cell cycle, and now you're not gonna have that cell proliferation. Aromatase inhibitors, which are commonly utilized in post-menopausal women. So these here are gonna be beneficial because what they're going to do is they're going to shut down this pathway. So aromatase inhibitors are gonna be things like letrasol and nastrasol, and they're going to inhibit the conversion of androgens into estrogen. That means less estrogen to bind onto the estrogen receptor. That means less of that cyclin D1 pathway. That means less phosphorylation. That means less E2F release. That means less of this cell proliferation. So this is gonna be something I really need you guys to remember. Really important for you guys to remember these. Now, what do we use them for? Again, we use them in patients who have ERPR positive breast cancer. They have lots of estrogen receptors, progesterone receptors that they're very sensitive to, and you're gonna try to block that pathway. Another thing to think about is we can use this in chemo prevention. So patients who have a high risk of breast cancer, they get that greater than or equal to 20% thyroid cues score. We could actually put them on this because it may slow the progression of that disease. So that's something that we can think about and slow the risk of it actually causing high estrogen exposure leading to cell proliferation, leading to the risk of mutation and malignant transformation. So that's why we can consider these, especially again, sticking with the pre-menopausal and post-menopausal separations. CDK4-6 inhibitors, you can imagine where that's gonna go. That's gonna go right here, right? This is gonna be, I wouldn't even try to say this name. I can't even say the name thing, but, palbocyclib, all right? So these ones, you're not gonna be tested too often on them. Often if you get a name like this, you're probably gonna see more likely the drug category, the CDK4-6 inhibitors. But these are gonna be drugs that I want you guys to remember particularly as an add-on. And what they're gonna do is they're gonna inhibit the CDK4 and 6. And when they inhibit this enzyme, that's going to inhibit the phosphorylation process. If you don't phosphorylate retinoblastoma, you don't release the E2F, you don't then trigger the cell proliferation. So you stop and stunt that cell proliferation process. All right, so these are drugs that I think are usually good as an add-on. All right, so if a patient has a metastatic ERP or positive breast cancer, this is one that you would add on. Usually you add it on to an aromatase inhibitor, all right? So if a patient has metastatic breast cancer that's ERP or positive, we'll put them on letrosol, which you can see here to block this pathway. And we'll put them on CDK4 and 6 inhibitors, which are going to inhibit this pathway. And that kind of provides a mutually benefited action. Now, one other important note that I didn't mention is relaxaphing. It also is mentioned in the textbooks that relaxaphing can be used as a chemo-preventative agent, but we use it as an alternative to aromatase inhibitors and post-menopausal women, not pre-menopausal. Tamoxifen is the only one for chemo-prevention pre-menopausal, aromatase inhibitors, and relaxaphing, which has the same mechanism as tamoxifen, which is kind of interesting, is going to be for post-menopausal women, chemo-prevention. All right, so that covers this. So again, we got all of these drugs and how they work in this process. These two, ERP or positive breast cancer, chemo-prevention, this one, add on to the aromatase inhibitor and the metastatic ERP or positive breast cancer. And relaxaphing can be an alternative to this guy and post-menopausal women who you want chemo-prevention. Now, LHRH agonist, this is gonna be things like loop relied. It's also good in ERP or positive breast cancer. Again, usually patients who have that high risk and again, they're pre-menopausal. So this is something that I would add to tamoxifen. So pre-menopausal, tamoxifen. So this would be an add-on if they're really at that ERP or positive breast cancer. High risk and the pre-menopausal, I'll add this one on to tamoxifen. The concept behind this one's actually kind of interesting. So here you have the hypothalamus and make something called GnRH. GnRH then stimulates the pituitary gland to make something called luteinizing hormone, which goes to the testes and males and triggers testosterone production, which then goes to the prostate where it can be converted to UV into what's called DHT and DHT is really helpful for the prostate growth, right? The other one is gonna be follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone. And these really go to the ovaries where they'll stimulate the ovaries to make things like estrogen and progesterone. But estrogen is the primary one. And then estrogen will go to the breast and the breast is gonna be really, really critical here, right? So whenever you give someone what's called an LHRH agonist, you're acting like GnRH. Another name for this is a GnRH agonist. And so what it's gonna do is it's going to stimulate the pituitary gland to increase the production of luteinizing hormone, to increase the production of FSH and LH. When you do that, and we're focusing here on the female side, it's going to then tell the ovary to increase the production of estradiol. And in males, it would increase the production of testosterone. The whole point here is that in this scenario, it's gonna create a high level which creates a negative feedback mechanism. The reason why this is in both is because you can use this drug in prostate cancer and in breast cancer. Because it's gonna shut down these hormonal pathways. It's like a chemical castration for males. And it's basically shutting down the estrogen pathway in females in a sense. So now watch what happens. When they're elevated, it's going to then do negative feedback and shut down that pathway. Negative feedback, shut down that pathway. So now that you've done that, what's gonna happen to the luteinizing hormone in the FSH levels? It should drop. And if they drop, what happens to the testosterone in males and the estradiol in females? It drops. If your estradiol levels drop, what's that gonna do? It's gonna cause less proliferation in the breast, less chance of that tumor getting any worse and bigger. That's the benefit of this. And it's the same thing for males who have prostate cancer. If they have really, really advanced prostate cancer, we'll put them on LHRH agonists. Because what it's gonna do is it's gonna shut down the testosterone and that's gonna reduce the recurrent and consistent growth of that tumor. While we also consider other therapies for that patient. Usually in states like where they're not metastatic, radical prostatectomies is usually the option. All right. So that's what I want you guys to think about here is again, LHRH agonists is an add-on to tamoxifen in certain cases like ERPR positive breast cancer. Tristuzumab, the big thing is just you hear this, you gotta think HER2 positive breast cancer. HER2 positive breast cancer, we're giving Tristuzumab. The concept behind this is here you have a breast cancer cell and you have a HER2 receptor. When this thing's active, it's sending tons and tons of different pathways to cause cell replication. So many. Your goal is to give a drug that blocks that receptor. And by doing that, what you're hopefully doing is you're basically telling these receptors to get internalized and get broken down. So now you have less of them exposed. You're also gonna stimulate apoptotic pathway so that the cell can die. And then on top of that, you're also going to shut down the cell replication process so that that breast cancer cell stops continuing to grow. So you're either going to lower the receptors, kill the cell or stop it from continuously replicating. That's the draw of Tristuzumab. Now, Pembrolizumab is another one that we can consider. It's usually in triple negative breast cancer. So we'll check the PDL1 and see if they have that high PDL1 kind of activity. And that's really gonna play a big role in how we're going to treat this patient, right? So Pembrolizumab is really gonna be something that we give chemotherapy and Pembrolizumab for triple negative breast cancer. Now, Pembrolizumab is kind of cool. It's an immune checkpoint inhibitor. So here let's say you have a tumor cell and here's a T cell. T cells will interact with tumor cells via a T cell receptor. And on the tumor cell, they should have an MHC complex that expresses an antigen. Now what happens is this T cell, it wants to be active and it wants to start killing this tumor cell that appears that it's abnormal or foreign. But what happens is the tumor cells express something called PDL1. And if that PDL1 interacts with the PD1 that's present on the T cell, it shuts the T cell down and it can't kill that tumor cell. What I wanna do is I wanna give something that either binds to one of these two and so that they can't interact with one another and it can't shut down the T cell, keeps the T cell active and that T cell is gonna start fucking beating the snot out of the tumor cell. And so that's what we do. We give a drug that binds to the PD1. It's an anti-PD1 inhibitor. It's Pembrolizumab. When it binds, these two can interact. T cells like, all right, Floyd Monday made the weather's in the house, but boom! And it's going to explode this cell, right? So that's the concept I want you guys to remember. Now, PARP inhibitors is not a common one that we actually talk about much for the exams. All I really want you to know is we really only give it in patients who have BRCA positive breast cancer. Concept behind this is that usually with these patients who have breast cancer or any kind of person who gets cancer, there's always a risk that they have breakage in the DNA and they have to repair it. And if they don't repair it or if there's a problem with that, you're gonna have issues. BRCA plays a really, really big role in repair. So if you get a single-stranded DNA break, PARP enzymes are supposed to come in and help to repair that. Well, if I give a drug that then, let's say, we get a break, PARP is supposed to come in, but I give a PARP inhibitor that comes in and blocks that. Can I allow me to fix that single-stranded break? No, so then guess what ends up happening? You end up with double-stranded DNA breaks. This is even more catastrophic. Because what happens here is that if a patient did have normal mismatch repair genes or they had DNA repair genes and they could fix a lot of this kind of issue, then cool. We'll be okay and the cell will survive. If they have good BRCA genes, they don't have mutations in them, right? So if they have the ability to cause what's called homologous recombination repair, then they'll be okay. The cell will survive. But if they don't have the ability because they have mutations in their BRCA1 and BRCA2, guess what? They can't do that homologous recombination repair. And then that leads to death of the cell in this case. So that's what I want you guys to remember here is that we're giving something to hopefully kill that cell who doesn't have that ability to fix the DNA. All right? And that's when we give this to a patient who has metastatic breast cancer with BRCA1, BRCA2 mutations. Now chemotherapy is something that we give to these patients as well. And it's usually neo-adjuvant, meaning that we give it before a particular therapy like surgery or even before radiation therapy. And that's usually stage three breast cancer. And because you want to try to shrink the tumor the best that you can before you go to do the surgery. Adjuvant chemo-therapies, you're doing it after a particular set of therapy. So you're doing it after surgery, after radiation therapy, maybe even in combination with targeted therapies. You're doing this in patients who have breast cancer that got treated with a lumpectomy or a mastectomy, radiation therapy. And they're on a targeted therapy, but they have a high risk of recurrence. And you want to try to kill some of those, like micrometastases, kill some of those remaining cells, tumor cells to prevent recurrence. This is usually any patient with triple negative breast cancer, any patient with HER2 positive breast cancer, you're giving them adjuvant chemotherapy. All right? Now, the specific agents I don't think are super critical, but they are going to be kind of things like anthracyl cleans, like doxorubicin or taxanes, like passothaxyl. All right? So these are things that I want you guys to consider as neo-adjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy. It'll all come together because we're going to put all of this together in a nice table. The next thing is surgical intervention. Obviously, this is the best case scenario for anything from like, you know, stage zero. So ductal carcinoma and cytotin, all the way up to like stage two. We can kind of like cure this with minimal kind of invasive strategies. So what's called a lumpectomy. And so it's going to cut tissue, but it's not going to cut out the entire breast. It's breast conserving. And this is really good for ductal carcinoma in situ or stage one and two breast cancer. Because you're finding where the tumor is, you're going to make an incision, you're going to pull out that tumor and you're going to suture it up. Done. That would be the best case scenario. But if you get to where it's a bigger tumor, it's more involved, it's getting into the, you know, a little bit more diffuse, then we might have to unfortunately go to a mastectomy. All right. And so that's when we get into like usually stage three. Stage three breast cancer, we're probably going to the route of a mastectomy unless you still can conserve it. Usually if you get like a diffuse tumor that's all over the place, are a really, really big one, there's not much to conserve. Especially in these kinds of scenarios where they have lots of node involvement too. You may just have to go the route of doing mastectomy. All right. And these could be like you're just cutting out the actual breast tissue itself and leaving the nodes. Or it could be very radical and you're cutting out the breast tissue and cutting out the nodes and even some of the muscle tissue. And then there's even a nipple sparing mastectomy where you can still kind of do like a total mastectomy, but you're just sparing the nipple tissue itself. So these are different ways that we can try to cut out the tumor and also just reduce any kind of remaining tumor that resides after that. So that's our goal in stage three. Now bilateral mastectomy sounds pretty aggressive, but we do consider this as a prophylactic option and patients who have BRCA1, BRCA2 mutations, you can do a bilateral mastectomy because yeah, you do carry that risk. And so cutting them would definitely reduce that risk, but you also have the risk of ovarian cancer. And so these patients also consider opting for a bilateral supengle opherectomy where they remove the breast and then with the supengle opherectomy, they remove the ovaries and the fallopian tubes to reduce the entire risk of ovarian cancer as well. So that's kind of the really, really aggressive route that some patients will go if they have BRCA1, BRCA2 mutations. Now we talked a little bit about sentinel lymph node biopsies that it's in the diagnostic section where if a patient doesn't have palpable nodes, we're going and doing a lumpectomy. During that process, we're also doing a sentinel lymph node biopsy to see if some of the tumor cells spread to the nearby nodes that we don't see. And if they do, we go about that, right? But this is a test again where you're doing it during a lumpectomy or during the surgical procedure where you're going to inject that dye, look to see if it's spread. Okay, found the node. Let me go ahead and check this, see if there's any tumors in there. All the tumors in there. Okay, we're going to have to do an axillary lymph node dissection if there's a bunch of them, three or more. With that being said, axillary lymph node dissection, really the reason why we would go to this one is you got tons and tons of nodes that come up positive on sentinel lymph node biopsy or your stage three. Because at that point, you probably have four to 10 axillary nodes, that are involved at that point. So that's a really, really big one. And inflammatory breast cancer is most likely going to be very diffused. It's going to involve the dermal lymphatics. So you're going to want to take those out as well. All right, and so again, you're kind of just taking and you're literally cutting away axillary nodes. So you're showing here the kind of lymphatics where there's the axillary going in to the area of the armpit. You can appreciate some nerves and vessels that you want to be careful with, especially the long thoracic nerve. You don't want to hit that one, especially during this process. You can end up with winging of the scapula and things like that. There is a lot of different risk with this one, but the goal is to try to cut out as much to the axillary nodes as possible. So this is the surgical interventions that we talked about. All right, so the next thing I want to talk about is radiation therapy. So when we use radiation therapy, it's primarily adjuvant. It's not anything that we usually ever do neo-adjuvant, meaning that we do it before some type of surgical procedure. It's usually always after the surgical procedure, like a lumpectomy or a mastectomy. So adjuvant radiation therapy is going to be great for those who have, you know, Dr. Carson Oman site too, after they get a lumpectomy. Same thing for stage one, stage two, after a lumpectomy. Stage three, again, after a mastectomy. So it's usually going to be something after we've had some type of removal of the tumor, because you're trying to prevent micro-matastasis. You're trying to prevent any of the remaining tumor cells. If you didn't get the best margin, or if you didn't completely remove some of the small little tumor cells that were residual afterwards, you're trying to kind of kill those and prevent recurrence. And so that's the goal of that. And again, you're just kind of taking radiation therapy, a pretty decent dose, and you're hitting that right at the tumor, or in the area, the vicinity of where the tumor was, and you already performed the procedure. Obviously this runs the risk of like radiation across some other associated problems, but that's something that it's kind of worth the risk when you're doing this after a surgical procedure. So there's a lot, right? It's definitely a lot. And so I want to try to put it together for you in a way that makes sense, where we put everything step by step. If a patient has Dr. Carson Oman site too, you always want to think surgery first. So doing the lumpectomy is going to be the best way here. Radiation therapy is going to reduce the risk of micrometastases. And then chemo prevention should be offered, like tamoxifen and premenopausal, right? Or aromatase inhibitors and postmenopausal, or you can also consider, reloxifine if their tyrocusic score is high, greater than or equal to 20%, all right? Stage one, stage two, kind of similar. These ones, they're gonna have tumors that are decent size, but hopefully they're not involving the skin, the chest wall, they're scattered. And so for here, lumpectomies is the desirable goal, right? After that, well, during the lumpectomy, we're also kind of basing it upon if they have nodes or not. So what sometimes is likely being performed during this procedure, a sentinel lymph node biopsy, right? To see if it's kind of involved multiple different nodes. And if it does, okay, we go axillary lymph node dissection. If it doesn't do that, then we don't do axillary lymph node dissection if there's not three or more. But after we've done the lumpectomy with the sentinel lymph node biopsy during that process, what's afterwards, it's the same thing as DCIS, radiation therapy. We don't do chemo prevention here because at this point the patient has cancer. We technically don't consider DCIS like breast cancer. It's like, it's in-brout. It's very high risk. They're kind of like at that point where they definitely, if we let it go, they can convert and grow to invasive ductal carcinoma. Now, at this point, radiation therapy. We've hit them with cutting out the tumor. We check to see if it's spread to the lymph nodes. If it did, we cut out, especially if there's a lot of them, we'll cut those out and then we're gonna kill or prevent any kind of micrometastases. At this point, you then can consider targeted therapies. You can consider them. So things like tamoxifen, things like aromatase inhibitors could be considered in this scenario. So if I have a patient who has premenopausal, I'll give them tamoxifen. And especially if it's ERPR positive. If they're posinopausal, I'll give them an aromatase inhibitor. If they have HER2 positive, give them a Tristuzumab, right? So those are definitely things that you can add on. What's really important is this next step, which is variable, which is chemotherapy. You can do chemotherapy, but it's based upon their risk. So for example, let's say that a patient had triple negative breast cancer. We're doing lumpectomy, we'll do this, we'll do this. For triple negative, we don't really have any targeted therapy. We're gonna go straight to chemotherapy. If a patient has HER2 positive breast cancer, we'll do lumpectomy, sentinel lymphoviopsy, radiation therapy, we'll start the bunch of stuzumab and we'll add on an adjuvant chemotherapy occasion. So those are the kind of things where we would add that on. It's based upon the oncotype diagnosis. With this point, the patient has a tumor that either could be greater than five centimeters, could be kind of diffuse scatter throughout the chest wall of the skin. They could have four plus axillary nodes, some clavicular nodes, it could be pretty extensive. And so a lot of the times doing a surgery right away is kind of challenging. So you wanna try to shrink the tumor or tumors the best that you can. And so doing neoadjuvant chemotherapy first is usually the go-to. We're gonna try our best to shrink the tumor down. After we've done that, then we're gonna try to do a mastectomy. If there's any possibility of a lumpectomy, always try that. But a mastectomy may unfortunately be the way to go because there's so many axillary nodes that are likely involved, you're gonna have to dissect those out. After you're done with this, you want to reduce the risk of micromotassesis. So you're gonna hit them with radiation therapy. Targeted therapy should always be considered if they have ERPR positive and their premenopausal, tamoxifen, right? And add something on at this stage, like LHRH agonists if they're ERPR positive. If they're postmenopausal, you can do something like an aromatase inhibitor plus an LHRH agonists, right?  but you're doing targeted therapies. If they're HER2-positive, it's Tristuzumab. So again, you think about these scenarios here. If they're ERPR-positive, you're going to go with this. Now here's where the next step comes in, the adjuvant chemotherapy. So if I have a patient with triple negative breast cancer, I'm doing chemo first. I'm going to cut out the tumor, going to cut out the nodes, going to prevent the risk of micromitastasis. No targeted therapy specifically going to chemo. HER2-positive, hitting them with this, cutting out the tumor, cutting out the nodes, trying to prevent micromitastasis, Tristuzumab, and chemotherapy. So those are the things I want you guys to consider. Now we get to the last stage, stage four. This is spread. It's spread to potentially the bones, the brain, the liver. And at that point, that's a scary scenario. So what we need to start considering is do we even do surgery at this point? No, surgery is not really an option. So we don't usually go to that. What we like to do is just target a therapy. That's really going to be the go-to in this potential scenario. So for example, if the patient was ERPR-positive, right, you'll do an aromatase inhibitor plus a CDK4-slash-6 inhibitor. That would be your go-to if they're metastatic. If they're triple negative breast cancer, pembrolizumab. And if they have BRCA-positive mutation, it'd be a PARP inhibitor. If they're HER2-positive, it's going to be Tristuzumab. You get the point. And lastly is we can consider adjuvant chemotherapy for these patients. If they have things like HER2-positive, they have things like triple negative breast cancer. Those are times where we'll add on the adjuvant chemotherapy. Whew! My friends, that was a ton, dude. That was a lot. I really hope it made sense. I hope that at the end of this, you feel just a little bit more comfortable or even hopefully a lot more comfortable with breast cancer. I hope that if you see it on the exam, you're ready to crush it, dude. And I just love you guys. Thank you guys so much for hanging around. Listen to the video and I love you. Thank you. Now as always, until next time. you