What's up, ninja nerds? Glad to be back again doing another case study with you guys. Sorry we weren't able to do that last week um with the uh COVID video. It was a little bit tough. There was a lot of studying, a lot of prep that went along with that. So, apologize for that, guys. But we're here today. We're going to do a case. Um the primary chief complaint that we're going to have the patient presenting with is uh is dysnia, shortness of breath. Okay, so let's go ahead and get started. I'm excited. All right, so first things first, medical disclaimer. Uh the cases that are presented here are fictitious. They're not real. They're created by us. You guys already know this whole deal. They're for educational purposes only. Okay. All right. So we have the first thing we have our patient. Okay, let's say that you guys are in the ICU. You're rounding. Okay, maybe you're an intern. Maybe you're the attending, right? Whatever it is, you're rounding through your patients in the ICU. One of the nurses comes and tells you, "Hey, you know, our patient in so- and so room 65year-old woman um is really hypotensive. They have a significant increased work of breathing and they're desing into the 60s." You walk into the room and you can see that the patient appears to be in respiratory distress and you're trying to ask them questions, but they are so short of breath that they can barely express their actual complaints. Okay, so start thinking about that right away. Someone said Margaret Rainey, I'm the nurse. Well, let's Here we go. Let's see what we got. So, let's just really quickly All we know right now is that this person is hypotensive. They're short of breath uh based on this work of breathing and and they're they appear hypoxic based upon their O2 sats. So just a quick little past medical history they have hypertension. They had a history of a right lower extremity DVT that they had been anti-coagulated for and had resolved. Um they had CKD3 um diabetes malitis type 2 and they have a history of like cervical spinal stenosis. Okay. So that's kind of what we have so far. are past medical history pertinent for hypertension uh old DVT that it was anti-coagulated um CKD3 diabetes and cervical spinal stenosis they're hypoxic they're hypotensive and they are um having an increased work of breathing all right so here's your vitals they're tacocartic heart rate is 150 their respiratory rate is 40 their blood pressure is oh my gosh 40 over 20 the sphincters will be tightening with that kind of blood Uh temperature is 99.8. So kind of like a lowgrade fever. Um SPO2 is 62% and they're only on a nasal canula right now. So cardiovascular you go listen to their heart. It's a regular rhythm. You hear a normal S1, S2, you think maybe you hear an S4. You don't know. You're it's it's tough to pick out. But you do hear this murmur and it appears to be holo systolic. Uh it's heard at the apex of the heart. Okay. And so you got a regular rhythm tacocartic holo systolic murmur that's heard at the apex. You look at them just as a general inspection and you see that they're utilizing their scaling muscles to take in breath or maybe even be some some nasal flaring. There's some intercostal retractions when they're trying to take in breaths. When you listen to the lungs, you you don't hear a lot of wheezing. There's just a little bit of expiratory wheezing there and then you hear some bibbasler crackles. Um but again, nothing like significant. Um abdomen, you just push on it really quick and it's soft. It's non- tender and the bowel sounds are are normal active. Okay, so a lot of you guys are saying pulmonary embolism. Some people are saying ARDS. Someone said how is this man alive? Someone says mitro regurgitation, heart failure. I think you guys all like a pretty good differential diagnosis there. All right. So, but again to recap, we have a person who's hypotensive, hypoxic, increased work of breathing, uh history of hypertension, CKD3, um cervical spinal stenosis, um diabetes, history of an old DVT that was anti-coagulated in the past. You can see that he's obviously tacocartic. He's hypotensive, low-grade fever, hypoxic on examination, appears to be in respiratory distress, has a holo systolic murmur at the apex, and he's got some accessory muscle use, and he's got a little bit of wheezing and basler crackles. All right, cool. So, that's what we have so far at this point. So, my question for you guys is let's just kind of like wrist stratify here. So, we see a patient that appears to be in very like very very sick, okay? Okay. And you're in the ICU, you want to just know, okay, what tests, immediate quick tests do I need to kind of help me to run through my differentials? Because a lot of you guys are hitting your differentials out there and I think they're great. Pulmonary ambism, COPD, um, pneumonia, heart failure, um, congestive heart failure, sepsis, cardiac tampon. Again, I think all of these are great great differentials. So I guess the question for you is like what kind of test would you want to order to just make sure that you kind of rule out some of the quick things to say okay it's not this it's not this it could be this. So that's my question. So some people are saying EKG I think you can't go wrong with an EKG. So holo systolic murmur means that you hear that uh so holo systolic is anytime you hear holo systolic murmur somebody actually did say that you want to think of generally um a mitro regurgitation or also like a tricuspid regurgitation depending upon where you hear it since it was at the apex a whole systolic murmur as you hear the murmur during the entire systolic process um and so that's usually indicative of like a mitro regurgitation if it's heard near the apex it usually can radiate to the axilla Um, and again that that's usually what we refer to in that kind of scenario. Some people are saying chest X-ray, uh, peak flow, AG, bedside echo. Um, their temperature was 99, uh,6, I believe. So they 98.8. So like a low grade, very, very low grade fever. Okay. Holy freak. Someone wants a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. All right. Do you want to put a swan in them? All right. All right. I think you guys picked some pretty good. I think even somebody said a CT. Um CT of the chest, CT of the abdomen. What do you want? CT of what? If you did want a CT, I guess I'm questioning there is some people want a D- dimer. Pulmonary function tests. So D-dimer are kind of helpful. um they're helpful in a way in the sense if you have a very like low test probability pre-est probability and someone said CT of the chest so when I say like a d-dimer um I usually don't do these if I have a high like suspicion a very strong suspicion that they have a PE a d- dimer isn't going to be very helpful it's going to be helpful if I have a very like low pre-est probability that I think it's a PE um and so I probably wouldn't order a d-dimer I don't think they're going to be very helpful for me in this kind of scenario. So, I would go straight to something like, you know, a CT of the chest if I was worried about a PE. Someone said SARS KV2 corona test. Honestly, I'm not even going to lie anymore. Anytime somebody has like a low-grade fever and they have any kind of complaints of shortness of breath, there is nothing wrong with getting a COVID PCR. I think that is a a great idea. We don't know their vaccination status, so I think getting a COVID um PCR test as well. Okay. All right. So, here's kind of the big things that I I would do. Okay. Right away, a chest X-ray. Okay. Get a chest X-ray. The reason why is you want to rule out pneumonia. Look for any kind of opacities that may be there. Look for cardiamaggaly. Look to see if they have a tension pumothorax of some kind. Look to see if they have a lot of like fluid overload in the setting of potentially like a cardiogenic pulmonary edema. Um, I think those are kind of kind of be some of the big things really quickly that you can quickly rule out. So rule out pneumonia. Rule out that they have any cardomegaly, pulmonary edema, pneumothorax, tracheal deviation, anything like that. Okay. EKG intro troponins I think is a great one. I think a lot of you guys did say EKG. Um I want to make sure they're not having an MI. If they had an MI, sometimes you take out a good chunk of that left ventricle and they have an acute MI and they go into cardiogenic shock of some kind, but they just again they have acute MI. If you knock out that actual left ventricle, that ability to pump blood out of the left ventricle and into the aortic uh and systemic circulation is going to be decreased. And so what can happen is is it can backflow. It can backflow into the pulmonary circulation and lead to pulmonary edema. So that's one thing. Also, their sinus tac it doesn't hurt whenever someone is having uh I'm sorry, they're having a tacoc cardia kind of gave it away already. They they are having a tacoc cardia at this point in time with 150. So I would like to make sure okay what kind of tacoc cardia is this? Is this a sinus tacoc cardia? Is this an SVT? Is this an a aib of some kind? So again I need to make sure that I I I rule that out. And I want to check tropponins because traroponins can help me in the scenarios of potentially an STEMI, a STEMI, a pulmonary embism, things like that. um choking if someone aspirated I guess. Yeah, if they had like an aspiration pneumonia, you may see some signs of an early consolidated um tissue in the lungs, but um it's kind of tough to say if it's if it just acutely happened. Um next thing is an AG. So again, I get a chest X-ray, I get an EKG and troponins, I get an AG. The reason why I get the AG is not to look at acid base balance, it's to look to see if they're truly hypoxic. Um, so I want to see what is their actual partial uh pressure of of oxygen within the arterial blood. So I want to know again what is the partial pressure of oxygen in the arterial blood and that's why I'm going to be getting a ABG. Okay, so someone already asked that and we're going into that now is what about the point of care ultrasound? Uh what the heck is that? So point of care ultrasound is you're just doing a bedside echo. It's not a formal one. Um so I do these a lot in the ICU. I'll take again my echo and I'll look I'll take my my ultrasound probe and I'll throw it over the heart and I'll look to see what's going on with the heart. Do they have any um wall motion abnormalities? Do they have any global hypocinesis there? Is the right ventricle bigger than the left ventricle? Um do I see any enlargement of the ventricles? Things like that. So I'm I just do a quick bedside assessment to look to see if I see anything that pops up. Is there cardiac tampenod there? So do they have fluid that's kind of accumulating around the paricardial sack? I'll throw it on the lungs. I'll also look to see if I see any kind of curly bee lines. Um uh that could be indicative of pulmonary edema. Look for any consolidation. So point of care ultrasound is always very very good to have as kind of an adjunct to a lot of your other tests that you're throwing on here. So I would definitely do a point of care ultrasound just to look at the heart. Um I would want to make sure I don't see any wall motion abnormalities. No cardiac tampenade that's causing them become super hypotensive and tacocartic. make sure that I rule out any other consolidations that maybe couldn't get picked up on the chest X-ray and look for any kind of curly bee lines that may be present there as well. Okay, the other thing is I would do a CT chest. I think a lot of you guys have already said this. A lot of you guys have a very high suspicion of PE. I don't think that hurts. CT the chest would be pretty good. Um, so I definitely think like a CT uh PE protocol. So doing a CT uh pulmonary type of contrast study. Uh you give contrast and you look at the pulmonary arteries as they fill up with contrast to see if you see any cut offs or filling defects would be a pretty good idea as well. Okay. So, I think that you guys covered and I think another thing to add on, I didn't even think about adding that in there, but again, um, someone with a low-grade fever in the ICU, shortness of breath, having some difficulty, some hypoxia, it does not hurt to get a COVID uh PCR test. Okay. All righty. So, I think that's kind of cover like the our basis right now of what we think uh would kind of be the go-to here. Uh, what would ammonia do? Um, I wouldn't really check an ammonia. Um I don't know why um someone would check an pneumonia unless you think that they're having like some type of underlying encphylopathy like a hpatic encphylopathy. Um I'm not quite sure why you would check an pneumonia. You can comment down there if you if you would um as to why you would do that, but I I don't know why um you would. All righty. All right. So we got the basic test. The next question is what is the immediate treatment that you want? So you walk in the room, you got to command the room, right? You see the patient, you see that they're hypotensive, you see that they're tacocardic, you see that they are um hypoxmic and they're having some respiratory distress. You say, "Let's get a chest X-ray. Let's get an AG. Let's get an EKG with troponins and then let's also get a CT after I do a point of care ultrasound." You get all that stuff done. You order all the tests, but as you're getting ready to send them off to CT, you need to stabilize them. You can't send them to CT until you stabilize them first. So what kind of immediate treatments are you going to employ on this patient to say okay let me stabilize their blood pressure let me stabilize their hypoxia their work of breathing anything in that nature that's going to help them the best possible way I can okay so some are saying CPAP um oxygen oxygen oxygen yep so it's always ABC's right so it's always ABC's so airway breathing and circul ation. So I have to address the airway first and then after that I can address the circulation which is that she's tacocartic and hypotensive. And so some people are saying fluids, some people are saying vasopressors, some are saying both. Okay, I think you guys are hitting a pretty good um step there. So here's what I would do. Um I would start off with a high flow nasal canula. Um you can this is again just as an option. So for hypoxmia, one of the best things to do is something called high flow nasal canula like optiflow or vapootherm um things like that cuz they give you 100% um of oxygen. Your FiO2 you can crank that up to 100%. And you also get very high flow rates which is good for dead space wash out as well as you get a little bit of PEEP. It's not a ton of PEEP but you get a little bit of PEEP anywhere from like four to six. It's primarily nasoperangial, but you may get a little bit of lower airway PEEP, but it's just very good for hypoxmia, decreasing work of breathing, helping with dead space wash out, helping to again um really oxygenate the individual. So, before I go straight to intubating a person, I'll try to see if I can bridge them with some high flow nasal canula. Okay? You could consider things like BiPAP or CPAP. Um, I would probably again BiPAP, CPAP, they're not going to hurt. BiPAP is very good. It's going to give you PEEP. It's also going to give you get your FiO2. So, it can also reduce work of breathing as well. Um, I just don't think that this person fits the exact category of getting BPAP. Okay. I think high flow nasal canula would do them do them justice. Um, the other thing is that they were wheezing a little bit. It wasn't significant, but anytime someone is wheezing, I'm going to do do a neb. So that's um so someone said sorry I'm not familiar I apologize. So duanbs is basically a combination of albuterol so a saba right so it's basically an kind of like it's going to help to be able to act on those beta 2 receptors and the bronchioles and allow for the the dilation of the bronchioles. Also duan is also not just um the albuterol but epropiumrium broomemide which is kind of a um a muscerinic type of molecu antagonist. And so what it'll do is it'll bind on to the muscarinic receptors and it'll also cause dilation of the bronchioles because it's going to antagonize that parasympathetic effect and then it's also going to decrease the secretions that come from um uh you know whenever there's a lot of inflammation. So it's just going to help a little bit with the wheezing, help to open up those airways a little bit. It's more of just kind of a supportive care. And then a lot of you guys are saying fluids. I would be very careful. Um, the only reason why is that if if you you can give a fluid challenge, I think like a little liter bolis wouldn't hurt. I'd give them a liter bololis. But the problem is when you give people a lot of fluids who um are having potentially um and again I'm just saying potentially. I have a high suspicion. I think a lot of you guys too um of pulmonary embism. That's a lot of right heart strain. And so if you have a lot of right heart strain and you give them fluids and you kind of make overload them a little bit, it's going to make it a little bit more difficult. And it's actually going to cause that fluid instead of in getting actually into the right ventricle. It might not get into it might actually just kind of stay within the right ventricle because again if the right ventricle is under a lot of strain, a lot of stress because of pulmonary hypertension from having a PE it that that blood might not actually be able to pass um and so it might be wasteful in that situation. So I say you can give a fluid bulis. I do like a liter maybe um of of of normal saline or lactated ringers, but I'd probably at this point in time their blood pressure is so darn low. Um I would probably just go straight to an infusion. Also, I don't know what their chest X-ray looks like just yet. What if they're fluid overloaded? What if they have pulmonary edema? I heard some by basler crackles. That doesn't necessarily mean um that they have uh pulmonary edema, but I don't want to kind of hit them with lots of fluids if that's the case. So I'm just going to put them on a vasopressor because that's going to really help to clamp down on the vessels and bring their blood pressure up. And I'm going to put them on high flow nasal canula to get that oxygen up. Some dobs for the wheezing. Okay. Okay. So some of you guys are saying some you'd use CPAP even if the patient is unstable. Um, I probably, again, I probably wouldn't do CPAP. Um, in this scenario, I would probably try high flow as a bridge. Um, I probably wouldn't even do BiPAP. I would probably bridge this person with um, high flow nasal canula and if I can't get their oxygen back up with that, um, I would consider intubating them. Okay. So, some people are asking about I would not give fluid. Yeah. And again, I probably wouldn't give fluid. I'd probably go straight to the vasopressors in this kind of scenario. How would the RV be impaired? Again, we don't know. I'm kind of preluding that a lot of you guys said pulmonary embolism. So, if somebody has a pulmonary embolism, you have an imoli within the pulmonary artery, let's say. Um, and so now you're trying to be able to push blood from the right ventricle into the pulmonary artery, but you're pushing it through a very narrow pulmonary artery or completely accluded pulmonary artery. The pressure proximal to that occlusion is going to go s it's going to go up. And so, if that's going to go up, it's going to cause some pulmonary hypertension. It's going to put stress on the right ventricle. the right ventricle have to work harder. It might dilate. And so instead of that, you give them fluid. It comes via their inferior vennea or superior vennea. It goes into the right ventricle. It might stay there and instead start backing up into their actual um systemic cir u backing up into like their abdomen or their lower extremities, things of that nature. It just might not be beneficial. Um so I would just go straight to a an infusion. So nasal canula, how long would you wait? Um, again, it's kind of depending. I would just try it. If you throw them on a nasocanul and their their oxygen O2 sats go up to 92% or something of that nature, then you know it's working. Um, but I would I would kind of base it upon, you know, what your ultimate goal is. If you're putting someone on high nasal canula because they're hypoxic, it should bring their oxygen up. Um, and so that's the whole goal is to bring their oxygen up and reduce their work of breathing. But you have to think long term. If their work of breathing is continues to get worse and worse and worse, they're going to tucker out. Their muscles are going to become weak. their diaphragm, their intercostals are going to become weak and their ability to breathe at the same rate like that being typnic as teypnic as they were, they won't be able to sustain that for a long period of time and eventually they may need to be intubated. So again, it's primarily just a bridge. It's a temporizing measure that hopefully if we address the underlying issue and address what's causing the hypoxmia, they won't even need to be intubated and they maybe they won't even need to be on high flow nasal canula. Okay. All right. So we got the chest X-ray. This is what it looks like. Uh so if you guys look at this again, nothing special here. Um we see here we have the trachea that's moving down. It's pretty much midline here. I don't see anything particular here. There's no rotation with the respect to the clavicles. I'm looking at the lungs. They look nicely airrated. They don't look adalctatic. They kind of look a teensy bit hyperinflated, but nothing significant. Um I also am looking for any consolidation. I don't really see any really patchy white um consolidations or opacifications anywhere within the lungs. So, that's important. Um I also going to be looking for any kind of pulmonary edema. I don't really notice any pulmonary edema here. It's not really like that white out appearance that you would generally see. I'm going to look at my diaphragms. The right usually should be a little bit higher than the left. Look at my costtophrenic angles. They're nice and clean. So, and then the heart usually you would say that it's about, you know, if you were to I'd say that this is a normal chest X-ray. Nothing particularly um concerning on their chest X-ray for pneumonia, cardiomegali. Uh no pneumothorax. I don't see any kind of like uh distinct loss of vascular markings or pulmonary markings as they go towards the edges here at the apex or near the plura. So, with that being said, I think it's a normal chest X-ray. All right. So, we've ruled out pneumonia. We've ruled out of numothorax. I don't really see any cardomegaly. So that's good. All right, let's go to the next thing, the EKG. So if I'm looking at my EKG, how do we read EKG, guys? So first things first, we start by looking to see what's the rate. Well, we already knew that the rate was like 150. Uh so we throw on a 12 lead EKG and we can kind of test this by looking find like where kind of one of the Rwaves lands on a line here and then mark it up to the next one. So that's about two boxes. Remember, one box is about what? One box is about 300 beats per minute. So, two boxes is about 150. So, we're going about 150 beats per minute here. Okay, cool. Next thing is, is it sinus? So, look at lead two. Do you see a Pwave? I do. I see a Pwave right here. Again, I see a distinct Pwave right there. The T-wave is right before that. So, you're kind of seeing them build on top of one another, but there's definitely a Pwave. Go to AVR. Do I see an inverted Pwave? I do. There's my inverted Pwave right there. So, it's upright in lead 2, inverted in AVR. So, I know it's sinus rhythm and I know that for every P there is definitely a QRS complex. So, it looks like this is sinus rhythm. It's tacocartic. So, there's a sinus tacocardia. And then I go down and I do my same thing. After I've done that, I look to see is there any wide QRS's? No. So, it's a narrow, it's regular tacocardia and it's a sinus rhythm. It's probably a sinus tacic cardia. And then you can go through and you look for ST segment deviation. Do I see any ST segment depression or elevation in any of my leads? I don't really see any ST of the leads. So with that being said, I can kind of tell you right now that this is a sinus tacocardia. Okay. Now, what else do we know about this? Well, the traroponas tropponin came back at 4.2. That's a that's a little elevated, you know, that's not that's not that's not great. Um, it's not terrible, but it's not it's not great. So, it's a little elevated to have a tropponent of 4.2. What does that mean? Well, that means there could be some strain on the heart. I don't have anything that's telling me I have an N STEMI, a STEMI. I don't see any T-wave inversions. I don't see any hyperacute T- waves, anything that's really scaring me. So, I've kind of ruled up ruled out an MI. So, this is definitely sinus attack, but I got a tropponone. Why do I have a traroponmia? Is this a demand eskeemia? Do I have some issues where that right heart is strained for some reason? I don't know. There's something going on here. Um, so there is a troponmia. I don't have an exact idea of why there is. So Peter Fish says, "Isn't there ST depression?" Um, again, I don't appreciate any ST depression in here. Um, if you can point out which leads you say that you see the ST depression, we can definitely analyze that. But um I don't see any elevation or depression um in the uh ST segments. Okay. All righty. So let's move on to the next thing here. So we've gotten our EKG. We got our tropponent. So we got a sinus attack with a troponia. I do a bedside echo. When I do the bedside echo, this is what I see. So right away uh so someone said yeah maybe lead two. Let's take a look at lead two. Okay. So if we come here to lead two. So we have here here is our going to be you have your um Rwave. Then you have coming down here into the S-wave. Um so you have to find your Jpoint. If I could zoom in on this pretty well. It's tough to say where my Jpoint is without really really zooming in on this. But here's another thing to also take into consideration. I'd say my J point's probably right there. Here's one thing to take into consideration. You it is normal to have ST depression and sinus tacicardia. That's completely normal. Uh so that's important to remember. You can have a um ST segment depression that is completely normal in individuals with ST segment depression. So ST segment depression and sinus tacicardia is normal. Okay. And also, if I had ST depression in one lead, that's not enough. You usually need it in a couple more contiguous leads also, as well as again looking to see if there's any other signs. So again, I'm not completely um convinced with that being a true ST segment depression. I don't see it in two contiguous leads. Um and again, it is normal to have ST segment depression with a sinus tacoc cardia. All righty. Hopefully, I hope that answered the question for that. All righty. So, here's our echo. We look here and we can see something very interesting. So, here is there. Yeah, no problem, Peter. Yeah, I hope that answered the question. Again, it is pretty normal to have ST segment depression um with with a sinus tacocardia. Um and again, usually you need it to be if there is any ST depression, you'd want it to be in kind of at least two contiguous um leads there. But yeah, great. All right. So, here we have a look here. Here's our interventricular septum. Okay, here's the interventricular septum. This up here would be like your left atria. This would be your right atrium. This is your right ventricle. And this is your left ventricle. Okay, and then you have the paricardial like uh paricardium right here. So, with that being said, do we always read Okay, so some of you guys are still on the EKG lead 3 some low QRS voltage. Again, you check low QRS voltage by again you can add up lead one, two, three. Um or you can add up V1, V2, V3. And then based upon that, determining if it's less than 15 millimeters or less than 30 millimeters can tell if you if there's um any low QRS voltage. Also, if you're concerned about low QRS voltage, you're thinking that there's probably a cardiac tamponod. We have here our EKG or Echo. So, we've already kind of ruled out that there is no cardiac tampon, but again, uh it's great great thought there. So again, if I'm looking here, I have my right ventricle and I can see here with my right ventricle and my left ventricle, what do you guys already notice? Now, generally, which ventricle should be bigger? Uh, should the left ventricle be bigger or should the right ventricle be bigger? The left ventricle should be bigger, right? If the right ventricle is bigger than the left ventricle, then what should you be thinking about? There's a lot of strain that is going on with that right ventricle. That's not good. If there's a lot of strain on that right ventricle, why is that happening? That means that something is causing the right ventricle to have to dilate or work harder to be able to push more blood out. So again, with that being said here, definitely a little concerned here as to why that right ventricle is so darn dilated. Okay, so there's definitely some dilation, some enlargement of the right ventricle. Now the other question is sometimes people if they're you're really good at bedside echo sometimes you can do something called a tapsi. So it looks at the triricuspid annular plane excursion and that can help you to determine if there is any signs of a pee that can be helpful. Um in this scenario I think this is justified enough to say oh wow that's a big right ventricle. It's dilated in the setting of hypoxmia, hypotension, increased work of breathing, sinus tacocardia, a normal chest x-ray, an EKG showing a potentially sinus tacoc cardia tropponin showing a tropponemia. I got to be a little bit concerned here for a pulmonary embolism, right? And you can check the axis on the EKG. Um, axis is not something that I kind of like look at too often. Um, there's nothing wrong with checking the axis. I think that whenever you waste time looking at an axis, axis isn't going to tell you a a ton, it may be helpful. Um, but I don't I don't think that an axis is going to tell you about a PE or tell you about much else. It's kind of an adjunctive thing. You can definitely check an axis. I'm not saying you can't do that. Um, but it's probably at the lower end of what's significant at this point in time right now. So I again I would say sinus tacoc cardia. They got a troppon anemia. Their chest X-ray is normal. Their right ventricles dilated. Huh? What the heck is going on here? I'm thinking PE, right? A lot of you guys said that right from the beginning. So, what would be the study then to be able to do that? You need to get a CT angagram. Well, the AG results came back in the meantime. While we've been putting this person on high flow nasal canula, we've been giving them pressers. And by the way, their pressure is going back up. Their pressure went up to where they had a blood pressure of 90 over 40. So that definitely has improved their uh their actual oxygen O2 sats did improve before we actually got the um so O2 sats improved and then we we got the AG before that. So when we do that the AG shows a pH of 7.54. We have a PA2 of about 40 mm of mercury. We have a pa CO2 of about 26 millm of mercury and we have a by cararb of about 20 uh 20 mill equivalents per liter. Okay. So when we read abgs you guys already notice this that what do we do? We look to see okay this is going up. So if the pH is going up that's going to be some some kind of alkalossis. Well we got to remember that if that's the case what would the CO2 do? Well, if that is going up, then we would want the CO2 to go down. They're teipnic, right? They're breathing really fast. The respiratory rate was in the 40s. So, they're going to be blowing off their CO2. So, there's definitely a respiratory alkalossis here with having a high pH and a low pH CO2, right? Remember that pneummonic Rome, right? So, it helps you to remember that, you know, with that respiratory is opposite, metabolic is kind of the same. Uh, so in this situation, this is going up and the Pa2 is going down. So there's a respiratory alkalossis. The other thing is I look at the PAO2. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. It's hypoxia like like no other. So generally you want the PO2 to be about like 80 to 100 millimeters of mercury. So having a PO2 of about 40 they're definitely hypoxic. Um and so that's putting them on that high flow nasal canula is going to help. Uh the other question is are they compensating? They might start they may beginning to compensate. Generally normal by carb is what 22 to 26. So generally if they are alkalotic you're going to want to try to make them a little bit acidotic. Uh getting rid of some of the actual by carb uh maybe the way that you do that. So they're starting to drop a little bit of their by carb but it's nowhere near compensated enough. Okay. So we got a respiratory alkalossis which makes sense and we have hypoxia. Okay. So we get that CTPA study. We I think you guys have all pretty much uh assumed at this point in time there's definitely got to be potentially I apologize. There's got to be potentially some type of PE going on. Okay. So, we get the PA study here, CTPA, right? So, it's going to be the CT where you get the pulmonary uh contrast. And what do I see here? So, remember this is the right side of the patient. This is the left side of the patient. You're looking at it from their feet down. I see contrast here. Oh my gosh, what is this thing right there? And then, oh my gosh, what is this thing right there? We got some emblei here. We got some clots that are clogging up that right pulmonary artery and then are clogging up that left pulmonary artery, right? Let's go ahead and take a look at what that actually looks like. So, here's our our CT scan, okay? And we're going to go through this. So, we're going to work our way up. So here we have the heart. Okay. And here you're going to have your aorta. Okay. Here would be this is going to be in this situation here. You're going to start seeing the pulmonary artery here. So we're coming from that right ventricle here and going into the pulmonary arteries. So here you're going to see that right pulmonary artery. There's a big clot there. If we continue to follow this off to that left pulmonary artery, you're going to see a clot there in that left pulmonary artery as well. Okay, so this person is really jacked up. They got a bilateral pulmonary embolism. That's a pretty significant clot there. Okay, so that is our study. So right now we have a bilateral pulmonary embolism. Is it a saddle? So no. Saddle would kind of be like if for example if I were to go back on this um a saddle embleis would be like you see where you have kind of this bifurcation from the pulmonary trunk going into the pulmonary arteries. A saddle embleis would literally kind of like saddle a kind of straddle if you will between these two u pulmonary arteries at the level of the bifurcation. So it would kind of like obstruct a little bit right here. Okay. So that would be your sadd saddle embolis. So yeah, this person has a bilateral pulmonary embolism. They all jacked up. Okay. So what's your diagnosis at this point in time? What is your diagnosis? Which one would you guys pick? Okay. If you had to like, you know, again, this is kind of like your exam question kind of stuff. Is this a massive bilateral pulmonary embolism? Is this a submassive bilateral pulmonary embolism? Or is this a non-massive bilateral pulmonary embism? What do you guys think? So, yeah, a lot of you guys are That's unfortunate. Yeah, it's pretty pretty pretty big uh ambulance there, right? Um bilateral P I guess submassive massive. So, a lot of people are saying a submassive, some people are saying submassive, some are saying okay. Yeah. So I I think a lot of people are between submassive and and massive and and and really the way that you kind of define this is is their hemodynamics, right? So if a person is hemodynamically unstable, which this person is, they're hypotensive. We have them on um a neuroepinephrine infusion, they're also severely hypoxic. Um we have them on high flow canula, they have troponia, they have right ventricular dysfunction. Um they have a big big bilateral pulmonary embolis. Um, so yeah, I'd say that this is fits the category of a massive bilateral pulmonary ambolism. So it's pretty significant. Um, all righty. Does the clinical presentation matter when deciding submassive or submassive? So it's more the treatment that kind of uh it really is a little bit bit of the deciding factor when it comes to massive versus submassive. It's really like for you know in this kind of scenario it's more the treatment regimen. If you have a person who is hypotensive right ventricular dysfunction they're severely hypoxmic they have pulmonary emblei they have sinus tacoc cardia they're hemodynamically unstable in some way that fits the category of a of a massive PE and there's a little bit of a different type of treatment regimen. You're a little bit more aggressive in that sense. Jan Wolf said still plenty of space for more emblei. Huh? Okay, I guess. Jeez. So, submassive can also be hemodynamically unstable. Um, but it's not it's it's not as significant. There's way usually with those, they don't have as much of the um as much of the significance of that hypotension. They may have some RV dysfunction, but they're not as significantly hypotensive and hemodynamically unstable. All right. So massive bilateral pulmonary embism. So what's the definitive treatment here in this scenario? You have a person who is having a massive pulmonary embolism bilateral. What do you treat them with? Do you get them an emilctomy? Do you do tpa? Do you do hepin? Or do you do warerin? What would you do in this scenario? Okay. So what do you guys think? In this scenario, what would you do? Would you give would you go in there and retrieve that clot and break up the clot? Would you go in there uh and just do TPA or would you do TPA that's maybe a little bit more catheter directed? What would you guys do in this situation? So, emilctomy. Emilctomy. Some people are saying TPA. All right. All right. So, you're getting a mixture of TPA emblectomy kind of as a little bit. A couple people said hein. Um, why not DB and D? Okay. Trying to kill somebody, man. Get give him an intraanial hemorrhage with all that freaking anti-coagulants and fibroalytics. Jeez. All right. So, uh, what I would do here is it it's really I think someone actually answered it pretty pretty nicely. Um, it's kind of dependent upon, uh, a couple different scenarios. So, first thing is if I do TPA, what's the risk? So, anytime you do a treatment, you have to be analyzing what is the downside, what's the risk of me giving this drug. Um, I want to help my patient, but I don't also want to make their situation worse. So, if I give them tpa, what is what would be a problem with that? Well, they're at risk of bleeding. So, if I give them tpa, I need to make sure that their bleeding risk is is relatively low. So, if they have a high bleeding risk for some reason, I'm not going to give them tpa. For example, let's say that a person had an IC um or they had recently had a stroke, something of that nature, and I put them on tpa uh to help with that pulmonary ambolism, but they have a very very like high risk of bleeding. Not a chance in this world I'm going to give them tpa. I'd do the amillectomy instead. But if a person has a relatively low risk, I'm going to push 50 milligrams IV ALT place right then and there if they have a very low risk. So generally in the kind of acute scenario, tpa is going to be the quick thing that you would do. Okay? So you would do 50 milligrams IVL to place and you'd push that. If their bleeding risk is relatively low now, if they have a little bit of a higher bleeding risk, you can actually go in and do what's called a catheter directed TPA. Spray some of the TPA into the area where the actual emblei is and break up the clot. And then usually if they're very high risk of bleeding or they have failed the actual tpa then you can do the emilctomy. Okay. Hepin in this scenario is not going to be the best bet. Um so I wouldn't go straight to hepin in that kind of scenario. That would be more if they had kind of like a a farther downstream uh pulmonary embolism. But having the significant pulmonary embolism and being hemodynamically unstable I probably wouldn't go with a heperin drip. um I'd probably go straight with either tpa and if they failed the tpa then maybe go to the imillectomy but again it's kind of based upon their bleeding risk and about the scenario. Okay. So, I would say TPA would be the best scenario here since they don't really have a high bleeding risk. Um, and then again, I would push that and then again see if they improve. If they don't, they failed the TPA, then an emilctomy may be an option um as an alternative. Okay, I hope this uh helped guys. I hope this made sense. I hope it was an interesting um uh type of of case study. So, someone actually said shock. Yeah, this is a type of shock. Um, I guess that's a good question for you guys is what kind of shock is this? If someone is having a massive pulmonary embolism, what what would what is the type of shock you classify this as? I guess is a good question. So, it's it's a it's an obstructive shock, right? So yeah, obstructive shock. So some people are saying, but what about the embolis? Again, the tpa is going to help with the embolis. The tpa will actually help to break down the the the clot there. Um again, emilctomy is there's nothing wrong with doing an emilctomy if you have think that they're a high bleeding risk or if they fail the tpa. But tpa is a good quick drug that you can give um right away. analyze how effective it is and you can actually go in afterwards and do an imctomy. Warerin is strong. Yeah. But I again um Heperin and Warin are not going to be drugs that are going to be acting as like fibbrinolytics. They're not going to actually bust a clot if you if you will. I don't like using that term bust a clot, but they're not going to really break down a clot. They're going to prevent further clots from actually forming. Um so again, that's why Heperin and Warren are not really going to be the best in that scenario. Yeah. Yeah. Warfin can be a little bit prothroaggenic can lead to that warin induced skin necrosis. So sometimes you break them with hepin. Well engineers, I I hope this one made sense. since I know it was a little bit uh a lot of questions and I I'm I'm glad I'm glad we got to, you know, talk about it a lot and learn a lot. It's always great to be able to communicate with you guys and um I always enjoy it. You guys keep me um on my toes and keep me sharp. So, I appreciate it and I I just enjoy talking with you guys so much. It it's really fun. I hope you guys learned a lot. I hope you guys enjoyed this case study. I really hope it helped. Um and uh hopefully next week we'll be back at it. We'll do another case. Um, and just keep learning together. This is always some pretty cool stuff.