What's up? All right, ninjas. Let's blast right into this case, guys. This is case number four. I hope you guys are excited. I know last week's was a little bit more difficult, but this week we're going to try to take it a little bit easier on this one. All right, so let's go ahead and dive right into it. All right, again, medical disclaimer. Cases that are presented here are fictitious. They're not real. We made them up here at Ninja. Uh they're for medical and educational purposes to help you to learn and understand more about how to diagnose and treat and go about being the best practitioner you can be. All right, ninjers, let's go ahead and get started. So, first thing we got a guy here, a 49year-old male presents to the emergency department with a sudden onset of severe bifrontal headache. Okay. Followed by nausea and one episode of vomiting. Some of the associated symptoms that he has includes some phototohobia, sensitivity to light, some neck stiffness, and some nuclear rigidity. So, they got some some pain here at like kind of the base of the skull a little bit. Okay. All right. So, so far start forming your differentials getting some ideas. Basic overall theme of the HPI came in severe headache, nausea, vomiting, phototohobia, neck stiffness, nucal rigidity. Okay, next thing. What is this guy's past medical history? It is hypertension. He's got high blood pressure. He's got hyper lipidmia. Uh surgical history, no particular surgical history that's pertinent there. Um on chart review, he is a tobacco user. um and a daily alcohol drinker. He doesn't have any drug allergies or food allergies and medications include amloopene 10 milligrams uh takes that once a day and a tovvisatin 40 milligrams once a day and he takes the meloopene because that is a calcium channel blocker for the hypertension and a tovvisatin for the hyper lipidmia. A lot of people are saying they already have their differentials with menitis, migraine, epilepsy, subacoid. Great. Great. I I love those differentials. I think these are great. Great. Very broad differentials. I like the the thoughts so far. All right, let's move forward here. So, next part here, we have our objective. The guy comes in. He's got vitals on the monitor showing 184 over 90. So, he's hypertensive. His heart rate is 120 beats per minute. His respiratory rate is 10 breaths per minute. His SPO2 is are is 92% on room air. So, not too bad. And he's got a normal temp 99 degrees Fahrenheit or 37.2 degrees Celsius. Uh when you go to physically examine this guy, you see he's he does look kind of ill appearing. He doesn't look like super super um normal and healthy and and and in his best state, but he doesn't actually appear to be any apparent like respiratory or cardiac distress. When you do your neuroexam on this guy, he's lethargic. He's oriented to person and place, but not really at a time. He is able to follow commands, giving thumbs up, closing his eyes, uh wiggling the toes, all of that things, lifting his arms. He's able to communicate with you. He has normal intact fluent speech. Um he's able to repeat and name things as well. When you examine the pupils um they're equal, they're round. They're reactive to light. Um his extracular movements are intact. There's no visible nestagmus. He's blinked to threat. Testing his uh his uh trigeminal nerve as well as the facial nerve is intact as well. His face is symmetric. Uvula and pallet when you say ah is midline and the uvula is mid line as well as the tongue is midline when you have them protrude their tongue. and he's got five out of five strength in all four extremities whenever you're testing motor activity. Reflexes were deferred on this and as well as sensations. Cardiovascular wise, you're listening to him. He's tacoc cartic. He's got a regular rhythm. Um he's got no murmurss, no gallops, no rubs, clear to oscultation bilaterally, no wheezing or rails. And the abdomen is soft. They got normal active bowel sounds. And there's no tenderness to palpation when you palpate that abdomen. All right. to start forming again some differentials just based upon uh what we have so far. So quickly recapping it uh 49y old male uh past medical history pertinent for hypertension hyper lipidmia coming in with severe bifrontal headache nausea vomiting he also has phototohobia neck stiffness some nuclear rigidity his exam he's hypertensive he's tacocartic little bit hypoxic and he's got uh just he's a little tired and you know kind of on his exam a little lethargic and maybe a little bit disoriented. Okay, so that's our basic physical exam. You guys decide to go ahead and get ready to place some orders. All right, cuz you guys thinking, you know, some of you guys are thinking menitis, some of you guys are thinking severoid, some of you guys are thinking um stroke. There's a lot of things going on here. So on your way to place orders, the nurse alerts you and says, "Hey, hey, the patient is seizing." And you walk into the room and they sure enough they're in a tonicclonic seizure. What do you guys do? The first thing that has to happen is airway, breathing, circulation. If they're hypoxic, if the secretions are pooling up into their oral cavities um and near the larynx, you have to try to suction that. You want to establish an airway. If they're acutely hypoxic and you're worried that they can't protect their airway, you need to intubate them. Another big thing is Adeavan. In this kind of situation, if that seizure does not ablate or kind of terminate on its own, generally you give advan also known as laazzipam 4 milligrams IV push. If you're worried about potential alcoholism like worices, you give thamine. And if you're worried about hypoglycemia, you give D50. If they're still seizing after you give them that Adavan, then what do you do? Then after that, you start loading them up with an anti-abptic. There's many different types. You can do keera, which is also known as levatorazzitan. You could also give phosphenotitoin, phenotonin, valproate, keer is just kind of the best one to do. Load them up real nice with 60 migs per kig. Um, and then after that, if they are still seizing after you've hit them with Adavan, D50, thamine, and you've loaded them with the antipleptic, you should probably have them, if they're not already intubated, in this case the patient is intubated, start them on a propall infusion, um, or ketamine is another option or another one, Versed, also known as mazzlam. And that's going to really help to suppress that activity. And then finally, if they are still seizing after all of that, you can put them into a barbituate coma, a pentobarbatital type of coma. Okay. All right. So, so far this patient maybe seemed kind of re relatively straightforward, right? Didn't seem so bad. Didn't like nothing was popping off like super scary, right? Maybe maybe for some of you guys, you guys already knew that something was going on because you guys are awesome ninja nerds. But based upon the history, the physical exam, it didn't seem like this person was like gonna die on me at any point in time. But all of a sudden, they start seizing. So now we have this new additional thing going on. What the heck happened? And why did they seize? So let's say we stabilize them. They started seizing. Now let's go into the next part here. After we get them stabilized, okay, we gave them the Adavan. We intubated them. We gave them the AED, the keera, loaded them up. We got them on propall. And let's say that we also they're they're suppressed at this point in time on propall. You do another exam post seizure to just see where they're at. And now they're intubated. They're very sick. They're comeomaosse. They are not communicating whatsoever. You're holding the propall. Just to make be very very clear. Propal can sedate somebody. So you're holding the propall letting that clear a little bit seeing if they'll wake up and they are not responding to any painful stimulus. They're not communicating with you verbally or like in this case non-verbbally. They're not following any commands which they were doing previously. Their pupils are still eagle round reactive. They don't again they won't follow commands to follow your finger. So we have to do what's called the oculosyphalic reflex or the dollsey reflex and that's intact. Their corneals and their cough and their gag reflex is also intact. But they're now posturing which they were not before they were five out of five strength in all four extremities. Now they're deserebrant posturing. Uh-oh. We're describ posturing. What the heck is going on here? Cardiovascular, they're still tacocartic. They got a regular rhythm. There's no visible, no auditory murmurss, rubs, gallops. They're clear on the on the vent. We They sound normal. There's no wheezing or rails and the abdomen is still the same. So, the only thing that's really changed is their neuroexam change. They they came in previously just a little lethargic on their neuro exam, a little disoriented, seized like crazy, then now they're comeomaos, not following commands, brain stem reflexes intact, and describ posturing. What the heck is going on, guys? Can you guys think of some things going on? Start thinking about it. Okay, so now we're going to start off into our objective component. The next part of our objective, we've done kind of our physical exam. We've we've kind of acutely stabilized this patient now that they seized. We did our postseure kind of exam after we stabilized them. Now I want you guys to start thinking maybe of some particular labs, maybe some particular imaging studies that you guys want. So think about that for a second. What kind of labs would you want? What kind of images would you want at this point in time? Need a CT and a lumbar puncture. Okay. post-dal state could be postal again. You know, they're they're confused. They're not following any commands. All right, so we'll move on here. There's a lot of thoughts going on here. I like it. So much suspense. All right, so we're we're going to start off with some basic labs for right now. Uh let's just start off with a CBC, some co-ag, some troponins at this point in time. We can do some way more labs and stuff like that afterwards, but these are just the quick labs that I want to fire off really quick. Okay. And whenever we got all of those, the CBC, the co-ag, the tropparonas, they all came back normal. And if you guys wanted to order other labs, you guys definitely can in that situation. All right, so you guys are hitting it very, very hard here. Okay, so the next thing is the imaging. So you guys, pretty much all of you guys hit it. Non-contrast CT scan. So that's the first thing. That's the most important thing. If you guys don't like say anything, I don't care about all the other labs and all that stuff like that. That's all these other labs are helpful. They can definitely help. But I think the most important thing at this point in time is to get a non-contrast CT scan. Um, and we can do other tests. Um, like a CTA. We'll explain why. A lumbar puncture like some of you guys are saying, maybe even an angio. Okay. Um, and then some of you guys are saying ABG. Yeah, you can definitely they're vented. It's not it's not inappropriate to order an AG to make sure that you're ventilating the patient properly, making sure that they're not hypoxic, so you need to increase your FiO2 or your PEEP. Make sure that they're not like hypercapnic, maybe you need to change your respiratory rate. Um, so yeah, do doing an AG is definitely important. Um, CBC, yeah, you can check for anemia. Again, theirs was relatively normal. A BMP is fine at that point in time. Uh, but yeah, I think you guys kind of got the big thing going here. All right, so let's move on to the next thing, which is kind of looking at our non-contrast CT. I think this is the big thing to do here. All right, so let's go ahead and take a look here. You guys ready? All right, here's our non-contrast CT. We're going to take a look see here at this bad boy and we're going to scroll through. So, we're starting here at the bottom. We're going to scroll through. Nice. You guys are looking and looking and looking. Uhoh. What the heck is all of this? What do you guys make of this? So, why without contrast? I think without contrast just because again without you don't need contrast unless you're trying to look for vessels. We can definitely do a we'll talk about why you could do contrast afterwards. But non-contrast is good just because it can give you an idea of if there is any visible blood without having to look at the vessels. Here we'll scroll through one more time. I'll work our way down. So we'll work down from the top here. So just keep in mind all this white stuff here as I'm kind of scrolling down. Here's our ventricles. So here's our lateral ventricles, our septum palucidum. As we keep scrolling down, down, down, then we're getting into our third ventricles. Here's our temporal horns. Um, as we keep scrolling down here, keep scrolling. You see all this white stuff in here, white stuff in here, white stuff in here, white stuff there. Do you guys know what all of that? And then this is kind of a very This right here is kind of the best picture to look at right here. Yeah, there's blood in the Sylvian Fiser. There's blood in a lot of the sulky. There's blood in the sistns. I think there's even a little bit of blood in the ventricle, the third ventricle as well. So yeah, this right here is very very like pretty much kind of pathommonic for a subacoid hemorrhage, an aneurysmal subacoid hemorrhage, which I think a lot of you guys did say. Okay, so let's go ahead and take a look back at our case. So now that we got that, I think that you guys hit that pretty darn well. So boom, what do we got here? Subarachnoid hemorrhage. We can see that classic kind of sign here. What kind of looks like a starfish or like a chicken with its head cut off. So you see blood in your kind of your sistns here. You see blood here in that sylvian fissure. You see blood here and all over that sulky. And there was even a little bit of blood in the third ventricle as well. So yeah, pretty classic uh sign of like pathnomotic of subacoid hemorrhage. Yep, classic. All right, great. I think that was kind of a quick easy one, right? So some of you guys definitely were thinking uh subacoid hemorrhage. That is kind of our primary diagnosis at this point in time. So let's kind of think here. We already have like the big big thing here. We know that the patient has a subacoid hemorrhage most likely aneurismal. If you were to now there was the thing if we went back here if we go back really quickly I said what other tests CTA lumbar puncture angio you can definitely do a CTA. Why would a CTA be helpful? If you guys throw that in there as a as a little quick point a CTA some of you guys were asking that's going to be with contrast. What it'll do is is the contrast will fill up those vessels. And if you have an aneurysm that ruptured, the the contrast will will show where the actual aneurysm is located. And so you can get an idea, oh, oh, the aneurysm came off here at the anterior communicating artery, the left part of it, and that's why they had a subacoid hemorrhage is they ruptured their left ACOM. Okay. So, something to think about there is again CTA will be helpful with fi finding particularly where the vessel ruptured. Got to be careful though. Sometimes if the aneurysm is like less than 3 millimeters, you might not be able to pick it up. Okay. So, then another test that you can do is a lumbar puncture. And some of you guys were saying that as well. A lumbar puncture is great. If you if you do a lumbar puncture and you start actually draining off some of that CSF, what you'll see is that the blood will actually kind of stay like the same kind of color and amount in each test tube as you continue to collect and collect and collect test tubes. Also, as it gets spun down uh with the centrifuge, it shows that classic zanth chromia as well. Um but the most gold standard definitive diagnostic test here to determine if it was an aneurysm where the aneurysm is is a digital subtraction angiogram. Um so that's going to be pretty helpful uh in that situation. So that's why I put those other tests there. Okay. So let's go back here. Now think about the assessment. Again, this is where you know you um as a clinician need to be able to write down or verbalize or know what kind of conditions is the most active and primary issues with this patient right now so that you can address those and take care of that while they're in the hospital or wherever they may be. So, what's the big big things to think about here for this patient? You guys um already know that the subactin, but is there anything else any other primary issues to think about here? All right. So, I'll show you guys. Ready? So, this is what I wrote down. Um, whenever we went and did the CTA, um, it showed a left anterior communicating artery aneurysm that caused the subraacttoid hemorrhage. And then again, they can go in and they can do an angio as well to confirm that if they would want to. Um, seizures is another one. This guy is having seizures particularly. We might even classify this if he's still seizing. We kind of use that term if they're still seizing for more than 5 minutes or they've seized and there's no break in between when they seized again, they're in status epileptic. So we might even be able to say status epilepticus for this patient. Um and then hypertensive emergency. They came in like blood pressure 180s. Um so that might have been the cause for their bleed. Um and they were also hypoxmic. Um so respiratory failure in that sense probably because of the bleed and some elevated intraraanial pressure as well and from them seizing. Okay. So, these are the primary assessments and these are the things that I'm going to address with this patient getting transferred to the ICU. Okay. So, let's kind of start with our plan here. Let's see if you guys can figure out kind of what we're doing here, why we're doing. I think this is the most important part of these case studies is, you know, you can come up with a diagnosis and that's great, but managing the patient afterwards is actually what's more important because once you make a diagnosis, that's cool. you figured out what it is, but how are you going to treat it to make sure that this patient is, you know, doesn't die, I think, is more important. So, we got a subacoid hemorrhage there. It's secondary to a left ACOM aneurysm. We already determined that from the CT, the CTA. What do I do? Do you guys know that if there's blood in that ventricle um is is is indicative of IVH, intraventricular hemorrhage. And whenever blood gets into those ventricles, one of the things that can happen is it can clog up the CSF that's running through those ventricles and draining into the subacoid space. So that's going to cause hydrophilis. And hydrophilis is an is a son of a gun because that can increase intraraanial pressure. You guys know what's called the Monro Kelly doctrine. So the Monro Kelly doctrine is the skull is a fixed thing, right? Inside of the skull is blood, CSF, and brain tissue. You increase one of those three things, you increase the intraraanial pressure. Well, now this guy's got blood in his cranium and he's also going to have some hydrophilis, increase CSF. So that's going to increase his intraanial pressure and increase the risk of himniating. So we don't want that. So we put an external ventricular drain, a little tube or catheter that goes into his third ventricle. And what we're going to do is suck off some of that CSF, suck off some of that blood so that we can kind of make those ventricles a little bit smaller and reduce the CSF which will reduce the intraraanial pressure. Okay, so that's one good thing. The second thing is that we can monitor their ICPS with EVDs. Okay, EVDs give you a constant kind of ICP level which we can utilize to our advantage to determine, oh, is their ICP too high? I gotta give them some particular medications, which you guys remember from last week, the 23.4% 4% hypertonics, the manitol, things like that. Okay. Next thing, coiling, clipping. We should probably, and again, this is annurismal, so no bur hole. Um, but what you're going to want to do is is you got to you're going to want to either coil or clip this thing because that is this is probably the most important thing to do for this patient is you need to stop them from continuing to bleed. or if they they kind of that sometimes subactoid hemorrhages they can bleed and then they can kind of like claw off a little bit. So the the scary scary high mortality thing that comes from this is if it releads. So your most the most important thing at this point in time is you need either either put some coils inside of that aneurysm and block that aneurysm from rebleleeding or popping again or clip it at the base where that neck is. Okay, so that's going to be the big things there to talk about. All right. Next thing after we coil and clip it or clip it, actually coil or clip, we need to talk about that blood pressure. That blood pressure is no bueno, right? We don't if we haven't had this this secured. If we didn't coil it or clip it and we keep having them have that high blood pressure, we're going to pop that sucker or reuleed it, right? And that's scary. We don't want that high mortality rate, almost 70% mortality rate with a reble bbleleed. So, we got to control their blood pressure. systolic blood pressure less than 160. Some will even go as far as saying less than 140. It's kind of dependent upon your goal and what you're you know what you're trying to do. Anybody give me the particular medications that I could use to control their blood pressure? Start thinking about that. We'll talk about that in the next plan here. So think about what do I do to take into consideration for that blood pressure? What kind of med medications would I give? Someone asked how do you drain the blood and you talk if you're talking about the subacoid space that blood will have to clear over time. If you're talking about the blood in the ventricles that's where the EVD comes in. The blood in the subactoid space will have to clear and that's going to take some time for that to clear and that can also cause another problem. Uh it can cause a different type of hydrophilis, not an obstructive hydrophilis. It gets stuck in those arachnoid granulations which leads to what's called a communicating hydrophilis. But it's going to take some time for that blood to clear. So good question. The other thing that I need you guys to remember is that when subactoid hemorrhages are due to an aneurysm that ruptures, one of the scariest things is not only the reble but also things called vasospasm. Basically the blood in that subactoid space agitates the vessels and causes them to squeeze and clamp down which can cause acute eskeemic strokes. So we need to prevent that and so what we do is we have to quick you know monitor them daily with things called transcranial dopplers. We ultrasound the vessels in their brain and give them these little calcium channel blockers called pneumodapene. Um, and that's designed to be able to reduce the incidence of um, vasospasm, but it hasn't actually the evidence isn't clear on it, but it it's been shown to reduce kind of the mortality outcomes. The other thing is pain and sedation. These are going to hurt. Subraact hemorrhages hurt. So sedating them with propall while they're intubated, giving them fentanyl, even things like dex metatomdine or precedex is also very important. Is there any place for manitol in this patient? If the ICPs are high, you can definitely give manitol. If the ICPs are high, you can also give 23.4% hypertonic saline. But again we didn't talk about that but if it is high greater than 20 22 millimeters of mercury for sustained um then you can give medications like that. Okay. All righty. I think that's kind of the big thing there. So EVD coil clip blood pressure control monitor for vaso spasm and pain and sedation. All right. Next thing about those blood pressure meds what's our well actually give me a second. I forgot we got another thing. The person's also seizing, right? So, we got to think about again their seizure. What caused the seizure? The seizure is from the subacttoid hemorrhage. Blood in the subberacttoid space is going to agitate the cortex. The cortex is going to fire and it's going to cause seizures. So, sometimes we need to be careful of that. So, obtain an EEG to see if they're still seizing. If you have them on all these medications, so propall, ketamine, uh, mazzylam as well as all the anti-epileptic medications or pentobarbatl, you should definitely kind of have them on an EEG to make sure that you've controlled their seizures. Also, sometimes patient won't won't visibly seize after subaract. It can cause a non-convulsive statusepilepticus. So sometimes we definitely need a continuous EEG to take into consideration um, with this patient. Okay. All right. And ketogenic diets have also been shown to be somewhat beneficial for patients with seizures. But I think the big thing is having a EEG to make sure that you're suppressing the seizures as well as making sure that you're not missing a non-compulsive type of status epilepticus and then keeping them on these medications or adding medications to prevent them from seizing. Okay. Now, we've got the cardio plan. Some of you guys did say it um and I like it uh is uh we're going to start to keep that blood pressure less than 160. Right. So nicardipene is kind of like my favorite. Any of you guys can have an option. I just prefer nicardipene. Um which is also known as cardine. It's an infusion. Um and so these infusions are helpful because you get very tight, you know, you get a better blood pressure control with nicardipene. Anywhere from 5 to 15 milligrams per minute. Um if that's not cutting it, you can add in little IV pushes like led an alpha and beta blocker. You can do 10 to 80 milligrams of that with a max of 300 milligrams in 24-h hour period. Hydraazine it's okay it's variable in its action. So sometimes it can tank the blood pressure sometimes it won't help it at all. So uh 10 to 20 milligrams kind of IV P you know PRN and usually the only time I kind of use hydraazine is if uh if the patient's really bradaartic um ledol can actually tank their heart rate a little bit too. So hydraazine is kind of another option. And as long as they have good kidneys and the potassium isn't too high, I'll also consider analopril also known as vasotech 625. Start that off and then I can go up to 5 milligrams as I as needed to kind of control that blood pressure. Okay. I hope that makes sense. Pulmonary plan. So this person's intubated, right? So they're intubated because of seizures and probably because of the bleed, too. So what modes would you use? Okay, if you intubate somebody, generally the first mode that you're going to throw them into is CMV. So, continuous mechanical ventilation where the machine is going to pretty much you set particular parameters and goals and that will the the machine will deliver um the set goals that you think the patient needs. And so, you determine this by uh someone did say why not nitro? Nitroglycerin has been shown to be able to potentially increase incraanial pressure. Um so, that's why kind of you want to stay away from nitroglycerin really. Um but giving um them a particular set FiO2 or giving them a particular set PEEP will help to determine how much you oxygenate them. So that's what you titrate to control their oxygen. And then their title volume and respiratory rate is what you can kind of utilize to control their CO2 um as well. And then whenever you set them in CMV, you pick a title volume, a respiratory rate, a flow rate. You also pick an FiO2 and a PEEP. And then you kind of modulate them again based upon this kind of slide here uh to get within goal. And then plateau pressures you measure with inspiratory pauses. Um and so what that is designed to do is make sure that your pressure that the the the pressure inside of the alvoli at the end of expiration um or the plateau pressure really within the lungs isn't too high because that can be indicative of bar trauma increase the risk of barot trauma lung injury. So keeping the plateau pressures less than 30, driving pressures less than 18 is good. uh lung ventilation strategies to reduce the risk of um injury. And then again, AGs to make your modifications if you need to, fentanyl and propyl for this patient because it's going to help with not only sedation, sedating those, you know, suppressing the respiratory centers so that the vent can do the work for them. Um and then serial chest X-rays to just make sure that those lungs aren't looking bad, that they aren't, you know, uh getting nasty, especially when you're intubated. Okay. All right, here's the next thing. We had a complication. They're in the ICU on bleed day seven of their subacoid hemorrhage. You're doing those TCDs and the the ultrasound tech comes to you. Um, and whenever the ultrasound tech comes to uh real quickly, hyperventilation is preferred because it lowers inrain pressure. Be careful with that. I I really want you guys to understand, be very, very careful with hyperventilation. You only use it as a temporizing measure. If you hyperventilate somebody, what it's going to do is it's going to help to lower their CO2, which will cause cerebral vasoc constriction, which reduces cerebral blood flow. If there's less blood in the skull, that lowers ICP. That's good. If it's an acute, only short time period that you are doing this, if you do that for a long period of time because you're trying to lower their ICP, you will give them a stroke. Okay? So, be very careful with hyperventilation mechanisms. Okay? All right. Going back to this, the ultrasound tech is doing the TCDs. They're measuring the velocities and you got a velocity of that left MCA region that's 195 cmters per hour. You're like, "What the freak? I don't even know what that mean, man." Anything that's greater than 120 uh up to greater than 200. So, we say 120 to 200 or greater is indicative of potentially vasospasm. And then we use what's called a LR a lindergard ratio. And if that is 3 to six or greater that is also indicative of vasospasm. So this person is in vasospasm. Oo not good. Patients exam is unchanged. They're still posturing. They still got their brain stem reflexes. They're still comeosse not really responding. What do you need to do and why? Well, the first thing I got to do is I got to push as much blood into those vessels that are really spasming right now so that I don't stroke my patient out. So, I'm going to do what's called induced hypertension. Induced hypertension is I'm purposely increasing their blood pressure to plump those vessels up to push as much blood flow into them so that my patient doesn't stroke. So, I'm going to target 160 to 200 millm of mercury systolic. If you guys are like, "Wait, I can't that cause a rebule?" If they're secured, that coil is in place, the clip is in place, they should be okay. If they're not secured, I would not be doing this. That's a terrible idea. But generally, we're going to put them on pressers and inotropes to get that blood pressure up to push as much blood through those little v uh vessels. So, levoped or norepinephrine, fenylphrine, those kinds of medications are going to be helpful. And then if they are really really uh still you know spasming with these medications I'll send them to IR and they'll IR will take a little catheter and squirt little medications in there intraarterial dilators to dilate open those vessels so that they don't develop a stroke. The reason for vasospasm is because of the blood from the subacoid hemorrhage. It really causes a lot of vasoactive inflammatory chemicals to be released and it causes the vessels that are nearby to start kind of clamping down and undergoing that vasoc constriction response. So that's the reason for the vasospasm. It's the second highest uh mortality cause uh thing that can happen with subacoid hemorrhage after rebuleed. But again we can do some of these endovvascular interventions. We squirt some in the dilators in there to open up those vessels. Um and then the other big thing is that whenever you have a vessel really clamping down, I got to do a couple things. I either need to push as much blood through there. I need to dilate those vessels through the endovvascular interventions or I need to try to get as much oxygen running through those vessels so I can get as much as I can to the tissue. And so what I would do is I would make sure that I give them a transfusion if their hemoglobin is low because that's going to give you more delivery of oxygen. So generally the threshold is 8 to nine. Some will even be way uh kind of more liberal and say oh 10 if it's less than 10 transfuse them. Um and so again the whole reason why you need to treat vasospasm is you don't want them to stroke. So how do you do it? Induce hypertension endovvascular interventions and transfuse particular goals 8 to nine if you're feeling pretty perky. Maybe you can even say less than 10 you transfuse. Bleed day 10. We fixed them. Let's say that we did we we did it. We fixed them guys and engineers. We helped them and we really uh caused you know the increased blood flow. We gave them the dilators. We transfused them. They did better. They didn't end up having spasm that day or the next day or the next day. Bleed day 10 comes around and they're fibr like a They are so fibr their fevers are 105. Someone asked the question is the vasoc constriction good because it decreases blood flow to that region and decreases bleeding. But norepinephrine would cause vasal constriction. The whole purpose of giving that norepinephrine and the phenylphrine is because you need to increase your map. Remember what is the definition of cerebral profusion pressures? Cerebral profusion pressure is equal to the MAP minus the ICP. So if my cerebral profusion pressure is low, which can happen in kind of situations where ICP is high, I need to increase my MAP. And so increasing MAP is going to come with giving things like pressors um and potentially fluids as well. So I got to increase my MAP because I want to peruse the brain. Okay? And remember, there's not many uh kind of adinuric receptors on the intra cerebral vessels. Those shouldn't be there really. All right. Anyway, bleed day 10. They're fibbral. They're really, really hot. What do I got to do and why? Well, the reason why is when people have subactoine hemorrhages, that blood agitates the hypothalamus and the hypothalamus gets ticked off and starts causing fevers, central fevers, uncontrolled by Tylenol and other measures. So, you have to really cool these people down. And the reason why is if you don't cool them down, guess what the problem is? You can cause vasospasm to become worse and increase their intraanial pressures because you're increasing metabolic activity. So I don't want to increase their ICPs. I don't want vasospasm to get worse. So how do I cool them down? I cool them down. Tylenol, putting a cooling blanket on them. things like an Arctic sun, which is these pads that you put on them that runs cold water through them and cools them on their surface, or you give them cold saline infusions, like normal saline, or you put this catheter in. It's called a ZO catheter, and it's a it's kind of a catheter that goes into a central vein, has a little coil on it, and you run cold water through it, and it cools the blood. And so, that's kind of one way that you can do that as well. So, Tylenol cooling blanket, arctic sun, which is a surface cooling, and a zol catheter or cold saline infusions. Okay. And then here's the problem though. You try to cool them down, they're start shivering. What the heck? Why? That's a problem, right? Because they're trying to counteract that cooling. Because whenever you get really cold, your body tries to d develop these mechanisms like dilating the cutaneous vessels and shivering to counteract that. That's going to make it even worse and we're never going to get that fever under control. So I need to shut down the shivering and there's so many different things that we can do. Surface warming through what's called a bear hugger. You can give a bunch of medications. We're not going to go over their mechanism right now but booone magnesium bromeocryptine dex metatomdine propaller or fentanyl. And you can even do both and then sometimes you may even have to paralyze them uh to stop them from shivering. Okay. So, this is the big thing here that we're treating on day 10. All right, you guys still with me? The last thing that I want you guys to think about, bleed day 14 on their subraoid hemorrhage. Um, patients urine outputs, nurse comes to you and says, "Hey, so why can we drop their so do we drop their core temperature for ICP?" You can drop their core temperatures for ICP, sure. But again, the whole purpose is that whenever you're these people are are fibral, not because they're having an infection. Um, it's because the hypothalamus, it's called central fevers, the hypothalamus is what's agitated and it's really causing these fevers. Okay? Uh, but yeah, the cold fluids and all these cold measures and shivering things is to really prevent them from having these intense fevers because fevers are going to do two things. It's going to increase your incraanial pressure and the second thing is it's going to increase the risk of that vasospasm which can lead to strokes. Anyway, bleed day 14, nurse comes and says, "Hey, patient is having some really high urine outputs. They're peeing like a mofo. They're putting out more than 200 milliliters every two hours." And you're like, "Oh, that's weird." You get their morning BMP. You check it and their sodium is 125. Oh, what the crap? So, they're hyponetriemic and they have high urine outputs. What the heck is going on? Some of you guys may have heard about this. It's called cerebral salt wasting syndrome. Sometimes this can get confused with SIADH syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion. Okay. So in this scenario if somebody has cerebral salt wasting we differentiate cerebral salt wasting from SIADH based upon urine outputs. If they have high urine outputs and their urine sodium is very very high as well as they have hyponetriia it's more likely cerebral salt wasting SIADH will cause hyponetriia their urine outputs won't be high and their urine sodium is low okay so that's the big thing urine sodium and cerebral salt wasting high urine sodium and sidh low both of them cause hyponetriia but cerebral salt wasting causes your volume your you become hypoalmic siadh you're uimmic. Okay. Could you put them on an arctic sun and a bear hugger? Yeah, you could. It's again it's all about trying to cool them down but also trying to cool like trying to prevent the shivering. Um so again, what do we do for cerebral salt wasting? Well, that hyponetriia is problematic. That's going to worsen things. That's going to cause what kind of issues? It's going to worsen cerebral edema, right? Because what's going to happen is water is going to leak out of the blood vessels into the the cerebral tissues and cause edema worsening the kind of the intraraanial pressure. So what do we do? We give them normal saline bololises. We try to replete them. Their urine outputs are so high. So we give them fluid back and try to match their urine output. Another medication, think about this fluid cortisone. It's basically aldoststerone. What does aldoststerone do? It increases sodium reabsorption, increases water reabsorption, and it causes potassium kind of excretion, right? Isn't that kind of the opposite of what's happening in cerebral salt wasting? Yeah. The reason why atrial natriotic peptide is increased is just because of the catakolamine surge. Whenever there is that injury to the brain from subacoid hemorrhage, it causes this massive norepinephrine epinephrine release which triggers the heart to release lots of atrialic peptide. But again, what happens? What do we do? We give them fluid cortisone and we basically reabsorb sodium, reabsorb water, give them fluid back to match their urine output or we can give them sodium chloride tablets to increase their salt. But the most important thing and probably the interesting thing, probably the most significant is 3% hypertonic saline infusions. That's a lot of salt and you're just basically trying to push a lot of salt into their blood directly to increase their sodium to get it back to a range of 135 to 145. Okay. Again this is cerebral salt wasting not SIADH. Again cerebral salt wasting high urine outputs hypoalmic hyponetriia high urine sodium SIADH is there hyponetriic low urine sodium uimmic. Okay very important there. And you can correct hyponetriia slowly. You don't want to try to give a tons and tons of sodium really really quick. That's why there's different protocols. there is a risk of giving too much sodium too quick. If you guys know what it is, throw that down in the comments. Um, but again, that is kind of the whole goal here is to replete their sodium for, you know, to prevent edema, but also because whenever you're kind of dumping lots and lots and lots of urine, you make them hypoalmic. And if you make them hypoalmic, that increases the risk of spasm as well. Okay? And again, that condition is called um osmotic demination, usually in the ponds if you correct their sodium too quick. All right, ninja nerds. That was our case. I know it was a pretty simple diagnosis, but the goal was to focus more on how to treat. The goal is to focus on how to treat. So, take this quick time here, maybe five minutes, and give me any questions that you guys might have and we will uh hopefully meet back up next week. Yeah. Yep. Somebody said it pontine my license. Good. Hi guys. I hope this helped guys. And again, I want you guys to focus more on the treatment stuff. Uh focus on how to treat these things because you can diagnose and that's great, but once you diagnose them, you need to know how to treat them and prevent them from worsening. So, let's definitely get better at that stuff, okay? I'm a big fan of you guys. You guys are awesome. If you guys have any other questions, so throw it in. got about we'll save like a couple minutes and then what caused the bleed it was so it was her hypertension that was a good question good question Asa thirststone uh it was the hypertension so hypertension is is probably one of the biggest risk factors for um aneurysmal subract damage so she had a cerebral aneurysm that was caused by hypertension she probably had this brief you know hypertensive kind of crisis that she had when she came in at 180 and it just popped that vessel do I have to memorize all these protocols no no I just want you to focus more on just again trying to get the basic idea. If you can think about it, if you understand the physiology, the pathophys that that's kind of the big thing is making sense of this stuff and knowing why you're doing it. You need to know why you are doing something and that is I I can't stress that enough. If you have no reason, if you're just throwing medications and throwing on different protocols and treatments and you have no idea why, it's just, oh, this is how we do it. That's not going to help you. Make sense of why you're doing it. Have a reason. It's going to help you. Okay. If brain herniation did occur, uh would decreasing the ICP, uh be enough to re recurrent or would you need surgery? Um if brain herniation occurs, um then then at that point in time, usually when brain herniation is occurs, it's it's it's very unlikely um that you'll reverse that. Generally in that kind of situation, you could do things like decompressive hemocrainiactomies. um subraacttoid hemorrhages they benefit most from EVDs and um they could get decompressive hemocraniactomies but not not generally um super beneficial for them. Okay. All right nerds. I hope you guys like this. I hope it helped. I hope you guys enjoyed it. Next week we'll have another uh um uh case study and I will see you guys there. All right, ninja nerds. Love you. Thank you.