Let's get started here. Today we're going to do a nice little case study. This is our study number nine. We've been pretty uh good with these. You guys are so awesome, so darn smart. So, we'll just keep chugging along. All right. So, today's case study uh is study number nine. And this patient is going to present with Strider. Let's talk about this. All righty. So, first off, medical disclaimer. You guys already know this. These cases are fictitious. We make them up here at Ninja and they're for educational purposes only. Okay. Alrighty. So, first things first, during your rounds, um, a patient in the ICU was intubated in the ICU for pneumonia. Um, but they've improved. Their mental status has improved. Their overall pneumonia has improved. They passed their spontaneous breathing trial. And so you decide, okay, let's extate them. So we're going to remove that tube and then we're just going to put them on nasal canula just to make them comfortable. And then after we extate them, we'll just get some good suctioning in the oral fairings and then kind of let them rest. You go ahead, everything works out successfully. And then after about 5 minutes, the nurse comes back and tells you, "Hey, the patient is working really hard um to breathe right now. Can you come back and take a look at the patient for me?" So, right away, you got to think about that. Okay, I just had somebody who was intubated for pneumonia. They passed their SPT, their spontaneous breathing trial. You extabated them to nasal canula. You suctioned them out. They sounded fine at that point in time, but then a little bit later, the patient started to work really hard. Okay. So, you go back to the room. When you go back to the room, you look on the monitor and you see that their heart rate is 98. So, they're not like super tacocartic. The respiratory rate is 30. Okay? So, they're breathing a little bit faster. They're definitely typnic. Their blood pressure is 120 over 90. Okay? So, they're not hypotensive. They're not hypertensive. Their temp is normotheric, right? So they're 98.8 degrees Fahrenheit. And their O2 saturation is about 88% while they're on nasal canula. And they're they're about 6 L, okay, per minute on the nasal canula. All right. You listen to their heart. It's a regular rate, regular rhythm. Doesn't sound irregular. You don't hear any murmurss. You don't hear any rubs. You don't hear any gallops of any kind. You listen to You just take a look at them before you even listen to them. And you see that they're pretty typnic. And whenever they're breathing, they're causing this nasal flaring to try to pull as much air in. They have their scalines. You can see their scalines starting to become utilized. And you're seeing some intercostal type of retractions. And then when you just listen to them without even putting your stethoscope on their chest or near their neck, you can hear this kind of wheezing type of sound whenever they're taking a breath in. So then when you go to listen and you oscultate near the the actual uh the neck near the larynx, you hear a lot of strider and you go down to the lungs and you hear a little bit of strider down there as well, but it's primarily most prominent up near the larynx. Okay, you go down to the abdomen just to palpate the abdomen. Be thorough, soft, non- tender, normal active bowel sounds. Their pulses are normal as well. Okay, what are you guys thinking? What's your diagnosis at this point in time? Okay, so it's a pretty simple case, right? You just ex you just extabated somebody. They're sounding kind of striderous. They're utilizing accessory muscles. They're not super hypoxic, but they're definitely working hard to breathe. And there's an obvious strider that you can hear. Would you guys say that this is epiglotitis? Would you say that this is asthma? Would you say this is post activation strider or would you say this is hereditary he hemorrhagic tangiactasia? I give you a hint. The last one's not the right one. Hi Yasm mean Margaret. Yeah, doing pretty good there. Yeah, I think that's uh that's definitely the answer. Post extabation langos spasm or strider. Yep, Denton said that as well. Uh, Dutch cuts 104. I'm assuming patient isn't known with COPD. Again, um, no, I didn't mention the history here. I'm just saying based upon your clinical uh, just stalt in this kind of scenario, what would you figure, I guess, based upon the events that just happened? Yeah. Yep. So it seems like everybody's in a pretty good agree it's a post-extubation strider and I think that you guys are are good in saying that. So definitely patient was extabated after they were exabated a little bit later they started to have increased worker breathing uh scaline uh you know involvement intercostal retractions nasal flaring and then audible inspiratory strider. Okay so this is actually a scary situation. um see this happen sometimes in the neuroscience ICU um and it can be pretty scary. It's a very serious situation that you have to be act on very very quickly. So the question is is what are the treatments that you're going to start just really really quickly implementing because this is something that you need to take care of immediately when this happens. What is the first treatment that you're going to do to reduce some of the inflammation? Because with post extabation strider there's lingial edema is what you're assuming. There's some edema near the larynx and every time you try to take a breath in the air is having to pass through a very narrow area because of all of that inflammation. So what drugs would you give to reduce the inflammation if I gave you guys the options? Would you give them dexamethasone? Would you give them aluterol and epotroprium broomemide which is also known as a duo nebulizer kind of med medication? Would you give them inhaled budeside which is a corticosteroid or would you give them oral predinazone? So Colin says Dex. So I'm assuming dexamethasone. Eh says secure the airway. Chex says Someone says steroid. Question mark. Saba might work. Epi recemic epi. Again we're just trying to reduce the inflammation first. So inhale boudesinide. So a couple people are saying do a nibbs. Okay. So one of the best things here to think about is that when we talk about inflammation, steroids tend to be very helpful in this scenario. The question is is what kind of steroid do you want to give them? If someone's having strider, they're having difficulty breathing, it might be difficulty, it might have they might have difficulty being able to swallow something, right? Because when you're really having that much difficulty breathing as this individual is, this patient is, you might be taking a chance to have them swallow some type of oral steroid in that case. So oral predinazone I don't think would be the best option um in this scenario. Okay. The next one is inhaleside is good. It's a steroid, but it's not going to really give you the significant amount of reduction in inflammation as you want. Albuterol and epotropium bromide they're not really going to help with a lot of the particular issues with inflammation. Um so albuterol is more of a bronco dilator. Epotropium bromide is a bronco diilator. The only other thing is epetropium bromide does have the ability um to be able to decrease some of the secretions um and again basically help to reduce a little bit of the mucous secretions and a little bit of edema. But those aren't going to be the best. The best thing that's actually very very effective is an IV or IM medication such as dexamethasone, methyl prediniscolone. Those are going to be pretty good drugs to give right away. Okay. So, what I prefer to do is either give something like methyl prediniscolone. You can give a pretty hefty dose of that if you want to. 125 milligrams ivmethyl prediniscolone. Or I give a pretty good hefty dose of dexamethasone. sometimes 10 to 20 milligrams of dexamethasone. It's going to take some time for that steroid to kick in though, okay? So, we got to be doing other things, but it's just the first thing that I want to get started because that's going to reduce the inflammation and then I'm going to start doing some other things while the steroid takes some time to kick in. Okay? So, I would be giving These are kind of the preferred IV agents that I would go to right away. Okay? So either 10 to 20 milligs of dexamethasone or 125 milligrams of methyl prediniscolone. And then after I've done that, I'm going to start working on my other things. Um so yep, neilization. So fast acting steroids and not dexamethasone. So dika uh dexamethasone's relatively quick. Uh 30 minutes to an hour for the onset of it. And again, that's going to take so that's why you need to do other things in the interum to try to until that dexamethasone starts to kick in. Hydrocortisone again uh there's other there's many different options. Um hydrocortisone I I've never seen that given um uh in a situation such as post-extation strider. Um not sure. Um I'll have to look that up. Never seen hydrocortisone given. I've seen generally like prediniscolone, prednazone, um dexamethasone, methyl prediniscolone. Again, I've never seen hydrocortisone given. Usually that's a good stress dose steroid in someone who is um like hypotensive or you suspect an adrenal insufficiency and they're vasoplegic um because of that. But uh I'll have to look that up. Okay. So yeah, that's going to be the first thing I'm going to do. All right. So we're going to get that on board. We're going to start. We're going to say okay give them dexamethasone 10 milligs of dexamethasone IV or IM and then after that let's start doing something else. So while I'm when I give that it's going to take about 30 minutes an hour to kick in. What I want to do to dilate some of the upper airways and the bronchi and the bronchioles to try to maximize the amount of air that I can get into the the alvoli. If I were to give you options, would you say dexamethasone? Would you say eproprium broomemide? Would you say recemic epi or would you say inhaled epoprostanol? What would you guys think? So again, what would I want to kind of dilate those upper airways in this kind of scenario? What I want to give again dexamethasone, epotroprium broomemide, recemic epi which is kind of just a nebulized epi or inhaled epoprostanol which is kind of like a um it's kind of like a nitric oxide derivative basically. So eh says three. So recemic epi recemic epi denton says pretty much guessing but three recemic epi two should do the job epropiumrium broomemide for Dutch cuts. All right so there's a mixture um here it seems to be between two and three. Okay. So to dilate the upper airways, I think you could you could definitely give epropiumrium broomemide. It's not a bad thing, but recemic epi is pretty much the the standard. Okay, it's kind of the standard treatment in this situation. You want to give something like recemic epi cuz it's really going to help to dilate those bronchioles and uh dilate some of the bronchi and really help to open up the airways as much as possible. Um, but again, I definitely would say recemic epi would be a number one go-to. But here's the thing. When you have someone and this is going on, there's nothing wrong with giving them the dexamethasone saying, "Okay, let's start recemic epi that doesn't take long for them to get a recemic epinebilizing treatment." And then you can alternate that with maybe some duan like um a albuterol as well as a petroam broomemide. So there's nothing wrong with both of those situations. I would just say if you were having to pick one of these and you only could pick one of these out of the options as a you know from your toolkit I would say recemic gappy would be the number one go-to. That's going to be the workhorse in this scenario. So I'd say you've given the dexamethasone to reduce the inflammation. That's going to take a little bit of time about 30 minutes to tops an hour. I'm going to get my recemic epi going and I'm going to do at least one treatment. If not any better, I'll do a second treatment. I can also alternate with duo. Okay? So I can give the epotropium broomemide with aluterol. So it's a kind of a combo. Okay? Everybody understand that? If don't have three, can you use two? Um, yeah, it's again, I'd say the recemic epi is going to be way better. It's a nice concentrated dose of a beta agonist, so you're going to get much much more um of a kick out of that one, but hpatropium bromide and albuterol, if there's nothing else that you have, it it may help a little bit. But I'd say the biggest thing here is get your dexamethasone. Get that to reduce the inflammation if you have it available. recemic epi and then if you can alternate the recemic epi with um you uh with some of those duanbs. Okay, again epotropium bromide and albuterol is pretty helpful there. Good thing RT is already in the ICU. That's that's definitely true. Um and then inhaled evil prostanol is not something that's super effective um in a post-extabbation strider. There hasn't been any research to really or any RCT suggesting it's evidence in that um it is relatively beneficial in patients with ARDS um as well as pulmonary emblei. All righty. So, we got our dexamethasone. We got our recemic epi. What else? What can we do now to treat the pre the patient's work of breathing? Because they're really working hard. I have the dexamethasone to try to be able to reduce the inflammation. I gave them the recemic epi. I could even give them duan alternating with that. But I got to do something to decrease that work of breathing because if they do that for a long period of time, they can tuck her out. They'll get very weak. They'll have bit difficulty being able to maintain that rate of respiration, that amount of effort that they have to breathe over a long period of time. So, what can I do to reduce that work of breathing? So, I have them on a nasal canula at 6 L. I could go up, you can go up to 15 on that. Um, it definitely makes some pretty loud noise, but you can do it. The other thing is helios with um putting them on a high flow nasal canula device uh for example like optiflow or vaptherm and then running helio mixture through the high flow nasal canula uh recemic epinephrine again or a nonrebreather. So Denton Gamble said BiPAP. BiPAP is somewhat okay. There's not a lot of research to really suggest the efficacy of BiPAP um in patients with post-extubation strider. It does decrease work of breathing. It does it is going to give you some um inspiratory airway pressures and some some driving pressure. It'll give you some PEEP and and things like that. Um, you just have to be careful. Um, in the patient with pneumonia, if they have a lot of secretions, um, you could potentially cause them to mucus plug. And again, I didn't really tell you how bad this patient with pneumonia is, they may have already cleared a lot of those secretions. But if they have lower airway secretions and a lot of them, and you put them on BiPAP after they potentially have some pretty good secretions, you can plug them up, and that can even make them more hypoxic. So again, it just depends on the scenario. BiPAP as a post-extubation patient with pneumonia, uh I'd be very careful and make sure that you definitely know about their secretions before you put them on BiPAP. So some people are saying non-rebreather. So Frank White asked, "What is the difference between CPAP versus BiPAP?" So it's kind of within the name. So CPAP is continuous positive airway pressure. Um, so for example, if you set a particular amount of pressure that you want to drive into the lungs the entire time, um, I think the best way of thinking about CPAP is imagine you, uh, are driving kind of down the road, like down the highway, and you stick your face out like a dog, like sticking your face out the window. All that air that's constantly hitting you over a period of time, if you stay at like the same speed, that's kind of like CPAP. It's a constant positive airway pressure that you're pushing into the lungs. It's all PEEP. Um, BiPAP is you're pushing in a very high pressure in and then keeping a very low pressure during the and then you push in a little bit of pressure whenever they're exhaling. The whole purpose is that you actually get a difference in pressure between inspiration and expiration. That's called your driving pressure and that's helpful in certain scenarios. Um, also you're going to get some good PEEP. So BiPAP is also known as BLE positive airway pressure. You have two different versions. you pick an inspiratory airway pressure and an expiratory airway pressure and then you get the difference between that which is your driving pressure. Um and so with that it's definitely um going to be beneficial in patients with like cardiogenic pulmonary edema, COPD exacerbations, um asthma exacerbations, um myastthenia gravis patients. Okay, good uh great question. I hope that answered it. So some people said non-rebreather, some people said helios with hyphenasal canula. Helios will do the job. We can give Helios. Yeah, I I that's what I would do. If you have um Helios, I would I would definitely go with that. Um I would Helios is nice. And the reason why Helios is there's kind of like a a double-edged sword with Helios. Helios is kind of a a lower weight um kind of air. Okay. So, it's a mixture of oxygen and helium. I mean, helium is a very lightweight gas. And so, whenever you're inhaling in this combination of helium and oxygen, it's really really easy, I guess, is the easiest way of saying it. It's it doesn't take a lot of effort, and it just it's it's nice and easy flow into the lungs. It really really reduces the amount of effort that you have to put in to taking a breath in. And it's just kind of the dependent upon the weight of those that gas basically that combination. The only one on a high flow nasal canula for example Optiflow um you can crank the rate up. So you can push their flow rate up to about 60 L per minute where you're pushing 60 L of a mixture of helium and oxygen into the lungs. And that's good for two things. One is it washes out a lot of dead space. So if there's any kind of like unutilized oxygen and CO2 that's sitting within anywhere between the upper airway down to the respiratory bronchioles, it's going to clean that out and help it to get utilized in gas exchange. And so that basically decreases your work of breathing. The other thing is that if you give really high flow rates, you get a little bit of PEEP. It's not a lot to be honest with you. And some literature actually suggests that it's not even really lower airway PEEP. it's more nasoparangial but it's not completely you know known exactly but they say that you get a little bit of PEEP whenever you have higher flow rates. The only downside to the Helios mixture and again this depends upon um what like institution you you you know you you work at and how much what kind of like sample they have. Sometimes you know with high flow nasal canula like optiflow you can go up to 100% of oxygen and if they're hypoxmic you would need that but in a person who have his post extabation strider this person wasn't super hypoxmic. What this is going to have is helio is only kind of a 20 to maybe 30% FiO2 that you could go up to. So, it's not a ton, but it's going to make it much much easier to breathe and inhale than it would be a a completely concentrated oxygen source. So, again, give them the dexamethasone. Sorry. Give it some time to work while you do recemic epi. Maybe you have to do two of those. Alternate some douans in there and then put them on a helio combination uh with the high flow nasal canula like optiflow. And that's really just going to temporize them. It's going to give time for the dexamethasone to start working. It's going to allow for that recemic epi to work. And so that is going to really really help. Okay. So there's a dual effect here. Helios is going to be easier to breathe and you got the high flow which is going to reduce work of breathing by which way? It gives a little bit of PEEP with higher flow rates dead space wash out and you also get a little bit of mucinetic effect there. Okay. Yep. You can give Helios with bronco dilators. Okie dokie. Alrighty. So, I hope that makes sense. Now, here's the big thing, though. You got to be careful. You know, you don't want to get overzealous um with post extabation strider and delay Sometimes what can happen is that all of this stuff doesn't work. You wait too long and then that larynx closes up and now you can't stick a tube down there at their airway. So what treatment should you be ready to perform if you just notice that after you've given the decadron after you have put them on helios with the high flowasal canula after you given the recemic epi after you've maybe alternated in some douans in there what is something that you might have to do if you are seeing that them this is not working and they are still working really really hard that strider is really really bad and it's just not improving. Do I just go ahead and crank them right then and there? Do I continue the helios with hopes that it's going to work within the high flow nasal canula? Do I reintubate the patient if able or do I put them on biap? Someone saying traum uh Margaret's like TRA. Scott Slyill is saying intubate surgical cri if all else fails. Cri them tra. Man, you guys are vicious. You guys just want to crank this dude. You should try to intubate before you before you crank somebody. Um, so I I would I would make sure. So, yeah. So, I think Atlantic said it kind of well. I I I would make sure that you can actually see some cords and you can run an endotrachial tube down through there first. Um, before you go ahead and and and cri somebody. Okay. Yeah. Denton gamble. I don't think BiPAP they're failing kind of the non-invasive positive pressure ventilation processes. Um with the high flow nasal canula they're they're failing that. Um, so I think at this point in time if they're if we've done everything we can, we've given them like two rounds of recemic gapu, we've given them dexamethasone, we've given them duvs, we've tried to reduce their work of breathing with hyphenasal canula with helio mixtures and they're not doing well. Um, I would just go ahead and reintubate them because the problem is if I continue to keep delaying and continue to keep delaying that larynx will become so ademous and so spasmotic that I won't be able to fit an endotracheial tube down. So, I would say reintubate them. Now, if you delay the re, you know, you delay reintubation. You guys already said this. A lot of you guys went straight to like cranking the dude. I don't know about that, guys. I would take a look at the cords first before you you cut into someone's neck. But, uh, if you if you can definitely go in, you see, oh my gosh, I can't even get the endotrachial tube down there, then you might have to go to an emergency crycoyottomy. Okay. All right. So, you guys did really really good. Um, very very awesome. Seriously, you guys are are are very very intelligent. I think one of the things to think about and and again, this is what I try to do is is whenever I'm getting ready to extate a patient, take the tube out, I got to think what is some risk factors that could potentially cause them to present with postabation strider. So, it's got to be something that's on my mind and I'm thinking about when I'm going through and maybe we'll have another case study where we talk about if a patient passed a spontaneous breathing trial. What is that? I don't I don't think we have enough time in this uh video to do that, but well, maybe we'll talk about that. So, when you're going through a spontaneous breathing trial and you're determining their ability to be extabated, I think these are one of the factors you should be thinking about when you're when you're doing this. And so thinking about the risk factors of post-extubation strider is a very very important thing to do. And what are some of those things? Prolonged intubation. If someone's been intubated for like 5 days or more, I would say that they have risk of postabation strider and just be prepared for that. It wouldn't hurt to maybe give them some dexamethasone ahead of time before you plan to extate them. Okay. traumatic intubation of whenever they were going in to intubate and it was maybe just taking too long and they were trying to thread the endotracchial tube down and they caused a lot of damage and trauma to the lingial walls of the vocal cords. That's also a risk for them developing post-extabation strider if you had to reintubate them. So now if this patient who had post-extubation strider, we reintubated them. Guess what? The next time we try to extabate them, they're at again risk for post-extubation strider. So what should we do when we have to reintubate this person? Keep them on dexamethasone for a while to really reduce a lot of that edema. So that way when we pull that tube out, it's not swollen. The other thing is if you have a person with a small trachea, you have a small little individual and they use a large endotracheial tube um that they're pushing down the airway. That could also be a risk factor. So a large endotracheial tube for a smaller individual. Also, if they have a very short neck as well. The other thing is if they are been they've been intubated, maybe they haven't been intubated for a very long time, but they're super agitated and very anxious and they constantly want to pull the tube or they self-extubate themselves. If they're agitated, you're not sedating them properly, they're constantly bucking and things like that, that can also cause a high risk of post-extubation strider. Also, if that cuff that's compressing in in the area of the larynx and and that can also um cause some post increased risk of post-extubation strider, female gender, not quite sure why. Um I'd have to look into that one, but that also is tends to be a risk factor as well. trauma patients and known tracheal abnormalities. Trachalo stenosis, trachom malaysia. Uh those tend to be and I don't know why I have short neck in there twice, but uh these tend to be some risk factors to think about with someone having a risk of postabation strer. So, it's just something to think about when you go through and you're getting ready to pull the tube from somebody. Uh just kind of run through uh some of the risk factors and just if you think about it, oh man, I think they might have a high risk. Okay, let's go ahead and do what? Let's go ahead and put them on some dexamethasone. Another thing is that whenever you do SBTs, and we'll talk about this maybe in another case study, is you do what's called a cuff leak, where you actually deflate the cuff and test to see if there's air that passes around the cuff. If someone doesn't have a cuff leak or they have a very very little cuff leak, um that can put them at higher risk of having that they're they're a high-risisk candidate for post-extubation strider, too. So that's another thing to be thinking about as well is if they don't have a cuff leak or that the cuff leak is very very very minimal like less than 20%. cuff leak. Okay. All righty nerds. I hope this made sense. I hope that you guys did uh enjoy this. Um it was meant to just kind of be a simple uh take you through kind of like ICU kind of stuff. This is common things that you would do on the ICU uh floor. or if someone's intubated, you need to know what are the things that you have to watch out for after you pull that tube or extate the patient. Maybe next week we'll have a a run through on spontaneous breathing trials and determining if a patient is ready to extate or not and we can see if you guys pick correctly, something of that nature. Maybe that would be a good opportunity. But if you guys have any questions or anything like that, please throw some stuff down there. I'll stay around for like a minute or two and we can talk and um see what you guys are uh curious to know. And um again, I enjoy doing this. I I I really think it's um I really think it's enjoyable to to to be able to talk with you guys. Helps me to sharpen my skills. I hope that you guys are able to learn a lot as well. Um, yeah, Margaret Margaret's definitely right. Tighten them restraints because they will self-estabate their when they're off sedation. Yep. Yep. Very, very true. Is it common for intubation to cause bleeding? It can. If it's a traumatic intubation, you definitely can get some of that. Please explain explain by hammer pulse. We'll have to talk about aortic regurgitation another time. Uh Tugu. Okay. Well, ninjaers, I I I I enjoyed this time with you guys. Um, I I hope to see you guys next week and we'll uh we'll keep going. We'll keep going through these cases. I'll try to find another cool interesting topic. Um, and uh yeah, thanks engineers. Thanks for being so awesome. Thanks for being so cool. Um, and just thanks for, you know, constantly uh being so involved in these case studies. It's it's very very enjoyable. Um, but ninja nerds, I thank you. I love you. I appreciate all the support. And uh as always, until next time.