excited to be here today with you guys again. We're going to be doing um case study number 14. So, we're really moving along in these case studies. And I really hope these case studies are helping. I hope they make sense. I hope they're enjoyable. Um, I think the whole goal of these is to really kind of take the the things that we learn um in the lectures, like the the whiteboard lectures, and really kind of apply a little bit more of a clinical um understanding to it. Um, really particularly to whenever you guys are going out there and treating patients on the floor, whether it be on rotations, whether it be um, you know, your first day as a um, as a resident or an internist or whatever it is. um you know just providing a little bit more information to help you guys a little bit better u understand how to approach certain topics. Um this topic I think is one that I experience a lot working in the ICU and so I really thought it would be a good one to kind of go off of. So let's talk about that. We have a patient presenting with allegora or low urine output. Okay. All right. So, as you guys know, cases aren't real. They're not about a particular patient or anything like that. They're they're fictitious. They're designed to provide information about how to kind of decipher particular types of conditions, how to critically think, and just be a better practitioner. So, let's take here um the HPI that we have. Okay. So, while you're on rounds um in the ICU, a 62-year-old female who is in the ICU for pneumonia, right, is steadily improving. Um they're not intubated, uh but they're kind of on a high flow nasal canula. Maybe they're on something called Opiflow, maybe they're on something like um Vapootherm um and they're on a 40 lers amount of oxygen um and they're getting about 40% FiO2. So 40 lers is running through with 40% of that air being oxygen. Okay. They're also taking antibiotics venkcomy right now for MRSA pneumonia. So they were started probably on some broadspectctrum antibiotics like venkcomy and sephopm or venkcomy and zosin. And then after that they got their sputum cultures come back and it showed only particularly MRSA. So we got rid of the sephop. got rid of the uh or the zosin and we only have them on venkco and we have them on high flow nasal canula. What we've been noticing though is when we get their morning labs particularly their BMP we noticed that they had a bump in their creatinine. Okay, so it went from 1.1 mg per dl overnight oh sorry guys to 1.5 mg per dl in the morning and they've been having consistently low urine outputs over the past like 24 hours okay so person with pneumonia on vank on optiflow had a bump in the creatinine of what point4 within the past 24 hours and low urine outputs over the past 24 hours. Okay, cool. So, you check their vitals, right? You're running through your computer and you say, "Okay, I've noticed that their vitals have been pretty good." Heart rate's 94, so they're within the normal range. Respiratory rate is 20. It's normal. Blood pressure is 110 over 55. That's fine. Temp, they got like a low grade temp at 99.6 degrees Fahrenheit. H I'm sorry, guys. I forgot to switch that to Celsius for um some of you guys who don't use Fahrenheit. I apologize. Um you might have to look that up. I apologize. But right now it's kind of a lowgrade fever. Um and then SPO2 is their 96% on those settings that we said with the highasal canula 40 liters and 40% FiO2. Okay. Cardiovascular wise, you're listening to their heart. You hear regular rate, regular rhythm, normal S1, S2, no murmurss, no rubs, no gallops. You're just taking a look at them and they don't look like they're super ticipnic, just maybe like on the mild upper limit of normal and you're listening and you hear kind of these coarse breath sounds, a little bit of wheezing bilaterally. Nothing out of this world though. It doesn't sound like super nasty. You're palpating their um uh their um their abdomen. It's non- tender. It's soft. They got normal active bowel sounds. And then you're looking at their foley. They have a fully catheter because they've been getting fluids and antibiotics and things running. We want to have a good measurement of their inputs and outputs to know what we need to do. Do we get fluids? Do we give them Oh, thank you uh Zedreo for 37.5 Celsius is equivalent to 99.6° F. I apologize for that guys, but yeah, they have a fully in place and it's draining kind of a darker, more concentrated urine. Okay, so it looks dark and it looks concentrated. Okay, Among Us family, I'm doing good. Thank you for asking. All right, so to kind of summarize what we have on rounds, patient with pneumonia, MRSA, on venkco on optiflow, bump in the creatinine of point4 within the past 24 hours, low urine outputs over the past 24 hours, low-grade fevers, slightly typnic, very mild coarse breast sounds and wheezing, and then they have dark concentrated urine in their ur their foley catheter bag. Okay, cool. So, my question for you guys is before we kind of move on is what is a low urine output? So, if I were to ask you guys, what could you tell me is defined as a low urine output? So, let's say that the the nurse was doing their eyes and O's, they were documenting how much urine the patient has made over the past certain amount of hours. And when they're calculating it and putting it into the computer or they come and tell you what is a low urine output that you would say, okay, that's actually low. What is defined as a low urine output? Can you guys tell me if you could give me like a number? Okay, so less than 400 milliliters like over a 24-h hour period. Okay. What if I were to ask you per hour? Yeah. Nath um sorry if I don't say the name correctly. Natha Kage said less than.5 cc's per kg per hour. That's kind of what I like to go off of. It's good to have like an amount for a 24-h hour period. That's also fine. But I kind of go off of their body weight. Um, and then look at if they're making less than 0.5 cc's per kg per hour. The only reason I do that is what that's what the um the k digo criteria looks at for acute kidney injuries, right? So less than 0.5 cc's per kg per hour and usually it's for like six hours is like a stage one according to the k digo for 6 plus hours 6 to 12 and then as you kind of get up towards 12 to 24 you're getting towards a stage two as you start getting up for more than 24 hours you're getting to a stage three if it's kind of getting to the point where it's less than.3 cc's per kg per hour you might be getting to the more severe stages of AKI and then the worst case scenarios they're completely aner they're not making any urine. So, I kind of start off with saying, have they made less than.5 cc's per kg for at least 6 to 12 hours? That's kind of what I go off of. So, if it's been about 6 to 12 hours of less than.5 Oh, cc's is milliliters. I apologize for that. Hey, jar. So, if they're making um for example, let's say you have a 70 kilogram. Let's say that you have a 70 kilogram. usually a 70 kg uh times 0.5 that's about 35 cc's or milliliters that they would make within an hour. If they're making less than that for at least every hour for at least 6 to 12 hours I consider that to be a potentially an early sign of an acute kidney injury. Okay. All right. So that's one thing. Another thing is how do we define um an acute kidney injury that's not based upon low urine outputs but it's based upon creatinine. So if I say okay their creatinine went up this much in the past 48 hours what would that number be or the next question is if they have a baseline creatinine that we've been able to follow because they've had recent blood work over the past couple months how much more times that normal baseline are they that would make about an acute kidney injury. So, so far we got the urine output down. What about the creatinine? What do you guys think? So, within 48 hours they've had it go up by point blank or you know their normal baseline for the past couple months and it's good. Aaron said it. Aaron Kellington. Great. 3. So greater than or equal to.3 milligrams per DL within like the past 48 hours, 24 48 hours could be a sign of an acute kidney injury. Or if you know their baseline, let's say it's like one or 1.5 or something like that. And it is 1 point it's 1.5 times or greater than that because it kind of goes in stages. If you look at the K digo criteria, it goes 1.5 to like 1.9 would be your stage one. Then if you start getting to two to 2.9, then you're kind of getting into the stage two. Then if you're getting to, you know, greater than three times their normal baseline, then you're getting into like the stage three. So I like to go with at least 1.5 times their baseline. And then the higher that is above their baseline, the more severe it is. So it's either greater than.3 greater than or equal to.3 milligrams per DL within the past 24 to 48 hours or it's greater than or equal to 1.5 times their normal baseline creatinine. Okay, so that's kind of how I would go about that. All right, so we can already kind of if we went back here, what do we say? Let's say that they had low urine outputs. Let's define that as them having less than.5 cc's per kg for the past 6 to 12 hours or 24 hours in this person's case and they had a bump in their creatinine of 04 within the past 24 hours. So that's also again evidence of an acute kidney injury because it's greater than.3. So we definitely have an acute kidney injury, right? We can kind of solidify that based upon this definition. we can say that they definitely had an increase in the creatinine and they've had less than or equal to.5 cc's per kg for greater than 6 hours. So they definitely fit that AKI uh definition according to the K digo criteria which is the most commonly invalidated utilized criteria for diagnosing acute kidney injury. Okay. So my question for you is I don't want all of them. Let's not spend the entire time going over this because that's what the whole point of the um the the whiteboard lectures were. But if you could tell me what are like some of the most common causes of a person having um a pre-renal type of AKI, what is the most common type of thing for an intrarenal AKI? And what is the most common thing that I want you guys to remember for a post-renal AKI? just because there's so many things that could be running through your head and a lot of them are super rare and you don't want to have you can think about those if you've ruled out a lot of the common ones but just tell me what are the most important prenal causes the most important intrarenal causes and the most po common post-renal cause so if we said prenal I just want you to think of volume oh let me see Anastasia I think you hit it nail on the head honestly perfect like explanation Prenal is there's hypoprofusion and that hypoprofusion is maybe due to low volume. Maybe they're dehydrated. Maybe they're losing fluid from somewhere. Maybe they're not pumping enough fluid effectively through their actual vessels. Um and then you said intrarenal will be acute tubular necrosis which I think is a pretty much the greatest explanation just right to it which is usually nephrotoxins whether that's endogenous or exogenous. apologize. And then post-renal is usually something obstructive. Usually something like a stone um some type of uh you know potentially not just a ureiteral stone but if they have like a significant BPH they also have um sometimes a malfunctioning foley catheter as well. So yeah I think you hit it right on the head. So what's an easy test then? Okay. So let's so what I want to do is I want to take you through my approach. I'm going to take you through my approach. When I'm in the ICU and I have a patient who is there's signs of low urine output and there's a bump in their creatinine, what's the first thing I can go into that room and quickly and easily diagnose as the cause? I love to use it. It's portable. You can have it there. It's quick, ease of access. If you have some knowledge of it, you can take squeeze some jelly on it and lay it over them. What could I automatically do to just kind of quickly rule out a post renal cause of AKI? What could I do? Ultrasound. Yeah, I think that's probably like one of the easiest things to do. And so I throw an ultrasound over the bladder and then what I'll have them do is I'll have the nurses nurses like maybe they'll flush the Foley catheter to see okay, is there is the actual Foley catheter working? So if they have a folon, which they should have if they have some signs of acute kidney injury and you want to try to monitor the urine outputs, right, I'll have them flush it. And if I see like a snowstorm or bubbles coming up into the bladder, then I know, okay, then the Foley is working. Then after that, I look at the bladder, look to see if there's anything, you know, particularly in there that could be causing some obstruction. Then I run up the urers and I look to see if I can see any stone or any ureiteral dilation. And then I come up to the kidneys and I look for any hydronosis. Right then and there is a quick easy way for me to tell is their postrenal AKI due is that the reason they're having low urine outputs is that the reason their creatinine is bumping. So I quickly will just grab an ultrasound and go and run up to rule any obstructive cause out. Have them flush the Foley catheter, run my ultrasound over the bladder to make sure that it's actually flushing and it's working appropriately. And once I've done that, I pretty much ruled out postrenal AKI. Okay. Also, another thing is you have a fully catheter in. So, if they had a BPH, you've already had a way to be able to overcome that BPH. So, again, that's not really if they were not catheterized, then I'd be like, okay, that could be a potential cause. But if they have a Foley catheter in, make sure the Foley is working. Make sure it's in the bladder. That's another thing, too. There's been cases where it's actually not been in the correct place and it's actually been in the vaginal vault and not in the bladder. So, uh, again, make sure it's in the bladder. Make sure the full is functioning. make sure that there's no obstruction by checking the uriters and then checking the um kidneys. Boom. We ruled that out. Right? So for this patient, we did a renal and bladder ultrasound. They had no hydro. There was no urinal dilation. The fully flushed. It was functional. It was in the bladder and I didn't see any signs of like retention. So postrenal AKI is ruled out in this patient. Right. Okay. The next test. All right. This is where I think sometimes can you can get led down the wrong pathway. Okay, we've ruled out post-renal. So now we're between intrarenal and prenal. Prenal is the one that you can actually for the most part quickly fix. Okay, we said that it's a problem with volume, whether that be low total volume or low effective arterial blood volume. What is the most common treatment though that these patients get right away if you suspect that it's pre-renal as a potential cause? And you guys are really great. You guys are answering these questions very awesomely. You guys are ultrasound. I love it. Yeah, Mr. Angry Otter we will be tracking creatine and BU just a little bit but we already had an idea that their creatinine was elevated and they um they did have low urine outputs. Okay. So yeah, Apoku IV fluids. IV fluids. IV fluids. Yeah. So, this is usually what happens um is people just get crushed with IV fluids. Oh, they got low urine outputs. It's probably prenal, which is the most common cause, no doubt about it. Let's crush them with fluids. Let's give them like, you know, 14 lers of fluid and see if they make urine. And that's uh that's not a great thing. So, sometimes it's good to just do little fluid challenges. Now, here's my question for you. You have to look at the patient's clinical picture. Okay? If you think, okay, they're they have a fever, they have a really really bad fever, okay, and they have just a lot of diapharesis and kind of these uh, you know, water losses that are coming from that area. They're breathing really, really fast, so they have insensible losses from that. They have massive diarrhea. They got the Hershey squirts and they're blasting fluid out through their anus. They are vomiting up large volumes of fluid. um they're getting diuretics and you've been diarasing them like crazy and they're just dry as all crap. Those are potential cases where no doubt about it or they're not they haven't been taking in enough fluids. In those situations, sure, fluid is the right option. It's a great thing to do. Give them fluids and they may potentially improve. But what if you have a patient who has heart failure with a reduced ejection fraction? You giving them fluid, is that going to help them? So if you give someone a liter, two liters of fluid thinking that their prenal cause is because of low volume and you crush them with a heart failure of, let's say they have an ejection fraction of 20%. um they have diastolic dysfunction, high left atrial pressures, and you hit them with like 2 lers of fluid over the next couple hours. What do you think is going to happen to this person? Is it going to help them? No. It's going to make them a lot worse. It might cause them to put that fluid in their lungs, cause volume overload, lead to pulmonary edema. Right? So, one of the things that I think is really important to do is before you just go ahead and automatically say, "Okay, post-renal AKI is ruled out. It's probably prenal. Let's just like give them like fluids." No. Go to the bedside, look through their history. First thing, do they have a history of heart failure? Do they have a history particularly of a reduced ejection fraction, some type of diastolic dysfunction of any kind? That's the first thing. Okay. The second thing I want to know is I want to go to the bedside and I want to look at the patient. Do they look dry? Are their mucous membranes really dry? Is they have decreased skin t? Do they look kind of like like a little dry? And what else could I do? Whip out the ultrasound. Put the ultrasound over the IVC. Is the IVC flat? Is it collapsing a lot with every breath? Look at the heart. What's the heart look like? Do you see that the heart is like just like slamming really hard and every every single bit of fluid that the heart gets, it's just smashing out or does the heart look like it's not beating very much? These are all things that I like to look out. All right, so first thing I'll do is I'll go in, I'll take a look at their history. Do they have any history of heart failure? Any kinds of uh cardiac issues that could potentially worsen them, make them more volume overloaded. Another thing is I'll look to see if they have cerosis because sometimes cerosis um they can develop a patternal syndrome and fluids may not be the answer for them as well. I'll go in, I'll throw an ultrasound over their IVC, I'll do an echo, I'll take a look at their heart. If their IVC is really flat, it's really, you know, collapsing during breathing and their ventricles just look like they're slamming away. Okay, they might benefit from some fluid. That's a great thing. go ahead, give them some fluid. The other thing that you want to look at is their blood pressure. One of the reasons why people have a prenal AKI is they're not getting enough blood that's actually perusing the kidneys. So, their blood pressure may be low. So, if you give them fluid, you're giving them fluid to increase their blood pressure, to increase their cardiac output, to peruse the kidneys. Okay? So when you give them fluid, make sure that it actually causes some change to their blood pressure or some change to their urine output. So don't hit them with tons of fluid. Give them like maybe a 500cc bolus, maybe a liter, and then wait and see what happens to their urine output. If you gave them a liter bololis and their urine output increased by let's say 200 cc's 200 milliliters per hour for you know over a two-hour period okay that was a good sign that means that the kidneys are actually working and this fluid helped but if you give them fluid and their urine output doesn't really change much their blood pressure doesn't really change much it's it's probably not a good idea to give them fluid. Okay, so that's that's my that's my first question for you is do you give them fluids? You can give them fluids, but just make sure that you wean out which people need the fluids. The second question I can ask you is to prevent them from even having any issues with fluid overload. What else could I do to increase the person's blood pressure so they peruse the kidneys and make more urine? What could I do? I could try something right away. I could give them a particular medication that tries to increase their blood pressure. See if that increases their cardiac output, their profusion to the kidneys and make more urine. What could I give them? Let me see what you guys are writing here. I apologize. So, yeah, you guys are all talking about the pulmonary edema. Yep. Mr. Angry Otter using echo cardiac monitoring to determine their place on the Frank Starling curve. Absolutely. Very good. Um, what does it mean that kidney related is like sha said clover boozy syndrome? Where you where you at with clover boozy syndrome, man. All right, stop saying dopamine. I don't like dopamine. I hate dopamine, man. I hate that freaking drug. Yeah, you guys are right. You can give vasopressors um or inotropes, but I dopamine should never be used. It's the devil's drug. Um but yeah, you guys are right on point. So, let's say that the person's blood pressure is not always, you know, it's not super great and you're giving them fluids to increase their blood pressure and it's not really helping them much. They're not making much urine. Pick their blood pressure up, increase their MAP a little bit. And if you increase their mean arterial pressure, you're going to increase the profusion pressure to the kidneys. So, put them on a little bit of norepinephrine, put them on a little bit of phenylphrine, put them on a little bit of um some type of medication that maybe causes an increased contractility of the heart. Really, the the theotrope should be good for people with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. So, you can give things like doputamine, you can give things like milrenone, but that's really for the people with the reduced EF. So the heart failure people. So I increased the blood pressure a little bit. Okay. I I live laugh. Dopamine has been in multiple RCTs. It's you know if you guys go watch our video on vasop pressors we made a video on it. Um dopamine has many different RCTs um that have shown that it has an increased mortality rate in comparison to utilizing something like norepinephrine or epinephrine. So dopamine kind of fits within the same class as do norepinephrine and epinephrine. And so many of the actual RCTs have shown that norepinephrine, epinephrine are extremely superior to dopamine. So why do you utilize dopamine when the mortality rate is much higher with it? It's also been shown to cause uh actual change. It's so um the titration is nearly impossible. At different doses, it has different effects. So at low doses it may have more of a dilatory effect. At more of the medium dose range it may have more of an inotropic effect. At the higher doses it may have uh a vasoc constrictor effect. So it's nearly impossible to titrate it. It's also been shown that if it extravates um through a peripheral IV, it's going to cause some intense tissue necrosis. It's been shown to cause a lot of problems with the bowels potentially like meantic eskemia. So there's just a lot of like negative things with dopamine. It's just not a super great drug. But anyway, off of that, I don't want to get stuck on that. Vasopressors inotropes would be the next option. Okay. So, I I I like that you guys are picking up on that. You guys are super super smart. Okay. All right. So, we give them a little bit of fluid. We see if that increases their cardiac output, increases their MAPS, profuses the kidneys. Let's say it doesn't really do very much. You pick up their blood pressure. Maybe you aim for a map of 80. Whatever it is that you need to just get them to make more urine. As long as they don't have any contraindications to picking their blood pressure up a little bit. You pick their blood pressure up a little bit. They peruse the kidneys, they make urine. Cool. It's probably a pre-renal cause and we just needed to increase their blood pressure a little bit and that fixed their low urine outputs and maybe their creatinine improved. Okay. Let's say though that you tried the fluid, you tried the actual vasopressor and it didn't work. It didn't help at all. It didn't make any difference. The next thing that you have to be thinking is what if they're volume overloaded? If they're volume overloaded, I can try to give them something to pull off all of that excess fluid because maybe the third spacing fluid in their lungs, maybe the third spacing fluid in their abdomen, maybe the third spacing fluid in their peripheral tissues. So, what's the next thing that I can give that actually could pull off some of that excess fluid that would help to be able to get rid of because you know what happens is sometimes if you get a lot of fluid in the abdomen. um you can or you actually have less intravascular fluid, you can try to utilize a particular drug that'll help to pull some of the fluid into the vascule through a particular mechanism we'll talk about in a second or pull fluid from the abdominal area and help to get some of that fluid out because sometimes having a lot of like edema can actually cause congestive neuropathy or you're third spacing a lot of fluids and it's not in the vascule. Yeah. Yep. So, diuretics. diuretics. I love it. I love it. So, I think that's a great thing to do. Um, so sometimes what I will do is, so here's how I would go about it. I would try and make sure that they don't have a post-renal cause. Foley is functional. Bladder's working. I mean, the Foley's in the bladder. It's functioning. They don't have any kidney stones. I don't see any hydro. I gave them a little bit of fluid. See if that changed their map. See if it changed up their actual urine output. Didn't do it. gave them a little bit of a vasopressor to increase their blood pressure a little bit to see if that helped to peruse the kidneys. Didn't do it. Then I gave them a diuretic because I was concerned that maybe they were third spacing fluids. Maybe this wasn't even a prenal cause in general. I'm not quite sure. I'm not sure if this is still like a prenal, but they have less effective arterial blood volume in the third spacing or I don't know if it's an intrarrenal cause. This is where this next test is really, really good. It was actually validated. It's called the ferosemide stress test. So you give them and sometimes this is a little nerve-wracking for certain people. You give them a hefty dose of ferosemide. Okay. I would give them so for example let's say that I had a um 80 kilogram patient and they are naive. They've never utilized ferrosomide before. I'll give them 80 80 milligrams of ferosomide as a bolus dose. And the whole thought behind that is if this was third spacing of fluids or they were having a lot of edema or they were volume overloaded, that actual ferosomide is going to pull tons of fluid out. either pull it from the extra uh from the third spaced area into the vascule or pull it out of the vascule into the kidney tubules and help to urinate out large volumes of fluid. So when you give them a ferosemide stress test, you're giving them 1 milligram per kilogram of ferosemide. Okay? when you give them one milligram per kilogram of ferosomide if they're ferrosomide naive if they're like if they're a little bit more like resistant because they take Lasix at home maybe you need to do 1.5 milligrams per kilogram of ferosemide so I'll give them that ferosemide and then what I'll do is I'll look to see what their urine output is here's where it's helpful this is where you get a double whammy effect oh thank you Daniel that was very very sweet of you I appreciate that so here's what I'll do I'll give them like let's say that I have an 80 kilogram patient. I'll give them 80 milligrams of Lasix and I'll tell the nurse here's what I want you to do. I want you to monitor their urine output and let me know if in the next 2 hours they make more than 200 milliliters of urine. If they make more than 200 milliliters of urine within the first two hours, I know that it was a pre-renal cause and the ferosomide stress test was successful and the kidneys are working. That's a that's a huge thing that I'm telling you. So, three things. Tell them I'm giving them this dose. Watch the urine output. If you get more than 200 cc's or milliliters in the next two hours, let me know. If it did, that means two things. One is it was a prennal cause, but it was some type of volume overload or third spacing effect. The second thing it tells you is that the kidneys are working and it can't be really any kind of intrarenal cause really or if it is an intrarenal, it's not enough that the kidneys have been super damaged. Now, after I've given them that bolus, let's say that I do this. I give them the 80 mgram bololis of ferocamide. told the nurse, "Let me know if they make more than 200 cc's of urine in the first two hours." She comes and says, "They did not make more than 200 cc's of urine in the first two hours." Then I know that could have been two things. Maybe I didn't give enough of a hefty dose, but the ferosomite stress test says if they're naive, give one meg per kick. I might have to assume that this person has an intrarenal AKI. if they didn't make urine because the kidney tubules aren't working. The kidney is injured. It's damaged. So the ferosomide that's actually getting into the kidney tubules, working on those sodium potassium 2chloric transporters, it's not actually getting there or working on those cells either because the kidney tubules are so damaged that they don't respond to the Lasix. And so therefore, they don't help you to make urine. So if I gave them that lasix, they didn't make more than 200 in the first two hours. I know that it's an intraral AKI. You guys follow that? Check the bladder, check the uriters, check the kidney, no hydro, no urod dilation. Foley is working. Give them a little bit of fluid. Did it make their urine output any better? Did it increase their blood pressure a little bit? Can they take the fluid? Is their IVC changing? Is it flat? Is it having a lot of collapse during respiric changes? Is their left ventricle pumping hard? Okay, they can take it. Did it help it? No. Give them some actual medications to increase their blood pressure to peruse the kidneys. A vasopressor. Is their heart junk? Give them an inotrope. Did that help to increase their urine output? No. Okay. Are they volume overloaded? Are they third spacing? Give them the actual Lasix, the one milligram per kilogram. If they're naive, 1.5 milligrams per kilogram if they're resistant. If they make more than 200 cc's of urine in the first two hours, it was a pre-renal, they were volume overloaded or third spacing. If they don't make more than 200 cc's of urine per uh within the first two hours, then it was unlikely to be a pre-renal cause and it's more likely an intrarenal AKI and there's nothing that you can really do. fluid, pressure control, Lasix, none of that stuff is going to help you. Okay? And then you got to figure out what the cause was. And they may need dialysis. So let's go through and see what happened with our patient. We checked them. They have a normal EF. They have a normal liver function. Amma lipase was normal. There's no evidence of pancreatitis in this patient. Okay. So it's unlikely that their cause was any heart failure, any third spacing effect, any kind of a hpatrenal syndrome, any kind of third spacing from pancreatitis. They don't have any burns, they don't have any diarrhea, they don't have any vomiting, they haven't been diared at all. They've been taking in fluids uh through their uh they've been getting like tube feeds and everything like that. So no issues there. They have no renal artery stenosis. They have no insaids that they're taking, no ACE inhibitors, no ARBs. What treatment you tried? Gave them some fluid, didn't work. Maybe they had a pattern renal syndrome. You could try some midadren and albuman, but they didn't have any kind of a patternal syndrome. They had low MAPS because they had a low blood pressure. Increase their MAP with the vasopressor or the inotrope. We did all of this and it didn't work. Okay. So then we have to come to the point of is it intrarenal and so the most common one that you guys already said and I loved that explanation was is it acute tubular necrosis ain ah it's not super common glam nephritis and thrombotic micro angiopathies ah they're not too common the most common one is atn and so you got to ask yourself has their maps been low because you tried to increase their blood pressure with fluids vasal suppressors, inotropes, it didn't work. So, that's not the cause. Are they taking any of these drugs in their medication list? What about it, guys? Oh, Mr. Angry Otter. And I think some of you guys actually asked this a little bit ago. They were like, "What the heck is their what the freak is their Venko level?" They are taking Venko. They're not on any amoglycosides. They're not on They didn't get any contrast studies. They're not on any asycllover. They don't have any types of rabdo. They didn't have any homalysis. They don't have multiple myoma. They don't have any tumor licis syndrome. So we're kind of left with venkcomy, right? As the potential cause here of the person's intrarenal AKI. So what did I tell you guys to try? The frozenite stress test. Let's make sure that this isn't actually them. They're not third spacing fluid. They don't have any kind of issues here with that. And we can also make sure that it's not intrarrenal. So this is the test that ferosomite stress test I was explaining to you. You give it they make urine kidneys work. You can augment it as if it is prenal fluids pressure all that stuff like that. You give the ferosomide doesn't make more than that 200 cc's in urine in the first two hours. Kidneys are not working. It's not prenal. It's not going to change if you give them more fluid. It's not going to change if you increase their blood pressure. It's not going to change if you give them more Lasix. They may need some type of dialysis or get rid of the dang thing that might be causing the problem. So, we got the ultrasound. We had no hydro, no retention. Foley is working. Didn't respond to fluid impressor challenge. Did not make more than 200 cc's of uh urine in the first two hours after we gave them the ferocomide stress test. You got a vano level and it's super therapeutic at like 30. Holy titty. What do you do? Well, pretty much it's a super therapeutic venkcomy that they've been on. Maybe they forgot to check the level. Maybe they didn't do anything of that nature and they gave them way too high of a dose and it just really caused that acute tubular necrosis. cause those tubular cells to get damaged, clog up the actual kidney tubules, increase the pressure, cause a reduction in GFR, lead to the inability to secrete creatinine, inability to reabsorb ura, inability to reabsorb sodium and water, and so you lose a lot of the sodium and water in the urine. You increase a lot of your creatinine and your BU. So what do we do? We most likely have to hold on that dose. Mr. Angry said cry and call nephro. Yeah. So it was definitely venkcomy related. So that's why whenever you start venkcomy you probably a Jonas. What the heck man? You're hitting me hard with that. Getting bald. Yeah, probably. I'm losing the hair. It's starting to go. The soldiers are retreating on me, my friend. It's okay, though. That's why I think hats are like my my thing. But yeah, you what you want to do is whenever you start a medication like venkcomy is you want to try to be able to make sure that it's within a good therapeutic range. So generally you give the vanco dose and then like a couple layers couple days later maybe two three days later you check a trough level um to kind of see where it is see if it's within the therapeutic range. If it's in the therapeutic range great um you don't have to do any kind of changes to the dosages. You may have to hold the dose for maybe an entire 24 hours, check another level, like a random um venkcomy level in the morning and see what it is. And if it's any better, maybe you can restart it at a lower dose. Um but at this point in time, we're probably going to hold the dose for maybe a day, check another venkco level in the morning and see what it is. If it's still high, maybe we hold it, maybe we decrease the dose, and then check a random level a couple days later. But yeah, what we're trying to do is try to minimize the actual nephrotoxicity here and try to be able to um minimize any more intrarenal damage because here's the thing. If this clogs up the kidneys so bad and they get so injured and we continue to cause that nephrotoxic damage, they may need dialysis. Okay? So, we really want to reduce the need for dialysis in this patient. So, discontinue the venkcomy for maybe a day, check another level in the morning, see where it is. If it's still super therapeutic, maybe wait another day, check it, see where it is, start the van, go at a lower dose, and then get more random levels a little bit later. Okay, I hope that makes sense. So, our diagnosis was the person had an acute kidney injury that was likely secondary to super therapeutic venkcomy levels. Okay. Stop the drug monor creatinine symptoms if with next few days at resolve man. Yep. Yep. give him proper input of fluid output if you remix. Yeah. So that's pretty much it guys. Yeah. So you're kind of just again monitoring it. I I would probably hold the drug for a day. Um that's probably what I would do. And I think you know generally what you do is you talk to pharmacy. Pharmacy is going to be a pretty huge uh benefit for you in the ICU or um in the ED and things of that nature. Usually this is more of like an on the floor kind of thing, but doing multi multi-disiplinary rounds with the um pharmacist and asking them, hey, um how long what should we do here? Well, probably be best to hold the drug for a day, check a level in the morning, see if it's where, you know, within the normal range. If it is, let's drop the dose down a little bit and then check another like random level a day later and then kind of see where they are. Okay, you could switch the drug. it's MRSA. Um if they were able to kind of swallow um medications, you could try things like the nasal lid. Um but usually any kind of like hospitalacquired, well, we don't know if it's a hospital acquired pneumonia, community acquired pneumonia, MRSA related, but there is other drugs that you can try. Uh generally in the hospital, vancomy is a pretty good one. Um other things are like lenazalid. There's other medications like doxycyc and things of that nature. But I'd say that really your best bet is going to be kind of going with venkcomy. Um just again holding it up for a day, checking the level, reducing the dose, and then kind of going from there to keep it within the therapeutic range. Okay? Just kind of reducing the continuous damage that you don't have to end up putting this person on dialysis um to help their kidneys for a little bit as they repair. Okie dokie. Any questions, guys? I'll hang out for like a couple minutes and then we can um talk a little bit, ask any questions or anything um that you may have and and uh hopefully next week we'll we'll do another case study. Um let me think um we are working on a um sorry Mr. Angry said lenazalidene septterine does cover MRSA. Lenazalid is an oral pill that you could take. Again, I think in this kind of situation, venkcomy still would be the superior drug in this scenario. Um, especially with it being MRSA, you get a lot more better control with it. You just got to kind of titrate it to keep it within that kind of proper parameter. So, what precautions can we take to avoid the ATN? Um, so that's a good question, uh, Dr. Nema. So um it's kind of usually whenever you're dosing um venkcomy you dose it at a weight based but you also dose it based upon their creatinine clearance or their underlying kidney function. So you just got to make sure that whenever you dose a patient with venkcomy first off you should make sure that they need the venkcomy. I think sometimes a lot of a lot of the times we unfortunately start medications antibiotics a little bit too early before we definitively know um if the person has an infection. Um I see that a lot. Um I'm guilty of it. I've made that mistake as well where I think a patient maybe had pneumonia started them on some venkcomy and a little bit early and you know they their their cultures came back they didn't really have uh any true evidence of pneumonia and then we discontinue the venkcomy so I think sometimes one of the biggest thing is making sure that they actually need the antibiotics and then the other thing is making sure that you're dosing it appropriate to their weight and their kidney function and then the third thing is checking those levels so generally you get a trough level you get some random levels, making sure that they're kind of within that nice therapeutic range and they're not getting too high. It's the super therapeutic range that we got to be, you know, worried about. Okay. So, I think that's kind of the best thing to do. Um, the other question, uh, the other thing I was going to tell you guys is that we are going to be making, so we made, um, we're making our video on pancreatitis. Uh, we finished up GI bleeds. We're going to put that out, um, next week. And then we're going to do inflammatory bowel disease because that's what everybody agreed on. and most people agreed on it was the most highly uh scored one in the poll. But we're going to do a video on the COVID pill. Um I thought that that would be a good one. Um I thought that you know there's probably a lot of questions and concerns and wondering you know does this what does this co pill do? How does it work? Is it effective? Is there any kind of literature out there that supports its use? So I'm going to try to make a video on that sometime this week and hopefully post that next week. So keep an eye out on um the uh COVID pill video that we're going to make. So yeah, next week we hopefully will have our 3GI videos um and we'll also have um an additional video on the COVID pill. So hopefully you know you guys enjoy that. But uh yeah, but I hope I hope all these videos are helping. I know that they're a little bit long sometimes and it's a little uh daunting. Um I wish I could make them shorter. probably could in some ways, but I I feel like one of the hopefully the best things um about these videos being a little bit longer is that they make sense. You don't have to watch them a second time. Um yeah, you can speed it up if you're really good at that, but um yeah, I'm really trying to make these videos where they're very comprehensive. They make sense. They they help you to understand it. They're not just kind of information that you're memorizing. There's no good in that. There's no good in me just kind of like reading off of a whiteboard or um writing things down and not explaining it. And I think that the most beneficial thing comes from truly understanding it, clinically reasoning it out, and and and helping to be able to help you guys to think critically and evaluate things. So hopefully that's okay. And I'm going to keep trying to do that. But, you know, if you guys be honest with me, tell me like, "Hey, Zach, it was it was way too long, man. I I I you know, I I I understand it, but like I I can't I can't finish my studies for my exam." And I that completely makes sense. So, one of the things that I was hoping that maybe in the in the future we could try is making some more like rapid review videos um and putting that on the website um for people to utilize for very short like maybe 5 10 minute videos that get straight quick to the point for those of you guys who aren't really, you know, having the time or the the luxury to be able to watch these hourlong videos. So, um I hope that these videos are really helping you guys though and and we're going to keep pumping them out and keep making them. Um, Abdul said too long. I'm sorry, man. I I'll I'll do my best. I'll keep trying to do, you know, do better to make them a little bit shorter. I'm trying to make sure that they are make sense and they're they under, you know, they're understandable, but um I will keep trying to work on making them a little bit shorter and um any way I can. Okay. But yeah, hopefully maybe we can try some like rapid review videos and maybe a little bit quicker five 10 minute videos, something like that that just quickly covers the topic, something that would give you guys the basic information. Not a lot that's going to go into understanding it. Just the quick basic information that you guys need to know. Um that uh would give you, you know, the bare minimum that would help you to hopefully exceed and do well in an exam. So, um, so I I'll definitely try to, you know, work on something like that and see if you guys like it and if you guys benefit from it. But yeah, keep be honest and and let us know, uh, what we could do better for you guys because we're we're doing this for you. Um, really. So, all right. But, um, thank you guys. I appreciate everything. I love you guys. Thanks for always being so cool. And, uh, see you guys next week for the next case study. All right, Ninja Nerds. As always, until next time.