All right. So, the first case we have here, uh, case study number seven, we're going to be talking about a patient who presented, uh, with a visual dysfunction. So, let's go ahead and get started. All right. So, medical disclaimer, the cases that are presented here are fictitious. Uh, they're not real cases. They're referenced and created by Ninja, right? They are for educational purposes only. They are not meant to diagnose or treat any medical conditions. Okay. All right. Here we go. So, here we have a 30-year-old female with no significant past medical history uh presents to the Ninja Neurology Clinic as a consult from her primary care physician and her optometrist for some decreased visual acuity. She states that the vision problems began about a month ago and she has been having and it's been getting kind of progressively worse. She states that she can't read or see things as clearly as she could before and says that she's also having difficulty differing different colors. She states that the vision problem is mainly in her left eye and she denies any history of myopia, hyperopia, doesn't wear any contacts or glasses and denies any recent u medication use. Okay. All right. Vital signs are stable. So, no abnormalities there. On uh just a general exam looking at the patient, she's obese. Uh she is also appearing her stated age and she is in no apparent respiratory or cardiac distress. Well, we do a pretty thorough neuroexam on her, right? So, her mental status, she is awake, she's alert, she's oriented uh to person, to place, to time, for why she's there. She also has pretty good attention and focus to the examiner and her language, her ability to repeat, to name, and the fluency of her speech is all intact. Cranial nerves, we're testing these very thoroughly. When we do it, here's what we see. So, we're testing cranial nerve two. We we defer cranial nerve one. We talk about cranial nerve two. When we test her visual acuity via the Snell and chart, her right eye is 2040 and her left eye is 2100. Okay? So, her visual fields are also decreased in her left eye. So when you have and have her kind of tell me, do you see my finger wiggling? Tell me when it gets into your visual field. Or can you tell me how many fingers I'm pointing up? Well, then her visual field is on that left side. They're pretty diminished. All right. Her pe her pupils are equal, but whenever you shine the light, you do a swinging light test, you notice that there's a relative APD in the left eye. So very interesting. Okay. So language intact, mental status is good, but she's got a relative APD in the left eye. Definitely some decreased visual acuity on the left eye as well. Okay. When we test her extra movements to see if she can have good tracking, if it's smooth, if there's any nestagmas, what we notice is there is a kind of a real loss of adduction during tracking. So whenever we have her follow our finger to the right, the right eye will abduct but the left eye will not adduct. When we have her move her eyes to the left, okay, in this case her left eye will abduct but her right eye will not adduct. On top of that, we also notice, pardon me, whenever we have her move her eyes to the right, whenever she does that, she abducts, but there's also a nestagmus in the right eye. When we have her look left, she looks completely to the left with the left eye, but she has some nestagmas there again with that uh that left eye. Okay. When we have her follow our finger inwards, she's able to converge normally. And then also she has just a exotropia. So her eyes are kind of like looking outward a little bit. All right. At rest. Aarent pupilary defect. A lot of people are saying interucleoplasia. Good. All right, you guys are really on the right track here. Definitely looks like some intrauclear abdominal plasia. Whoopsie. Sorry about that. All right. So, so far that's what we got. Now, uh we go on and look at all the other cranial nerves. All the other cranial nerves were normal. Okay. So, five 7 uh 8 9 10 um as well as 11 and 12 are all normal. When we do her motor exam, her upper extremities, her abduction, her adduction, her flexion, her extension, everything there in the upper extremities is five out of five and brisk. nice strong movements. Um, on her lower extremities, both extension and flexion at the knee and at the hip, it's kind of weak. It's like a three out of five. All right. So, very interesting there. Sensory wise, when we test her sensations, she's intact to pain and to temperature into crude touch and stuff. Uh she's intact into pain and temperature, but she is has a this decreased sensation to vibration and she's got decreased sensation to kind of light touch on the bilateral lower extremities, but it's intact on the bilateral uppers. Okay. You also are testing her tone. And when you test her tone, you notice some increased tone on those bilateral lower extremities. You test her patella reflexes. They're three plus. They're nice and brisk, but there is no clonus there. And when you test her coordination finger to nose, she has an intention tremor as she approaches your your finger. Okay? When you listen to her heart, you do the rest of your exam, you do a quick cardiac and pulmonary exam, you notice that there is regular rate and rhythm, normal S1, S2, no murmurss, rubs, gallops, and she's clear to oscultation bilaterally. Okay? So, just really quickly, I want you guys to start thinking about your differential diagnosis. Okay? So, and and again, some of people are already someone asked is she diabetic. Again, if we went back here, she has no significant past medical history. Okay. So, really there's nothing in her medical history other than just she's a little bit obese. Um, and she's having this visual dysfunction in the sense of decreasing visual acuity, some color uh difficulties. She also has potentially, some of you guys hit this, some interuclear abdomoplasia. She's got some weakness on her lower extremities. She's got some decreased vibration sensations and she's got an intention tremor. Okay. So, here's what I want you guys to start thinking about. Okay? Think about your differentials. Keep thinking about those differentials. Okay? All right. So, she tells you something interesting and uh and so whenever she's you're getting ready to say, "Okay, let's start doing some some some thoughts on what could this could be." She says, "Oh, by the way, I was I noticed something. When I when I get a very hot bath or hot shower, I get really really weak. I get really really fatigued. My vision starts getting even worse than it usually is. And I even get kind of a little bit more weak in general in my lower extremities. But whenever I kind of calm down, I get outside or I'm moving around a little bit more and I'm not in that heat of the hot bath or the hot shower, my my symptoms kind of like go back to where I was before that hot shower. Okay. So, someone says, "What vibration do you mean?" So, you use this kind of like tool. It's a It's one of those uh tools. It's a vibration tool. You smack it right there. Right. And then you're usually placing it on particular areas. Usually on the lower extremity, you'd put it on like um kind of like the big toe, maybe on like the falinkx of the big toe. And then you would compare that to maybe the asis, the anterior superior like spine, and just compare to see if there's any vibratory differences between distal and proximal. Okay? But you're trying to look to see if they're able to detect that actual vibration which is carried by the dorsal column sensation. So what do you guys call this um abnormality whenever they have this worsening of their symptoms due to um high temperatures. Okay, great. You guys are killing it. A lot of you guys have already said Utah's phenomenon. Okay, awesome. So yes, this is Uto's phenomenon. So UTF's phenomenon is basically whenever there is higher temperatures, it causes this decreased conduction in particular neurons within the body. Um, and whenever there's decreased conduction on a person who already has potentially some type of issue with nerve conduction, um, this could potentially worsen some of their actual neurological deficits. Okie dokie. So, let's hear your differential diagnosis. Some of you guys have already started throwing them out there. Multiple sclerosis, potentially a vitamin deficiency, uh dorsal column, medial linescus lesion, refractive error. Again, throw out any other differentials that you guys may have. A lot of you guys are saying MS. So, Tinker Fay asked, "Is that due to enzyme malfunction um and heat?" It could be. It could be. Again, I it's not completely wellnown. It's not like tracked out to the exact kind of like uh biochemical kind of event, but it could be. Higher temperatures do have the ability to kind of dene particular enzymes and proteins. And so, if that is the case, that that it's potential. Somebody says medial medularary syndrome. So medial medularary syndrome uh just be careful with that one. Again with medial medularary syndrome there's usually a very particular nerve that gets hit in medium medularary syndrome. That's cranial nerve 12. Right? So usually you would present with some kind of abnormality and we didn't have any of that on our physical exam. So just again think about that. But they did have dorsal column sensations and they did have medial luminiscous sensations that were kind of like abnormal. So it's potential but again hypoglossal. All right. So, I think you guys have pretty had a pretty good differential diagnosis. It seems like the the the majority have picked the correct answer here that it seems like it could be multiple sclerosis. But I think having the thought of mythenia gravis that's definitely a possibility absolutely they usually produce different kinds of abnormalities. Um you know generally myior gravis you do get kind of more ocular and bulbar symptoms. So that's possible. Combined degenerations from like a B12 deficiency. Absolutely. So I think you guys are picking some really great stuff. All right. Awesome. So my question to you guys is what is kind of like if you had to pick like a couple tests or even if it was just like one test for this patient for you guys' differential which it seems to be the most common like denominator here is multiple sclerosis or myia gravis seems to be another one. What she does not have anytosis. Um, Dihara Mthor, I apologize if I said that incorrectly, but let's say that we think it's potentially multiple scerosis or my gravis. What kind of tests would you guys want to order? All right. So, uh, Tinkerface said, uh, MRI of the brain and spinal cord with without contrast. I like it. MRI. We're getting MRI. We're getting MRI. CT scan. Okay. Awesome. MRI. CT scan. So, it seems like you guys want images, which I I think is a good thing. Now, if just just to kind of play devil's advocate a little bit, if you suspected that this was um mythenia gravis, what kind of test would you order to Okay, someone saidium test, that is a good test um theoretically. Okay, but they don't like to use that. Again, that's not really utilized too much in in the US. I can't speak for things that are used outside of the US, but we don't use that much over here. Um, Edrophorium test or the tensilon test. Um, they can do the ice pack test if they had tossis and you put the ice pack on there. There could be potentially some improvement of that. But you would also check, you could do an EMG. You could check cerebral spinal fluid or you could just check for particular types of antibodies, right? So, the acetylcholine receptor antibodies. All right, cool deal. So, let's take a look here. We get an MRI. Let's take a look see at what we got in this MRI. And I want you guys to tell me what you guys think. So, let's read through this really well here. Okay. Let's start off first with an axial image. So, axial image. We're going to start here at the top. Okay. Good. You guys are on point. Yeah, I like it. Yeah. And you can check the musk receptor. It's about like 4% of the cases you can get the musk receptor rather than the uh acetylcholine receptor antibodies as well. All right, cool. So, let's take a look here at this MRI already at the top. What are you guys kind of noticing? So, we're looking at a MRI, an axial image, and this is a axial T2 flare. So, a T2 flare is basically going to give you anything that can kind of show up white. could be potentially like demination, could be potentially um any edema like vasogenic edema, cytotoxic edema. Right? So, if I scroll through here, as I kind of go through here nice and slowly, you guys already see some white stuff right here, right here, right here, right here. If I keep going down, ready? Here we go. We're already seeing some white stuff near the ventricles. That's important right away, right? So if I start seeing any kind of white stuff around the ventricles, per ventricular white matter kind of like signs that could be very interesting. Okay, I keep going here. I still see some more white matter abnormalities. Okay, so that's kind of the run through. So if I were to kind of go through one more time, you guys see here some white matter around those ventricles. Let's take a look here at a sagittal T2 flare. So I'm just looking at a different image. It's pretty much the same kind of thing here. So we're looking at a T2 flare just in a sagittal cut. And so as we kind of go through here, what are we kind of noticing? Again, we're seeing some white stuff around those ventricles. Very, very interesting stuff there. Oo, look at all that white stuff there. Even a little bit towards that occipital lobe area. Okay. Yes. So, some of you guys are already saying some deination, multiple deminating folky, demilinating lesions, the straightum is affected. Yeah. So, great. So, already that. Now, let's take a look here at something else. So a T1 is another image. This one is basically your anatomical image. Whatever is gray matter should be gray on the outside towards the cortex and whatever is white matter should be appearing white or lighter than this darker gray matter. So this is your anatomic image, your T1. Usually any lesion that you would see will show up hypo intense, so dark. Um or potentially it could show up iso intense, almost the same color. So, if we kind of scroll through here, you already kind of noticed a little bit of a hypo intensity there. I mean, iso in hypo intensity. I apologize. A little bit of hypo intensity here. A little bit of hypo intensity there. And they should correlate with all of that white matter uh white color kind of hyperintensities on the T2 flare. Okay. And then here's the other thing. So we are kind of seeing some of these but we also want to understand why was this person having some uh abnormalities in their you know their their motor system and in their dorsal column. So if I click here and I look at this image, this is a sagittal section of their MRI, particularly the sagittal MRI. Uh looking at the spinal cord and if you guys take a look see here as I scroll through, you can kind of see that there's some white matter hyperintensities, right? So you can see some hyperintensities within the spinal cord. So again, we're looking at a sagittal T2 flare. Anything that's going to show up on this would kind of appear as white if it's a deminating lesion or some type of edema. Okay. All right. So you guys did very very good. Some of you guys already picked up a lot of deinating lesions. So so far we have a lot of demating lesions within the spinal cord. We had some around the parventricular white matter. We had some in different areas of the like juxtocortical lesions. So, this is definitely potentially leaning towards MS, right? The symptoms fit, their MRI fits. What other things though, like could we do? So, if we kind of just picked out like the most important thing that I wanted you guys to get from this is that we looked at their MRI and we saw some of those hyper intense or bright lesions on their axial T2 flare. That definitely is suggestive of potentially a demation considering their symptoms, right? Absolutely. What other tests could I order though to kind of aid in my diagnosis? Like there's a particular test where you can have them look at like these different types of checkered patterns and measure the conduction of a particular nerve and it could be helpful in kind of assisting in the diagnosis. Do you guys know what that particular test is called? And then on top of that, just to get some more answers from you guys, what is a particular thing that if I did a lumbar puncture, I could be potentially seeing a lot of these types of proteins that when I put them on the electrofpharesis, they really separate out into these particular bands. So tell me two things. What is Yep. So someone said a nerve conduction test, but which one like what what visually evoked potentials? Great. Uh say uh great, great, great. So visually evoked potentials you can test that you'll have decreased conduction on the optic nerve. What are the proteins that I could be looking for uh particularly in their lumbar puncture that also could it's not definitive but it helps in again you classical cases. So in the LP there's a very particular type of protein that I want you guys to be thinking about a particular way that they present this on your exams. Anybody know oligoconal banding? Awesome, Kate. Okay, sweet. You guys are so darn smart, it's ridiculous. All right, so this is not like a definitive thing that there is other conditions that can kind of present like multiple sclerosis. Um, neuromiitis optica comes to mind and so sometimes you have to check some particular antibodies. Um, we're not going to go into detail into that, but again, that's something that to be thinking about in your differential, especially with this person's symptoms. So there is particular antibodies that you could throw out there to just make sure that you rule out neuromiitis optica. Okay. But let's let's say I think this is pretty suggestive. I think this is your classic case, your classic vignette that presents as multiple sclerosis. So with multiple sclerosis, I want you guys to think about what is your uh firstline treatment. Okay. So out of these options, which one would you guys pick as the first line option? you're saying, "Okay, I think that this person has MS. I'm going to start treating them for this acute exacerbation, which is they're having some weakness. They are having uh potentially some visual difficulties. Um, I'm noticing some sensory abnormalities, some interuclear abdomoplasia. What could be a potential treatment for this person?" So some people are picking B, some are saying D, some are saying Cindere C. C is becoming the prevalent one. Okay, so C C seems to be the the big one. Okay, you guys are correct. So you want to give a a very high dose of corticosteroids. And the two main options that um literature has shown like up-to-date um is methyl prediniscolone and predinazone um are going to be the primary ones that you would give in kind of this acute exacerbation or this kind of like one-time uh first appearance of onset of multiple scerosis that this person's has. This is kind of a new diagnosis for them. So 1 gram of ivmethyl prediniscolone would kind of be the go-to in this situation. You could also give predinazone. You would be giving again pretty high doses of predinazone as well. All right. So yeah, I would go with one gram of ivmethyl prediniscolone for five to potentially you can go up to 7 days. Okay. Retoximab is more for long-term kind of prevention. Uh 10 milligrams of dexamethasone. That's not very high. That's not a lot of that's not a lot of a steroid to be honest with you. That's a pretty low dose. Comparing methyl prediniscolone to dexamethasone if you looked at their equivalencies um it's like four milligrams of methyl predinisolone is like equivalent to.7 milligrams of dexamethasone. So the equivalency there that's a big big difference and plasma feresis is something that you probably wouldn't go to over corticosteroids first. All right you guys are so darn smart. Okay. Um or if contraindicated for some reason. Yes, good. So, steroids don't work. What's next? So, either the steroids don't work or like Kate said, you have a contra indication to steroids. What is the next option? Should you continue to steroids? Should you give glutamir acetate? Should you give IVIG or should you give plasma feresis? Harsh metal said plasma feresis. plasma feresis. Yeah. All right. So, so A and C harsh metal said okay D. Someone said D. Glutimemer acetate. Okay. So, it seems to be A is the primary answer and and it's correct. Um I think Kate already kind of got ahead of the game with that and started to say like plasma feresis could be another option. Um if there's pretty much two reasons according to the literature and up to date um plasma feresis would be kind of your go-to if the person has a contraindication to hydro steroids or if they failed IV uh the corticosteroids. Okay, pardon me. So plasma feresis is also a pretty intense kind of thing. You have to usually uh basically sometimes in these kind of cases you may have to access kind of a central ve a central vein and then when you access some kind of central vein generally you're going to be pulling off plasma and cleaning that plasma removing any of the abnormal antibodies from the circulation it's sending it through the system where it gives clean kind of donor plasma or normal saline with albumin and different types of solutes and then sending it back to the patient. And there is a lot of complications that there's potential complications that can arise from plasma feresis. Okay? And there's a lot of things that you just have to be careful with. Okay? So, plasma feresis should be the go-to. Okay? Patient refuses the plasma freezes. When she gets informed consent about the potential complications that she can develop from getting plasma feresis, she says, "I just don't want to do it. I I I don't feel comfortable with plasma feresis." What would you provide as an alternative for plasma feresis out of these options? Would you give her retoximab? Would you give her interferon beta? Would you give her IVIG? Or would you give her actth injections? Again, take into consideration that we're pretty much treating the exacerbation. This is kind of her first time that she's presented with this acute and a flare up of her MS. And so we're treating the acute scenario at this point in time. So IVIG rettoximab. So I'm saying IVIG C. Okay. All right. So very interesting. So, believe it or not, according to the literature, there isn't much benefit to there isn't actually much that's written on IVIG um and in the the light of an acute exacerbation for someone with multiple sclerosis. Whether or not it's beneficial, again, from what I found in Up to Date, it was not kind of written about Rtoximab and Interferon beta. Again, particularly more like long-term options. But what's very interesting is if someone has a contraindication to steroids or they just don't want to have plasma feresis or they have a contra indication to plasma feresis the third option that you can provide is act injections. So these coentropen injections believe it or not it's very interesting. All right. All right. So yeah, that was a that was a little bit of a off one for it seems like for everybody was the act injections. Yeah. All right, cool. So the next thing here, they're started on some rettoximab for prevention. Okay, so they got started on some rtoximab for some prevention for MS. When they get started on this and they they let's say that throughout their let's say that we we take this over some time. After we take this over time, they start to get a couple more flare-ups of their MS. So, they developed kind of this relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. They're put on retoximab for prevention. And when this happens, something very interesting and weird kind of happens to them. After a year of having these recurrent flare-ups and multiple bouts of steroids and also being on rettoximab, patient returns to the clinic with headache, confusion, severe lethargy, and vomiting. Kate had a quick question. Kate Kate, at this point, the MS likely isn't even confirmed, right? It's just suspected because the acute flare needs to be addressed. Yeah, I think that's a good thing. Again, MS, you have to particularly uh use what's called like the McDonald's criteria to truly diagnose someone with um MS. Uh but yeah, we're assuming that this is kind of an acute uh kind of like one-time presentation of MS. And then yes, from kind of the way I'm presenting this, we've established that they have a diagnosis of MS. They're started on rettoximab for prevention. They get multiple bouts of steroids for acute flare-ups again. Uh, and they have this relapsing remitting course. Great question though. Yep. Okay. So, what do you guys So, someone said, "Can you explain?" To be honest with you, I have no idea how it works. Um, it's a very interesting thing. I'll have to do a little bit more research on it. Uh, but when I was reading about that, I was like, "Wow, that's that's very interesting how act is potentially like a a benefit." Uh again, how it exactly works, does it maybe potentially play a role within the cortisol system? And so you're basically creating this endogenous steroid production. That's my only kind of like theoretical thought is that if you're giving someone act, uh you're potentially stimulating the adrenal cortex, making more corticosteroids. If you're making more corticosteroids, you're basically increasing your body's production of steroids. Kind of like you're trying to mimic an exogenous steroid administration. Okay. But that's that's again that's my theoretical thought on that. All right. All right. So again after being on retoximab they have these like multiple bouts. They get steroids. They're on this imunosuppressant of retoximab. They start getting kind of headaches, confusion, severe lethargy and vomiting. Very weird, right? This is very weird. You order a CT just because you're like, man, I don't get this. Why why are they all of a sudden having these headaches? Why are they super lethargic? Why are they vomiting? Why are they really kind of like just confused? And when you do that, you get this. So, let's take a look. Let's take a look at the rest of their imaging. So, if we look at this guy, right, we start at the at the top or we could do the started from the bottom. Now, we're here. All right. So, we'll go here and we'll take a look see here. Oh, jeez. What the heck is going on here? All right. So, as we scroll through here, you're already seeing some kind of like temporal horns. Usually, you shouldn't see those that much. They're really plump here. You're already seeing kind of these ballooning of these anterior horns. You're seeing a real big ballooning of that uh third ventricle. You're seeing here your septum palucidum. Real big ballooning here of those anterior horns of lateral ventricle. You're starting to see these uh kind of occipital horns starting to become very very prominent and bulged out. Holy womba. Look at this. Look at this kind of view. Holy crap. Big big old ventricles. Some big mother truckers. All right, man. You can see the significance of this. What do you guys call this? The Drake reference. It's huge. Yeah, it is. It's It's huge. Yeah. So a lot of people a couple people say so numosephilis not so much. So pumosphilis you would have air that would be uh present like for example if I had to take a look at this image here if someone for some reason developed some trauma or they had neurosurgical procedures or something that exposed air they would have these pockets of air that would usually show up kind of generally away from the ventricles near kind of like the bone tissue. Um so generally numosphilis would not present like this. This is again all that black stuff. I apologize if I didn't explain this. This is all pretty much your fluid. Okay. So that's all your CSF. Anything that's dark in this case is going to present kind of like a fluid. All righty. So hydrophilis. Yeah. So very weird, right? You're probably like, I don't understand like what in the balls is going on here. This is called hydrophilis. So why why is this person having hydrophilis? I have no idea. Right. Well, let's think for a second. Is this a communicating hydrophilis or is this an obstructive hydrophilis? And great um Mugo, I love how you're thinking about um kind of that cause of potentially their vomiting. Great. The increased ICP, especially near that fourth ventricle, is going to compress on the area chemo trigger zone, trigger some vomiting. their declining mental status could be from compression on the phalamus. It could be compression onto the reticular activating system. So, good thoughts there. So, some people are saying a communicating, some are saying obstructive. So, my question to you is what is the difference between an obstructive hydrophilis and what is the difference between a communicating hydrophilis? I know that's obvious, right? So obstructive hydrophilis is there's something within the the ventricles that is obstructing the flow of CSF. It can't pass and so the fluid kind of backs up uh proximal to wherever that obstruction is. Okay. Now, if you have a communicating hydrophilis, there's something that's kind of getting stuck within those arachnoid villi or arachnoid granulations that they're not being able to pull cerebral spinal fluid out of the subacoid space and into like your your cerebral veins, right? If that's the case, then there has to be if it's a communicating hydrophilis, which it is a communicating hydrophilis, and I want you guys to think really, really hard what a communicating hydrophilis could be. They had a subacoid hemorrhage. Did you guys see any blood in there from a subacoid hemorrhage? No, I didn't really. Or it could be menitis. So something's inflaming the meninges and they're so inflamed that those arachnoid granulations just can't suck the cerebral spinal fluid out of the subacoid space and into those um venus sinuses. It seems like menitis is an option here, right? Potentially menitis is definitely thinking about this. But why would these individuals develop menitis? Really weird, right? So if it was communicating it could be potentially like a menitis, an intraventricular hemorrhage, a subacoid hemorrhage, something of like that you know it could be something weird or normal pressure hydrophilis. This person's generally doesn't have any bleed. We didn't see any of that. So we can rule out subactoid. We can rule out IVH. We didn't see any blood in the ventricles. They're not super old. They're not demented. Uh and generally they don't have any kind of significant abnormal movements in the sense of like a normal pressure hydrophilis kind of patient. They're again they're 30 years old. So I'm suspecting that this is menitis. What test should I order for menitis? If you had to pick one test, one test only in this kind of list here, which one would you pick? Would you do a lumbar puncture? Would you do an MRI? Would you do a CBC? Or would you be like, I have no idea. I'm just going to go ahead and pass this off to infectious disease. So, a lot of people are saying LP. Yep. Yeah, I love it. Okay, good. So, we're going to we're going to get an LP. I think that's a great idea. All right. So, what the heck? We get the LP results back. When they come back, you get increased protein. You get increased lymphocytes. Their Indian ink smear is positive. Their latex aglutination assay is positive. What do you guys think this is? So, someone asked, won't LP cause herniation? No. No, it won't cause herniation. Uh generally if there's a mass effect inside the brain like for example if they had like an epidural hematoma, subdural hematoma, they had like a subraid hemorrhage that was like a they had some kind of mass occupying lesion inside the brain and you potentially drain CSF. Yes, they could herniate. But no, if they have just a hydrophilis that it's a communicating type of problem, um they need to actually have some kind of therapeutic removal of that CSF and a lumbar puncture shouldn't generally cause any herniation. There's no mass occupying lesion inside the brain. Man, you guys are so good. I love it. So, you guys hit it. So, I'm glad that you guys picked it up on the Indian ink smear and the latex glutination assay. So, great, great, great, great, great. So, this is a cryptocal menitis. So, cryptocal menitis is actually kind of a yeast um kind of infection. Uh, and it's relatively common in individuals who are immunosuppressed. So HIV um individuals who are on some type of immunosuppressive medications. What was the immunosuppressive medications that we had this patient on? We had them on highdose steroids. They had multiple bouts and they were getting lots of steroids and on top of that they were also getting rtoximab. Now in light of all of this again how common is it? It's not but again this is an engineered case. We're going to make it pretty intense, right? So yes, it's going to be highdosese steroids and rettoximab that were probably the likely cause of this person developing crypto menagitis. Now more likely they would have to be on multiple like they'd have to be on this retoximab very high doses for a very long period of time. They'd have to have multiple bouts of steroids probably another amunosuppressant on board. But again we're taking this to the max. We're saying that this could be a potential cause for this person's cryptocinitis. Okay. So the question is is we think that this person has cryptocanitis because they're immunosuppressed. How do we treat the crypto menitis? What's the um kind of like therapy that you give to the patient? If there's three drugs that you guys should list and say okay these are the three drugs that I'm going to give for the patient um for crypto menagitis. You would say what three drugs? Okay, so amphoterasin good. What else? Amphotarasin is definitely one for sure. Give me at least one more. There's one more that I want you guys to add on acutely. So amphlotasin and one other drug definitely acutely and then kind of like you can add something on a little bit later. Fluconazol is the one that you'll add on a little bit later. Good. Vinho awesome. Flucyine. Good. So we're going to start them on amphotarasin fluids and then we'll add on fluconazol a little bit later. They got all this hydro though. We have to relieve that hydro. We can start them on these antifungals, okay, which is going to help event. It's going to it's going to be a part of the process in helping them for a lot of this hydrophilis. But what do I need to do to relieve all of that hydrophilis so that their mental status doesn't continue to decline? What kind of thing would I potentially good or may I say say good? I'm going to put an EVD in. So, I'm going to put an EVD in. They may need like a a ventrop ventricular paritinal shunt in the long term. Um, which Nach said is they or sorry, Raj said they may need uh some some potential shunting, some VP shunting in the future. Definitely a likely possibility, but we're going to try to do an EVD for now and then eventually we might have to put in a VP shunt. Good. You guys are great. Okay, so we already killed the yeast with anthotarasin, fluocidosine, and fluconosol. So, a lot of you guys are saying manitol. Okay, I want you guys to think for a second. It's not a wrong thought, but manitol it is beneficial in helping to pull. So again, when we think about the concept of intraanial pressure, it's three things that are usually increasing, right? It's either you're increasing CSF, you're increasing brain tissue, or you're increasing blood. In this case case, there's an increase in CSF. What is a way that we can just get rid of any of that increased CSF? we put in an EVD or we and then we transition to potentially a shunt. Manitol isn't going to make much of a difference in someone with hydrophilis. Okay. If you're trying to do it as a potential temporizing measure, sure, but in the the whole grand scheme of things, it is not going to be kind of like that beneficial for the patient. They need um they need in general they need an EVD and some type of ventricular peritinal shunt. Okay. All righty. You guys are so awesome. Um, you guys picked this up pretty quick. Um, I thought it was kind of an interesting one that, you know, just to throw something in there to kind of think about uh how if we treat a patient, what are the potential complications that can develop? Again, the the the likelihood of someone developing crypto menitis from amunosuppressants is relatively low, but it's a possibility. I've seen it. Okay. And it was I've seen it in patients who weren't HIV positive. They weren't um kind of on a some chemotherapeutic drug regimen for cancer or anything like that. They were on medications for like a potential like inflammatory disease. So, it's always possible. So, you want to be thinking about that. Okay. But you guys did a great job. I thought that was awesome. Um you guys are so darn smart. Again, I I wouldn't I wouldn't even go to the manitol. So, like if this was my patient, I wouldn't give them manitol at all. I wouldn't give them 3% hypertonic saline because in this situation they they just need an emergent EVD. If it's really that bad to where they're at risk of like herniating um they need an an an external ventricular jin with a shunt manitol or 3% hypertonic saline isn't going to make much of a difference for them. So VP shunt in an imunosuppressed patient wouldn't create issues. Again, what other options do you have for this patient, I guess, is the question. I mean, uh, it shouldn't generally. I mean, you're going to be having them on particular medications to help with the infection. Um, they should be okay in that situation. And again, you have to think about the emergent issue. You know, risk versus benefit in this scenario. So, someone asked a great question. What should I look for in a vignette if I'm looking for someone with MS? I think the biggest things to be thinking about here is if you see someone on on a clinical vignette, someone with um optic nuritis, right? Uh bilateral interuclear abdominal plasia. If they have any types of upper motor neuron types of lesions, uh so weakness particularly uh but they present more as the type that's going to be way more common. if they have dorsal column abnormalities. So if they have loss of or decreased propriception, vibration, um light discriminative touch, so on and so forth. Um those are kind of the big things that I would say kind of in the actual physical exam. History-wise or epidemiologically, so on and so forth, you want to think about this being a 20 to 30 year old female, right? That's kind of that common age range. And also you want to see someone who has these kind of potentially since relapsing remitting multiple scerosis is the most common type. You will see someone have these kinds of symptoms that we just talked about. They may have a little bit of time period where they don't have any worsening weakness, worsening visual difficulty. They may actually kind of improve for a little bit and then they develop another flare up. Okay. Um and then generally again MRI along with the clinical history utilizing that McDonald's criteria that we talked about uh assistive uh tests like lumbar punctures as well as uh visual evoked potentials. Those are kind of the big things to think about when you talk about MS. Lit sign is again it's something I would it's good for the exam. Uh but lame meat sign is usually an indication of some type of compressive cervical like type of myopathy of some kind. There's usually compression of the dorsal column of the spinal cord. Uh and so with that being said if there's any compression or lesion involved in the dorsal column that's not just MS. Um there's a lot of conditions that can actually cause dorsal con lesions or compression of the spinal cord if they have cervical uh disc herniation if they have some type of cervical spondyis if they have any kind of syphilis potentially uh B12 deficiency. So there's a lot of things that could potentially present with that. So I wouldn't jump to saying lit sign is definitely definitive. Um it's a very low kind of like sensitivity and specificity really. So Dawson's fingers are basically if you remember uh on this kind of image here really quickly here it's kind of representing this right here if I can get it. So these technically they're perventricular white matter finger-like lesions basically around that ventricle. Okay. All righty. All right, engineers. Well, I I appreciate you guys um coming in being so on uh uh awesome and so smart and uh just being very interactive. I really enjoy this. I I I think it helps sharpen both of us. Um all of us together help us to make us better clinicians and better practitioners and just better students of of of you know, the medical sciences. And so I just thank you guys for coming in and talking and hanging out and uh enjoying this case. Uh next week's case uh will be awesome. Uh we hopefully have some plans uh in the mix for we'll see. Maybe we're going to have someone one of the ninja nerds um in the hot seat. Um and they're actually going to be the ones having to figure out the issue. Oh man, the hire. Thank you so much. That was very very kind of you. So so sweet. Thank you so much for your donation. Okay. But uh yeah, hopefully next week we'll be able to have one of the ninja nerds actually in the hot seat and they're going to be the ones having to figure out the diagnosis. So, all right, Nars, love you. Thank you. And as always,