Sorry about that. So today again let me kind of go back for you guys just so that we understand we are doing um case study number 12 patient is presenting with hypotension. All right I apologize guys. Again medical disclaimer here is these cases that we're talking about here are not someone said morning coffee. Zack you're fired. I know. I'm sorry guys. I'm just I'm not that good with with technology. All right. So, the cases we're presenting here are fictitious. They're not real. They're for educational purposes only. Okay. To help us to go through our differential, help us to think thoroughly about conditions and how to treat them. Thank you guys. Sorry for that mistake. I apologize. Alrighty. So, we have a patient coming in. The overarching theme is um hypotension. But let's see how this patient comes in. So the person is a 71year-old male with a past medical history of coronary artery disease mitro regurgitation that presents to the ninja clinic feeling just very weak and lethargic. About a week ago he underwent a two vessel coronary artery bypass graft and while they were in doing that he also had a mitro valve replacement where they put in a mechanical valve. He does deny any nausea, any vomiting, any diarrhea, cough, painful urination, urinary frequency, abdominal pain, fever. You can go through the entire list. His 14point uh ROS system is negative. Okay. So again, to kind of recap, 71-year-old male, past medical history, coronary artery disease, mitro regurgitation, just had a cabbage, two vessel cabbage about a week ago, and a mitro valve replacement comes in feeling very weak. Got it? All right. We walk into the room. When we walk into the room, we look at the screen and we see the vitals as presented. Their heart rate is 130, so they're tacocartic. Their respiratory rate is 22, so just slightly on the tipnic side. Their blood pressure is 85 over 65. Okay. And this could be the cuff pressure. This could be a um arterial line pressure. We don't really know yet. Let's just assume it's a cuff pressure. The temperature is 101.4. So the person is kind of fibral right now. Their SPO2 is 92%. Okay, 92%. So they're not really hypoxmic. Cardiovascular wise the person is tacocartic as we can see when we're listening to their heart we just feel we can hear their heartbeat really you know relatively fast they have a normal kind of S1 S2 they have a regular rhythm so it's not irregular but when you're looking at their jugular vein you notice that it's distended it's kind of plumping up during the inspiratory process when also you're listening to the heart the S1 S2 it sounds like really really distant like you can barely hear the S1 S2 you can hear the heart beating really fast but it's really kind of like a very diminished heart sound okay so they're tacoc cartic they have a regular rhythm they have JVD they have very diminished heart sounds and another thing you notice is when you're looking at the actual monitor you see that their blood pressure or their pulse actually let's Okay, you see that their pulse vary it has a variation of 12 mm of mercury during inspiration. Okay, so you see that their pulse actually has a variation during the inspiratory process. Okay, pulmonary wise, you're listening to them, they they look like they're typnic, so they're breathing a little bit faster. When you're listening to the lungs, you do hear some crackles, some rails bilaterally. And whenever you had them kind of laid flat, they really complained of some shortness of breath. Okay. And then abdomen, it's soft, it's non-tender to palpation, normal active bowel sounds. So again, 71-year-old male, past medical history, CAD, mitro regurgitation, just had a two vessel cabbage about a week ago, coming in feeling weak, tacocartic, typnic, hypotensive, fibral, decreased heart sounds, JVD. What do you guys call? Let's test your knowledge here. Ah, someone already beat us to it. Morning coffee pottery is too good. You did it. You done did it. All right. Yep. That was the That was the question I was going to ask. What do you call it whenever there is a variation in the pulse during inspiration of greater than 10 millimeters of mercury? And you done did it. You got that pulsus paradoxis. Great job morning coffee pottery. Outstanding. So yeah, that's what it's called. Pulsus paradoxis. So we have tacocardic, typnic, hypotensive, fibral, decreased heart sounds, JVD, pulsus paradoxis, some crackles, some typnia, and so what is it called when they have shortness of breath when they're lying flat? What is that called? What is that called, guys? Whenever you have a person who has shortness of breath or dysnia whenever they're lying flat. What do we got? Ninjas, what do we call that? Anybody know? Orthopia. Great. Awesome, you guys. Now it's all flowing in. Beautiful. Yep. Orthopia. Outstanding. All right. Cool deal. All right. So, another question for you guys, and some some of you guys already hit it in there because you guys are so darn smart. What is it called when you have a person who is hypotensive, jugular venus distension, and decreased or diminished heart sounds? What is that called? There's a particular triad, if you will. I saw it was mentioned a couple times in there, but there's a particular triad whenever you have a person who is hypotensive, jugular venus distension, and diminished or decreased heart sounds. And just a quick thing, Muhammad, technically that's not wrong. Uh, proxismal nocturnal disnia is you're lying flat when you're sleeping. So you have shortness of breath like during the night while you know nocturnal. So it's a, you know, it's a kind of a temporary or transient shortness of breath usually when you're lying down flat when you're sleeping. But yeah, it's kind of like a that type, but usually it's just orthop laying flat. Yep. Beex Triad, you guys are awesome, man. You guys are so darn smart. All right, cool. 71y old male, CAD, mitro regurgge, hadabi, teipnic, crackles, orthopia. Okay, man, we're good. What is your suspected diagnosis? If you had to pick from these particular types, I want you to tell me which one of these is your suspected diagnosis. So, I just want to see first off before we kind of go through each one of these and try to figure out why this one shouldn't really be this, you know, top diagnosis, why this one shouldn't be considered, why this one shouldn't be considered. I want to see what you guys think is the number one uh diagnosis at this point in time. All right, maybe I made this one too easy or or you guys are just so darn smart. Probably the latter. Yeah. Yep. So, we got cardiac tampenod, some decompensated heart failure. I love it. All right. Cool. So, we got kind of a a little bit of a mixture. It's kind of like the most prominent one is cardiac tampenod, but there's a little bit of decompensated heart failure in there as well. Okay. All right, let's go through this. Let's think through it. Let's think through it. Let's use our brains, right? So, um, if you have a patient with a tension pneumothorax, they can present with some of these symptoms, right? Attention pneumothorax is they develop a some type of air within the plural cavity. the arrow and the plural cavity increases the intraplural pressure to where it becomes greater than the intraulmonary pressure and then it starts pushing on the lung compressing the actual ipsilateral lung and then smashing it and trying to shift the mediainum towards the contrlateral side and when it does that it can compress on structures like the superior vennea it can compress on things like the inferior vennea it can compress on the right ventricle so in a patient with attention pneumthorax here's my question for you guys could they have JVD Could they have pulsus paradoxis and could they have hypotension? Can a patient with attention pneumothorax have those three things? Hypotension, JVD, also tacocardia. Could they have some of those things? And pulsus paradoxis patient with attention numo. Yeah, they can. Absolutely. Yep. Yeah, definitely. So, it's a possibility if they have a good enough shift, they definitely can do what? Compress on the superior vennea. The superior vennea drains what structures? Your brachiophalics, right? So, you have your brachiophalics, your left and right, and then from those they drain into the superior vennea. From the brachiophalics, you have your js and then you have your subclavians that are coming together to make the brachiophalics. So if the superior vennea is getting compressed, it's going to cause it to back up and cause jugular venus distension. If you are compressing onto the superior vennea and the inferior vennea, you decrease preload to the right ventricle which will decrease the preload to the left ventricle causing hypotension. And if you cause enough compression of the right ventricle, you cause the septum to bow into the left ventricle obstructing the outflow tract of the left ventricle particularly during when inspiration. So the pressure will drop in a patient who actually has um this tension thorax when they're breathing their pulse will drop or their pressure will drop during inspiration. So you can see signs of pulsus paradoxis. They could even have typia as well. So a lot of the things could be attention pneumothorax. But what's one of the things that we should be obviously listening to? What is one of the things from our exam that we did not have that would be evident of attention pneumothorax? Simple thing. Use your stethoscope and do what would you potentially find on physical exam for attention numo? Maybe it's not just stethoscope. Maybe it's something else. There's two common things that you could just quickly say, "Yeah, man. You guys are good." Absolutely. Manura, breath sounds, Jawad, you could definitely do percussion. I like it. All right. So, let's say you listen for breath sounds. Obviously, there would be decreased breath sounds. Okay. If you were to percuss, okay, then you would get a hyper resonant type of What would you get if you did tactile framitus? you put your hypotharin on their chest wall and said say 99 what would you get if you did that if you did uh tactile framitis so you get decrease that we're doing this in the clinical practice but for your exams you should definitely know this yep decreased tactile framitus because the air is kind of blocking the ability of that sound waves to pass from the chest wall to your actual hypoththenar imminent so you should have a decreased tactile fmitus um on that uh patient with attention numo. So right away can we say that we have a low suspicion? Not a low suspicion but the patient didn't have decreased breath sounds. They had decreased heart sounds. Right? We didn't notice any hyper resonance on percussion. We didn't notice any decreased tactile framitus. And another thing is sometimes if if it's significant enough they can have tracheal deviation too. We didn't appreciate any tracheal deviation. So, I'm saying that Tension Numo is a possibility because some of the symptoms and clinical features they have is is potential. Plus, they did have a cardiac surgery. There's always the potential when they had that cardiac surgery, they could have caused a numo and then the numo just has built over time over this past week. It's a possibility, okay? But it's kind of on the unlikely side. Okay. Usually, if it was to happen, it's usually a person. We have the primary spontaneous numos. The secondary spontaneous numos. So the primary would be a young tall thin male usually maran smokers. This isn't that guy. Secondary they would have like COPD. They would have asthma, cystic fibrosis. They would have some type of like um infection of the lungs or TB or cancer or they would have some type of trauma. Could it have happened during a traumatic event during the surgery? It's possible, but it's it's it's a low likelihood. But we'll still keep it on the table. All right, everybody good with that? All right, so let's go through massive PE. Massive PE, can it cause hypotension? Can it cause tacocardia? Is there a possibility of it causing pulsus paradoxis? Is there a possibility of a person having taken tacocardia? Uh maybe even some JVD. Is that all possibilities? I'd say so. Right. If they had a pretty big enough PE, if they had a big enough PE that's blocking near the the actual pulmonary trunk, a saddle embolis, what's that going to do to the right ventricle? It's going to put pressure on the right ventricle, right? Because the pulmonary hypertension, you put pressure on the right ventricle, the right ventricle is going to dilate. If the right ventricle dilates and now it's it's going to become dysfunctional then what's going to happen? The cardiac output from the right ventricle to the left ventricle decreases. So then you end up with hypotension. Reflexive reaction from hypotension is tacocardia. If the right ventricle is failing and you have a big enough failure what happens if you have right side heart failure it backs up via the superior vennea inferior vennea. So it can cause JVD and it can cause some maybe potential like lower extremity edema paddlenomegaly right and if the right ventricle is dilated enough and it's having to work so hard that it's actually getting so big that it's pushing on the septum to the opposite side into the left ventricle it can cause pulsus paradoxis and they can have hypoxmia did they have hypoxmia not significantly but they their O2 sat wasn't great so it's like frack man I don't know they could they could potentially have a PE E generally pees they have shortness of breath. This person had shortness of breath when he was laying flat. They also have tacipnia. So it's still tough but we got to think about what would be some risk factors. Does he have any risk factors for developing a massive PE? Is there any particular risk factors according to Virgo's triad that this person has a risk of a PE? Anything specific? surgery. Yep. Yep. Manor. Yeah, he got it. Yeah, it's surgery. He had surgery. Any kind of surgery, there's endothelial injury, right? That's one thing. Plus, if he was having to kind of like stay immobilized in the hospital after he had surgery or kind of had bed rest at home or he didn't have a lot of opportunity to ambulate, there's definitely a potential for him to have a PE. It's it's it's possible, right? So man, tension numo is a possibility. Massive pulmonary embolism is a possibility. H okay. What about cardiac tampenodon? Cardiac tampenod. Uh what's a risk factor for him? Does he have any risk factors or any kind of like thing that could have happened uh to him that could have caused cardiac tampenod? When they were uh fixing the mitro valve, they perforated a part of the uh the ventricular wall. could have been. He does have some risk factors for cardiac tampenod. Cardiac tampenod it can cause hypotension right guys it can cause tacoc cardia it can cause JVD it can cause pulsus paradoxis what's something else that it can do if you get a lot of like fluid or blood in the paricardial cavity though a lot of fluid and blood in the paricardial cavity and you're listening to their heart you have to have the heart sounds be transmitted through the wall of the heart through the fluid and the paricardium through the chest wall. So what would happen to those heart sounds? You would get decreased heart sounds. O this person had hypotension, they had tacoc cardia, they had JVD, they have pulsus paradoxis, they have tacoc cardia and they have decreased heart sounds. Holy crap. And they had risk factors for cardiac tampenod. This is a possibility. Does it does it explain their typia and their crackles? It could because if a person had a significant amount of cardiac tampenod where you're actually squeezing on the heart and you're strangulating the heart and decreasing the ability of the blood to enter into the heart, left ventricle and right ventricle, you decrease the filling into the left ventricle. Fluid can back up into the pulmonary circulation. hydrostatic pressure increases and it starts leaking out into the interstitial spaces and then you start developing pulmonary edema which can cause tacipnia and a little bit of hypoxia. Cardia tampenods definitely a possibility guys. All righty you guys are getting annoyed. I can tell it's like this is I don't know what it is. Zach, what about an N stemi stemi? Is this a possibility? I'd say so. He's got a pretty significant coronary a pretty significant heart disease, right? He had to have a a cabbage for goodness sake for a coronary artery disease. Sometimes you can develop MIS after a cabbage. Um there's a possibility he definitely could have an STEMI stemi. Does he have any chest pain? Well, he didn't say any chest pain. Um generally they could have tacic cardia. They could have hypotension if they had a good enough chunk of the heart taken out. a good enough of the heart actually did undergo an infarction then you lose a good chunk of um especially if it's left ventricular it wouldn't explain like any JVD though wouldn't explain that wouldn't really cause any pulsus paradoxis I don't know I'm I'd say in stemi stemi is on on the lower end of the list even though this person has a significant coronary uh artery disease and cabbage they don't have any chest pain I I don't really think that it the insemi would explain them having any kind of JVD D it wouldn't really explain them having um uh particularly any of that kind of symptoms or pulsus paradoxis. It could explain hypotension. It could explain tacoc cardia and they definitely could explain the pulmonary edema and but it doesn't explain the decreased heart sounds right. So I don't know I'm leaning less on the ni stemi. All right decompensated heart failure. The person did they even have heart failure previously? They could have. It just wasn't maybe mentioned in their history. maybe that wasn't completely diagnosed recently, but if this person had coronary artery disease and they took a big chunk out, let's say that they infared a good chunk of their left ventricle and now their left ventricle is weak. Now they have systolic heart failure. What can happen in systolic heart failure? Well, their ability to eject blood out of the left ventricle can decrease. That can cause hypotension. They can have a reflexive tacic cardia. If the left ventricle isn't contracting and putting blood out of the left ventricle, it can back up into the left atrium, pulmonary circulation, cause pulmonary edema into a little bit of hypoxia. It wouldn't explain it. Could it explain the decreased heart sounds? Not really. It shouldn't. It shouldn't cause decreased heart sounds. Um, and JVD, it is a possibility. And the reason why is if left-sided heart failure progresses to right-sided heart failure then the right side heart can fail and then that can cause the JVD potentially the pulse paradox is probably not that's on the lower end of its ability. Okay. So I would say and if you guys agree with me I would say tension pneumothorax massive pulmonary embolism and cardiac tampenod are I would say on the higher end of this differential whereas n stemi stemi and decompensated heart failure on the on the lower end of the differential would you guys agree with this kind of uh thought process and logic that we've got oh thank you uh dear med dear that was very very sweet thank you so much all right so you guys agree Manora Rora agreed. Anybody else have any other questions before we move on to this next part here? Okay, cool. All right. So, I I asked you guys I posed the question then. Tension pumothorax, massive pulmonary embolism and cardiac tampenod all fit into what kind of category in a person who has hypotension. What is that category? There's a particular I'm going to give I'm going to say the word shock. What type of shock does cardiac tampenade tension pumothorax and pulmonary embolism fit into? What do you guys think? All right. So, someone's saying cardiogenic shock. I would think about it. Think about it a little bit. There's cardiogenic shock. There's septic shock. There's um well actually there's technically hypoalmic shock, cardiogenic shock and there's distributive obstructive shock. So an obstructive type of shock is what this one would be considered because you're obstructing the outflow of blood particularly either from the right ventricle or from the left ventricle. So it's an obstructive type of shock. So tension numo massive pulmonary embolisms and a cardiac tampenot are examples of what's called obstructive shocks. Okay. Whereas n stemi stemi and de decompensated heart failure would be more of the example of uh a person with cardiogenic shock. Okay cool. So we have the tests that we want to start running then right. So for attention numo a massive PE a cardiac tampenon and stemi stemi decompensated heart failure. These I think would be the big test that you guys need right away. Right. Would you guys agree with these tests here that we have? A 12 L EKG entroponent, a chest X-ray, a point of care ultrasound that could get us started at least. Would you guys agree with that? Is there any other kind of test that you would say is definitely needs to be on this list? like it has to be the most emergent one or is there any other tests that you guys think should be on this because then what we'll do is we'll go through these tests and say which one like why these tests should be included somewhere else. Okay. So you guys agree? All right. So 12 ADK entroponins that's going to tell us first off it's going to help us with which part? The N STEMI and the STEMI, right? It'll tell us if we have any ST segment elevation, any SD segment depression, any kind of hyperaccute T- waves, inverted T- waves, anything that could like lead us off to thinking about an N STEMI STEMI. And then we can use our tarponins and correlate it with our EKG. Right now troponins also could be elevated though in a massive PE. So we got to be careful and we could but we could also have other things that are common on a 12 lead EKG for massive PE. What's a what is the most common I'm asked two questions. What is the most common EKG finding in a person with a massive pulmonary embolism? And then second question is what is the classic the textbook finding on a 12 lead EKG with a massive pulmonary embism? So two questions what's the class what is the most common finding? Second, what is the classic finding, your textbook finding for pulmonary ambism on a 128 EKG? Man, Denton, you're on the ball, man. I love it. I was going to get to that. You beat me to it, Denton. All right, so S1Q3 T3 is your classic finding. Some of you guys are putting that in there. So S1 Q3 T3 right bundle branch block right axis deviation those are your like the classic findings for your exam the most common finding is actually sinus tacoc cardia okay the most common finding is sinus tacoc cardia don't forget that denton who beat me to it that son of a gun he's too he's too quick another thing about the 128kg and we'll we'll talk about what that would look like. We'll explain that in a second. The other thing it could show is low voltage QRS complexes. Right? So that's another thing that 12 LDKG could tell us is electrical alternes. Margaret, yeah, Denton's good every week. He's a smart guy. All right. I think we're good. I think we got an idea here. Right. So the 128kg can help us look for SD elevation, depression, inverted T- waves, hyperacute T- waves, Q waves, S1, Q3, T3, right bundle, branch block, right axis deviation for classic findings of PE, sinus stack cardia for the most common finding of a PE, cardiac tamponod, low voltage, QRS complexes, and electrical alternates. Boom. Shagaalaga. Let's move to the next thing, the chest X-ray. What's the chest X-ray going to help me with? Smack dab right here. First one, tension numo. Now, you shouldn't ever wait. If you have a suspicion of a tension numo, you treat it immediately without waiting for a chest x-ray. But if you're on the lower end of the you don't know if it's actually tension numo, you can do a chest x-ray. Right? So, a chest x-ray would show us what loss of any kind of vascular markings. Maybe we see a plural line. Maybe we see a widening of the costtorenic uh angle. So definitely a possibility there for a PE a chest X-ray. The most common finding is what? Here. Oh, this is a great question. What is the most common finding on a chest X-ray with a person with a pulmonary ambolism? Common finding on a chest X-ray of a person with a pulmonary embism. Morning coffee pottery. It's up. It's the textbook answer. Western mark sign or Hampton's hump, but it's very rare that you'll see that. I want to see if somebody says it. So, someone said Western Mark, we got the Hampton Sump. Again, those are the textbook answers. You rarely ever see them. All right, I'm going to blow your mind. Normal. A normal. Yeah, Margaret, you're you're a beast, Margaret. Awesome. The most common finding of a person with a massive pulmonary ambism, their chest X-ray is it's normal. So, that should queue you off. A person who's disnic, they're ticipnic, they're hypoxmic, they got a normal chest X. Popping it out. Awesome. You guys are great. Okay. In a cardiac tamponod, you'd see a big old fat water bottle-shaped heart. All right. And same thing with decompensated heart failure. you'd see a big old like uh cardiomegaly, right? So you see cardiamaggaly for a decompensated heart failure. You see also some cardomegaly or particularly like a bottle-shaped type of appearance for cardiac tampenod. Okay. Point of care ultrasound which is the last test here and then we're going to look and you're going to tell me what you see and then we're going to make the diagnosis and then we're going to treat this person quickly. Okay. Point of care ultrasound for attention numo. What would you use on the point of care ultrasound? If I'm slapping the ultrasound on the person's chest and I'm thinking that they have attention numo and I'm going through all of these uh spaces, what am I thinking of uh potentially popping up? So again, I'm looking I slap the ultrasound on the chest. I'm going between the rib spaces. I'm looking for absence of blank. What are you guys thinking? Oh, I'm sorry if it's the internet's not working great today, guys. I apologize. Oh, man. Yes. Yes. Good. Good. Someone said barcode sign. Yes. And someone said sliding. So absence of sliding, absence of lung sliding is what you would see potentially on a numoththorax. Normally when you have an ultrasound, okay, and you're putting it on the chest wall, you see this very bright thick plural line and it slides with each breath. If there's an absence of sliding, that means that at some point there's a break between the visceral plur and the parietal plura and it's not actually going to be sliding. So that is one of the common findings on attention if you slapped an ultrasound over it. um a subzyphoid view or a apical fourchamber view for the ultrasound will show a what for a massip you showed a dilated right ventricle decreased contraction of the right ventricle right ventricle bigger than the left ventricle dilated IVC dilated right atrium a lot of those signs okay tampenod a point of care ultrasound is key you throw throw a subzy a subzyphoid view on and you're going to see a big old cavity anacoic space filled with fluid or blood around the paricardium. Okay? And that could be a sign of cardiac tampenade and stemi stemi potentially you can see what wall motion abnormalities. So if you throw an echo over there and you see some one part of the heart is actually not squeezing as well as another part, they could have a wall motion abnormality and that could be potentially related to them having an N STEMI or a STEMI. So I think we got a good idea is of what these tests are telling us. Now what we can do is we can go ahead and move on and look at what the test results were. All right, Ninja Nerds. So we got here a patient's EKG. It came back when we get the EKG. This is what we see. We also giving you their tropes. It was 0.12.15 and then the third one was 0.13. So it's not too high. The tropes aren't high. That's a little bit of a troponmia. Tiny little bit of a troponmia. Nothing crazy. And the also the good thing is if you follow the trend, the first one is 0.12.15 and then it went back down. So there's a downtrend of the tropponin which is a good sign. Oh man, you guys are good. So people are saying low voltage EKG. Yep. Yeah. So you can look here in one, two, three. Look at the low voltages. Okay. Definitely some low voltage here in that one, two, and three. Remember you guys can add these up. Okay. And you could add up V1, V2, V3. But yeah, definitely it's super obvious. There's no ST elevations. There's no ST depressions. Um, I don't really see any kind of deep S-wave in lead one. I don't see any Q-wave or inverted T-wave in three. I don't see any right axis deviation. I don't see any right bundle branch blocks. I don't see again any signs of ST segment deviation. But I definitely would agree that there are some low voltages here in one, two, three. And what else do you guys see? Look here on the the rhythm strip lead two Rwave is right here about let's say you know five to 7 millimeters come over here to this next Rwave less than that I don't know maybe it's like 34 okay 34 millimeters now come over this back this one over here back up to about 78 back down to about four 84 84 or what is that called? Electrical altern. You guys are great. Yep, man. You guys are so darn smart. So, we got a person with low voltage QRS's, a troponins that trended up but then trended down. Low voltage QRS's and electrical alternance. You guys are already starting to think about what this person has. Let's go to the next thing. Here's our chest X-ray, baby. What do we see on the chest X-ray, guys? If we look at this chest X-ray, we got here the right hemithorax, left hemithorax. You can see the trachea. It's right here, and it's kind of staying midline, branching off here into your right and left primary bronchus. You see this right hemthorax, it's a little bit more opacified. Looks a little like ademus, like interstatial kind of edema here, pulmonary edema here. costtophrenic angle is a little blunted. It's not nice and crisp like you would compare over here. This side's a little bit more loose, you know, not as opacified. Have a little bit more of a hyperlooency in comparison to this side, but you got pulmonary markings that's going all the way out to the chest wall. So, I don't see any signs of a numo here, but I definitely got a little bit of edema, right? And some pulmonary vascular congestion. But look at this son of a gun. Holy mama, that's a big old heart. The way that you can compare this is if you take and you actually use your fingers, right? And you measure the heart, right? You take your fingers and you measure your fingers with the heart and if it doesn't this hemithorax. So this person has a cardomegaly. And what did I tell you? It's kind of like a water bottle kind of thing. It's a really kind of like weird looking shape. So I'd say they have some pulmonary edema. That explains their crackles. That explains some of their typia. That may explain why their O2 sats were a little bit lower and they have cardiomegaly. So we have an understanding why they have that crackles to hypoxmia. We know they have cardomegaly. We know they have electrical alternans. We know they have low voltage QRS's. Cardomegaly pulmonary edema right greater than left. No numo. Here's our point of care ultrasound. Oh. Oh man. Man, this person is not having a good day. He all jacked up. Look at this. Look at this. Will someone please look at this? Oh my gosh. Look at all that anooic space there. So if you guys see this large anooic space, this is going to be again your this should generally be like your left ventricle, left atrium, right atrium, right ventricle, interventricular septum. This anooic space which is kind of spanning all the way around here is a large amount of fluid within the paricardial cavity. Okay, large amount of fluid in the paricardial cavity and it's definitely enough volume to start strangulating the activity of the heart. So what do we have? Large paricardial fusion that's causing a cardiac tampon. And if we did the ultrasound over the we don't see any right ventricular dilation. Usually the right ventricle usually should be bigger than the left ventricle. Usually should there be hypokinesis? There wasn't any hypochinesis. Um and obviously when we were doing the uh ultrasound over the lungs, we did not see any kind of end stemi or I'm sorry, we did not see any kind of loss of lung sliding. So with that being said, we have a person with what is the diagnosis? cardiac tampenod likely secondary to them getting their cardiac surgery when they got their cabbage and their mitro valve replacement. There was probably some injury to the mocardium of the heart that caused them to leak some type of maybe blood or fluid into the area of the paricardium. Over time, it started tamponing, squeezing down on the heart and then affecting the ability of all of the things that we just saw. It is impressive how significant this can be. Right. So my next question is what is the emergent treatment? This is the thing that's you guys are like all right I already know what I'm going to do now. So what do we do to treat it? Yeah. So Margaret was like drain that baby. Yep. I said back. He's like, "Who knew?" Yeah, it might have been obvious the entire time. I might have drugged this one out, guys. I apologize. Just wanted to help you guys to understand to re reason through everything. But you guys are too smart. You don't need any help. Yeah. Paricardioentesis. Yep. So, e treatment. If they're really, really hypotensive until you get them ready to start doing the procedure, you can give them some fluids. Just be cautious. You don't want to overstress that right heart. Um, you can give them something to give some inotropic kick for a little bit, something like dobutamine or milrenone. And if their pressure drops, which can happen with dobbetamine or milrenone, you can throw them on a vasopressor. But this is just something to temporarize them until you can get the ultrasound or you can get some type of guidance, whether you're doing it eently without any kind of guidance or ultrasound guidance, getting your kit ready to start doing a paricardioentesis. But to the paricardiosis is going to be the the big thing. Once you pull and aspirate off all that fluid and blood from the paricardial cavity pulses paradoxis and JVD a lot of that should really resolve. Okay. So paricardioentesis is going to be the best thing to do here in this scenario. Once you do the paricardioentesis it should fix the actual underlying issues that they've had from it like the hypotension like the tacic cardia and so on and so forth. But until then, you can put them on some fluids, maybe a little bit of an inotrope and some pressers until you get that done. If it continues to recur, which is a possibility, they then can have a particularly a kind of a a surgical treatment to prevent this from happening again like a paricardiotomy or a paricardiactomy. Okay. So, what's what could cause the fever? That's a good question. It could be uh to be honest with you, it it could be a lot of different things. It could be reactive from the underlying stress. There was no signs of infection in this kind of scenario. So I don't think that this is anything that we're going to worry about. It's probably just a reaction to like the sympathetic event. Sometimes if you get a good enough sympathetic event, this may cause like a little bit of a low-grade fever. So compressors make the tamponod worse. It's it's it could it could it depending upon what you're trying to do. So if you're trying to in if you increase the afterload on the heart which can happen with something like uh phenylphrine can happen a little bit with leoped or norepinephrine then there is a potential that you could increase the afterload on the left ventricle which could make it harder for the left ventricle to increase its ejection fraction. So that's why you'd want to give something like dobbutamine first. Dobbinamine is more of an inotrope. So it's going to give you a little bit more of a kick, a little bit more contractility to increase the uh ejection fraction and push more blood out. And then if sometimes what can happen though is when you give dobbutamine, dobbutamine or milrenone, they're vasoddilators as well. And so that could also um cause them to lower their pressure. So usually vasopressors are an add-on if the dobutamine or the milrenone causes them to become a little hypotensive because of the dilatory effect of it. Okay. All right. So, I think that covers everything. Ninjaries, you guys are so darn good. So, now that we have finished this, we finished our case. We diagnosed the person with a cardiac tamponod. We treated it. We did a paricardioentesis. We stabilized them temporarily with some things to ma monitor their hypotension such as some fluids um inotropic medications like dobbutamine or milrinone and if they became hypotensive from those something like a vasopressor okay and then after that you can do something like a paricardiottomy or a paricardiactomy okay that's usually to prevent the recurrence of the disease in the future if it happens again all Right. Uh Romesa say the cause of tampon was uremia. Uh no it was likely from the cardiac uh the cardiac surgery. It was likely from the cardiac surgery that caused the cardiac tamponod. Yeah. Go watch that GCS video. Denton. That's awesome. Margaret, I've only seen one once and it was pretty crazy. Alrighty. Well, I hope this all made sense, guys. And I hope that you guys enjoyed it. I hope it helped. Uh, next week we'll be back. We'll do another case study. We'll have some fun with that one as well. So, Ninja Nerds, thank you guys. Until next time.