What's up, ninja nerds? Hope everybody's doing well. Hope everybody's staying safe out there. Um, I'm excited to be here with you guys again for another case study. We're at case study number 15. We're working our way through these, man. It's been awesome. I've been having a lot of fun with these. Um, great opportunity to learn. So hopefully we learned something pretty cool today. All right, so this is going to be primarily focusing on the chief complaint of someone coming in with weakness. All right, so let's get right into the HPI in this patient. All right, before we do that, you guys know the disclaimer. These aren't real cases. They're made up. They're focusing on primarily just kind of learning being able to have a good approach to particular chief complaints. All right, so we have a patient, 50-year-old male, presents at an engineer clinic with weakness. Patient states the weakness has been getting progressively worse. Okay. Uh let me see here. Sorry guys. Hold on one second. Um all righty. I don't know what the heck I did. I did something wrong. Uh, all right. Well, that's how we're going to get it. We're going to get it like this today. All right. Anyway, uh, we got A-50-year-old male, uh, presents at an engineer clinic with weakness. Um, has been getting, uh, progressively worse. States that the weakness is generalized. It's everywhere. Okay. It's within the lower extremities, the upper extremities. And uh they have a particular past medical history that's significant for hypertension, hyper lipidmia. They have chronic kidney disease stage three and they also have type 2 diabetes malitis that's not super well controlled. Okay. Medication wise they have lecinopril take 10 milligrams QD a tovvisatin 20 milligrams QD and they also take metformin 500 B. Okay. All righty. So let's go to the next part. So again, kind of generalized weakness, past medical history, hypertension, hyper lipidmia, chronic kidney disease, diabetes, coming in with generalized weakness that's been getting progressively worse. All right. On our physical exam, um they are having a heart rate of 35. So they're bradaartic. Okay. They have a respiratory rate of 14. Um BP 100 over 60. So again, they're bradaartic normal uh kind of respiratory rate. No typia, no bredypnia. Um, they have a normal blood pressure kind of right with on the cusp of being hypotensive, but I think this is a normal blood pressure. Um, 98.4 degrees Fahrenheit. So, normal uh uh temperature and SPO2 is 95% on room air. Okay. So, nothing crazy, just kind of a brada cardio. So, we obviously go, we listen to their heart, we know that it's brada cardartic, so we hear kind of some slow heart rate, but it's a regular rhythm. It's a normal S1, normal S2. Um, when we listen to their lungs, they're clear. Abdomen's soft, it's non- tender. They got normal active bowel sounds that appears there. Um, muscularkeeletal wise, they just have weakness. And it's very obvious their lower extremities are way more weak than their upper extremities. Okay? So, they have a lower extremity weakness that's more significant than the upper extremities. They also have some faciciculations. Okay? And some paristhesia. So some numbness, some tingling, some kind of like intermittent kind of burning sensations that they occur within the lower extremities, but the reflexes are two plus. So they have normal reflexes, a little bit of lower extremity weakness, more than upper extremity weakness, and some faciciculations and paristhesas as well as brady cardia. Okie dokie. I love it, Robert. Yes. Stay stay uh subscribed. It's the best way to stay healthy. I don't know about that, but that's pretty cool. I like it. All right, but yeah, we got a person hypertension, hyper lipidmia, CKD, um, and they have been coming in with generalized weakness. Where's the weakness more specifically on the lower extremities more than the upper extremities? Faciculations and paristhesas, two plus reflexes, and brady cardic. Okay. All right. So my question for you guys is what kind of labs would you want to order on this patient? So if you were to get some labs on this patient, let's say that you kind of start off here, you have an idea. It's like, man, I don't really know exactly what's going on. I know they have hypertension. I know they have hyper lipidmia, CKD3. They have generalized weakness. There's no other particular things. They just know it's the lower extremities more than the upper extremities. Okay. And they got some paristhesia. So they may have some underlying kind of neuropathy and but the reflexes are normal and they're braided cardartic. H what would just be some quick labs that you would fire off? They could be non-specific just a general kind of labs that you would throw off to see if anything comes back that maybe could point you in the right direction. Something very simple. So metabolic panel serum electrolytes. Cool. Electrolytes EKG. I think an EKG is a good idea. Um especially with the brada cardia. Absolutely. So, we'll get an EKG. We'll get a metabolic panel, CBC. I like the vitamin B12. That's a good thought. That's actually a really good thought. And the reason why is that vitamin B12 you can get the um subacute combined uh like type of dorsal column involvement where you can get demalination of the dorsal column and sometimes that can produce some um abnormalities within particular propreceptive sensations. You may also get some involvement of the cortical spinal tracts which could produce some weakness. Um, and yeah, it's definitely a possibility. Vitamin B12, that's a good thought. Definitely a good thought. Uh, EKG, CBC. Yeah. So, I like it. I like the CBC. I like the BMP. I think that's a great idea. Vitamin B12 is a really good thought. I didn't even think about that to be honest with you. And an EKG. I think those are great thoughts. Okay, cool. So, let's just see what kind of labs we get and see what comes back. We get a couple labs. We got a CBC. It's normal. No anemia. I know some of you guys brought that up. You got a CMP though. Um, and you got a potassium of 6.8, creatinine of 1.8, which is near their baseline. They have CKD3, right? Uh, so they have naturally kind of an elevated creatinine due to their low GFR. So, their creatinine is 1.8. It's near their baseline. So, there's no acute kidney injury. They're near their baseline uh chronic kidney disease. URA is 53. Their byarb is 18. Their blood glucose currently um on the BMP or the CMP in this case, sorry, is 288. When you check their point of care though, um can you just do a finger stick? It gives you 296. Somewhat comparable, but we'll go with the blood glucose off of the BMP being 288 because that's kind of more of your confirmation. um ABG is 7.3. So they're acidotic. Their uh O2 is 98. So they're perfectly um within the normal range of for oxygen wise. They're not hypoxic. Their CO2 is near the range of 34. So normal CO2 is anywhere between 35 to 45. So it's just a teensy bit low. And then their by carb is 18 and normal by carb is anywhere from 22 to 26. So it's a little low. So by carb is a little bit low. Okay. And I'd say that their by carb is probably maybe somewhat of the reason that they have that low pH in the 7.3 range. So little bit of a metabolic acidosis. It appears um hypercalemia and hyperglycemia. Traropponin's normal. You check a CK LDH. So let me ask you guys a question here. Why would I check um a CK or an LDH? What would be the reason why I would check that? It's so super random, right, that I just ordered a CK and LDH. Why? So you guys are already throwing out DKA right there. Metabolic acidosis of hypercalemia indicating DKA. Yeah. So why would I get the CK and LDH? Like what would that why would that be something that I needed to do? So if you go guys remember we did our video on hypercalemia. Hyperalemia can be due to a lot of things. One of the big ones is obviously any kind of like issue with low insulin and hypoglycemia, hyperosmolar states can do it. Um, but what's another thing that sometimes can happen in patients if they fall down, they have excessive exertion, they have seizures. Yeah. So, gig gig drain said that rabdtoyis, right? So, rabdomiis, tumorlyis syndrome, any kind of homalysis, anything like that, right? There's popping open of those cells and releasing particular types of things. So in muscles it'd be CK. If it was like some red blood cells it'd be hemoglobin. It would also be bilarubin and they would also release out some LDH. If it was tumorly lysis syndrome they release out a bunch of different types of molecules. So the reason why I'm trying to make sure that this hypercalemia is because of what hypercalemia that I saw in that CMP. I just want to make sure that there's no you know destruction of red blood cells. And my CBC was normal. So there was no anemia there present. My LDH was normal. My hemoglobin was normal. So there was no kind of like homalysis. Usually if somebody has tumor lysis syndrome, they would know have a known history of some type of cancer be receiving chemotherapy. So that would tip your hat off as well. They would also have particularly like abnormalities within their calcium, their phosphate, their potassium, uric acid, all that stuff would be elevated. Um and then also in someone who has some type of abnormality with their cortisol, aldoststerone system, right? because particularly aldoststerone plays a huge role within sodium reabsorption and potassium excretion. So in a patient who has decreased eldoststerone production they would have uh particularly a decreased potassium excretion. So that's another thing we would want to make sure okay is their aldoststerone levels their cortisol levels normal are they having any homoleysis I'd also want to make sure that they don't have any acidosis is the acidosis the reason why their potassium is being shunted particularly you know in acidotic states lots of protons they go into the cell potassium gets pushed out of the cell so I want to make sure that there's no acidosis okay and staff M said Rabdo has a side effect of the statins it could be that's a good point you can get rabdo from statins if it's it's possible um from the myopathy that you get from that. Um so yeah definitely but yeah just kind of remember go through your differential for hyperclemia. If you guys go back and watch our video we said it could be due to kidney disease. All right so having chronic kidney disease in general having an acute kidney injury having that low GFR can cause hypercalemia. So that's one kind of ding on you. We know that they have chronic kidney disease but they're near their baseline. So that might not be their reason. We also know that they have diabetes. We definitely know that diabetes malitis especially if you go into a DKA or an HHS kind of state can definitely cause hypercalemia. We know that hypoalostroneism can cause that their adostrinone stuff was normal. Then if we remember any kind of like drugs, very specific drugs, Dejoxin, um if they're on any kind of like a beta blocker, if they're on um anything that can really affect those sodium potassium pumps, right? So dejoxin, beta blockers, is there any acidosis, is there any insulin deficiency? So we're kind of going through that list that we had in our video there. So so far, no evidence of homolysis. Potassium of 6.8 eight appeared to be near their baseline renal function having hypoglycemia. So there's kind of your one of the hints there hyperosmalerity uh particularly maybe some hyperosmality but we definitely have high glucose levels because of their diabetes and we have an acidosis and then when we checked their ketones they were positive. So if you have high blood glucose and acidosis and positive ketones with a history of diabetes, it's probably likely that they have DKA and the DKA is causing an acidosis. And on top of that, if they have a decrease in insulin from them having underlying diabetes, that decrease in insulin and acidosis along with their baseline kind of, you know, decline kidney function at baseline, these things are probably causing hypercalemia. And we know that hypercalemia can definitely do what? It can alter the movement of ions across the actual cell, particularly excitable cells, muscle cells, neurons, cardiac tissue, all of that stuff. And so if we alter that movement of ions across the cell, remember those sodium channels get locked in a state of inactivation. They can't be stimulated. If they can't be stimulated, you start to develop a decreased excitability of those tissue cells. So decreased excitability of skeletal muscles. So you become develop weakness, decreased excitability of neurons. So you can start developing neuropathies and associated weakness because of the neurons not firing and paristhesas. You can also develop weakness of the GI tract and weakness of the cardiac muscle. Okay. So we're starting to see potentially what may be a person having hypercalemia secondary to DKA and a baseline poor kidney function. So chronic kidney disease. All right. Cool. Is there any imaging that you would want to get on this patient? All right, so we got some labs. We have an idea that this person has diabetic ketoacidosis causing hyper calmia. Uh they also have uh kind of a poor chronic kidney disease. We know that they have some generalized weakness. We suspect that it's from the hypercalemia. Is there any other labs that we would want to get? Let me just really quickly while you guys start kind of coming up with any kind of images that you would want, let me just read through you guys' questions and stuff. Good. Good. Okay. Oh, yeah. You definitely got You guys want an EKG, so we'll get that EKG. All right. Echo. Okay. All right. Sweet. All right. So, let's get let's see what we got for our images. So, we got an EKG show a junctional rhythm. Okay. You guys remember when I told you about hyperc calalemia within that diagnostic section that we said whenever somebody has hypercalemia uh we definitely can potentially see what peak T- waves peak T- waves that then kind of work their ways into wide QRS complexes wide QRS complexes that then can span and move into particularly maybe flattening of the Pwave absence of the Pwave leading to a junctional rhythm that can then lead to uh changes in the QT interval that can then progress into potentially going into that sine wave pattern that can then lead to VIB and sometimes even a cystally cardiac arrest so on and so forth right so we're seeing a junctional rhythm some brada cardia remember hyperc calmia definitely can cause bradic cardia okay chest x-ray was normal IVC ultrasound that we did showed that they were okay uh let's see what did you guys want to get CT head to rule out neuroeteology It's not a bad idea. Um, it's not a bad idea. I would say that's a, you know, it's not a bad idea. I would just, you know, try to, let's see why would we get that. All right. So, I didn't put in a neuroexam. Um, super super intense. But let's say that I told you that a neuroexam was that they were alert, they were awake, they were oriented um to person, place, time, why they were there. They were able to communicate with you completely with normal communication, normal language. Uh let's say that we also checked their cranial nerves. They were pearl. They had visual fields were intact. Uh face was symmetric. They had no tongue deviation. Uvula pallet was in, you know, it was midline. Um and when you test their strength, you just notice that again their lower extremity strength was a little bit weaker than their upper extremities. Reflexes were intact. Some paristhesas. I'd say like I would probably hold off on any kind of CT on this patient. Uh it's not a terrible idea though. I mean with weakness in general the lower extremities and and not so much in the upper extremities but some mild upper extremities I say with it being bilateral lower extremity involvement I probably wouldn't go straight to a CT the head. Again it's not a bad idea. There's nothing wrong with that. You might go ahead and get it and say okay just wanted to make sure that there was nothing intraraanially wrong. Um, but if and again that's probably my fault. I probably should have given a better neuro exam in my um physical exam portion. I apologize, but I probably wouldn't get AI wouldn't be super quick to jump to a CT. What I would be thinking about if we really wanted to take this the extra mile is I would start thinking about other conditions um that maybe would make me think about what would cause someone to have lower extremity weakness more than upper extremity weakness. There's a somebody already said it. Yeah. Gon beret. Yeah. So any kind of like you know potentially some type of neuropathy uh and kind of what seems like it may be neuropathy that's not a bad idea. So I think that's a good idea to maybe consider something like gon beret syndrome. Um now with someone with gon beret syndrome or some you know and even mythenia gravis mythenia gravis usually doesn't affect the lower extremities more than the upper extremities though. Usually you get more bulbar involvement. Um so you might develop like dipoplia, some disarthria, some dysphasia, um difficulty being able to kind of move the eyes due to fatigue ability, maybe upper extremity involvement more than lower extremity involvement actually. And then some respiratory involvement. So myastinograph wouldn't be at the top of the list, but I think GBS would be a good one to think about. And with GBS, you can do nerve conduction studies, right? You can do EMG, but you could also do something where you test the lumbar puncture. What would you get if we're really going the extra mile? Let's just hold off on that. But we if we went the extra mile and we tal we we didn't we ordered a LP. Um we could say what what would it show? What would it show? If you did an LP on on this patient, there's like this it's a term that you know it's something that you should definitely think about for your exams. You get lots of protein, but the white blood cells aren't really Yeah, Mr. Angry Otter said it. Albuminocytologic disassociation, right? So, um those are kind of some things that you could think about. lots of proteins, some lymphocytes, but there's kind of a a ton of proteins there, particularly those IGG proteins um that are present. But yeah, I would say that if you really wanted to go the extra mile and make a crazy kind of case, it could be something like Keon Bra syndrome. The other thing is that um with this patient, she is 50 years old. Um I mean, it's not a bad age to also think about could there be any kind of compression. There was no trauma. there was no particular kind of like things that maybe super tea off maybe some kind of spinal stenosis but if I did go into the physical exam and say that oh they have pain particularly whenever they're flexing at the hip or they get intermittent claudication in their calves whenever they're walking uphill things like that um maybe could think you especially oh do they have any issues with incontinence do they have any issues particularly with urinary fecal incontinence do they have any numbness or tingling near the area of the perennium Those are things that may make you want to say let's get an MRI and make sure that this person doesn't have any codquinus syndrome, no kind of spinal stenosis, anterior spondyolythesis. So I think if you wanted to take go the extra mile and get an MRI of the spine, um that wouldn't be a terrible idea as well. Okay, so I think that kind of covers a good chunk. Um I again I would probably say let's let's see where the the more conservative thing goes with us. We can start off right now saying okay let's think that this could be due to hypercalemia neurologically let's keep in the back of our minds could this be myastinia sorry could this be gumpet syndrome could this be some type of spinal cord pathology I definitely think that that's something that we shouldn't root out right away and say okay it's definitely not this definitely with some lower extremity weakness paristhesas um I would definitely consider getting an MRI plus or minus an LP if that was that MRI was inconclusive Okay. All righty. Let me see. What did you guys say here? Mr. Angry Otter said, "Breed." Yeah, people with GBSD they can develop kind of this um dautonomia where they have different swings where they go back and forth between hypertension, hypotension, bradic cardia, tacic cardia um those are potential complications of this as well. Another thing is that usually usually in gon beret syndrome the reflexes are sometimes diminished as well. So they can have hyper reflexia so sometimes a reflexia um and this person had completely normal reflexes. Again, that's not a complete rule out, but think about that as well as a potential for GBS. All right. Anyway, good deal. I think we got an idea here of what we've kind of gone through. Let's say that just to just to, you know, say this, we got an MRI to be very thorough because we should be very thorough. You guys are much more thorough um than probably I am. Let's say that we got an MRI. We we tried to make sure, okay, let's make sure that this isn't a spinal stenosis. There's no codquinus syndrome, nose conis meilaris, anything like that. We got that. It was completely normal. No spinal stenosis, no anterior spondyolythesis, no even demilinating lesions near the area of the spinal cord to think about transverse myitis, acute disseminating and sephilomitis, anything like that. Transver, anything kind of like a spinal cord pathology was ruled out. We went the extra mile. We wanted to do it just to make sure we we stuck a needle into their uh their cerebral spinal uh their subactoid space, pulled off some cerebral spinal fluid, no abominy disassociation. We took it the extra mile. We sent off all kinds of cultures and everything. everything was negative for infection. We just did all that stuff. Okay. Now, we kind of come to the last part here where we know the patient has brada cardia. They're a little bit fluid down. They have a hyperc calalemia. They have an underlying chronic kidney disease that appears near baseline. A metabolic acidosis that's probably most likely related to a DKA. If we check their annion gap, if we calculated it will be greater than 12. So, we know that they have an anion gap metabolic acidosis, right? particularly due to DKA that's causing their hypercalemia. They also probably have hypercalemia due to their poor baseline renal function. All right. Now that is our diagnosis. Hypercalemia, diabetic keto acidosis. Okay. Now we move into the next step. What's kind of the treatment here for a patient who has hypercalemia? What do we do? Keith Hutchinson said HL ALS ALS is possible. Um again with ALS you get a lot more involvement uh particularly again it depends upon how severe it is but with ALS you get upper motor neuron and lower motor neuron lesions. So for example in one extremity uh you could have hyper hyperflexia you could have spasticity you could have atrophy weakness and in the other extremity you could have more of a a lower motor neuron presentation where you could have faciciculations you could have hyper reflexia you could have atrophy so on and so forth. Um you even have some pseudo bulbar involvement and uh bulbar pauses. So sometimes there can be difficulties with um speech, swallowing, eye movements and so on and so forth. Um unfortunately ALS is more kind of a long you have to actually kind of unfortunately have to treat it and like see what happens with this one. It's more of a definitely a deteriorating disease. But let me see what you guys are saying. Fluid-wise, OB A O A O A O A O A O A O A O A O A O A Oc Buddy. All right, so Margaret says, "Fluids and insulin, calcium, gluconate fluids." Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep. Yeah, you guys are on the ball. You guys are too smart. I mean, this was definitely a more of a simple thing for you. So um for the hypercalemia we're going to target that first right hypercalemia first thing you do is if the they were like 6.8 eight. So they're approaching seven. They're start we're seeing some EKG changes, some brada cardia, um some junctional rhythm. So that right there is enough indication that the hyperclemia is causing cardiotoxicity. So that being said, I definitely want to start giving them calcium gluconate. How much calcium would I give them? What's the amount of calcium that I would give a person? You guys know it's about the amount that I would give calcium wise. Calc, it's an interesting thing, man. This calcium how it works, right? Increasing that threshold uh potential to be able to kind of help you to have a new resting membrane potential in a way. 10 milliliters. Yeah. So, I give him like three grams. I give him like three grams of calcium gluconate. Okay, cool. So, you give him like three Um, what else? I give them the calcium gluconate. You could also give them calcium chloride. It kind of depends. Um, but you can give them cal I I like three grams calcium gluconate. That's kind of my option there. Um, now that I've given them about three grams of calcium gluconate, I'm trying to stabilize their cardiac membranes. The next thing I want to try to do is I need to focus on eliminating potassium. So, I'm going to protect the heart. Then, I'm going to start getting rid of the potassium. How do I get rid of potassium from the body? What are the drugs that I can give to be able to get rid of the potassium? Yeah, kioxilate is one. So the sodium polyerin I never know how to say that. Poly polyerene. Yeah, kioxalate. That's one. And diuretics. Yep. Lasix. Okay. So I um the literature actually shows that you know kioxalate is not super great. It doesn't actually produce much of a significant difference in their overall potassium. Um one of the well let me ask you actually ask you guys what is something that I would actually want to be very careful of especially when giving somebody kioxate that you'd want to be concerned with. I give them kayakalate. I want to make sure that I watch out for this particular thing every single day until they actually do it. Okay. I give them kioxilate because I'm trying to poop out the potassium. What is a fear when you give kioxalate? So what would I give to be able to poop out that potassium? I give the kioxalate and then if I gave the kioxate and they didn't go poo poo. Yeah, it can cause constipation, can cause bile obstruction. The biggest thing is colonic necrosis. Um so that's actually a really scary thing that can happen. I've seen it once. um is that um I gave somebody a patient who had um hyperclemia, gave him kioxalate and they actually ended up not being able to poop. They ended up with severe like constipation and that it actually ended up causing colonic necrosis um and that can lead to a perforation. Um so that's one of the things that you actually have to be very very careful of. So when you put them on kioxate, make sure that you have them on a very good bowel regimen so that that they do actually poop. Um because if not, you're going to lead to some pretty nasty stuff with that disease. Okay. All right, cool. So, I could give Kioxalate. Another drug that you can give is you can give Lasix. You just have to be careful. All right, so here's the thing with um when you're giving Lasix and a patient with diabetic keto acidosis, they might already kind of have some baseline kind of dehydration. They might be a little bit like volume down. Okay, so you just have to be a little bit careful with that. It's okay to try to diarice them. Um, if you're going to diarice them, you're going to give them something like Lasix or ferosomide. And you kind of just start off slow. Don't hit them too hard. And this person, they have chronic kidney disease. Uh, so they have their baseline creating was a little bit elevated at 1.8, I think it was. So you might have to give them a little bit more than you'd prefer. I kind of for a patient with a chronic kidney disease, I go off of like I take 30 times whatever their baseline creatinine is, which is about 1.8. So I'd say round that up to two. So, I'd probably give them about 60 milligrams of Lasix if I was going to try to diarice them and see if I and then I would going to make sure that I'm properly getting rid of the potassium, but I'm keeping them somewhat uic at least. Um, so that's kind of the way that I might get around that is if I were to diase this patient to get rid of the the potassium, I would give them something like Lasix. I would probably go off of 30 times their baseline creatine, which is about 1.8. So, that's about 30* 2, which is 60. 60 milligrams of Lasix. see if they uh you know get some of that actual urine out and excrete some of that potassium and then from there I would recheck the potassium and see what it is. But I would just keep an eye on their volume status and if I'm going to replace their fluid status I would replace it with isotonic bicarbonate or maybe a little bit of LR lactated ringers. Okay. All right. So we are trying to eliminate the potassium. So we so far we protected our heart three grams calcium gluconate. We don't want to do the kioxate right away. I'd probably hold off on doing that and then consider diaresis first. Maybe we hit them with 60 milligrams of Lasix. See how they respond to that and then if we need to fluid replete them, just fluid replete them with like lactated ringers or isotonic bicarbonate. Okay. How do we shift the potassium? So, this is more of a transient thing. It's not going to last long. It might help them for a short amount of time, but it's not going to be something that's going to last super long. I can give them what drugs to able to shift the potassium. So in other words, I want to shift the potassium from the blood into the cells. Yeah. insulin and D50 and beta agonist. insulin and D50. insulin. Okay, cool. How much insulin do I give? If I were to give it, you know, if I gave like some some insulin, what would I how much would I give of that insulin? How much insulin would I give? 15 units. Okay. Yeah, I I go I go a little bit I go a little bit less than that. I usually go like 10 units, but that's the Yeah. So, Toyo gave the actual correct like textbook answer. 0.1 units per kilogram per hour is kind of like your textbook kind of answer. Um, and then you're kind of keeping an eye on that potassium level. But generally, most protocols will just try to give 10 units. Um, and then you'll also give sugar with that. The reason why is is if you give them 10 units and then all of a sudden you check their glucose and it's like two, you cause some pretty significant hypoglycemia. So I would give 10 units of insulin and you give a little bit of dextrose like D50 just to make sure that you don't overcorrect their glucose when you give them 10 units of of of regular insulin. Okay? So yeah, you're giving them insulin because the insulin is going to stimulate the sodium potassium pumps. When you stimulate those sodium potassium pumps, it's going to push the potassium into the cell. Also, you're going to give them some a little bit of D50 just to prevent them from having an extra uh drop. But they're to be honest with you, I think their glucose was like what 280 something. So if you gave them 10 units of insulin, it's probably unlikely that it would drop them down like super crazy. But again, just make sure that you have some of that D50 by hand because 10 units of regular insulin is a decent chunk of insulin. Okay. The other thing that you could do though with this patient is because they do have diabetic ketoacidosis, um, is you could also just put them on an insulin drip. Sometimes putting them on a drip in general, like an insulin infusion um is another way that we could go about this since they're having diabetic keto acidosis. So doing like an insulin infusion might not also be a bad idea. Um unless they're already on some type of insulin infusion, but generally you give them you get them a huge hefty dose about 10 units, a little bit of D50, and then most likely this person's going to need to be on an insulin drip in general. Okay. Oh, don't know what the heck I did there. Sorry. So yeah, I would go ahead give them a good chunk of insulin, give them a little bit of sugar, get them in that range that you need to be able to get a good shift of potassium. Then after you get that good shift of potassium, you recheck it, put them on an insulin drip and get them back into that uglycemic range. Okay. All right. What else can we do? So we gave insulin, we give D50. We could also give albuterol, right? Somebody said that albuterol, you're they said savvas. So if I give them albuterol, I'm giving a a pretty big dose. um a decent amount of albuterol, a lot more than your regular like duanb or albuterol treatments. Um so you're giving some pretty good like heavy doses of that um of albuterol. And again, albuterol is a beta 2 agonist. So it's going to work on those uh particularly those beta 2 receptors and increase the stimulation of those sodium potassium pumps pushing the potassium into the cell. And then the last thing I could do is I could give by carb. Generally, you don't give by carb until the pH is very low. So, I probably wouldn't go if I needed to, but okay. All right. So, we gave three grams calcium gluconate. We considered diarrheasing them with 60 milligrams of Lasix. We held off on the kioxilate. We also gave them 10 units of insulin. Gave them some D50. Checked to see what their glucose was in 1 hour after we gave them that 10 units of insulin. After we gave them the D50 to make sure that we didn't drop them or make sure that they also weren't super high. Once we kind of get their glucose down and we gave them that hefty 10 units, we gave them the dextrose. We put them on an insulin infusion so that we can maintain a tight glucose control. After we've done that, we also gave them an albuterol treatment and then we didn't need to give them any kind of bicarbonate. Okay, so we tried all these things, right? So this is kind of the the big thing here. Now there's one more thing that we forgot to mention. What was probably their cause of another aspect of their hypercalemia that we missed? You guys remember back what they took? They took a particular type of drug for their hypertension. They took an ACE inhibitor. This is something that you have to think about on your exams. It's unlikely that this was the primary cause, but it probably built up on top of everything else. Somewhat of a manifestation of uh some of the DKA. And then and remember with DKA it actually it causes hyperc calalemia but it's kind of like what seems counterintuitive because it actually drops your total body potassium but it causes that significant shift to potassium. So it's almost kind of like a a pseudo in a way kind of like a fake type of hypercalemia but nonetheless there is a hypercalemia but also there's an ACE inhibitor there. Remember ACE inhibitors particularly work by uh blocking the angotensin 2 production right particularly uh inhibiting the angotensin one to angotensin 2. Angotensin 2 stimulates aldoststerone. Aldoststerone then does what? Aldoststerone particularly works by reabsorbing sodium and excreting potassium. If you give an ACE inhibitor you inhibit the conversion to angotensin 2. Angotensin 2 then does what? Doesn't stimulate aldoststerone. aldoststerone doesn't work to be able to reabsorb sodium, excrete potassium, the potassium builds up. So, there's another thing. Get rid of their ACE inhibitor. Hold that for some time. Uh, and then you may have to put them on a different type of medication as an alternative. Okay. So, we're going to DC that. We're going to hold off on that. And we we decided to eliminate potassium with Lasix. Okay. Now, for the person who let's say we tried all this stuff, right? We tried to, you know, get all these things to shift the potassium, eliminate the potassium, stabilize our cardiac membranes. We checked their potassium a couple hours later and it's like 6.2. So, it went from 6.8 to 6.2, not a big jump, and they're still having problems. At that point in time, if they're still having this kind of like refractory hypermia and it's getting worse, it's not getting any better, anything like that, we're going to move straight to dialysis. Okay? Okay. And we might have to do some CRT, which is a continuous renal replacement therapy versus like an intermittent hemmoiolysis. And this kind of just depends upon their hemodynamic status. Okay. If their hemodynamic status is like, you know, pretty pretty bad where you pull off any fluid and they start getting super hypotensive and tacocartic, then you might have to do CRT where you pull off smaller volumes of fluid over a small smaller period of time. Uh over a long longer period of time. You pull small volumes off, maybe 100 cc's, maybe 50 cc's, maybe 75 cc's every hour. Um, and then you're trying to just continue to remove some of that potassium. Okay. All right. So, we tried those measures. Now, we already kind of talked a little bit about this, the diabetic keto acidosis. We're going to treat that. It's kind of like coming secondary. So, we treat the hypercalemia with the big insulin 10 unit D50. Then after that, we kind of close the kind of annion gap and kind of maintain a normal uglycemia by putting them on an insulin drip, an insulin infusion. And that'll help to completely, you know, it's based upon a protocol that you move up down up and down particular columns and you kind of adjust your rate depending upon what their glucose level is every hour. So you're going to get every hour you're going to do glucose checks, see what it is, move up and down your column, move left and right, and figure out what rate you need to go at to maintain a normal kind of glucose level anywhere between like 90 to 140. Okay. Now after you've done that, we got a patient here well with the calcium gluconate. They did well with um the insulin and D50 and then the albuterol. We didn't have to send them to dialysis. They also got put on an insulin drip after we kind of gave them that big push of insulin. And after wires they improved, their glucose went down to normal levels. their potassium improved and then we were able to transition them off of the drip to a normal basil buls regimen and you kind of do that based upon whatever their drip rate is over a period of 24 hours try to find the most stable time period where the rate was pretty much the same and then you'll convert them into a kind of a subcutaneous basil bowls regimen and then afterwards once they've kind of been out of the hospital uh you can get them back on their metformin to get them uh kind of stable. Okay. All right. So, this one was a super cra, you know, super easy one. Nothing crazy about this one. Um, it's just something that, you know, if you work in kind of any kind of medical field, emergency department, internal medicine, ICU, this is a very common condition that you'll see. It's very common. Um, and so it's just important to have a very quick and systematic way that you go about determining the cause because you have to treat that underlying cause and then having a kind of a step-by-step fashion by how you treat. So I think that's an important thing to be able to to to have right so going through okay what could be the causes of the person's hypercalemia is this a real hypercalemia going through specifically what's my treatment oh they have any kind of EKG signs I'm going to hit them with calcium gluconate okay I got to get rid of the potassium what's their renal function can I give them some lasex okay I kind of want to hold off on kioxalate I'm not going to give this one what can I do to shift the potassium okay I'll give them insulin I'll give them D50 I'll give them aluterol consider if their pH is like really low like less than 7.15 really. And then from there, do they need dialysis because they're not improving? Their renal function is so poor that it's not working. And then last but not least, again, if it gets to that point, you get a CRT, you get a HD. Okay, I hope this made sense. I know it was kind of a straightforward one. I know that you guys wanted to take it down the another area and I thought that was good thoughts to think about. Someone said checking vitamin B12, I think that was a great idea. getting an MRI. Again, you should be very thorough. You should you if you have someone with lower extremity weakness and a little bit of upper extremity weakness, no other kind of like obvious telltale signs, it's not a bad idea to make sure that they don't have anything that could be impinging that spinal cord or causing problems or demolination in that area. So, getting an MRI, you know, doing that, that's that's perfectly fine. But, I hope I hope it made sense. I hope that you guys enjoyed it and I hope you had fun. Um, if you guys have any other questions or anything, just let me know. Um, I'll hang around for like a couple minutes and then we'll we'll talk a little bit more. Just going to kind of quickly read through some of you guys' comments. Yeah. Yeah. Um, Hiba Hiba, she said, "Does insulin work in case of diabetes type two?" Yeah. Yeah, it does. Usually it's again you kind of go down a specific path with type two diabetes, diet, exercise, obviously try anti-diabetic medications. I'd say once you get to about two maybe three anti-diabetic medications. So usually it goes metformin. I go with metformin first. Then I go with a glyip one um type of agonist and then after I do that one I'd consider some type of additional one. Maybe I do like an SGLT2 inhibitor um like you know kagaflow and depagos and anything like that. Um, insulin on um, no glucose gets into the cell due to absolute insulin deficiency or peripheralis. The body uses fast storage to produce triglycerides. Okay. All righty. Well, if there's no other questions, guys, we will uh meet up next week. Um we'll have another case study. Yeah, Ragod said diabetic type two are less likely to have DK. Yeah, they're more likely to have HHS, but again, you can develop DKA with um type two diabetes as you get towards the later stages. Um because with type two diabetes malitis obviously as those um pancreatic beta cells are working really hard um to be able to produce more and more and more and more insulin uh what happens is over time as you produce more and more and more and more insulin you also produce a lot of amalloid proteins and then lead to a reduction in insulin. So then their insulin levels do drop usually in the later stages of uh diabetes type two. So diabetes type two yes it's more likely to cause HHS but in the later stages it can cause DKA as the insulin levels start to drop from increased amaloid deposition and pancreatic beta cells working so hard to produce lots of insulin for in respect to the insulin resistance causing continuous hypoglycemia. All righty. All right, Ninja Nerds. Well, love you guys. Uh, thank you guys for hanging around. Thanks for, you know, an awesome time. And, uh, I just wish you guys the best of luck and everything. And I'll see you guys next week. Um, as always, Ninja, love you. Thank you. And until next time.