All right. Also, real big thing here. I'm going to start with the case now. If any of you guys I'm gonna I really want it to try to be interactive. If you guys want to answer and uh you want to come in and speak and be involved in the conversation, just raise your hand. We'll kind of bring you up. Um if not, you guys can just put any kind of questions or answers or anything that you guys want to talk about into that live stage text and we'll kind of keep an eye on that. All right. So, let's go through um a case. All right. So, this is a pretty cool one. So, let's say that it's your first night, okay, on call. Uh, let's say you are asked by a resident to evaluate a patient in the emergency department. Okay, you go and see the patient. It's an 85year-old female. She's got a history of Alzheimer's, dementia, and hypertension. Okay, so that's her pertinent past medical history. She came to the ED uh via ambulance from a nursing home and her primary chief complaint is that the nursing home noticed that she was kind of becoming more confused and having this decreasing mental status. On arrival, the blood pressure is noted to be 80 systolic over 40 diastolic. And the pertinent medications that they bring note of is that she's taking arisept which is also denpasil. She's taking hydrochlorioide and mtopralol. So that's kind of our basic HPI at this point in time. Any of you guys have any questions? Any other additional questions that you guys would like to ask about just the basic part of her HPI real quick? Thank you, Rob, for the uh little overview there. Yeah, I like it. Beautiful. That's awesome. Very good kind of summarization there. Um per people say that case studies are beyond them and are afraid of taking part because they think they can't or shouldn't. Listen guys, if you guys are, you know, don't there's going to be no judgment whatsoever. It doesn't matter what kind of answer you give. If you don't know, that's okay. I think this is a great opportunity to learn. Um this it's just it should just be a learning opportunity. Do not be afraid to provide any answers. Um no one's going to judge you at all. Oh, ariser. Yeah, arisept is also known as uh dinepazil which is uh basically it's it's for Alzheimer's and they're also taking mtopriol and hydrochlorioide and that's for their hypertension. Okay. All right. So, right off the bat we can already kind of uh start saying okay we have a basic HPI. The basic things I want to know about the HPI past medical history, chief complaint. So we already know their past medical history is Alzheimer's, dementia, hypertension. Chief complaint is a decreased mental status. You know, confused more than usual and came from a nursing home. So let's go ahead and quick say, okay, that's what we got at this point in time. We still don't have a lot to go off of other than the fact that she her blood pressure is really low. You know, it's way systolic is way less than 100 millimeters of mercury. Could it be that she took too much of her Oh, someone already put that in there. Yeah, it robbed it. Good. That's a good honest that's a good question. Maybe she took too much of mtopriol. Maybe I don't know maybe the nursing home gave a little bit extraol or the hydrochloroioide. That's a good thing to be thinking about. Absolutely. That's a potential differential to be on your eye. Uh there's that's a potential differential. So, I think that's a good thought there. Did she take too much of her hypertension meds? That's a good thought. All right, let's say because we don't have a ton to go off of at this point in time. I say let's go ahead and do our physical exam. Any queries on doing a physical exam at this point in time? No. which uh physical exam would you want to do first? So yeah, let's do let's do a nice quick focused physical exam. Um let's start off with doing uh just a cardopulmonary exam. So if we start off on her physical exam, here's what's going on. Patient's lying in the bed, right? She's not arousable to auditory stimuli. She's not arousal arousable to like, you know, natural kind of like touch like tactile stimuli, but she's very difficult to arouse with some painful stimuli. So, you're having to apply some sternal rubbing to really kind of get her to arouse and awake and try to answer some of your questions. So, that's the first thing for her mental status, I'd tell you. Her pulse, if we look at her vitals, her pulse is 120 beats per minute. So, that's her heart rate. We recheck the blood pressure. It's still 80 over 40. Her respiratory rate is 18 and her temp is 101° F. Okay. So, definitely some concerning signs there on her vitals and as well as her basic mental status exam. You listen to her heart and you listen to her lungs. She's clear to oscultation bilaterally. No wheezings, no wrong eye, no rails. She's got a regular respiratory rate, normal um S1, S2, no gallops, no rubs, no murmurss. You start to go and palpate her abdomen. As you palpate her abdomen, she's non-tender to palpation in the upper right, upper left, but as you start getting towards like the supra pubic region, she's got some pain there. So, she's hurting when you push on that super pubic region of her lower abdomen. Okay. The rest of her exam though, her pulses are plus two, distal pedal pulses are plus two. She's got no edema. There's no skin lesions or rashes. Her neuroexam is normal. Her ent exam is normal as well. You're a little concerned, right? So you go ahead and put a foley in. When you put a Foley in, you notice something very interesting that coming out of the Foley, you notice some dark urine and some pyura. All right, that's our physical exam at this point. Anybody have any questions, any concerns, any things that they want to say at this point? Uh, I'd be pretty worried about infection of either pyonfritis causing sepsis. Very well could be. Uh, this the super pubic pain with that kind of pus there. It could very well still be a pyo. Usually the pyo would again be a little bit more towards that uh flank pain, but that doesn't mean that it couldn't still potentially be a pyo. uh the fact that she has a fever and she has some pyura, she's got some super pubic pain, it could be cyitis that may be extending retrogradely up into the um uh up into like the actual kidneys. But no, Josh um she does not have any flank or CVA tenderness present. All right, but I think a couple people have already had the right idea thinking, okay, is this UTI? Rob even asked, is this rabdo? Could be. very well could be. We don't know. We don't have any documentation if she was kind of uh you know having any if she was like if she fell and she was found down in the nursing home for a long period of time. There was no documentation of that. So I I don't think so. It seems like she just may have really dark urine from concentration. Uh maybe she's a little dehydrated. Um that's maybe a thought there. Um but I think you guys are having some good ideas. Anybody have any questions? The mans you said something. What's her CPK? So, uh, we'll get to that. We'll get to her labs here in just a second. We're still on kind of our, um, objective assessment. Gotcha. So, everybody good with kind of our objective assessment here? Josh asked about volume status. Okay. You, let's say that you want to assess volume status really quick. How would you quickly assess volume status on a patient? Skin tugger. You can check skin tugger. Let's say that it's a little Let's say that she has some uh some kind of wrinkly skin. She definitely has some skin tur present. What else? I like it. I'm a big fan of ultrasound. So, I would take a look at her vennea. I would also look at her mucous membranes. Does she look dry? If her mucous membranes look really pale, that's also kind of an indication. You can check check cap refill if that's delayed. But I'm a big big fan of checking the um IVC. Again, we're getting to more of the later studies that we can do. But this is a good quick thing that you can do as a bedside ultrasound. Check the IVC and you're checking for collapsibility. We don't want to get too far down that chain. But yeah, IVC ultrasound to look to see if it's collapsible or if it's changing with breathing um can also be an indication of their volume down or normal volume. So, I like it. All right. So let's quickly recap. Patient has a past medical history of hypertension, Alzheimer's, taking ariscept for the Alzheimer's taking hydrochlorioide and taking um the uh mtopriol for blood pressure control. She comes in with a decreased mental status. Her physical exam shows that she's definitely difficult to arouse. So probably in some form like obtunded, maybe stuperous. She's tacocartic. She's hypotensive and she's fibral and she's got pain in the uh lower abdomen uh particularly that super pubic region. And we got our ninja nerd uh Kristen here asking if there was any uh GI complications or abdominal surgeries. Uh when we go through her past medical history and surgical history, we didn't have any um uh note of any surgeries present as well. That's a great question. All right. So, let's move on. So, we have a pretty good idea about her physical exam. Really, really quickly, I want someone to at least say there's a particular type of criteria that I'm a little bit concerned with. Um, it's particularly pertaining to you take into consideration their temperature. You take into consideration Yep. Someone already said it. Josh hit it. Boom. Cers. I'm definitely thinking about SERS right now. Rapunzel's going for Sofa. So Sofa definitely uh she's get she's ahead of the game. Uh but eventually we're probably going to get to that point with this patient. Absolutely. Um so sequential kind of organ function assessment for especially in septic shock. Uh we may be getting there, but CERS is the first thing I can already note just based on this patient's vitals. Um so I can already notice that she's fibbral and she's hypotensive. and she's tacocartic. Those are right away indications for someone to be a CERS criteria. Now, what is the difference between CERS and sepsis? How do I need to prove that this person is actually septic? So, bacteria. Yeah. I need a source of infection. I need I need a source of infection. A white blood cell count is also added into the SERS criteria, but I definitely need a specific site of infection. I need some proof of infection. So that would be either getting a chest X-ray, looking for pneumonia. I would either get some blood cultures, looking for bacteria, or I kind of already have an idea where this infectious source is coming from. It seems like UTI, right? A couple people already said that. So, I could already kind of start my process off here and get a UA. So, right now I'm a little nervous that this person may have sepsis. Right now, they're meeting criteria. So, I need to go ahead and find an infectious source. Can anybody tell me a couple labs that maybe I'll fire off? A couple labs in imaging that I'll fire off really quick to kind of be very thorough, especially in a patient that I think may have sepsis. We already mentioned a couple of them. So, someone said UA, good blood cultures. How many blood cultures? Two blood cultures. Two blood cultures. Good. Um, UA. Um, okay. I like it. A C. So, you can get a BMP. I would all I would probably extend it to a CMP. I want to know what their liver is doing as well because sometimes whenever people become septic and especially shocky, that can really affect their liver. So, I'd extend that from a BMP particularly to a CMP. So, we got a CMP, we got a UA, we got blood cultures. Someone asked, "I'm a bit lost. Have we ruled out aniflactic shock?" That's a good question. Um, they haven't. Uh, again, when I listened to their lungs, uh, when I did kind of a good lung exam, I didn't hear any wheezing. I didn't hear any wrongs. Um, and I didn't appreciate any strider, um, present on her, um, on her exam. That's a good question. Very good question. I didn't also, again, there was no skin lesions as well. No rashes or hives or anything that could point that out as well. Good question. And no angio edema, no enlarge under the tongue or anything like that. All right, so we got a couple of them. CMP, we got a UA. We got blood cultures. Um, what else? Anybody know what else? We got a CBC, right? Oh, chest X-ray. Good. I get a CBC. Okay, you can do a CT of the abdomen. Absolutely. That's fine. I would probably make that a little bit later. I probably wouldn't get right into a CT of the abdomen since I kind of have an idea of where the infectious source is. But I if I, you know, if I got a UA and it came back negative, then maybe I'd I'd go and I'd do a CT abdomen. Urine culture, you can um I just be careful with urine cultures. Um especially if they had a foli for a little bit. sometimes um you know you can get in a little bit of trouble with those but all right so I would stick with the UA you can send urine cultures generally you try not to send urine cultures if someone has a foley in um but I go with the UA first all right so I think a lot of people have hit it I'd hit I'd start off with a CBC I'd do a CMP okay I would do a UA I do some blood cultures I definitely would do a chest X-ray and I would also throw out a lactate. So, people are throwing out CRP, ProCal. Those are those are good. Um CRP is kind of a general marker of badness and inflammation. Procal there is a lot of people out there who believe in procals. Um, I think they're great whenever you're trying to um trend antibiotic kind of effectiveness and if you want to discontinue an antibiotic particularly in someone who has bacterial pneumonia. Um, but no, that's a that's a good one to think about. Someone has a question. Person has requested to speak. So, let me go here. Got him. Okay, got them. Okay. Uh why do we calculate lactate? That's a good question. So lactate is an indication of partic particularly there's a lot of different types of lactate, right? So lactic acidosis if you can if you really want to think about it like that. So lactic acidosis, there's two types, type A and type B. Right? Now I'm worried about type type A. So with type A lactic acidosis, we're thinking about a hypo proferusion, right? Whether this be due to the person having anemia, whether this person has low oxygen uh carrying capacity because their lungs are jacked up, their red blood cells are low, or they have a clot that's oluding blood flow to an organ, or they're in shock and they're not able to peruse those organs. Well, so when that happens, you don't get oxygen to the tissues. What happens is you know your glycolysis pathway you take glucose into pyuvate. Pyuvate eventually gets converted into acettocoa. If you don't have that oxygen though it starts building up into lactic acid and so that can be an indication of potentially hypo profusion. All right. So panos had a question. Hello. H can we take the exams about PT or PT? You can absolutely. That's a good one. Co-Ass. Co-Ass are a good thing if especially if you're worried about the person having uh DIC. So sepsis can lead to DIC. So that's not a bad thought to throw in some co-ags. I like it. Especially if you're even trying to again determine how severe the patient is and that's what we could kind of get into with like the sofa score and stuff. Okay, great question Panos. Okay, and uh one more. Uh, we check creatinine about the urine. I'm sorry. Say it again. Uh, we check creatinine. Gratin abumin in the urine. Is that what you said? Okay. I'm so sorry. I can't I couldn't make out what you said. I I apologize. Can you write in the live text? Uh, what? Can you write that uh in the live text, the live stage text? Uh okay, that's what I thought he said. Okay. Yeah, I thought so. Uh you could do that. Um I'm not too I I wouldn't probably waste my time um checking the creatinine in the urine um because I'm going to get my serum creatinine from um which is a little bit more particularly for me if someone is septic. I want to know a little bit more their serum creatinine than their urine creatinine. But that's a good question. All right. So to pretty much mark it off here, I think a good starting point would just be a CBC, a CMP, a UA, some blood cultures, a chest X-ray, a lactate. If you want to even go further and check an EKG, definitely can. You should always kind of check an EKG in patients who are shocky. It's always a good idea. So let's start with there. And then again, if you want to add on further tests, you definitely can. This is just what I start off with um based on this patient here um that I had. Okay. So, let's say that you you do this, right? You order those labs, it comes back, and really the big thing that pops out here is they have a beefy white cell count. All right? A white cell count of 22. And you check their band cells and they got a bandmia. They got a bandemia where they have band cells greater than 10% meaning that they have a left shift as well. You check their UA and their UA shows positive luccoy eststerase, positive nitrites and they have greater than 100 white cells in their urine. I think you guys already kind of know. I think people were already poking at this right from the beginning. What do you guys are What are you guys thinking at this point in time? Well, here really quick before I even get into that, let's keep going through the other stuff. CMP was relatively unremarkable. Their buen creatinine wasn't anything uh really off the charts. Um so, nothing really popped off for the CMP. The lactate, let's say that it was a teensy bit elevated. I think it was like 2.2. Uh but nothing scary. Um and their chest X-ray was normal and their EKG showed some old bundle branch block, but nothing special there. It was I think it was a right bundle branch block but they were sinus tacky. Did the blood cultures come back? Blood cultures came back and the person did have some bactermia. Which species? So that's a good question. So let's say that this is a gram negative gram negative rods. Ecoli could be. Yeah. Could very well be ecoli. So at this point in time I definitely am a little nervous, right? uh thinking that this person had a UTI that caused sepsis, right? Potentially lead to that bacteria there. So at this point in time, what can I say? All right, let's go back a little bit to that definitions. Surge criteria is met based upon the person's right now, we can actually base their surge criteria. They had an elevated white count. They had a fever, right? They were hypotensive. We can also say that they had an infected source. So we have a founded source of infection based on their UA and positive blood cultures. But go back a little bit more. Their blood pressure is very low and they're not profusing particularly maybe some organs very well. Let's say that in that situation, what are you maybe a little bit nervous about them potentially developing? Septic shock. Yeah, I'm definitely worried about them going into septic shock. So, at this point in time, I'm definitely worried about sepsis. They definitely have sepsis. There's no doubt about that. So, what I'm going to do is is I'm going to start treating them with all the things that they need for sepsis. And Kristen's already hitting it right off the bat. I'm going to hit them first and foremost killing that infectious source off. What is the infectious source? It's the UTI. What would be a good antibiotic that I would give IV that would get hit some gram negative broads broadsp spectrum. Yeah, you could definitely go broad right away. I am going to lean more towards Josh. I like Josh's answer. Tipro, that's a good one. Definitely a good one. Um I I preferably would start off with rosphen. Um rosphan is going to be a pretty good one that has a pretty broad coverage. It's a third generation sephilis borin. So I'd start off with IV rosephen. And then let's say that I did like order some uh you know other cultures later and I saw that there was some you know it came back and it showed sudamonus then I would add on maybe if I wanted to. But if I if I was really really concerned because again if it's gram negative it could be a lot of things. If I really wanted to I could add rophanon and if I was still a little bit concerned I could even add on something that's going to cover my sudamonus. So if I wanted to I could throw in some zosin which is pipper and tasobactum. I could throw on some septacid. I could even throw in amoglycoside if I wanted to. And if those cultures came back later and they only showed ecoli then I would just get rid of those and keep the rosephen. But yeah, I think it's a good idea since there was no grand positives. I would just start off with rosphen and add on maybe zosen. That'd probably be my go-to at that point in time. I think that would cover most of your bacteria. We will we'll talk about that. I think we'll get to that eventually. So, the next thing is okay, we covered the the infection. We've got our broad coverage. I would start off with resephin. If I was a little bit nervous though, I may even add on zosen. Okay, I think that's a good start. Next thing is I would Yep. Josh hit it. Fluid resuscitation. So I got to blast these this this lady with fluids. Okay. So I'm going to start off with a 30 cc's per kg. Okay. And I'm going to hit her with a lot of fluids. Okay. At least, you know, 2 lers of fluid. And you know, within the next like like hour at least. I'm going to give her as much fluids as I c I can and see if that brings her blood pressure up. So, let's say that you you you volume resuscitate her, right? You start your introvenous antibiotics. You give her a ton of fluids. Let's say that you've given her like 2 lers of fluids in in in an hour, okay? Maybe even going towards three liters. And you come back a couple hours later to check on her and her blood pressure is still low. Still low after you've given her some a decent amount of fluids. What do you do now? That's a good question. Urine output. Let's say her urine output's low. Say her urine output's low. I like that question. That's a very good question. What's her eGFR? So, a GFR, again, whenever somebody has um an acute kidney injury, which is more likely in the in the um the advent of sepsis, GFRs aren't great. If I gave you her baseline GFR, maybe that would be helpful because that may tell you if she has some underlying CKD. Um but it's not great in the setting of AKI. So, I would be more likely to say, okay, what's her creatinine and what's her bu at this point in time? Um, just to see if her AKI is getting any worse. Now, remember, I told you before that she didn't really have um any kind of significant increase um in the uh BUN and creatin. Nothing that was kind of like uh alarming. But let's let's say let's say that we we we wanted to do that in the meantime. I'm not too worried about that right now. I just know I gave her a bunch of fluids. She's still hypotensive. She's not making much urine. I could send off a BMP in the meantime to go and check the serum uh creatinine and the BUN. But what would I do next? Again, couple people have said it, but I would try again one more thing before I go to this to the those drugs. You can check a lactate. Yeah, sure. Um, but again, what am I gonna do in the the now? I gave him fluids. Decent amount, maybe two, three liters. Urine outputs low. Still hypotensive. Yep. Exactly. I give another I give another probably liter of fluids. I give more fluids. I wouldn't jump right to the pressers right away. I think that it's a good idea if you need to, but I would I'm, you know, the fact that her urine output's low. Um, and the fact that uh, you know, she's still hypotensive and I very well could, Josh. I could easily check to see if she is she truly volume responsive. Would she respond to more fluids? I could definitely check her IVC. Um, I could absolutely do that. So, her Yep. So, let's say I gave her another round of fluids and the blood pressure was still low. Now, what do I do? Pressers. Yeah. So, I I give her some pressers. What pressor is the number one firstline presser in someone with septic shock? Because now this person's definitely septic shock. Yeah. Norepinephrine. Yep. So, I'd start with norepinephrine, also known as leafed. And I would titrate that until I approach a map. What? So this is a good question I think to ask. Um what am I titrating the pressor to or uh you know what parameter am I using to determine if the drug is actually working or not? I was kind of doing the same thing. Yeah, Rapunzel. So I should have mentioned this before. Um fluids. When I'm giving fluids, I'm using it to not only determine their urine output. That's a great but their map. Dan said it. Yeah. So I I'm I should have said that before with the fluids is checking their map. Is their map increasing? And particularly all we really need to peruse organs well enough is a map greater than 65. So if my map is greater than 65 with only a little bit of Levo, I'm happy. But if I gave her Levo and her MAP is still low after I fluid resuscitated her, let's say I maxed her out on Levo or I'm getting close to maxing her out on Levo. What's another drug I can add? And this is where there's various debates. Um it you're not wrong. Um it obviously there's a lot of different factors that come into this, but just curious to see what you guys think. I hate dopamine. Dopamine is the devil's drug. Um I I I never use dopamine. I think some people may be a little bit um more comfortable with dopamine. I I hate it uh just because it's not titratable whatsoever. It's a terrible drug. Um I know I cannot see if you guys can tell. I I I don't like that drug. I think Rapunzel's hit a good one. I like EPI. I I'll I'll add EP on sometimes. Um and I'll also add uh Neo. Neo is a very strong it's actually more concentrated than um than Levo. It's going to be really clamping down on those vessels. So if I need to um I'll probably I'll probably reach for Neo uh phenylphrine. So I do like phenylphrine um epi if I really need to uh increase their cardiac output enough um especially if maybe they have an underlying concominant cardiogenic shock. Um but usually whenever I someone has a cardiogenic shock I'm using what Allen QT already said like milrenone which is the phosphodeststerase inhibitor or um dobutamine uh to really increase their cardiac output but I think the big thing here is write what everybody has said fluid fluid fluid approach map greater than 65 not working leave a fed add-on I like neo epi is okay especially if they're really brada cartic phenylphrine or NEO is good, especially if they're really tacocartic. Okay. Sometimes people even add on vasop prein as well. That's another option of adding on. But I think you guys hit that pretty well. Um so I thought it was a pretty cool case. Um see this a lot in the ICU. Um eventually um we were able to uh resolve her underlying sepsis with the IV antibiotics. The blood cultures did come back and it was only E.coli. So we got rid of the zosen, kept her on the rosphin. Eventually the infection cleared, her uh presser requirements started coming down. We were to get her off of the pressers and uh she did quite well. Very good. Very good. Anybody have any questions or concerns before we wrap up this uh case study here? Should you get arterial blood gas measurements? uh even though if she doesn't have any signs or symptoms of respiratory acidosis. Yes, that's a great question and and I think that's a really really good question especially if the patient is getting so much fluids. If you're giving them a ton of fluids, you have to be somewhat leery um about causing some pretty bad pulmonary edema and water logging those lungs and making it difficult to breathe. She didn't have any difficulty with that. So, there was no indication or need to intubate the person. Um, but yes, I I think that's a great question. Uh, if I intubated them or if I saw that they were in respiratory distress, I could order an AG, but I'm unless I'm really having a patient intubated or they're in respiratory distress, I don't always order AGs because I can get a decent amount of info off of my O2 sats and my BMP. Gotcha. Gotcha. Very good. Josh had a question. Yeah, thanks Zach. Um, interesting case. I just had a question about the the SERS criteria and diagnosing sepsis. Um, in your experience or from what you know, what's the utility of um like saying someone has SERS because like a lot of times everyone in emerge criteria it's pretty low threshold. So like I think of it as uh like is is that your trigger to start antibiotics once you get cultures or or what do you do with that information? So again I look in the clinical scenario I was thinking SERS um basically when I see a tacoc cardia and a pretty profound hypotension and a fever um I'm already starting to get a little nervous. Those are kind of just like big telltale signs for me. Um, and those would start to make me think, uh, this is CERS. If I get a white count and that comes back super elevated, um, then I'm definitely thinking SERS there. It's just, I think, how profound it is. If someone's a little hypotensive um and they are borderline fibral and they're not really that tacocartic and their white count really doesn't show like a left shift stuff like that then maybe I might lean saying uh there's yeah they do meet SER criteria but are they really that sick that I need to start firing off UAS and blood cultures and get an entire sepsis protocol workup. Um, I think it kind of just depends upon the severity of the vitals that you're kind of basing that off of and their white counts and just how sick the patient looks. For me, relatively simple because this this patient looked crazy sick. Any other questions, guys? Yeah. Uh, would you go with full heperin for her during the treatment or would you not give her any? So I I don't see a particular uh need for hepin. Maybe subcutaneous hepin for like DVT PE prophylaxis but no I I don't I don't see a particular need for her. Uh she didn't have any signs of pees bow eskemia anything that would really you know urge me to treat uh with hepin. I I I would be be a little bit careful prescribing hepin to someone who I don't have an obvious source that I'm trying to uh treat that give them heperin for. If I'm giving them heperin, I need to have at least a real true indication of why I'm giving them heperin. They have to have some type of clot somewhere um that I'm going to do that. Good question, though.