Let's go ahead and get started here. So, case study number two. Here we go. So, we have a patient. All right. Starting with our subjective, right? So, the HPI 59year-old male presents to the ED after collapsing on the bathroom floor approximately 1 hour prior to coming to the ED. The patient's wife who witnessed some of this event said that she saw that the patient was acting completely normal until approximately an hour ago when she heard a loud thud coming from the bathroom. When she went into the bathroom, she found her husband. and the patient collapsed on the floor and when she told him to try to get up he was unable to get up off of the floor. Um the wife then Sorry, can you start over? Oh, sorry guys. We had a little technical difficulty. I'm going to start over again here. All right, so we're going to start off with our case number two here. Here is our HPI on our patient. 59year-old male presents to the ED after collapsing on the bathroom floor approximately 1 hour prior to arrival to the ED. uh patient's wife stated that the patient was acting completely normal until approximately about an hour ago when she heard a loud thud coming from the bathroom. When she walked into the bathroom, she found the patient collapsed on the floor and unable to get up off the floor. Wife stated that she also noticed that the patient was alert um to her voice, but and and very attentive, was able to kind of like search for her whenever uh she was talking to him. Um, but he just was having some significant difficulty with his speech and being able to get words out in attempts to communicate. So, that's kind of our HPI. So, at this point in time in you guys' heads, we'll do some questions and stuff later. Start having a differential right away of what you think uh based upon this story. If um they're being brought in, which this person was brought in by EMS, um when you get this story from the EMS, um start having some differentials in your head. But let's move on. Okay, so we have our basic HPI. Um, and what we're able to kind of gather from this is collapsed to the floor about an hour ago and is having some speech difficulty. That's about what we know. And this was witnessed by the wife about an hour ago. That's kind of our basic rundown of this. Let's continue. Let's move on to the next part of our subjective assessment here, which is were there any pertinent review of symptoms? So, we got to ask him did he have any other symptoms or anything that he was aware of? However, it was kind of difficult. The patient had some significant speech difficulty. Uh so we're unable to provide an adequate kind of review of systems from that. What we were able to obtain though from um the wife and based upon chart review was that the patient had a past medical history of um hypertension, type two diabetes malitis and was morbidly obese. Um past surgical history, nothing pertinent, but just to put it in there, apppendecttomy when he was 15, and a wisdom teeth extraction when he was 22. uh pertinent social history. He denied any tobacco use, drug use, but he admitted to the occasional two to three beers on the weekend. And again, this was actually uh relayed by the wife because of the difficulty with speech. Um per chart review, no allergies to drugs or foods. Um and the medications that he was currently taking which is very important in this situation here is for his hypertension he was taking leinipil 10 milligrams once a day and hydrochlorazide 12.5 milligrams um once a day for hypertension as well as metformin 1 gram P Obid for type 2 diabetes. So so far what do we have? We have a patient here who fell about an hour ago, unable to get up, speech difficulty, past medical history pertinent for hypertension, type 2 diabetes, morbid obesity, and takes medications like Leinipil, hydrochlorioide, and metformin with the occasional alcohol use. That's kind of what we got up to this point. Again, continue to keep forming your differentials at this point. Let's move on to the next part, the objective um aspect, which is what are we going to go and see on this patient when we go do a physical exam. We walk into the room and see this patient. So, first thing you want to look at is vitals. So, we walk into the room and the vitals are displayed there. Um heart rate, he is tacocartic at 145 beats per minute. He's breathing at a relatively normal rate, 20 breaths per minute. BP is pretty high, right? So, systolic 170 over 93. So, he's definitely hypertensive on arrival. Oxygen saturation, he's satting fine on room air, 96%, that's fine. And his temp is normal at 98.2 degrees Fahrenheit. So, that's kind of our vitals at this point in time. So, we can also summate that he is tacocartic and hypertensive. Those are the big things. Let's go do our physical exam. So, when we physically uh do our physical exam, just a general look at the guy. He's 59 years old, morbidly obese, lying in the hospital bed, but he doesn't seem in any apparent like significant apparent distress. Um, when we do our neuroexam, he's alert, but his speech is very non-fluent. He has difficulty naming simple things like, "What's this?" "Oh, it's a watch. Oh, what's this? It's a phone." So, he has difficulty being able to name those things. He had difficulty being able to repeat back a simple phrase like no ifs, ands, or buts. He was able to follow very simple commands like giving a thumbs up on his um on his left hand and wiggling his toes on his left foot. Wouldn't do that on the right side though. His pupils were eagle round reactive to light. He had a left gaze preference. So when he was laying in the bed, his eyes were kind of deviated to the left. If you asked him to kind of move and track your finger, he could actually cross midline though. So that's another important thing to remember. When I looked at his face, he had a right facial droop. Okay? So his nasol labial fold was a little bit flatter on that right side and he was able to hear me. He was alert to my to the conversational voice. His uvula and pallet were midline. There was no deviation there. And his tongue when he protruded it out was also midline. When I did a motor exam on him, he had two out of five strength um in the right arm and right leg. um meaning that he could really only really move his leg and move his arm on the bed without any kind of not against gravity. So, he was definitely really weak um on that right side and again he had that right facial droop and it seems based upon again I know I'm getting a little bit ahead but based upon his uh non-fluent speech difficulty naming repeating phases um phrases there may be some aphasia involved. All right, but let's keep moving on. He was five out of five strength in the left arm, left leg. His tone was normal. I didn't appreciate any spasticity um or rigidity of any kind. His patella reflexes were also two plus normal. But when I asked him, can you feel this on your left side and can you feel this me touching on your right side? He said he could feel the left side a lot better than he could feel the right side. We also did the finger to nose to test for any kind of um ataxia or dysmetria, any kind of abnormalities with the cerebellum. It was completely normal on the left side, but he was really weak on the right side. So we weren't able to get a good test um of his coordination on that right side. We didn't test any gate just because he was, you know, acutely ill. Cardiovascular wise, again, kind of going back here, the monitor did suggest tacoc cardia. When I listened to him, he definitely did seem tacocartic. His rhythm was irregular. Um, but he had a normal S1, S2, and I didn't hear any rubs or murmurss or gallops. I checked his dorsal pedal pulses. They were plus two. Um, and I didn't appreciate any kind of lower extremity edema as well. Listen to his lungs. He was clear to oscultation bilaterally. Didn't he appreciate any wheezing, any rails or any wrong eye? And when palpating the abdomen, he was definitely had a protuberant abdomen. Um, but he wasn't tender to any palpation. He had normal active bowel sounds, and I didn't appreciate any rigidity or guarding. And his skin was relatively clean of any lesions or rashes. So, at this point in time, again, can quickly recap, one hour ago, this guy fell, collapsed to the ground, what seems to be maybe related to some right-sided weakness um on that right arm, right leg, particularly right leg. what probably made him collapse. He had some speech difficulty, so maybe some aphasia. His past medical history is pertinent for hypertension, type two diabetes, morbid obesity. He takes medications for those. And he's tacocartic and irregular um with respect to his vitals and his um his cardiac exam. So that's kind of I think and he also has that left gaze preference again. So don't forget that left gaze preference. So right-sided weakness it seems. left gaze preference, aphasia, um, and a tacocartic irregular rhythm with complaints that this started about an hour ago, witnessed by the wife. Okay, let's move on. So, next part of our objective assessment, we did our vitals, we did our physical exam. What are some labs and imaging that I want to do in order um to maybe start figuring out what this is? And again, start having a differential before we even order labs. When you order labs or you order imaging, you want to make sure that you're not just ordering things uh willy-nilly. You want to have a reason why you're ordering it. Because if you order something and you get it back and it's abnormal, you better kind of have an idea. Oh, I I expected this to be abnormal. So, have an idea of why you're ordering this test. On the top of your differentials, which you guys should be kind of thinking about, if you guys want to throw those in the live stage text, go ahead and do that. But definitely at the top of the list, what I'm really nervous about was someone coming in about an hour ago with acute uh onset right-sided weakness, aphasia with a past medical history of hypertension, diabetes, and attackardic irregular rhythm. I'm a little nervous about a stroke, but you got to be careful because sometimes strokes you can have mimics of strokes, right? So, one of the things is I definitely want to make sure that this guy isn't syncopizing. He's not having a TIA. And I also want to make sure that he's not hypoglycemic as well. So one of the things I'm just going to quickly do is I'm just going to get a point of care glucose. So I asked one of the nurses, can you get a point of care glucose for me and see what it is? And we got one and it was 108. So he was within normal glycemic range, uglycemia. So he wasn't hypoglycemic. So that helps me with that aspect. And then I just sent out some labs because it's I'm I had a good suspicion it was a stroke. So what we're going to do is I'm just going to order some labs that he's going to need eventually um which is going to help with figuring out the eeology. So, I got a CBC, CMP, calcium, magnesium, uh, lipid panel, um, urine drug screen, and a TSH with reflex. At this point in time, they're pending. I'm not too worried about them right now. They're kind of things that can go on in the background. The most important thing that I need right after I got my point of care glucose is I'm really scared for a stroke, right? Whether it be a an eskeemic stroke, a hemorrhage, some kind, I need to get a non-contrast CT scan to make sure that he doesn't have a bleed in his head. So, I'm going to get a non-contrast CT. when I got the non-contrast CT there was no um intra cerebral hemorrhage and there was no subacoid hemorrhage but there was what um read and it was difficult but you can see maybe this hyper dense meaning that it was really bright when you look at the left MCA on the non-contrast CT it looked a little bright hyper dense left MCA sign potentially but um best thing to do in that situation is since there's no CH there's no subactoid get a CTA so all you're doing is you're pushing contrast to kind of light up those vessels and to see if you see a cut off somewhere where the contrast isn't getting past wherever there's a thrombus or embleis present. We did that and there was a left M1 occlusion. So his left MCA right at that M1 segment was oluded um and there wasn't blood getting past that point. So that's that's what's called a large vessel occlusion. So the you know it's definitely seeming at this point in time that this guy has well most likely definitely um a left M1 occlusion that is causing an acute eskeemic stroke. got a 1280 kg just because he was tacocartic um and he also had that irregular rhythm when we were listening to him. Sure enough, it showed Aphib with RVR. He did not have a past medical history as you guys saw before um of Aphib with RVR. So, this may have been a new like acute onset um of of AIB with RVR. So, he was tacoc cardic irregular got that 12 EKG it showed a also um got a 2D echo. Um again, it was pending. I think the only reason we're doing that is just again it's kind of like getting prepared for things that we got to rule out. It seems like this stroke is most likely related to Aphib. Um but we got to make sure we rule out any other kind of sources and get a f further workup. So let's check some comments here on Discord. We got a lot of comments. What are we saying here? What's going on here? Okay. Sounds very stroke like right now. Yeah. So let's see here. What do we got? Maybe there's the problem in the cranial nerve. Maybe the blood cut is at the left side of the brain hitting Broca's area motor area. I like it. gams a little bit more. All right. Yeah. And again, as if you if you guys been following along, there was no blood thinners. Again, he wasn't on any blood thinners. Good hypoglycemia. We kind of ruled that out. GCS, um, if you want to go ahead and calculate the GCS, you can definitely do that. I mean, um, based upon his neuroexam, he was alert. um he wasn't able to answer orientation questions, however. Um and then if you look at his motor exam, he was able to on that um that right side, even though he couldn't really move it that well, um he did localize. Um so if you wanted to go ahead and calculate that, you very well can. Okay, so EKG. Yeah, I I got we got the EKG Doppler crot again. So these are all great questions. My thing is I would just I would try to focus more on the acute stuff, right? So, it's definitely a good idea later on once we stabilize this patient, figure out what the problem is. Let's do the bare minimum things that we need to prove what what we think it might be. Um, just so that we get the treatment on board because if it is a stroke, we have a very limited time window that we can give that tpa um as well as, you know, thrown back to me if we're going to do that as well. So, it's important to make sure that you focus on the things that you need. Um I think whoever asked the point of glucose definitely getting that non-contrast CT should be at the top of the thing that you need to do and if you want to get a CTA to further evaluate to see if there is a clot definitely can do that and I think the 128KG is acceptable because it may give me an idea of why this person developed a stroke. Again all these other things like Dopplers and um chest X-rays and um other blood work again I'm not too concerned right now about the blood work 2D echo all of those things we can do later. We just have to make sure that we treat this patient before they infarked more of their brain if since they're having a stroke. Okay, I hope that answers those questions. All right, so let's move on. So I think we got a good idea so far up to this point. And it seems like everybody's in agreeance that this is a 59-year-old male with a very pertinent past medical history of hypertension, type 2 diabetes, and morbid obesity with a left MCA eskeemic stroke. Likely, not guaranteed, but likely secondary to this new onset atrial fibrillation based upon what we've obtained from the history, the physical exam, the labs, and imaging at this point in time. So since we definitely think that um what would be our plan? Well, right before we do this, let's quickly kind of like recap something. We suspect it's a left MCA stroke, right? Based upon the symptoms, he's got he's definitely got neurode deficits. Okay, he's definitely has neuro deficits with the rightsided weakness, right leg, right arm, um facial droop, he's got aphasia. Um so definitely with and then he's got also the decreased sensation um to touch on the right side. So, he's got many neuro deficits. If you went and calculated his NIH stroke scale, it's going to be high. Um, if you I think if we we I didn't list it in here, but I think his was around like 16. So, it's definitely high. He's got a high N stroke scale. But sometimes you don't really need to focus too much on that. If they have acute onset neuro deficits, their CT scan shows no CH and they're within the time window, you should give TPA. Okay? As long as there's no other contraindications. And again, that's when you get into like anti-coagulants. Um, you can get coags on them as well to make sure that their INR is within normal limits. But again, the absolute things that it's mainly three big things. Do they have acute neuro deficit? Do they have CH on their CT scan? And are they within the time window? Those are the three main things that you need to focus on when you're going consider giving TPA to acute eskeemic strokes. Okay? I think that's the big thing to remember. There's a lot of other stuff that you need to think about, but these are the most important three things. Okay. All right. So, I definitely think that this guy's got an acute eskeemic stroke uh involving that left MCA. So, I'll start with IVTPA. He didn't have CH. He was in the time window and he had a bunch of neuro deficits. Okay. He wasn't on any anti-coagulants. Um eventually that uh his his CBC and his coag and stuff like that um that we can we can order and stuff like that, we can say that they came back, you know, uh normal in this case. But I want to start the tpa. So you give tpa 0.9 milligrams per kilogram, right? Or max 90 milligrams. And you give 10% as a buls and you give the remaining over the over the power process of 60 minutes. Okay? And then you do these neuro checks very frequently. Usually um these patients who develop es schemic strokes, they get transferred to a neuroscience ICU or some type of ICU setting for observation after they've given TPA. So we're going to give TPA. TPA was delivered. He was in the time window because it was only one hour since last known well and it was well documented. After we give the tpa, we want to make sure that we keep that blood pressure within a normal range. So preferably protocol says less than 180 systolic over 105 diastolic. And whatever medications you need to use, I prefer to use nicardipene also known as cardine as a drip. You get a better blood pressure control over that 24h hour period while they're on um observation in the ICU. But you can also give IV pushes like lebetalol or hydraazine and once they're able to take medications po um you can start home BP meds as well. But the next thing is that this is an LVO. So a large vessel occlusion. So large vessel occlusions is you're thinking about you know your um ICA your u maina so the MCA particularly M1 segment um uh internal corateed artery and your uh vertebral basler system. If there's a clot within those, those are large vessel occlusions. TPA will help, but you need to actually go in and suck that clot out. So, um he was again able to go to um IR and get a mechanical throbectomy. And whenever they suck that out, he actually developed pretty much good almost complete reestablishment of blood flow. We call it Tiki 2B. In this case, it was just a little bit slower um blood flow. We put him in a neuro ICU to be observed to get frequent neuro exams to observe for any neuro changes especially while he's getting that tpa and again ethology is likely a so once he's stable and we got the tpa we get scans showing that he's been stable for 24 hours we can consider starting anti-coagulation for his aphib so that he doesn't throw another clot and develop another infar. Okay. So, we're going to hold off on that for right now, but we need to consider anti-coagulation uh and considering like a heperin drip. And then once able, we can start something like a doac like riveroxaban, a pixaban or warrin for long-term treatment. After we've given the tpa, we got the throbectomy. We keep the blood pressure control. We observe, we do frequent neuroexams, we get a a CT scan about 24 hours after you've given tpa. You just want to make sure that there's no uh bleed or anything abnormal. see if the infarct is evolving. See what happened afterwards. And then also it's good just to do a further evaluation. We think it's a but that's not always the case. It may be something else. So go send them to do get an MRI and an MRA whenever you get a chance um to evaluate the stroke burden and look for any other vascular anomalies or eeologies that may be present there. And again get that 2D echo whenever you get a chance to make sure that there is no other cardiovolic source besides aphib. Do they have a left ventricular aneurysm? Do they have very low um ejection fraction? Does this person have an undiagnosed congestive heart failure with a very low EF? Um do they have uh vegetations that are present on their mitro valve or aortic valve? Something of that nature and they popped one of those things off. Or do they have a PFO? So, did they have a little hole between their atria where they had a DVT and that blood clot came up, passed over and then flew up into the uh this the actual brain tissue as well or into the MCA vessel. So again, it's just helping with the further evaluation and workup on this patient. But I think we got for the most part IVTPA mechanical throbectomy into the neuroscience ICU for observation consider anti-coagulation for aphib when we're when the person's stable and then getting scans later to evaluate eeteology and burden. The other thing is we got to be holistic right we got to treat everything. So hypertension this person does have hypertension he was systolic uh 170 coming in. So again we want to keep him less than 180 over 105. So we can again for right now we can try the cardine and the lebalol but once able we should probably adjust those BP meds when he goes home maybe increase the hydrochloroioide for long-term blood pressure control okay type 2 diabetes his glucose was good coming in right it was 108 um so we should still get point of care glucoses so checking that every four hours while he's in the neuroscience ICU making sure that he doesn't become hypoglycemic from that acute stressful event um such as has a stroke. Um, but we'll hold the metformin. You don't want to give a metformin to a person who's critically ill, especially if they're not in the ICU. It can definitely lead to some problems like lactic acidosis and AKIs and things like that. So, hold on that. Consider an insulin drip if their blood glucose does rise versus like a a basil bololis if they're able to eat. Okay? And then once they're stable, they're out of the ICU, you can consider restarting their home metformin at home. Again, going back to the cute new onset um AIB with RVR, we're going to anti-coagulate them once they're stable. So, once we've gotten some CT scans, we've proven that this person definitely has AIB, it's not something else, we should start some anti-coagulation with the heperin drip and then bridge them over to a a DOAC or Warren um depending upon their cause. And then the other thing is let's not forget this person's going pretty fast. They're they were tacoc cardic at 145 I believe, right? So we should take into consideration having a better rate control because that'll also control their blood pressure as well. So we can give them something like uh quickly like a little mtopriol IV push maybe 2.5 5 milligrams of that get them to control that uh uh tacoc cardia that they may have and then once they're able to take medications orally and they've passed their speech exam so on and so forth then we can start some potopol and we can just titrate up to get an accomplished heart rate generally some say less than 110 some will even go as high as 120 but that's kind of our goal I think at this point in time for the patient I think it's pretty good plan. You guys can throw in any other things that you would have liked to do or you would have done differently. I I I urge you to do that. It helps um everybody else who may be having similar questions. And also, you know, you can always learn, continue to learn, right? All right. So, here's the thing. So, we have our Sorry, we went too fast. We had our patient here, right? We we gave him the TPA. Um we got the mechanical throbectomy. Let's say, okay, this didn't happen, but let's say two hours after they got tpa, they start to get really, really lethargic, they start to become their mental status really starts to decrease. They're not really alert. It's taking a lot of like noxious stimuli to get them to kind of wake up, open their eyes. He was following commands previously on that left side. He's not following commands anymore. His weakness is even worse. Now I can't even get him to localize. Now he's actually kind of withdrawing potentially abnormal flexion now on that right side. And his right pupil is a little bit fixed and dilated. What the freak happened? Uhoh. So one of the things that you got to be aware of after you given something like TPA, it's a thrombolytic, right? There's always always the chance that the person may have the adverse effect of bleeding. So, at the top of my head, I'm thinking, okay, is this person potentially having a hemorrhagic conversion? Did the TPA cause a hemorrhage in this case? Okay, I didn't start the heperin drip. It's a good thing I didn't, right? In this, if this is the case, the other things I got to be thinking about is if they did develop a hemorrhage, um, is there some midline shift? Is there blood in their ventricles? Do they have hydrophilis? Or another thing, are they seizing? Sometimes seizing can cause some things like this. unlikely to cause that fixed and dilated right pupil, but something to be aware of. So, it kind is did they have a a bleed from the TPA? Are they seizing? What could be going on? The best thing to do in this situation is send them to get a CT scan. So, what did we do? So, we got a non-contrast CT scan, showed a hemorrhagic conversion of that previous MCA infar territory. There was no blood that extended into the ventricles though and there was no hydrophilis meaning ballooning or large enlargement of those ventricles. Got a quick CBC. His hemoglobin was a little low but still you know it was still greater than seven. His platelets were a little low but still okay. But this is where I get a little bit nervous. Once you have someone who um has um tpa and the potentially this acute neuro change and you think that they developed hemorrhagic conversion, you should check their fibbrronogen levels. His fibbrinogen levels were very low. 82 in this case. Usually you want them to be kind of greater than 180 200. If they're less than that, then there's a definite chance that they are bleeding. So what do I do? Besides go to the bathroom and change your underwear, you need to reverse the tpa. Okay. So generally you can give something like transexamic acid TXA. You can also give something called cryoprecipitate which has fibbrinogen in it which will help to increase that fibbrinogen to help to stabilize that fiber and mesh and help help them to pretty much clot. And then also their platelets are a little low and especially whenever someone is getting tpa you can drop their platelets a little bit. So you can consider a platelet transfusion. Also what do platelets do? They plug up any kind of holes in in any parts of the vessels as well. So that's what you should do. reverse the TPA with TXA transexemic acid cryoprecipitate and consider a platelet transfusion. Um he was already he already finished his tpa, right? So we don't need to turn it off anymore because he already finished it. You can hold off definitely on giving a heperin drip for their aphib because now they have a bleed and you want to start getting some serial CT scans after they have this bleed. One in six hours, maybe another one in 12. Um but if it's normal at 6 hours, then you can get another one at 24 hours. Also, he's got a bleed. You know, it's a it's, you know, I'm not giving you the exact size. Um, but let's assume that it's a pretty decent size bleed. You should definitely consult neurosurgery. They may may intervene and do something like a um potentially a um a hemictomy and maybe evacuate some of the blood there. It's not a guarantee, but at least you're trying. With someone with a large bleed, especially starting to hit that brain stem because they're already hitting that um that dilated, they have that fixed and dilated right pupil, you definitely got to be a little bit nervous about losing their airway, right? As you start to herniate and as you start to develop high intraanial pressure potentially, that can start pushing on the brain stem and they may lose their airway, their ability to protect their own airway and to pretty much their drive to uh breathe. And so in that situation we should consider protecting them and intubating them and then helping to breathe for them through a mechanical ventilator. Um and so we should definitely do that especially with the size of this bleed and this hemorrhagic inversion. So intubate them give them some sedation. Um because sedation like propall is going to help also with high intraanial pressures. It lowers the basil metabolic rate as well. So it can give a little bit of effect there for ICPS. And also if you don't want to do propall there's also another drug called dex metatomdine which is also a pretty good drug for sedation and um an anxiolyis and sometimes even a little bit of um analesic effect as well but probably propall best in this situation. Um the other thing is now he's got a bleed. You want to keep that blood pressure low because if you keep the blood pressure high you can continue keep kind of expanding that bleed. Um and so we don't want to do that. So we want to keep his blood pressure now less than 160 u maybe even 140 for some people. and then um use that with a nicardipene drip. So cardine or lebalol ivy pushes um and then also this bleed let's assume that it's cortical this is very important if the bleed was in that um left MCA territory and it was touching part of the cortex um then you have to be very worried um because that's where the those neurons can start to get a little agitated from the blood and start sending this asynchronous electrical activity leading to some seizures some potential focal seizures that could generalize and then go into a tonicclonic seizure. So um you should give some keera generally like 500 milligrams B for seizure prophylaxis is pretty beneficial in this situation. The other thing that you could do is if their ICPS are high um and and again neurosurgery could sometimes put in an EVD to give you a actual representation of what their intraraanial pressures are since they don't have hydrophilis they don't have IVH not super likely but never know if you did have an EVD in there to measure their intraanial pressures you can utilize medications somewhat something like manitol 23.4% 4% hypertonic saline um to help to uh reduce some of the um edema that's in the brain by kind of this osmotic gradients that they create. Um not super effective um but in this case you got to do whatever you can to help your patient. So that would pretty much cover our case. Um I think it was uh probably uh easy for some of you. Um it it was designed to kind of be a little basic case. I think that um it was um a good starting point. I think it was a good thing to kind of just get an idea um about how to approach um es schemic strokes. So I guess my question is for anybody here, do they have any questions? Do they have any concerns? Is there things that they would have done? uh differently. And again, please say whatever you think um um how how might you rule out Bell's palsy so that you don't put them through a million-doll workup for a stroke? So, yeah, Bell's policy is a good thing. I mean, Bell's palsy doesn't uh it's very unlikely um that it's going to cause any it would definitely cause some facial drooping. Um but it's unlikely that it's also going to lead to um the concominant u right-sided weakness that they had as well. So they had right-sided um arm weakness, righted leg weakness and um they also had a fasia. Not super common for that to be present in someone with Bell's poly. Just a quick shout out Michael from YouTube. Michael YouTube going. So, Michael Tan from YouTube says, "Loving all the new clinical content. Very refreshing change in perspective from the usual basic science lectures." Thank you, engineer team. Awesome. Thanks, buddy. Um, I have a question. If I remember correctly, for every 10 blood pressure uh 10 ppm increase in heart rate, there is a one degree Celsius increase in temperature and vice versa. What can explain the finding of tacoc cardio with a normal temperature I see in this patient? Um, that's a good I honestly I'm I' I've never heard of that before. Um, that's a good I'll have to look that up. That I'm not quite sure of. It's a good question. Deluxe 223. It's got the the house look. I don't know if that's a good thing or a bad thing. Um, the CT is still negative. Do a lumbar puncture. Um, so Khaled had asked if there's a CT still negative dual a lumbar puncture. So I guess it depends on what you're looking for. Um, if you thinking that it's a subacoid hemorrhage, um, you could do that, but um, we also got a CTA. Um, that doesn't mean that it's it's definitely a subacoid hemorrhage doesn't always mean that, um, the CTA is going to show an aneurysmal bleed. Sometimes you can get venus bleeds that can cause subactoid hemorrhages. Um, but we got the CT and then we got the CTA. Um, so that and that didn't show any aneurysms. So if we're doing a lumbar puncture for the subaract, which is I'm wondering if that's what you're asking, I don't know if it's going to be that beneficial because again the CTA kind of showed us that there was no aneurysm present. Yeah, no problem. Empty. Yeah, it's not I've never heard of that before. It's a great thing. I've heard of um some literature that showed that cold saline bolises can actually increase blood pressure, but I've never heard about you know um uh increasing in heart rate increasing the um temperature but that I mean it obviously makes sense with you know if you're increasing the heart rate I guess if it's based upon an increase in basil metabolic activity but again I'm I'll have to look into it. I don't want to pretend like I'm guessing here and stuff like that because I am. So, just a quick recap, guys. We're going to keep trying to do this live case study every Wednesday at 1 PM. Just join us every week on YouTube and Discord. Um, but yeah, just a feedback. Could be interesting to see examples of CT scans and imaging um when doing these types of cases just to correlate. I like it. That's definitely a good idea. We're going to have to try to do that. I think that'll be um the next step. So bear with us. It's going to be a lot of um it's going to be a lot of kind of like trying to continue to improve. This is kind of a new platform for us, something that we're not completely used to because we've been doing whiteboard lectures obviously forever. Um but I think that's a great idea, something that we're going to continue to try to do. That's what I'm going to maybe for the next case. Um if there's any pictures or like um so any like EKGs, any chest X-rays, any imaging or anything like that, I'll try to throw up a picture that I can find on that. um to help us correlate that together. I think that's a great idea. Thanks, James. Here's something that I am usually shy about asking, but I'll just go ahead. Since I am studying and having yet learned it, how do you suggest go about approaching the guidelines for prescribing a drug dosage? I mean, I find it to be such a crucial topic because I don't want to be overdosing someone, how would I know what the standard dose is and how would I know if I have to um up it? It's a good question. Um I I mean, I'm I'm a definitely I still face that today. Um you have to depend upon good resources. Um so, I utilize Hypocrates. I utilize up to date. Um I think the best advice that I can give you is always start low. Um you can always give more. You can't take it back um in some situations. So it's always a good idea to start a little low. Give them a little bit of something if you're trying to for example if we start off with mentoper law that po one like 12.5 b that's not very much. That's very little. Um and maybe it's just not going to hit them very hard and you have to go up. So then I'll go from that maybe I'll go to 12.5 and I'll go every six hours. Then from there, maybe I'll go up to 25 milligrams. So, you just have to kind of go slow, work your way up. Don't focus too much on memorizing um every single dose for everything. Use Hypocrates, use your resources, go at low dose, work your way up. Kind of complicated because every drugs have their own clinical evidence. But the main principles give the lowest dose with highest effectivity because we need to minimize. Yep. Absolutely agree. Yep. Yeah. No problem. All right. Um if there's any other questions within the last like couple minutes, um I'll stay, but if not, we'll go ahead and um meet up next week. Also giving you guys an update. We kind of been working in the background on a lot of things. is kind of giving an idea of what our next steps, what are the big things that we here at engineer are trying to work on. Um we have a lot of ideas, a lot of things that we want to start really really doing. So just be keep your eyes peeled open. Um next week we're going to be uh really powering through and putting out some really cool content. So um just thanks for being so awesome. Do you guys have anything with pathology on your channel? So that's what we're going to be starting. Yep. So next week we will begin um kind of a lecture on es schemic strokes. All right ninja nerds. Uh love you guys. Thank you guys. Thanks for always being so awesome, so kind, so respectful. um respectful and uh I hope