Uh, this is case study number 11. Uh, patient presenting with abdominal pain. Pretty cool one. Um, let's get to thinking. All right, guys. You guys know the deal. These cases are made up. They're not real. Um, we make them for educational purposes only. All righty. So, first thing, here we go. You got a 65year-old female. Whoopsie. You got a 65year-old female. She comes in to the ED with a past medical history of atrial fibrillation, hypertension, and just a recent diagnosis of diverticulosis. She presents to the ninja nerd clinic. Actually, let's say the ninja nerd emergency department with an acute onset of constant nonradiating diffuse abdominal pain without any kind of palative factor. So, nothing has been helping at all to relieve this pain. She's just begging for help to relieve the pain. She also says that she has some associated nausea, vomiting. You ask her when her last bowel movement was, and she says it was around 10 hours ago. Okie dokie. So, 69year-old female, past medical history, AIB, hypertension, recent diagnosis of diverticulosis, comes in with diffuse non-radiating acute onset abdominal pain, which nothing is making it better. She has associated nausea, vomiting, and a bowel movement about 10 hours ago. You walk into the room. When you walk into the room, you notice on the uh vitals, like on the actual camera, the um on the vitals signs there, you notice that she has a heart rate of 150 beats per minute. You notice a respiratory rate of 32. You notice a BP of 110 over 70. You notice a temp of 101.4° F. and an SPO2 of 94%. Okay, so she is tacocartic, she is teipnic, she is not hypotensive, but she's on like the, you know, a normal range technically. Um, and then tempwise, she is fibral and she has an SPO2 of 94%. So, she's not hypoxic. So, she's definitely typnic and tacocartic and fibral. Cardiovascular wise, she is tacocartic. She has an irregular rhythm. She has an S1 and S2 that's her normal. You don't hear any other murmurss, rubs or gallops. Okay. Pulmonary wise, she's teipnic. You can visibly see that. And she has some bibbas or crackles, but no wheezing or wrong eye. Abdominal wise, she is just grimacing in pain. Okay. While she's holding her abdomen. But when you go over to touch it, it's it's not really hard. It's nice and soft. It's non-tender. She has normal active bowel sounds when you're listening there. And she doesn't even really have any rebound tenderness. Okay. So right now we have a patient who is 65, female, history of aphib, hypertension, diverticulosis, diffuse abdominal pain, acute onset, non-radiating, nausea, vomiting, bowel movement 10 hours ago, typnic, tacocardic, fibbral, and in grimacing pain with really no obvious sounds uh signs on her abdominal exam that are, you know, really could point to why she's having this pain. Okay, I hope that makes sense. So, with all of that being said, from our history and our physical examination, what's your suspected diagnosis? What's your differential? And you guys got to go through all of your different thoughts here about abdominal pain. It's a pretty broad differential, and you're supposed to use a couple different things. Utilize their history, utilize their physical exam, particularly where is their abdominal pain. Is it in the right upper quadrant? Is it in the left upper quadrant? Is it periilical? Is it left lower? Is it right lower? Is it diffuse? Those are all things to be thinking about. But if I were to just kind of give you guys a very generalized, broad differential diagnosis that I'm going to give you guys options here. Which one of these do you guys have a high suspicion about? Okay, maybe it's a couple of them. Maybe it's none of them. Maybe it's only one of them that you guys are really, really thinking about. Which one out of these do you guys definitely have a high suspicion about? And maybe if nothing is on this list, put in the comment box what else you guys are thinking about. Okay, so some are saying mezentic eskeeia, some are saying choleiccyitis. Um, someone's saying maybe complicated diverticulitis, acute balismia. GI bleed, small bowel obstruction, acute mezentic eskemia. So it's a lot of them are coming between bowel obstruction and messentic eskeeia. Someone asked a really good question. Jazz medicine. A really good question. Is she anti-coagulated? No, she's not taking any anti-coagulation. Great, great question. Super good question. Can we rule out appendicitis because of no rebound tenderness? Ah, you can think about it. There's also those other tests that you learn in school that you got to be thinking about, right? So, you can perform uh you know, you can think about like Mc Bernie's point tenderness, your Rosing signed. Um, so those are other things that you could be thinking about. but no, I don't think it's completely off the table. Okay. Choleiccyitis, acute messentic eskeemia. So I'm getting a good chunk of acute messentic eskemia, bowel obstruction. I'm kind of getting a mixture and that's okay. We can't like, you know, definitively say like what we think it exactly is, but it seems like the most common one that's coming up here is acute mezentic eskemia. Um, small bowel obstruction is coming up and I some diverticulitis and some bowel perf is coming up a lot. And I think that's a pretty good differential. I think you guys are doing a great job. Okay, so these are some of the things that we're thinking about. The good thing to do from here is let's say that we have this as our differential. Things to be thinking about with some of these in a perfect scenario is pancreatitis. We should think about what are the risk factors. You know, gallstones, is there any kind of alcoholic you, you know, are they an alcohol abuser of some kind? That could be a trigger. Do they have hyper lipidmia? You know, is there any steroid use? Is there any particular drugs that they're on that could be a potential trigger? Um, do they have MS virus? You know, you guys remember the pneummonic for pancreatitis, I get smashed. Um, that's kind of a helpful way to think about potential eeologies. But the most common ones is going to be, you know, alcohol abuse and gallstones by far. She doesn't have any alcohol use. She doesn't have at this point. We don't know if she has gallstones. She could. We don't know that. So, there's a potential. But pancreatitis usually presents with kind of like a you know an epigastric kind of maybe mid-abdominal pain that can kind of start radiating to the back. Okay. And then they could present with some hypotension. They could present with tacocardia. They can present with fever. Small bowel obstruction again think about particular things. Uh small bowel obstruction it could be due to some type of mass. She is older. Could be like cancer related. She doesn't have any history of any kind of recent abdominal surgeries. That's a very very common cause is like adhesions secondary to multiple kind of abdominal surgeries of some kind. Um you know again there's also if she had like a hernia if there are certain things that could potentially make me think bowel obstruction that's possible but bowel obstruction you usually think about um some type of abdominal pain you think about vomiting. You think about abdominal distension um and potentially you know again some tenderness upon palpating the abdomen with some history of some kind of abdominal surgery usually in a perfect uh clinical vignette case. Appendicitis right right lower quadrant abdominal pain is the classic sign. um they have, you know, pain whenever you're palpating in their left lower quadrant and you're releasing. Sometimes it can cause some pain that kind of refers or radiates to that right lower quadrant. Um they can have Mc Bernie's point tenderness. Um usually when you're kind of lifting, they have what's called that iliac, like the ilops kind of test. When you're lifting up their leg, you're flexing at the hip. It can kind of compress and squeeze near that appendix and that can cause some pain. But again, hers isn't really right lower quadrant. Usually with appendicitis, you have way more like localized pain. It can kind of radiate to like the perilical region. Um, and if it does perforate, you can get some signs of peritonitis, but usually there's some more pain upon palpating the abdomen. AAA is definitely a possibility. She's older. All right, so she's 65. She's female. She has hypertension. Um, you know, we don't have any history of her smoking. She says that she denies smoking. We don't also know what her lipid panel looks like as well. She could have hyper lipidmia, which is another trigger. But she's older, she's female, she has a history of hypertension. There is no definitive smoking history, but again, it's possible because that can potentially be a significant thing to think about, especially if that ruptures um and then she develops significant hypotension or hemorrhagic shock. That's a big thing to think about. Pylonritis, she doesn't have any flank pain. It doesn't radiate but again it's something to think about. Um she does have fever. She does have some you know diffuse abdominal pain that's maybe difficult to identify. It's a potential for a pylonritis. Peptic ulcer disease. Um again you know this is another thing to think about. Usually that's kind of like an epigastric pain usually kind of a burning one radiates to the back. Also want to think about this in patients who you know there is insaid use. That's a potential thing but it's usually like helicoacttor pylori. Um, and the pain depends upon where it is. If it's a dadinal ulcer or if it's a gastric ulcer, the pain kind of differentiating those depends upon when they're eating, if they're developing pain when they're eating or if they're developing pain after they're eating. Um, but usually it's somewhere around that. Um, acute mezzantic eskemia, she has atrial fibrillation and someone asked a great great question which is she's not on any anti-coagulation. So, that's a good thing to be thinking about because if she is on anti-coagulation, there's some form of basically trying to prevent her from forming clots on that valve that could pop off. Um, and potentially embleize vessels is a potential thing to think about here. Diverticulitis, she's older. She has a history of diverticulosis. Um, she didn't complain of any obvious GI bleed like lower like bright red blood. Um, but it's a possibility. She has a fever. Usually that's a little bit more left lower quadrant pain but it's something to think about with her recent diagnosis of diverticulitis. So that's a possibility. Choleiccyitis right upper quadrant abdominal pain. Again usually with that one you can have fever. Usually there's a positive Murphy sign. Again things to think about here. It's a possibility. Bow Perf. It's unlikely since she doesn't really have any super rigidity of the abdomen. uh she's not super hemodynamically unstable at this moment and usually there is some like rebound tenderness and just rigidity of the abdomen. um nephrolithasis that's a possibility again kind of lower on the differential but I think you guys a lot of you guys made a pretty good like for the most part uh differential out of these which is most of you guys have said acute mezzantic eskemia diverticulitis some of you guys said some small bowel obstruction I don't think that that's a bad idea um but I think yeah pretty pretty good stuff so far okay let's move on so we got our kind of some of the things that we're thinking about the next thing that now that we kind of have a good idea of their history, their physical exam, we have a differential running through our head at this point in time. What labs would be the things that you would say, okay, hey, can you can we start off with these these these because these might help me to potentially rule out some of these things. So, you got to think about it. These are some of the things that we have on our differential here. Is there any labs that I could order here to say, okay, this potentially could rule out this condition or it's still I haven't I don't have enough evidence to rule this out yet. It just kind of is going to help me to determine to kind of go through my differential and say what kind of labs could I order that would help me out at least somewhere in this to say h it's unlikely that it's this or it's still likely that it's this. Okay, what do you guys think? Okay, we got some tons of labs. We got CBC, BMP, ABG, we got some coags. Um, we got hat. So, LFTs, fecal oult blood test. I think someone meant to put U. I think Toyo meant U and A. So, UA, urinalysis, lipase, analase, blood cultures. Okay. CRP, lactate. Yeah, I think all of these are are great, man. You guys are awesome. One of you guys picked one that I didn't think of, which I think is not a bad idea, and it's a good idea. I actually probably should have put that down. So, good call on the blood cultures. I did not put that down, but she does have a fever. Um, it's not a bad idea to start some blood cultures, but yeah, we can start with the CBC first, but I don't think it's a bad idea to have consideration of someone coming in with just this very diffuse abdominal pain. nothing really specific on their actual um physical exam that really points out what's going on with the abdomen. Having a fever, not really like hypotensive or anything, but it's it's not a bad idea since they're tacocartic, they're fibbral, they're teipnic, um I don't think it's a bad idea. So, CRP, ESR, uh those are okay. I'm not a big fan of, you know, uh CRP and ESR. They can sometimes be helpful, but I the question that I want you guys to ask yourself is what would they tell me? How would that help me in my diagnosis? It's going to tell me that there's some generalized inflammation. Um, I don't think it's going to point me towards a diagnosis. It's not a thing bad thing to order. I just don't think it's going to be super helpful um to get that. But I think most of these are pretty good. So, let's go ahead and see what we ordered. Right. Here we go. We ordered a bunch of those tests. I'm just going to say that the other one that somebody asked about the blood cultures, they were negative. Okay, that was a good one though. That was a good I thought that was a good thought. But here's what we got as our lab results. So on the lab results, our CBC came back. We got a white count 20KO. So they got a lucasytosis. We got their CMP back. Their antion gap is 14. Their byarb is 16, which is low. UA within normal limits. ABG pH is 7.25. So they're acidotic. Their P2 is 84. So they're not hypoxmic. They're within the 80 to 100 range. 46 is their CO2. It's just like one point higher than normal. So it's not super significant. And their by carb is 15. Okay. So we have so far a luccoytosis and annion gap metabolic acidosis based upon their bicarb and their AG from their CMP here. Their lactate is 5.8. So I got a lactic acidosis. So you always want to think about that, right? If someone has an anap metabolic acidosis, if you guys watched our video on metabolic acidosis, think about the three particular things. keto acidosis, uremic acidosis, lactic acidosis or some type of toxin or drug mediated lactic acidos I'm sorry uh toxin or drug mediated acidosis. So we have our reason here which is the fact that she has a lactate of 5.8. So we know that she has a lactic acidosis a luccoytosis. Her lipase and amaase is it's within the normal limits. her typing screen just in case. You can always order a typing screen in case you suspect that this person needs blood. A positive heroins. I was kind of surprised. So sometimes, here's a big thing to think about. Um I missed it one time. Um had a patient who came in with some epigastric abdominal pain. Anytime someone has abdominal pain, you should always be thinking about the potential of an MI, especially inferior myioardial inffections. I think someone might have said it in there, but don't forget about those, okay? Just because someone's presenting with abdominal pain doesn't rule out that there's something going on with the heart. Sometimes the referred pain from an inferior MI could potentially be uh, you know, something that is actually kind of causing that radiating abdominal pain. So don't forget it. So you'd want to get like an EKG and correlate it with their troponins. Their tropponins were negative, thank goodness. Right. So the troponins were less than 0.02. So normal. And you got some serial ones too. Her fecal blood test was negative as well. So she doesn't have any like obvious blood on on her exam. Okay. Let's see what you guys are saying here. I just want to check it out here. Okay. Is it too early to do endoscopy? Um I Yeah, I would say so. uh when to perform an X-ray of the abdomen. We'll get there non-specific this soon on Emily. Sorry, I'm just looking at you guys is so why is patient acidotic? That's a good question. We'll get to it in a second. Well, actually, let's think about it now. What's what's causes for lactic acidosis? Why uh what would make you guys think of lactic acidosis? Like what are some potential causes? There's two types. Type A, type B. Type A tells us that there's some type of hypoperusion to the tissue. Not enough oxygen is being delivered to the tissue. If not enough oxygen is being delivered to the tissue, your um your your process of glucose getting converted into pyuvate and then into acetto COA, right? That step from pyuvate to acetto coa is going to be hindered. You aren't able to convert pyuvate into acceto. Instead, those NADHs can't be used in the electron transport chain. They dump it off on pyuvate, shunting it into making lactate. So there's something that's causing her to not get enough profusion to the tissue. That's one potential cause. The second one is type B. There's some drug mediated inhibition of the mitochondrial or electron transport chain in some kind that's potentially inhibiting her from being able to make ATP or inhibiting some aspect there that's altering her uh aerobic cellular respiration, KB cycle, electron transport chain. There's no real drugs that she's on right now that's going to cause the type B. So, I'm leaning more towards type A. Type A lactic acidosis. You got to think about this. Type A lactic acidosis would be due to what? Could be due to something's wrong with the lungs. The lungs aren't being able to oxygenate. Okay? To bring oxygen in. And if they aren't able to bring oxygen in, get into the blood, there's low oxygen. It's a hypoxmia from the lungs. Okay? That's one potential thing. She's satting 94%. She is a little tokipnic, but that could be because she's acidotic and trying to breathe off her CO2. That's one potential reason. Okay. Um, it also could be that she has a low blood volume. So, if she has a low blood volume, there's less blood that's actually being delivered to the tissue. That's less oxygen being delivered to the tissue. That's also causing the lactate bump. Her blood pressure was on the lowish side. Okay. If we slap on the ultrasound and we s look to see what her IVC tells us, let's say that it says that it's indeterminate. She's somewhat fluid responsive but not like super collapsed. Okay. So, I'm not leaning towards that. Other things to think about is does she have like sepsis? Is there an infection a systemic infection that's causing her to be septic and there therefore she's having a lot of l leaky capillaries and a lot of her effective arterial blood volume is dropping. Does she have severe anemia where she doesn't have enough red blood cells to be able to deliver oxygen to the tissues or is there a clot that's blocking blood flow to an organ and therefore that organ is not getting oxygen and it's starting to be it's starting to spit out lactate as a byproduct. Okay, so that is the things to think about of why she could have uh potentially a lactic acidosis. Okay. So, I think at this point we can rule out that it's a hypoxmia from the lungs. She doesn't look like she's her CBC was only thing that was pertinent was her white cell count. So, she doesn't have a severe anemia on her blood pressure. She's not super tanking. She could be septic. She has a white count. Uh we don't know if she has an identified infection. I did tell you her blood cultures were negative. Her UA is normal. We got a chest X-ray that didn't really show anything. So, I'm kind of leaning toward not being septic. Um, and again, we established that her IVC wasn't like super collapsible. She wasn't super volume down. We gave her some fluid bololises and she kind of improved a little bit, but I'm kind of leaning towards the other option here is is there a clot somewhere? And that clot is obstructing blood flow to the organ and the organ isn't getting perused and therefore it's spitting out lactate. Could be. Her lipase and anal is within normal limits. What can that kind of It's not a guarantee, but what can that kind of rule out at this point? Can you guys tell me what we can at least say? I have a low suspicion of this now. Just reading you guys comments while you guys are answering and stuff. What could I say again out of analysis and lip pace kind of for the mo Yeah, good job. It's not a complete clear rule out, but I have a lower suspicion of pancreatitis for the most part. So, at the most part, I kind of at least ruled out that her troponins were negative. I still I haven't looked at her EKG yet, so I can't say that she doesn't have an MI yet. I don't have enough other tests. I know that she doesn't have an obvious GI bleed right now. Her fecal co blood test is negative. So, h it's tough to say. I still don't have really enough. If I could just say I have a kind of a lower suspicion of her having any kind of um pancreatitis a choleiccyitis generally there there's some kind of elevation in Billy there's a potential to have an elevation in their LFTs those are all normal I'm not saying that again it's not possible but I'm not like super you know you know confident and h you know suspicious of choleiccyitis uh peptic ulcer disease is unlikely to cause a massive white count like this um is unlikely. Uh nephrolithasis is unlikely to cause a massive white count like this. Pylonritis could still do this. Appendicitis, you can get an elevated white count. And if she did perf, there's a potential that she could have some underlying sepsis. Again, it's we're not super confident about what's going on here yet. Okay, I think we can kind of say that from the lab results. All right. So, what images would you guys want? So, we haven't completely ruled everything out. I'd say for the most part, we have a low suspicion of pancreatitis. I'd say I have a lower suspicion of peptic ulcer disease. I'd say I have a lower suspicion of choleiccyitis. I have a lower suspicion of nephroliasis. Based on her exam, I also am not like super enthusiastic about a bowel perf, but I don't want to miss anything. I still think she could have diverticulitis. I still think that she could have acute messentic eskemia. There's still a possibility of pyoa. H I'm not really leaning towards that either. You know, AAA's aren't generally just going to cause a massive luccoytosis and fever. I I'm not leaning towards that either. So, you know, I kind of have a low suspicion of some of them and a relatively higher suspicion of others. Okay. So, you guys tell me what images you want and we'll we'll think about those. Okay. X-ray. I'm all about it. I love just simple quick, you know, test that you can just order. It's a really quick, like if we had to, you know, if she's relatively unstable, you can get a portable abdominal X-ray or you can take her to X-ray if she's relatively stable at this point in time. So, I think an X-ray is a great thing. Ultrasound, you can't go wrong with an ultrasound. You can do a bedside or you can get a formal ultrasound. I'm a high I'm a big believer of being able to perform point of care ultrasound at bedside can really speed up some processes um and just help in aiding in your diagnosis in a quicker rate. Um Lai 95 she was not a smoker um like when we talked about her history there was no underlying kind of u uh social history of tobacco abuse or tobacco use. Good question though. So, you got to get an abdominal X-ray, ultrasound. What else do people like? A CT of the abdomen. Okay. With contrast. Sounds good. Yeah. And you can do a CT. I think someone was saying CT with contrast. You could do it with oral contrast or you can do it, you know, with IV contrast. You can do both. So, you could do a CT, you know, oral contrast, IV contrast, and just hit it in the different phases. Maybe you want it in the arterial phase. Maybe you want in the Venus phase for the IV contrast. And then if you do the, you know, with the oral contrast, it's going to light up parts of your GI tract. So, Alana, why would you avoid any contrast imaging? So, Jazz and Medin, um, you have to hurry up. CTIV contrast. I I I would agree with that. I think it's a good idea. But yeah, if you want to do a quick abdominal X-ray, there's no hurt in that. If you have um ease of access, usually the X-ray techs are within near close by proximity of the ER. Um it's a quick easy thing that usually they're on standby. You can have them come in, shoot a quick abdominal X-ray, and then take a look and then send them over to CT. X-ray think you may potentially miss something if you get the if you don't get the CT that's not to say it's not possible for you to pick something up but if you get an X-ray it might help to rule out something like a you know a pumoparitinium any obvious obstructive bowel s like signs um if you get an ultrasound it could help to potentially rule out any kind of uh choleiccyitis ductal dilation any perinfr fat stranding perancotic fat fat stranding maybe even you could throw on some Doppler uh and potentially to see if there's any decreased flow in any areas. That's potential, but it's not a complete thing to rule out some of these conditions. Uh Sara her so she did get a CMP and her renal function was normal. So she has no issues with her creatinine. She has no issues with her GFR. And again, here's another big thing. Maybe we'll talk about this in the future, but contrast induced neuropathy should not be a reason why you do not give someone contrast in an e situation that requires an immediate diagnosis. That should not hinder you from performing an exam. You can always fluid resuscitate them, give them tons of fluid as a contrast prep and then get the study, but it should never hinder you from performing a study that is necessary to diagnose and potentially treat something that could be serious. I'm sorry. I don't mean to be crazy. I have a very big like pet peeve about contrast studies. Um I think that it's one of those things that again it should never hinder you from performing a study. If there's a way that you can get a diagnostic test, a definitive diagnosis, it should not be something that hinders you um from doing that test. You get more acute kidney injury from drugs that we prescribe commonly like venkcomy. Uh that can cause more significant acute kidney injury than contrast will. Sorry, I'm going to get off my uh my pedestal. I apologize. Little bit of a pet peeve for me for that one. Okay, so I think we got for the most part we're going to start off with an X-ray. We'll then go ahead and get an ultrasound. We'll get a CT. Some people want a CT with contrast and then we can get a CT angagram. I think somebody else said I think those are good tests. All righty. So we get an abdominal X-ray. No bowel obstruction. There's no numoparitinium. Okay. That should be no bowel obstruction. No pneumaritinium. CT with oral contrast. It showed no obvious bowel obstruction. There was no gastric thickening. There was no perancreatic or perinfritic fat stranding. No obvious appendicitis. The abdominal aorta was 3.5 cm. So it's not dilated. Ultrasound of the abdomen with Doppler showed that there was no choleiccyitis, no pancreatitis, there was no hydro, there was no appendicitis present. Her abdominal aorta was 3.5 cm and she has decreased flow in her SMA. CTA of the abdomen showed an occlusion of the superior mesenteric artery. Okay. So if you wouldn't have gotten the CT, you could have potentially missed it. Now that's not to say if you got the ultrasound of the abdomen with Doppler, you couldn't have said there's a decreased flow in the SMA. Why? But you should probably confirm that with an actual test which is a CTA or an angio. Okay. And I think Yeah. So great. So she has eskeeia to the bowel. So someone's like so it's the occlusion that causes the lactic acidosis. Exactly. So she has eskeeia. One of the big things that you guys have to remember that's super important uh when you're thinking about this for your exams is if a patient comes in, they're a woman, they're greater than 60 years of age, um they also have history of atrial fibrillation and they have diffuse abdominal pain that's out of proportion to what their abdominal physical exam it kind of indicates. high suspicion right away for acute messentic eskemia. Okay, again I'll repeat that. Greater than 60 years of age, female, history of atrial fibrillation and someone asked an amazing question in there. Is she on anti-coagulation? No. diffuse abdominal pain, acute and onset and associated nausea, vomiting and a physical exam that is she's got this pain that is just disproportionate to what her abdominal physical exam finding is have a high suspicion for acute messentic eskemia. Okay, it's good to be thinking about all these other things and we can rule those out. have the differential think about what labs and imaging will help me to rule those things out and rule in something else. Okay, so I think that for the most part gives us our diagnosis. Another thing that helps us with our diagnosis is an EKG. We were asking about that and I think someone also said, did she have an MI? Well, let's look here. If we take a look at her EKG, what do we do? We determine our rate first. It always should be rate. We can see that there's about two boxes between here. It's it's irregular. You could count all of the R waves and then multiply it by six. You could take for the most part finding an area where it's at least, you know, between the Rwaves, it's at least two boxes. So, she's around 150 beats per minute. We also had that on the monitor that she was around 150. So, we know that she's around 150 beats per minuteish. We look to see the rhythm. Is it regular, irregular? There's variation in our R to R interval. It's irregular, right? Is it sinus? Do we have Pwaves in lead two? Well, there's no like definitive Pwaves that I see in lead 2. I see my QRS. I see my T-wave. You can say, I wonder if this is a Pwave. It's tough to say, right? We look at our AVR. In the AVR, it should be inverted. I don't see any obvious inverted Pwaves here. I kind of actually see like little fibrillatory waves, but there's no obvious Pwave that is upright and lead to an inverted in AVR. So therefore, I can't say that it's sinus rhythm because again, I don't have an I I have what maybe looks like an upright Pwave, but it should be inverted in AVR. Correct? And the way we can do this is let's say that we find an area that we think could be a Pwave. Let's say that we think like let's say, okay, I think this is a Pwave and I follow this all the way up. There should be an inverted Pwave in AVR that lines up with that. There isn't. So therefore, I don't think that this is an obvious sign of sinus rhythm. What would we do next? Okay. Well, what kind of rhythm is it? Well, we can have a differential in our heads. Tachicardia, irregular rhythm, no obvious sinus rhythm. Okay, we should think about aphib atrial flutter which is in a you know a variable conduction block or multif focal atrial tacocardia. I don't see any again differences in Pwaves. And how do we determine the difference between flutter and AIB? The best lead to look at your money lead for atrial activity is V1. Look at that. Look at that crap there. There's all of these fibrillatory waves here and V1. That's your money lead. Okay. So, she's an obvious AIB. The next thing is to say, does she have any ST segment elevation, ST segment depression? Because that was something that we were trying to look for. Well, I don't really appreciate any ST segment elevation or depression. And really any of my inferior like my uh inferior leads, I don't appreciate really any. Um and my lateral leads, I don't appreciate any ST segment elevation or depression. And my septal leads, I don't appreciate any. Um again, there's always a discordance between here between your actual your uh your septal leads. But if you follow Scarbosa's criteria, this would not fit scarbosa criteria. Um, and again, I don't appreciate any ST segment elevation or depression in any of my precordial leads. Um, so again, with that being said, I don't have a very high suspicion of an in STEMI or a STEMI. Okay. So, what's likely to happen that happened with this lady is that she probably was in atrial fibrillation. There was inadequate atrial kicks. She had decreased flow from the atria down into the ventricles leading to a embleis or a clot that formed in the atria wall within it's the left atrial appendage on the left atrial mitro valve. Then what happened is she popped that clot off. It then floated into the left ventricle into the aorta down the aorta off the superior mesenteric artery got lodged there and decrease the blood flow downstream to the organs that the superior mesenteric artery supplies which is the bowels and she's probably starting to just begin to infarct those actual organs those small bowel uh parts of her organs. Okay. So anything that's supplied by the superior mesenteria in this case her small bowel is probably beginning to infar. It hasn't infarked it enough where she's actually started to bleed. Usually that's a little bit more of a later sign where they develop that the current jelly bloody stools. Um but she's she's getting there. And so this is something that we need to take care of pretty quickly. Okay. So good good thing that we've at this point in time we have a female greater than 60. She has AIB, not on anti-coagulation. Obvious aphib. She has diffused abdominal pain, not care. Her pain is out of proportion to her exam. We have definitive diagnosis on our CTA. Okay. The most gold standard diagnosis is an angiogram though. So, next question is what's our diagnosis? We know it's acute messentic eskemia secondary to atrial fibrillation not on anti-coagulation. Okay. Uh, you guys did great. So, what's a treatment? What are we going to give her? What are we going to give her, guys? What should I treat her with? Okay, let's let's say the first thing to think about, which side some type of CK would increase? That's a good question, Nate Gardner. You could also see a CK. You could also definitely see a CPK elevation as well. Good, good question. I think that's a great question. So, yeah, expect to also I forgot to put that in here, but that's a great question. CPK will also potentially be elevated um from potentially some of the you know infarcting of the bow wall. There's also smooth muscle within that area as well. And so there's definitely a potential that you could infark some of the the bow wall releasing some of the CK from those smooth muscle cells. So definitely great great. Okay. So some people are saying I think thrombolytic treatment is a priority. I would agree with you. Yep. Hepin. Yep. How long has she had AIB without anti-coagulation? I want to talk to her cardiologist. Yeah, that's a good thing. Yeah. Yeah, she probably probably should have been on anti-coagulation. Definitely. Definitely. Definitely. It's an oversight potentially on the uh the PCP or the cardiologist. How do you guys determine need for anti-coagulation? what's the two MD calc scoring systems that you should utilize to determine if this patient needs uh long-term anti-coagulation u and then use that risk versus benefit. There's two scoring systems that you guys should um uh utilize to think about that. Margaret, you're funny. Yeah, Denton, that's true, man. It's a good thing it didn't go to her brain. Yeah, Alana. Great. Chad Vasque. Yep. Chad Vasque is a good thing to determine if she has, you know, the need for anti-coagulation. Then, yep, Christina has blood score is a good thing to determine like, you know, the risk from being on anti-coagulation and does the risk, you know, is is the benefit of being on anti-coagulation going to, you know, outweigh the the the potential risk of having bleeds associated with that? Um, so that's a that's a good good question. Good question. All right. So, sorry I got all uh distracted with that. So, the treatment for her is we got to give her some fluids. Okay. So, she's not hypotensive, but she's probably starting to infarct her bowel. Okay. Well, she obviously is starting to infarct her bowel because again, if she has that lactic acidosis, she's probably starting to infar the bowel because she hasn't have enough oxygen being delivered to the the small bowel. So, she's probably starting to infark that. And then she's definitely at risk if she infarks that small bowel that part of the bowel will stop working effectively and she can start developing a obstruction proximal to that. So we got to give her fluids. Got to give her tons of fluids. We want to put an NG tube in kind of prophylactically in case she's not able to if she does start infaring that bowel and we have to decompress the bowel proximal to where the infarct is. We should have an NG tube that's able to do that for us. Anti-ametics should also be there because she does have some nausea. She's in insane amounts of pain. So, we should give her analesia and then we should give her antibiotics. Why should we give her antibiotics? I want you guys to think about that. If she started to infarct her bowel wall, what is the problem with that? And why should we start her on antibiotics? Not just because the white count's elevated. Definitely, that's one reason. And because she's fibral, but what is the fear that if she infarked at her bowel, what is potentially the issue with that? Oh, sub subasherie. I love uh lactated ringers. Um to be honest, lactated ringers is is uh there's tons of articles that suggest that LR is superior to normal saline in various categories. Um the only time where a normal saline may be a little bit more preferred is in kind of a neuroscience ICU. uh for patients who have high intraraanial pressure um it's not a bad idea to kind of go with the NS the normal salient but LR I pretty much use that for anybody without any other kind of intraanial pressure concern it's just superior yeah so great you guys are all saying it is that if she if she infarks that bowel now the bacteria have no true barrier no no true protective barrier that's hindering them from going straight from the GI tract lumen into the actual messenteric easily can have bacteria that can progress to septasemia. Boom. Okay. So, I I I would definitely agree with that. She needs to be on antibiotics. Okay. Margaret, I don't love LR because it's not compatible with anything. Okay. I I love LR. There I know there's always these questions of is it good with calcium and stuff like that. A lot of the literature says that, you know, there's no problems with calcium. um it's not really a concern also like sept trioxone just get two IVs if you can and run it through different IVs if possible uh and then there's even this concern of hypercalemia actually LR is less likely to cause hypercalemia and and and normal saline is more likely to cause hypercalemia normal saline loves to cause acidosis lactate just a more balanced crystalalloid um but anyway off off another pedestal so we got IV fluids running through her I prefer LR Margaret likes doesn't like that, but that's okay. We got an NG tube to potentially decompress the bowel if the infark progresses and she doesn't have any motility there. We get antiimetics to stop the nausea. We get analesics for severe pain. We're going to put them on some broadspectctrum antibiotics because there is definitely a risk of her developing uh some type of septasemia uh related to that bowel infar. We're going to start her on anti-coagulants, right? because start her on hepin. That's going to help the progression of the clot and then we can do plus or minus tpa. I'd probably go ahead and say give her the tpa. So, we probably put her on hepin and then give her a hit of tpa to start trying to break up that clot. Another thing to start thinking about here is that there is another drug that sometimes is used. cuz I haven't seen it used too often, but the literature does say that you can consider it is if you want to try to your best to peruse parts of the bowel that is still salvageable, you can try to dilate the the part of the bowel um and some of the blood vess dilate some of the blood vessels that are serving parts of the bowel that is uh salvageable and you can use this drug called papaviron and it might help in that scenario. vasopressors. If she did become hypotensive, you probably would like, "Oh man, I got to put her on leave. I got to put her on phenylphrine. I got to put her on something to help epinephrine, whatever." Actually, you should really try to minimize the uh the um inopressors. Uh those are the ones that you probably want to try to be very very careful of. Uh because if you squeeze down and clamp on those peripheral vessels, you could potentially reduce blood flow to the bowel even more. Um, that's something to just think about potentially. Um, if I had someone who's becoming hypotensive, I would consider giving them something called an inodilator like doputamine which gives you inotropic contraction as well as dilates the peripheral vessels. Milanone, same thing. Okay, Margaret's joking. Yeah, jazz. I so that's a you know that's a good good thing to think about. So tpa again it depends upon the scenario. Uh an imbalctomy is probably going to be the best scenario for her but if you if she's not really like a great surgical candidate at this point in time you can try hepin you can do uh plus or minus tpa but again an imbelectctomy would be a nice thing to do if you can go in there with a catheter. Generally when you're going to do that anyway you should have them on heperin that's why I have plus or minus tpa. definitely give heperin because you're going to need that generally no matter what to prevent the you know the prevention the to prevent the continual development of the clot. Plus or minus tpa is based upon if they're going to get an emblectomy or not. Um if you go to do an embilctomy you can do that with a catheter potentially like a catheter like uh like aspiration or maybe surgically going in and actually cutting out the emblei. Uh but if that that's not a possibility uh tpa would kind of be the next go-to in this scenario. Okay, so you guys uh let's say that she she got her fluid, she got her NG tube, antiimetics, pain medication, all that good stuff, antibiotics. Um eventually her blood cultures and all that stuff came back and she didn't have any kind of like obvious uh positive blood cultures again. Her blood pressure started improving with the fluids. Um she got her Hepin. She didn't need an imolctomy. Let's say the significant kind of like septic bowel, bowel perforation, something of that nature. So, great stuff. All right, let me see questions here. Okay, okay, that was a good question I asked before. Okay, why no adenosine? why why would you want adenosine I guess is a question. So, adenosine is great for doing what for blocking the AV node. um in atrial fibrillation you can give a denosine um but it's not going to be a super like a beneficial thing in patients with aphib it would be beneficial in someone with an SVT like a super ventricular tacic cardia of some kind but adenosine ah not so great you can try it if it doesn't really help there is other options things like beta blockers and calcium channel blockers I would just be careful okay the only thing here is and again this might be a little bit more of like my bias if a person is hypotensive on the verge of hypotension I'm probably not going to reach for a beta blocker or a calcium channel blocker because those can drop your blood pressure. They shouldn't, but they can. Um, I like to give magnesium. Magnesium is a great great drug. Um, it really helps to have kind of a rate and rhythm control. So, sometimes I'll give a person two to four grams of magnesium and an infusion. And if they're really hemodynamically unstable and I really want to convert them out of AIB, I may try something like amiodarone. I like amiodone because it's a little bit more hemodynamically stable. Um, so that's something to think about if you're trying to uh convert them out of aphib or try to control their AIB. Um, I generally give a mag infusion and I'll try something like amiodarone. If they're hemodynamically more robust, then I'll try to rate control them with a beta blocker, calcium channel blocker, dig. Okay. Yeah, Denton. Again, you can definitely cardio you can cardiovert them as well if if you wanted to. Definitely a possibility. You just have to and again, you can chemically cardiovert or you can um electrically cardiovert them. Um again, in an ED setting, people are more likely to get kind of like an electrical cardioversion. In an ICU setting, I'm a little bit more likely to chemically cardiovert somebody. Um but you're going to be anti-coagulating them anyway. So, it's it's there's nothing wrong with being able to convert them. Pry in a um ICU setting. Um, I would probably go ahead and try to do something like amiodarone uh and and again a mag infusion and see how they respond with that. Um, if I really needed to and they became acutely hemodynamically unstable, um, I would electrically cardiovert them. But again, I'm more kind of the guy that le reaches towards amiodarum or magnesium a chemical cardioversion. Um, and if they're hemodynamically robust, I rate control them with beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, and something like dig. If they're acutely hemodynamically unstable um and I just need to do something quickly, I will probably electrically cardiovert them. Okay, another thing to think about is how long has she had this aphib. I didn't really give you an answer. If she's a chronic aphib, it's going to be a lot harder to get her out of that AIB. If it's an acute AIB, which is not likely, it's not likely that it's an acute AIB, um it may be easier to be able to convert her. With a chronic AIB, it's a little bit tougher. So Daniellea asked in order to cardio overt we need first an uh TE um to rule out introcardiac clots. It depends. There's some literature. There was like a um a study out in like the UK that was talking about this. Um and it's still kind of a tough thing to be honest with you. And and in in the in the textbook definition, yes, uh you should always, you know, if someone's been in AIB for uh particularly like greater than 48 hours or something of that nature, you should definitely consider like checking to make sure that they don't have an obvious clot. Um it's likely that she she did or does still. Uh that's why she developed kind of a um um a messenteric eskeemia and acute mezenteric eskemia. But yeah, it's she's going to get heperinized. Um so she's going to be getting anti-coagulation anyway. Um so I I don't know if it's necessarily that important to be able to go ahead and get a TEE. Um since you're going to be uh trying to anti-coagulate her anyway. Again, I I don't think it's necessary right now based upon her condition. You're going to be giving her anti-coagulants. And again, just stressing this, I probably wouldn't be working too hard right now on trying to cardiovert this patient and get them back into normal sinus rhythm. It's likely that this is a chronic aphib and I'm just going to go ahead and try my best to make them hemodynamically stable and I'll start something with MAG. If they're hemodynamically stable, I'll try something like beta blocker, calcium channel blocker to rate control them. If they are really like hemodynamically unstable and I'm still like they're starting to really tack up away towards the 160s 170s and it's starting to affect their blood pressure, I'll reach for something like amiodarone or potentially electrically cardiovert them. I don't see us needing to do that right now. I think that she's tacocartic because of her lactic acidosis because of her messenteric um eskeeia. Okay, let's see. How do you chemically cardio? Yeah, I think we answered the high white count. Um, we talked about the chemical cardio version. The join is hard to initiate and dial in the dose. Yeah, I'm not I don't go for dig. Dig is kind of like a third line agent for I I would do dig if someone is, you know, they take it at home. Um, it's not hard to kind of go ahead and get that started. You can always load them up with dig um and then kind of start them on a maintenance dose and then get your dig levels. Um, but yeah, digital I'm not super big fan of. It's it's okay. Um, if it's something that they use at home, I'll go ahead and do that. But you do get a little bit of an inotropic kick and you get a little av node blockade from it as well. But it's relatively easy to go ahead and start. Um, but I it's just probably not something I would start right away. Okay. But let's go ahead and focus back on the real issue, which is her messenteric eskeemia. Okay. So, crackles. Why does she have the crackles? Could be a couple reasons. Uh she could potentially have uh some just some natural kind of like uh basil crackles. Sometimes in individuals who get a little bit older, they can naturally have some by basler crackles. Um could be that she has maybe some underlying uh heart failure. You know, we didn't really get an echo of her heart, so we don't know what her ejection fraction is. Maybe there's a little bit of backflow into the pulmonary veins. Um she's not saddening. you know, there the saturation of her O2 isn't significant. We can throw in a chest X-ray. We can throw in potentially, you know, getting an echo a little bit later. Um, seeing if she has any obvious signs of heart failure. And then if she needs some diaresis a little bit later, we can do that. Um, but I wouldn't be too worried about the Bibbasler crackles. Sorry, just looking here. Any other questions that you guys have? How to assess if it wasn't about to perforate or bleed to avoid anti-coagulation. Again, it's kind of like, you know, you you obviously know the cause here. The person has a clot within one of their vessels and it's starting to infarct their bowel. You have to anti-coagulate them. You have to potentially give them thrombolytics or go in there and potentially remove that clot. It's just like for example, it seems very weird, but in a person who develops what's called a cerebral venus sinus thrombosis, it's a clot within one of the veins of their brain and sometimes they can develop bleeds because of the back pressure behind that clot in the vein. That's a bleed within the brain. Guess what you do? Guess what you treat these patients with cerebral venus sinus thrombosis? You treat them with anti-coagulation. And it seems like, oh my gosh, they have a bleed. Why would I do that? Because if I don't take care of that cloth, they'll continue to bleed. It's kind of this same concept here. I have to antiquagulate them. I have to either do an emblectomy or give them tpa because if I don't get rid of that cloth, they're going to infar their entire potential bow wall and they're going to potentially perforate. Okay. So, which ones would I prefer? Um I'd probably go with vank um cover your gram positive sephop or uh zosin to cover your gram negatives and your sudamonus and then metroniditool to cover any kind of anorobes. All right guys hope all of this made sense. I hope you guys all enjoyed it. I know that this was a uh a cool one. I really enjoyed doing this one with you guys. Guys, I hope that it helped. I hope that you guys liked it. I hope I was able to answer all answer all of your questions. Again, one of the things I think to think about is that when we do these case studies, I try to remember that we're looking at this, I'm trying to do this for in for two reasons. One is to help us out to look at particular cases and truly try to understand the history, the physical exam, what those things mean, how to potentially pick out diagnosis, how to treat, but also I'm trying to do it in two ways. I'm trying to give this help for, you know, your exams for whenever you have to take your USMLES or your pants or your INLEX or whatever it may be, but also at the same time try to provide a little bit of clinical context for when you guys have to go out um in the wards and treat people. So, I hope all of this made sense. I hope that you guys enjoyed it. And uh ninja ners, I love you. I thank you. And as always, until next time.