Let's go on to C3, so C3, again you're going to see a lot of the same thing with these guys, there's a lot of similar trends. So this guy right here, if you look again, this is C3 through C6 and again this guy has these little superior articulating process with facets. It has the spinous process but what's different about this one, if you notice we have is in yellow here, this is actually called the bifid spinous process and so what helps identify this one, when you have this bifid spinous process, that identifies that it's C3 all the way down to C6. Okay, so again bifid spinous process this is the body or the centrum. I also can call it that and again, if you notice right there, there's your transverse process right there with the transverse foreman. And again there's the other transverse process with the transverse foreman. And here's your vertebral foreman right there. Okay, again you could technically say, here is my lamina and then, here is my pedicles. And I want one more thing as inferior articulating processes with fascist right there. Okay that's C3 through C6. C7 is actually going to be very, very specific because there's a little knob right there, a little knob, this is actually called the vertebral prominence this is actually what you feel in the back your neck when you feel a little knob there. So this denotes that it's C7, the last cervical vertebrae here. So C7 is this vertebral prominence and again, if you look here these things right here, these are the superior articulating processes with facets. Sometimes people will look at this and think it's a lumbar vertebra, no it's not - sorry thoracic vertebrae,  but how you can tell that it  has three holes only the cervical vertebra has the transverse foreman right. Again, this is the transverse foreman, transverse foreman transverse process, transverse process, body or centrum, superior articulating process with facets. And again vertebral prominence, spinous process. If I flip it over, at the inferior side. And inferior side here is going to be the inferior articulating process with facets and again inferior articulating process with facets there. Alright and again vertebral foreman where the spinal cord runs through. Alright, that covers C7!