All right, ninjers. In this video today, we're going to be talking about chronic leukemias, which includes chronic milo leukemia, also known as CML, as well as chronic lymphocyic leukemia, also known as CLL. Again, this is a part of our clinical medicine section. If you guys like these videos, they make sense to you. Please support us. You can do it by hitting the like button, commenting down the comment section, or subscribing. Also, go down the description box below. In there we'll have a link goes to our website on our website if you become a member you can have access to notes really good ones too uh illustrations to help you to follow along with me during this lecture as well as quiz questions to really test your knowledge and have that space repetition. So go check it out. All right let's get into the pathophys. All right so let's discuss the pathophysiz here. When we talk about chronic leukemias we have to have a basic understanding of hematopoesis. Then we got to go through the different components of that because it's really critical and helps us to delineate the abnormalities or the aberancies uh within the myoid lineage and then the lymphoid lineage which helps us to determine if it's you know in this case CML or CLL. All right. So hematopois which are the cells that are affected in this pathway. It's all blood cells right? So you're going to have this is going to basically you know hematopois is the production of all blood cells right? So this is going to be all your cells. So this is going to be the red blood cells. This will be your uh white blood cells and this will be the platelets. These are the cells that are going to be primarily affected here. And when we talk about the uh white blood cells, obviously this can be broken down into the arranocitic white blood cells which are the lymphosytes, the natural killer cells and then the monocytes as well as the granulitic white blood cells which are your neutrfils, eosenaphils and the basophils. The next component here is where does hematopois take place? So we know it's the production of all blood cells but it takes place in the red bone marrow and this is really important to remember right obviously this is the site of where you want to produce blood cells. Now there is other areas where this can occur besides the red bone marrow that's called extra medularary hematoplesis. That's things like the spleen the liver but the spleen is the really big one and that can actually cause the spleen to get bigger as a result. We'll talk about that a little bit later with CML, but this is the location. These are the cells that are affected obviously. So, here we're going to take a bone. This is going to be the long bone, the femur. The femur will have a red bone marrow, and it'll utilize that to have these stem cells, which are going to be making all of these different types of blood cells, right? Making our white blood cells, making our red cells, making our platelets. The question comes is how does one cell help to make all of these? Well, it's a pur potent stem cell, right? So we're going to have a initial like pur potent stem cell which is going to help us to make all of these cells that we so desire and this is called a hemocytolast. Now hemocytoblast can differentiate into two different cell lines. One is going to be the myoid cell line. So this is our myoid stem cell but then it can also make a lymphoid stem cell. Now obviously if there's abnormalities that are going to occur in the myoid lineage that's what leads to our chronic myoid leukemia or CML. If there's abnormalities within the lymphoid lineage that's what leads to our CL our chronic lympositic leukemia. Now it's important to remember that the myoid stem cell it can help to make a bunch of different cells. One of them is eventually it'll be utilized. It can convert into what's called an ariththroblast and that'll make your red cells. So we can make red blood cells. It can convert into a meggaari blast and then into a meggaario site and then break open into platelets. It can also convert into a monoblast and the monolast eventually will turn into a monocy. So from here we can get a couple different types of cells. One is you can get a monocy which is a type of a granularic white blood cell. you can get platelets and you can get red blood cells or ariththroytes. So we can see now from that myoid stem cell there's a lot of different cells that are made but that's not the ones that we're really really caring about. What we really care about is if we come down from the myoid stem cell it turns into a blast a special one to make these granulositic ones. Right? So we said arythroblast megaaroblast monoblast this one is a myoblast milo blast. Now if you remember when we were talking about AML, AML was acute milo leukemia. There was an abnormality in the myoblast where what happened could have been transllocations. 1517 was an example of them. Could have been chemo radiation. Could have been a lot of different things. But we shut down the ability of the myoblast to make any of these mature cells. And then it just kept proliferating and make a lot of those. We're in the chronic stages. So chronic doesn't affect the upper blast stage. It affects further down this lineage. So that's where we're going to have to look. So now we're going to take this myoblast and we're going to convert it into another one. This one is called a pro-yo site now. All right, this should sound somewhat familiar. Oh, that was the one where if we had a lot of this guy, the proyo site, he can make APL. That could lead to APL. All right, so we're not at that point yet. Let's go to the next stage. The next stage is a miloite, a miloite. And then from a miloite, it can then actually go a little bit further and it can turn into what's called a meta milo site. And then from here, you know, because the nucleus, look at the nucleus, it's changing. It's a really large nucleus. Starts becoming somewhat segmented, more segmented. You start getting multilobulated nuclei. And then finally, you get the final structure here. At this point, we call it a band cell, which is the one cell right before we get to the final granulitic stage. Now, here I'm going to have my most abundant one, which is my neutrfil. Then here I'll have my eocinophil. And then here I'll have my basopil. Here's what I want you to remember. Promyoy can convert into a myioy. Myocyite to a metamy. metamoti site to a band cell. A band cell to these special granulositic white blood cells. All right. Now, here's what we're noticing. In AML, it was right here or right here where we stopped. In CML, it actually doesn't affect these cell lines. It affects further down. So, these things can proliferate. And what actually ends up happening is you can get lots of myocytes, you can get lots of metamyocytes, you can get lots of band cells, and you can get lots of neutrfils, eosinaphils, and basopils. You're not going to be affecting the myoblast and the promytites. We're getting into the later stages where they're a little bit more like mature appearing. That's the big difference. So when we talk about chronic milo leukemia, this is ones where you're getting lots of granulosytes. So we're going to call these granulosytes. But here's the key like important terminology. It's granular sites at various stages. So if I were to take a patient who had CML, I take their blood. When I take their blood, I'll get a CBC. It'll show a really high white count. I'll look under the microscope and I'll look and I'll see these different cells at various different stages in their their actual cycle. That is the key. So you have to remember it's at various stages. That is really really important to remember. So when I get a blood smear on a patient who has CML, they'll have a high white cell count and it'll be lots of the granular sites. But when I look at the blood smear, they could be myocytes, metamosytes, band cells or any of these. That's the key thing. Now one more thing with CML. CML. When you get a patient and you get a CBC and you see a white count that's near close to a 100,000, that might make you poop your huggies a little bit, right? You get a little scared. You're like, "Oh boy, I don't know what's going on here." There is an important distinction for your boards. One is you have to you see a white count. So if I see a patient has a white count that's really high, I need to know is it CML, malignancy, or a lukeoid reaction? Let's define this. What is a lucumoid reaction? A lugoid reaction is when a patient has a reactive process. Their bone marrow is making lots of white blood cells because something is telling it to. Usually an infection like sepsis or inflammation, autoimmune diseases. It could be from surgery, stress, lots of different things can happen here, but it's a reactive process. So what happens in this is the white cell count goes up, but not to the point of a malignancy. So when I look and I have to differentiate this where I get a white cell count that's elevated and I want to know which one it's likely. When the white cell count is teetering near the point or greater than 100,000 that suggests more likely CML. When the white blood cell count is less than 50,000 that's less likely in this case a malignancy and more likely a reactive process like a luccoamoid reaction. Another thing when you look at these cells so first thing you'll notice okay white count's really high if the white count's high it could be all mature like appearing you're going to get lots of neutrfils einapil basophils you may get some band cells some metamosytes the myocytes when you look at their differential so you get a CBC with differential it'll tell you all of these different things and that's what's really important we look at something called a left shift all that means is this is going to be let's say the middle line. All right, these are this is your your base. Anything upstream at these stages up here is a left shift. The more you have of these besides your neutrfils, einaphils and band cells is a left shift. That is a really important thing to remember. If I have CML, would I have a significant left shift? Yeah, I'm gonna have lots of myocytes, metamosytes, band cells, and all of these. That's really important. So when I look at the left shift here, it'll be through the roof where here you may get a little bit of a bandmia, a little bit of some band cells, a little bit of metamosytes, but you're not going to have as many of these myioytes. That's a really important term that we have to talk about. So you may get one arrow. So now here's what's really important with CML. They exhibit something on their differential which is actually critical to know. This is called a miloight bulge. And you're like, "Bulge, bro, what you talking about?" I swear this is a terminology. All this means is when you look at their left shift, their differential, their cell lines in this scenario, it may have a little bit more of the myocy lineage than they do the metamocytes. Whereas when you look at a luccoamoid reaction, they may have more of the metamosytes or the band cells. That's the big difference. So when you look at that, you'll see a higher miloite count. That's going to also be suggestive of CML. There's another thing for CML that's also really important. Another thing here is with CML, when you have these white counts that are really, really high, it's really important to remember that CML affects all of these granular sites. Usually in a luccoid reaction, like an infection, inflammation, what's the most abundant cell that's produced? Neutrfils. You don't usually have basil. That's pretty rare. In CML they have basoilia that is the important thing to remember. I think this actually should be 1 L. So basoilia. Now if I have basoilia I have a miloy bulge and I have a white count that's greater than 100,000 makes me think about CML. Let's put the nail in the coffin. The nail in the coffin here would be a lap score. A lapse score is basically whenever a neutrfil is in a scenario of infection inflammation it releases luccoy alkaline phosphatase. So if you are in a scenario of elevated inflammation or infection or stress the lap levels would be high. So what do you expect for the lap levels with the luccoid reaction? They're going to be high. That's the important thing to remember. So you'll have an elevated lap score here for the luccoid reaction. What would you have here for a malignancy? You don't have these neutrfils that are actually going to be at the stage where they're releasing lots of lucaside alkaline phosphatase. So their lap scores tend to be low. That's the big difference here. So they'll have low lap scores. And so that's the last thing that I want you guys to remember is that for CML, they'll have very, very low lap levels. And that, my friends, is the biggest way for whenever they come up on the exam to try to test you about differentiating CML from luccoid reaction. It'll basically be a patient who comes in, they get a CBC and they have an elevated white count. And you need to figure out is it this or this. Look at the white count. Look at the differential. Look at the left shift. If you have more of that myocy bulge CML, and then lastly, look at the lap levels. If the lap levels are low, it's a more likely CML. If they're high, more likely a reactive process. Okay, that's for the CML aspect. So from this point, CML is a increased number of granular sites at various different stages. More likely in the myocy range, you're going to see a lot of these. Big reason for this again is going to be a genetic problem, which we'll talk about. there's some type of transllocation or chromosomeal transllocation that's causing these cells to proliferate rapidly making lots of these cell lines and they do differentiate. They're more mature appearing but they're not going to be functional and that's where this disease can be problematic. Now we go to the lympoid lineage and the lympoid lineage it's a little bit different. Let's talk about that. So for the lympoid lineage, you have to remember what happens to this lymphoid stem cell. It gets turned into a lymphoblast. Now if we're really being particular, these lymphoblasts can turn into what's called prolymphosytes here. We we'll put that down here. We'll actually have one more. We'll say here I have a prolymphocy. And then from the prolymphosite, we finally turn these puppies into a Tlymphosy. I'm just going to write T- cell though or a belymphocy or a B cell and then we know here the B cells can become plasma cells right but we're going to stop it right here so lymphoid stem cell to a lymphoblast lymphoblast to a prolymphocy and then from here to a T- cell or a B cell in chronic lymphocyic leukemia the abnormality does not exist here at the lymphoblast it's not really here at the prolymphosy it's here when you actually check a patient's CBC, you'll see they'll have a very high white count, but it's not going to be the granular sites, the eosinophils, neutrfils, basopils, those aren't accounting for this really high white count. What are you going to see? A lymphocytosis. So with CLL, you're going to have more of these B cells and these T-C cells. So you're going to have a increase in your lymphocy count. So lympho sites and these are going to look mature. These are mature appearing dude. So that is really really important to remember. When I look at al they'll have a they could have a high white count but when I look at the blood smear and I look at the overall morphology for alllasts for CLL they'll be mature appearing B cells or T- cells but they're not going to be as functional. Now one more thing for for granular sites we don't have a set number of like okay that's a really important determination that this is a elevated white cell count particularly affecting the granular sites we stick to that a lot with the CLL so we actually need to know how many of these lymphocytes are really high to make us consider a lymphocytosis as the source of the CLL and it's an important number to remember so this number here is we actually need to have this number be greater than 5,000. So when you look at it, you want to have greater than 5,000 of these lymphocytes per microL of blood. So when you get their absolute lymphocy count, it needs to be greater than 5,000 lymphocytes per microl of blood to be a true lymphocytosis. And that is accounting for their high white count. What's the most abundant white blood cell? Neutrfils. What's the second one? Lymphocytes. Right? So you always remember never let monkeys eat bananas or nobody likes my extra boob, right? So never is neutrfils. L is the lymphosy that is the second most abundant. So if this one's really high, it can impact your white cell count. So this is going up increase the white cell count. These going up increases your white cell count. All right, we're on to something now. It was important to differentiate CML from a luccoid reaction. It's actually really important to differentiate a normal cell, a normal lymphocy from a CLL cell. What what do I mean? Okay. When I take a cell, when I take a cell, a lymphocy, and I look at this cell under special studies called flowcytometry, it's important for me to know the specific cluster differentiation proteins that are present because that distinguishes me from a normal or lymphoma cell from a CLL related cell is super important. So, I got to I got you guys you guys got to know this. For a normal cell, we have these proteins. You see these? These are called cluster differentiation proteins. And normal ones will have CD19 or they'll have CD 20. You should have these. These should be present. So you should have these two present. Then we'll go to a mantle cell. This is a type of lymphoma. We'll talk about it in the lymphoma lecture. But this one will have the same thing, but we're going to add one more. It will have CD 5, CD 19, CD 20. Most people will say, "Oh, if you got CD5, you're good." That's CLLL. Not necessarily because CLL will have CD5, but so will mantle cell. So, what really differentiates these? We need one more. You need to have CD5, CD 19, CD 20. One more, CD 23. So, when I look at these, what's the true difference in these structures? This one has CD19 and 20, which are these blue proteins. That one still has it, but you see these like pink proteins, that's a CD5. This one, it's got the pink, it's got the blue, it's got the orange, the CD23. When you do the flowcytometry, this will tell you, oh, this is CLL. It's not normal or it's not mantle. It's CLL because of this. You have a patient with a high white count, lymphocytosis predominant. You get the flowcytometry tells you have these done. You know, we don't even need a bone marrow biopsy. We don't need a bone marrow biopsy to diagnose CL. We can do it right from the blood because if I have these markers of the peripheral flowytry, diagnosis is done. That's why it's important to know this. Okay. At this point, we've utilized the amatopoesis pathway to delineate CML from CLL. What delineates acute from chronic? We already talked about this a little bit, but we have a cell here. I'm using the myoid because it's easier. We start off with a blast. Blast turns into a what is it? promyosite then into a mileite then into a metamosite then into a band cell then into a we'll use neutrfils. So in order for me to truly delineate where this kind of like lineage affects acute versus chronic, it's really right here. The blast and promyocytes affect the acute. The myocytes all the way down to the complete neutrfil, eosinaphil or basophil is going to affect the chronic. That's the big difference here. One more thing with acute again these ones rapid proliferation but they don't differentiate. This one rapid proliferiating but they do differentiate. This one is going to occur rapidly. So this is a rapid progression. This one is more gradual progression. This one is going to have more of an elevation of blast predominantly blasts. This one is going to have the more mature appearing cells. One of the really important things to remember though is that in both of these scenarios, if you got lots of blasts or you have lots of these mature appearing cells, doesn't matter. You can have a lot of these not functional. A lot of these not functional. So even though they may look like they're mature neutrfils, they may not function like mature neutrfils. That's important to remember. All right. So now we're going to move on to the causes. So we have to have ourselves kind of like really reasoning into this and thinking about why is it that I'm getting a lot of these mature appearing but less functional granular sites. What's kind of causing that process to occur? So for chronic myo leukemia there's a lot of different things but the most important one that you're going to be looking for is a chromosome of transllocation. So it's between 922. So if a patient has a 922 transllocation what they're doing is is they're swapping some of the genetic material. So there's an ABLE one gene and it gets moved over to the BCR gene on 22. So you're going to take this AEL1 gene and you're going to transfer that puppy right over here into this red one which is the BCR gene. Right? Then when that happens, you get this fusion. You get this like Frankenstein protein here. And this Frankenstein protein is the BCR ABLE one gene fusion, right? So this is the BCR able one gene fusion. Now funny enough this chromosome this chromosome now on 22 is called the Philadelphia chromosome. Uh you know go Eagles, right? I guess but uh this is the Philadelphia chromosome. So we're going to call this Philadelphia positive just for right now. So, it's the Philadelphia positive chromosome. And what it's going to do is it's going to help us to make lots of these unfortunate BCR1 able gene fusion molecules. Once that happens, we get that gene fusion. It'll pump out the BCR able one proteins. So, when you pump these things out, that's where you kind of get these issues. So, now imagine here, I'm going to represent this protein with this like baby blue color here. So, now we're going to get a lot of these proteins here. I'm going to give you a little Pac-Man. Here's your BCR Aable one protein. This is kind of like a tyrrosen kynise. Imagine, right? So, this gene down here is actually going to make these proteins, but we're going to just pretend it's coming from this side to help us with this. What it does is it'll bind onto this kind of like structure here. And this is a tyrroscen kynise receptor. So, this is going to bind onto this tyrroscen kinace receptor. When it does that, basically what happens is it activates that tyrroscen kynise receptor. And this is now when it's autoactivated, this is going to essentially stimulate this receptor. It's going to autoactivate that receptor. When this receptor becomes activated, it'll send these intracellular signals down to the nucleus. That nucleus will then say, "Oh, I got some signals to start undergoing lots of proliferation and to inhibit my cell from dying." So, this will then do what? This will stimulate an increase in proliferation and a shutdown in the apoptosis. So lots of proliferation. So you're going to undergo lots of that replication process, transcription, translation, and then you're going to decrease the apoptosis. Whole point of that is if I don't die, I can just continue to keep surviving. Do you see why this is kind of dangerous for these cells? You can make a bunch of them and they're like immortal. These are like little immortal cells running around. That's where this is dangerous. So the big thing to remember for chronic milukemia is watch out for the Philadelphia chromosome. You want to do cytogenetic studies to do carotyping, you'll find this abnormal Philadelphia chromosome and you'll have to do further PCR testing to look for this BCRable one gene. And all that tells me is I got this weird BCRable protein binding to the tyrroscen kinase receptor increasing the intracellular signaling and causing the cell to proliferate proliferate proliferate. The reason why I'm telling you this is when we give drugs later, we'll talk about these. I'm not going to talk about them now, but you can give an a drug called a tyrrosine kynise inhibitor. Guess what it's going to do? It's going to block the BCRable one. You can't activate this receptor. You can't send the signals down. You don't proliferate and you die. That's the concept of why that's important to know this pathway because we can use drugs to target that protein. All right. CLLL is another one. Now, CLL, there's not a lot that we really know about this. We think there could be something weird. So you have on your cell a BC receptor. So this is called a B cell receptor. And then there's a kynise here and this kynise we'll do it here. We'll do the same thing. This is going to be the little Pac-Man guy here. This is called a brutin tyrrosine kynise. So what is this guy called? This is called a brutin tyrroscen kynise. I'm going to put BTK. So the brute tyroscen kynise is a special structure connected to the B cell receptor that sends signals down to the nucleus for particular things such as proliferation and apoptosis etc. Now in CLL there's believed to be a couple different reasons. We don't know exactly how but the concept here is that is maybe maybe there is a abnormality of the brutin tyrrosine kynise. So the brutin tyrrosine kynise exactly how well we don't really know. What we do know about CLL is that this is a disease of older individuals usually greater than 70 years of age. Now one other thing to remember is that yes there could be an abnormality in this bruty kynise and if this thing is like undesirably activated let's say it'll help to activate this receptor and send signals down to the nucleus and that nucleus will then say hey let me proliferate trigger the proliferation and let me inhibit apoptosis. Do you see why that's important? There's one other thing that may be playing into this and it's really important for prognostic aspects here. Whenever you have a B cell a B cell right let's say here here I have a B cell the B cell is supposed to help me to make plasma cells and then plasma cells undergo this process where they they can make different types of antibodies right so they can make antibodies where they they differ or they vary within their variable region of the antibbody so a normal process is you should have a B cell turn into a plasma cell and a plasma cell should be able to vary their antibodies that's normal and we We'll we'll signify this by having let's say here I have a little red structure here and let's say here I have a little blue structure here. So they're supposed to be variable, right? So this is actually important because it's it's controlled by what's called the amunog globbulin heavy chain variant. All right. So there's a gene here that you actually need to know. It's called the amunoglobulin heavy chain amunog globulin heavy chain variant. The variable region on that. So it's what determines the varying component of the heavy chain. If I have a mutation in this, that tells me that the B cell is mature. It's been it's been exposed to prior antigens. It's not naive and it's therefore capable of actually acting mature and producing the respective antibodies. If I do not, so if there is no amunogloabbulin heavy chain mutation, this is where it's like paradoxical in the when you think about it. But if you do not have this mutation, what this tells me is is that this B cell has never actually received the proper exposure, all right, and signals to help it to make these antibodies. So we're going to pretend it's now naive. If this is a naive B cell, it makes a naive plasma cell. A naive plasma cell will then produce what? It'll produce these kind of antibodies without the variance. And that is kind of concerning because it tells me that I have these immature, not functional, immature B cells. That's what's important. And so not having the mutation, what this tells me is it tells me this is a poor prognostic indicator. So this is a high risk, if you will, CLL. The reason why I'm telling you this is if a patient does not have this mutation, what it will do is it will then make the B cell receptor pretty much sensitive to anything. If the B cell receptor is sensitive to anything, that means anything can hit this thing. That means you can stimulate this receptor undesiraably. It'll then send these signals via the bruty kinus and cause increased proliferation and inhibition of apoptosis. So this is one of the things that you always want to check for when you have a patient who's diagnosed with CLL. You want to know are they a high risk and the reason why is if they're high risk they'll respond really well to drugs that target the bruty kynise called BTK inhibitors. There is other genes that could be mutated here. It's always important to check for what's called the p-50 the TP 53 gene and if that's mutated that also suggests a high risk for CLL. I don't want to go too big down that. What I want you guys to understand is that there's some contribution here to the BTK enzyme. So if I have a patient with CLL, what would be a drug that I could target for that BTK inhibitors for CML? What's the big protein or enzyme? The BCRAL1, which is a part of the tyrroscen kinise enzyme. It's a part of the tyrroscenes receptor. So which drug could I give? The tyrrosen kynise inhibitors. That's why I'm trying to introduce you to this. All right. CML older individuals. CLLL very old individuals greater than 70 you're not going to see it usually until it's greater than 70 all right so there could be idiopathic components here but the really important thing here to remember is that it's probably an abnormality of that BTK enzyme could have poor prognostic indicators meaning it does not have that variance in the heavy chain of the imunogabulin means that they're kind of naive not mature B cells all right that's causes now what I want to do is I want to say what is the problem what are the bad things the complications that can arise whenever I have too many of these lymphocytes in the blood, the bone marrow or different tissues. What's the poor outcome if I have lots of granular sites that are mature appearing in the bone, the blood or in the tissues? Let's do that now. All right, Professor CML when we talk about this one, we know now that this is a patient who has lots of mature appearing granular sites in various different stages, right? Myocy, metamyocide, band cell, neutrfil, einaphil, basil, the whole thing. We know that that's usually due to a increased proliferation, shutting down of apoptosis due to the 922 transllocation. When these patients come in, they may get a CBC that shows white count through the roof, enough to make you want to poop your huggies. But sometimes they can come in with other clinical features. And it actually kind of depends upon the the stage at which they're in or the phase at which they're in within CML that determines the severity of these clinical pictures. So sometimes it may not be a very kind of like obvious picture. It could be relatively indolent. Most patients actually live in this what's called chronic phase of CML. 80% of them. So let's talk about this. One of the biggest features that you have to watch out for with CML is splenomegali. The concept behind this is probably twofold. Let's say here I have a normal spleen. So here's my normal spleen and I have a patient with CML. What's the big problem with this one? They are pumping out a lot of these granulosites at various different stages. Now, sometimes it's always important to remember that in chronic leukemias, they do produce a small percentage of blast cells. It's not a significant amount, but it's a it's a small percentage, and it depends upon which actual phase they're in that actually determines the amount of blast cells. So, they may have a little bit of blast cells, but you're going to have a lot of these maturish appearing neutrfils, eosinaphils, basophils. And what happens is they're going to want to go here and deposit into this spleen. And when it deposits into the spleen, it's going to make the spleen enlarge. So here you're going to get this deposition. You're going to get deposition into the spleen of these blast cells and granulites of various different stages. And then from here, you're going to get an enlargement of the spleen. That's where you're going to get the spinomegaly because they're going to be taking up some of that space. Now that's one reason. Another reason is because some of these blast cells, you do have a small percentage of them, but some of the blast cells can get deposited into the spleen, right? So now, let's say now you get some of that deposition into the spleen as well. You get some of that deposition here. And then what happens is some of these blast cells actually start taking over and trying to actually trigger the production of all other different types of blood cells. What's that called? Hematoplesis. But it's not occurring in the bone marrow, the red bone marrow. It's occurring outside of that. This is called extra medularary hematopois. This thing will actually start to trigger the production of other blood cells. And what is this called? Extra medularary hematopolesis. Now the problem with this is is that this is definitely going to cause that spleen to get bigger and bigger and bigger. So this right here, this process here is called extra medularary hematopoesis. That's going to start trying to make more of these cells, more of the plates, more of the red cells, more of the white blood cells as a response due to not only from the deposition, but also from this extra medularary hematopolesis. It's going to cause the spleen to get bigger and that's going to lead to splenomegaly. Splenomegali can sometimes be asymptomatic, but as it gets bigger and bigger and bigger, it can start causing an enlarged mass on that left flank. So obviously you want to watch out for a couple different signs. One is a palpable left upper quadrant. A palpable left upper quadrant or pain. Sometimes they can have pain. The biggest most common presentation here is that with spinalomegaly it's a large organ that it compresses onto the stomach and it decreases the space within the stomach. So whenever food and fluids are supposed to come down, it stretches the stomach which helps to initiate the satiety process. If it's smaller than usual, you're going to have satiation a lot earlier. And so they tend to have a poor appetite or early satiety. So that may be the things to consider is these patients who have early satiety, some undesirable weight loss because of that, some food aversion, these patients who have decreased appetite. Those are things to consider. Now, here's what's really really important to remember with CML. You definitely get deposition. You definitely get extra medularary hematopesis. So it's either the depositing of the blast cells and the mature appearing granular sites or it's due to the spleen from some of those blast cells producing other blood cells and getting bigger as a result. When that happens depending upon the phase of CML determines the severity. So for example if a patient has chronic phase CML this is the most common and usually in this phase you can actually quantify the number of blasts that they have in there. So if you actually take a look at the bone marrow and you say how many of the actual bone marrow is made up of myoblasts, you can determine which phase they're in. If it is less than 10% less than 10%. This is called chronic phase. This one is usually very mild to moderate split omegaly. So sometimes it's very mild to moderate. You could have very little symptoms or you could have mild symptoms like a little bit of a palpable enlarged left upper quadrant, a little bit of early satiety. As you go to the next thing, as a patient inquire acquires more mutations because that's what happens every time you proliferate a cell, every time my epidermis continues to replicate, replicate, replicate, you undergo the possibility of developing more mutations. So here's some mutations arise. If mutations arise, you could potentially get more blast cells. If the blast cells increase in number from less than 10 to 10 to 19%. Now I'm in the accelerated phase of CML. At this point, we're actually probably going to start seeing symptomatic splenomegali. This is where you're going to start seeing some pretty good symptoms of splenomegali. you're definitely going to see the enlarged and palpable left upper quadrant, some early satiety, some nausea, vomiting, decreased appetite, anorexia, weight loss. It's when we get to this last one that it's scary. So, if you continue to undergo more and more mutations and these arise and you get more proliferation, less differentiation, you can then enter into what's called the blast phase of CML. This is now whenever you have greater than or equal to 20% blast cells. These are all blast. So remember you have less than 20% I mean less than 10% blasts. You have 10 to 19% blast in this phase. And if you have greater than or equal to 20 uh 20% blast in this stage. This is now at a point where you have splenomegaly that is so severe you're at high risk. That spleen is probably big as can be. All right. Huge. Gargantuous. That thing is at high risk of splenic rupture. So this is now a patient who is likely has AML because once you have greater than 20% myoblast, what's that diagnosis? AML. You can have a patient who has high risk of splenic rupture. This is the biggest most concerning complication is splenic rupture. So this is what I want you to remember. The severity of splenomegaly kind of depends on the phase at which they're living in. More common than most of the phases. less than 10% blast, they get a little bit of mild to moderate splenomegaly. They get to the accelerated phase, they have more blast, the spleen's getting bigger, they're probably getting symptoms. At this stage, they have severe splenomegaly to the point where they're at high risk of splenic rupture. And this is a patient who is now converted from CML into well via the blast crisis into AML. And we'll talk about that a little bit here in a second. But this is the really really important complications that you have to realize. CML, severe splenomegaly. What else can they have? They can have anemia and anthrombocyopenia. And again, it kind of goes back to which phase they're in. But this is really important. It's actually super straightforward. Thank goodness. This one you have tons of different types of granuloscytes. You have metamioytes, myioytes, neutrfils, eosinophils, basophils. You may even have some blast cells in there as well. This basically crowds out the marrow. If you have all of these cells, they're huge. they're taking up a lot of space. If they crowd out the marrow, that means that there is less space available for other normal cells to be produced. And what that does is that leaves less space for the production of normal red cells, normal platelets, and even some white blood cells. All right? Now, if that's the case, and I don't produce now, I don't push out of the bone marrow as much of these red cells or as much of these platelets. So this is going to be the part that's inhibited. I will have less platelets and I'll have less red cells. This is where you get the diagnosis of anemia and this is where you get the diagnosis of thrombocytoenia. So here's my anemia and here is my thrombocytoenia. Important to remember patient with CML big thing they can come in with is potential early satiety left upper quadrant pain maybe even some like nausea, vomiting, anorexia from that. But the other thing is fatigue. Why fatigue? Because of the anemia. So they could potentially come in with fatigue or palar. And that's really important to remember. All right. So watch out for fatigue or palar. That could be due to the anemia. The other thing is is if they have left less platelets, what are pllets supposed to do? They're supposed to help us from not bleeding. We don't want to bleed, but they are important to help us with hemostasis. If we don't have them, the patient can develop bleeding or bruising. And how could that look? Well, depending upon the degree of bleeding, they could have uh epistaxis. They could have minoria. They could even have potential gingal bleeding. Another thing that can happen is they could have skin bleeding usually in the form of the bruising which is the petici or the papura. So those are important things to potentially consider in a patient who has thrombocytoenia. Now if a patient comes in spomegaly anemia thrombocytoenia you definitely want to be thinking about CML. Again it's important to remember that the degree of anemia and thrombocyopenia depends upon the phase. So when you look at this again we already know the percentages. So for chronic phase it's less than 10%. These patients usually at this stage they have a very very elevated white blood cell count and they usually have anemia. Their platelet count is usually somewhat variable. Could be normal, could be low, but they're going to have a super high white count and they're gonna have anemia. In the accelerated phase, which is what's the percentage of blast cells? 10 to 19. At that point, they'll still have a refractory luccoytosis. So, their white count is still going to be pretty dang high. At this stage, they'll have anemia and they'll have thrombocytoenia. This is usually the stage at which you're going to start seeing the symptomatic of both of them. Again, each time I hop from this one, more mutations from this one, more mutations. That's the reason why you jump from these different phases. If you have more mutations, more mutations, you increase the risk of forming more blasts. More blasts. So now, here's a mutation. Here's a mutation. At this point, I go into the blast phase. When I get into the blast phase, I have so many blasts that they crowd out the bone marrow so bad. That's when I start seeing the white cell counts go down. This is when a patient can actually start to develop pansyenia. This is when you may see pan cytoenia. At this point, they run the risk of having a low white cell count, less functional neutrfil. So they can have frequent infections and fevers, anemia, fatigue and palar and thrombocytoenia, bruising and bleeding. That's where I want you guys to remember. And this is a a point where a patient has converted from CML into AML. With that being said, we kind of discussed this a little bit throughout this process, but CML, that's the biggest risk. If you guys go back to AML, we talked about the causes behind that is usually genetic. Tricom 21. So down syndrome increases that risk by 10 to 20fold. APL is due to the 1517 transllocation. Could be due to chemo radiation. But what was the other thing I said? could be due to bone marrow disorders. So bone marrow disorders includes your myo proliferative neoplas things like polyythemia vera central thrombocythemia uh your primary myop fibrosis and what's the big one CML CML can convert into AML the whole concept here is pretty straightforward again as we talked about before you acrewue more mutations so you enter into the different phases so you start off with the let's see if you guys remember chronic phase of CM CML. Then you go into the accelerated phase of CML and then you go into the blast phase of CML. As you progress through these phases from less than 10% to 10 to 19% to greater than 20%. Now at this stage when I take a bone marrow biopsy and I look I'm going to have greater than or equal to 20% myo blast with our rods. You guys remember that? Right at this point, I have AML. AML crowds out that bone marrow, right? And so that's where you get the pansyenia. The other thing that happens here is that once you start getting lots of myoblasts, these puppies start leaking out of the bone marrow and into the bloodstream. And you can start seeing potentially these higher levels of blasts. If I have lots and lots and lots and lots of these blasts inside of the bloodstream, the concern here is whenever the again, you have to remember this what sometimes gets really confusing for for people is that the blasts accompany the white count, right? So, you're going to have lots and lots and lots of these blasts. So they can actually cause your white count to go up, but your number of functional neutrfils, your neutropenia in that sense becomes less because you're having more blast crowding out the marrow leading to less production of functional neutrfils. That's why it's technically you're having a neutropenia. That's why they're high risk of fevers and you know infections. In this scenario, you can have so many blasts that the white cell count could potentially go up greater than 100,000. If that white count exceeds a 100,000, what what do you run into? What were those big two complications of AML? Do you guys remember? One is if the white count exceeds 100,000 white blood cell greater than 100,000, you enter these microvascular occlusions. The viscosity goes up. You olude the the small vessels in the brain and the pulmonary circulation. What happens? You end up with this called luccoasis. This is the big oncologic emergencies that we can see when a CML is converted into a AML patient. The other thing is is that if a patient has this and they really have heavy heavy heavy heavy heavy turnover of cells or they get hit with some chemotherapy and these cells pop open, what can they release out? Lots of phosphate, lots of uric acid, lots of potassium. And then what will happen to the calcium? because of the high phosphorus, you'll drop the calcium, right? So, these patients can have high amounts of phosphate, they can have high amounts of potassium, they can have high amounts of uric acid. And again, because of that high level of phosphorus, what will it do to the calcium? It'll drop the calcium, right? So, all these things are going to be spilling out of these cells. And this is usually the electrolyte abnormalities that you have. This can lead to tetany. This can lead to uh cardiac arhythmias. This can lead to acute kidney injuries and gout flares. You get the point here. This is called tumor lis syndrome. All right. This is called tumor lis syndrome. Now remember the most common uh type of leukemia where which occurs with tumor lysis syndrome is which one? AL. But you can still see it in AML. Right? That's the concern here is a patient started off with CML maybe less than 10% blast. Lots of the mature appearing graniocytes had more mutations. As the mutations occurred, they developed accelerated phase 10 to 19% blasts. That's a little bit less of those mature appearing cells. Now, then you go into the blast phase. Greater than equal to 20% of the bone marrow is made up of blast myoblast. That's significantly less of these mature appearing granulosytes and way less functional types of appearing white granular sites. High risk of infections. But the other thing is as these blasts escape into the bloodstream and they really build up, if they go above 100,000, you can get luccoasis. If you go up to the point where these cells start busting open from a high cell turnover, you run the risk of tumor license. These were the two big complications that we talked about in AML. That's what you have to watch out for. You can have a patient with CML and all of a sudden they start developing complications of AML. Why? Probably because they finally had the blast crisis. That's why you need to know this. All right. All right. So, the next component here is we're going to talk about the complications of chronic lympositic leukemia. With this one, it's similar. You're just hitting a couple different extra complications. Just a couple extra. Now, you remember the lymphosytes love lymphatic tissue. They love the lymph nodes. So, they're going to meander to that area. So, whenever you have the bone marrow pumping out lots of that lymphocytosis, right, we're getting lots of lymphocytosis. These lymphosytes are going to do what? They're going to go and deposit into the lymph nodes. It's not out of this world to think that and these suckers are mature appearing. So now once we get to that point when you get lots of these lymph nodes depositing here then what can happen? All right let's talk about this. Let's say here we deposit and then from here we get too many of these lymphocytes that they actually start causing some degree of enlargement of these lymph nodes. Right? So they get a little bit bigger. You get like a a cluster of these lymphosytes. They start kind of actually causing stretching and enlargement of the lymph nodes. That's called lymphenopathy. Right? When that happens, you can have this painless swelling of lymph nodes. Now, you have to remember what's the uh the most common locations for this to occur. It can really occur in any kind of lymph node you can imagine, but the most common locations are going to be your cervical, right? The axillary, the superclavicular, and the inguinal. Sometimes they can get into the medastinum as well. So, watch out for that. But definitely look in the cervical region. Uh you're also going to want to look in the axillary region and the superclavicular. Take it look and meander down to the inguinal region if you can to check that out. And again watch out for that media lymph nodes. But that's really important to remember. Now here's one I got to talk about another definition. So there's a there's a disease that's called small lymphocitic lymphoma. Small lymphocyic lymphoma SL. All this is is you have a lymphocytosis. Right? So it's two things. It's a lymphocytosis except we define that lymphocytosis which is weird. For CLL it has to be greater than or equal to 5,000 cells within a per microl. This one you actually want it to be less than 5,000 per microL. All right, which is a a little bit odd but that's one component for SLL. The second component for SLL is you also have to have the presence of lympodinopathy. So you also have to have lympadinopathy. So they're essentially the same kind of like disease. We just classify them a little bit differently based upon the involvement of lymph nodes. That's really it. So CLL can involve lymph nodes, but if it causes lympodinopathy and lymphocytosis is less than 5,000, it means a lot more of them are probably in the lymph nodes. We call it small lymphocyic lymphoma. But that's going to be the big thing is watching out for lymphenopathy. What would it look like? It look a little bit like this. Here's what we have to talk about a little one more thing. Let's say that you had a patient, they have some cervical, they have some axillary lympodinopathy, right? All of a sudden they come back. They come back to you maybe some time later because they undergo something called a RTOR transformation. You're like a RTOR transformation? What a rtor transformation is pretty ominous and you don't want to see this but it is something that you have to watch out for. This lymphenopathy gets terribly big. Now this thing is growing rapidly and it's become more diffuse and it's hitting more lymph nodes and more lymph nodes. And so now you have a kind of a classification of a non-hodkkins lymphoma. This is a patient who now has what's called diffuse large B cell lymphoma. This is a high-grade very very aggressive type of non-hodkkins lymphoma. And it happened because we started off with some lymphopathy some clumps of those abnormal lymphocytes and they just start really really getting bad and huge. Now the lymph nodes rapidly grow. All right. So how do we really differentiate between just normal lympodinopathy and the diffused large B cell lymphoma related lymphodenopathy? Well, maybe you started off with like a cervical lymph node and then all of a sudden that thing rapidly grew. All right? So, if you have rapid enlargement, so rapid enlargement of lymph nodes, that's one sign, right? The second one, and I didn't really specify this as well, but you know, whenever these lymphosytes, they deposit here, right? When they deposit into the lymph node, they kind of get this little cluster here that causes a little bit of enlargement here. These cells can also these lymphosytes have the capability of releasing small amounts of cytoines. Interlucan one is one. Tumor necrotic factor alpha is one. And this can cause your fever, your chills, your night sweats to a degree, right? Because they change the hypothalamic thermostat essentially. And so these are some of the features that could be present. We kind of like equivalate these up to B symptoms to a degree, right? that can happen because of these cytoines being released in just a little bit of larger amount because of the prominence of these lymphocytes. So if I see that their B symptoms are through the roof, they're having high fevers, chills, night sweats, that's one sign. So increasing, we're going to call these B symptoms. Increasing B symptoms that would be concerning. The last thing is there's a cell turnover marker called LDH, right? LDH is kind of a good sign of or not a good sign, it's a bad sign of cells rapidly turning over and that could be another thing that you'd want to check for is a rapidly elevated LDH. So if a patient has rapidly enlarging lymph nodes from prior, they have more B symptoms and their LDH is up, you may have converted from a small lympositic lymphoma to a diffuse large B cell lymphoma. That's really really important to differentiate. All right, so now we're going to move on to the next component here which is hpatoponomegaly. So we know that the lymphosytes love the lymph nodes. Don't forget again really high lymphocy lymphocytosis and then you combine in the next factor of lympodinopathy that's the biggest most common presentation usually of CLL if you get down to these further complications we actually can remember this via the rye system so rye zero is they have isolated lymphocytosis so a really high white cell count and it's lymphosy predominant greater than 5,000 cells per microL if you add in lymphopathy that's ry 1 if you add in a patosinomegaly that is ry 2 so now ry 2 is going to be a patient has a increased again production of these lymphocytes. And when you got all these dang lymphosytes, they love obviously to go to the uh lymph nodes, but they also can deposit to a mild degree in the liver and the spleen. Now when these deposit here, they become enlarged. So now this patient will have apatosphinomegaly. That apatosphinomegaly is going to again do what? it may cause some degree of changes in the the the the presentation of their palpable aspects of their their liver and their spleen. So they may have a palpable spleen usually the left upper quadrant. They may have a palpable liver which is in the right upper quadrant and then the the symptoms is usually that these two organs are mushing on the stomach which is what? Satiety early satiety. Sometimes because of that satiety they could have a decreased appetite. They could have uh potentially if they eat too much some nausea, some vomiting, some anorexia, some weight loss. So these are all potential effects that you want to watch out for with the bad spinome. You may not see these. These actually may come up on a CT scan and it can actually just cause just obviously glaring enlargement on the CT scan which looks a little bit like this. So now that we've seen that this patient can have lymphocytosis for ry zero lymphocytosis plus lympidenopathy ry 1 lymphocytosis plus hpatosphinomegaly ry 2. What's the next component? The next component is anemia. So for anemia we're going to have going to the step of ry3. Ry 3 is you have lymphocytosis plus the presence of anemia. And technically technically to be super super specific this anemia has to have a hemoglobin threshold. So the hemoglobin has to be less than 10 to truly fit this rye three criteria. Now the mechanism behind the anemia is just a little bit of an extra add-on to what we talked about with CML. It's the same thing. You got all these dang cells here, all these lymphosytes that are just building up inside of the bone marrow. They crowd out the bone marrow. If you crowd out the marrow, which is what we've continued to use that terminology for so much, you make less space. Less space is going to be available in the bone marrow now to do what? To produce other cell lines such as your red cells and such as your platelets. As a result here, you're going to end up with less red cells and you're going to end up with less plates due to the crowding out effect. You got all these lymphosytes just building up here. Crowds out that space. Now if a patient comes in with anemia that's due to the low hemoglobin right that's going to be defining that if they come in with low platelets you would have the thrombocytoenia now technically thrombocyopenia is less than 150,000 but to meet the ry 4 classification has to be less than 100,000 we'll get to that now anemia we know how these patients usually present right what is what's the presentation of anemia you guys remember so anemia less oxygen carrying ing capacity. The most common presentation is going to be fatigue or palar. Sometimes it can express to as disna. Sometimes it can even go as far as causing anga, muscle weakness, etc. But these are going to be the biggest ones. Now, here's what's really interesting. This aspect of anemia, when you do the workup for a patient, patient comes up with anemia, you see that they have a low hemoglobin, you check their MCV, their MCVs for these are going to be normal. Then you have to ask, is it a bone marrow problem or am I destroying these things, chewing them up somehow? That's usually the question that you come to. Or am I sequestering it into the spleen? So, how do you determine if you're chewing up something or if it's a bone marrow problem? You check a reticular site index. If this anemia is present, what would you find on their reticular site index? So, for this one, you would actually look on their work up here. They would have a normal MCV and their reticular site index would be less than 2%. So you would have a normal MCV and you would have a reticular sight index less than 2%. That tells me that's a bone marrow problem. I would then go get a bone marrow biopsy. When I see that I'll have a hyperscellular marrow that explains it. This other mechanism is different. Some of these lymphosytes they escape out here into the bloodstream and what they do is they become undesirably able to produce amunoglobulins. Oh man, I'm going to produce some IGG amunoglobulins. These are going to go find specific antigens that are present on the red cell and then they're going to go bind on to these antigens that are on the red cell. When they do that, they tag the red cell. And from here, this is going to go to the spleen. And when it goes to the spleen, it'll undergo homalysis. What kind of homalysis? I'm testing your knowledge here. extravascular homalysis. Now either way it is homoysis. So if you did check their hemolytic labs, yes you would may see a slightly increased LDH, maybe a decreased hapttoglobin, maybe a slight you'll see some increased Billy Rubin, you'll have some splenomegaly that's also present. But what's the big thing that determines this? And then what is this type of anemia? This is anemia. This is called autoimmune hemolytic anemia. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia. So this extravascular homalysis due to antibodies destroying it is called autoimmune hemolytic anemia. If I did a CBC, I'd get the hemoglobin that's low. I get the MCV. It'd be normal. I check retix index. Oh. So then if I go an extra step here and I check a MCV, MCV would be normal. Reticular site index would be elevated. All right. So I'd have a normal MCV. I'd have a elevated reticular site index. But what's the key test that I want to check for? Come on, tell me. The direct antibbody test or the test. And that would be positive because it's going to show me that I have auto antibodies that are attacking the red cells. So whenever you have a patient who comes in with anemia and you they have a really high white count, you can say, okay, could it be to the bone marrow or could it be due to the autoimmune hemolytic anemia that's occurring here? How do I really tell the difference? You may have a little bit of an overlap. But in perfect world, if it's hyperscellular marrow, normal MCV, retic index is low means that the bone marrow is not really working. and autoimmune hemolytic anemia it tells me that the retic index would probably be high but more importantly I would check the direct antibbody test and if that's positive it tells me auto antibodies are attacking my red cells and that's contributing to this that is the big big telltale sign this is something that's really really important in CLL because again CLL can actually cause a autoimmune hemolytic usually it's a warm type if you guys go back to all of those cold and warm the warm type is CLL all right with that being we come to the thrombocyopenia. So ry zero lymphocytosis, ry 1 lympidenopathy, ry 2 hpatosphinomegaly, ry 3 anemia, ry 4 thrombocytoenia. At this stage if a patient has ri they're pretty severe. So at this point we need to know again that this is a platelet count. We often times define as less than 150 in normal cases and this we actually want it to be less than 100,000 to meet that ride criteria. Same thing. You got all these lymphosytes. They are crowding out that marrow. When they crowd out the marrow, they leave less space, my friends. If you have less space here in the marrow, what's going to happen? You're not going to have enough space to produce these red cells. Enough space to produce the platelets. You end up with the anemia that we talked about over here. All right. So, now we have this anemia that we discussed with the fatigue and the pallet. Tell the difference between the direct antibbody test. If it's positive, it's autoimmune. If it's negative, it could be due to that hyperellular marrow. Here we're going to have less platelets. This is our thrombocytoenia. Now in this scenario here, thrombocytoenia does what? What kind of presentation do you usually have with thrombocyopenia? You'll have b uh bleeding and bruising, right? That's the one thing you want to watch out for here is watch out for the patient to have presentations of bleeding or some bruising. These lymphosytes, these puppies are producing amunogloabbulins. These amunoglobulins can bind on to proteins. Let's I'll just use these as like little red proteins. This is your GP2B3A. You're like, "Oh my gosh, this stuff again." Yeah, they bind on here. They tag these platelets. They send these platelets to the spleen where the spleen will have the macrofasages destroy the heck out of them. And now I'm going to destroy these things. This destruction of platelets, I'm going to destroy these platelets. And then the spleen is going to get bigger. They get splenomegaly. This here, this auto antibodies, which again, these can be IG, G. These are attacking the platelets. They're tagging them to be destroyed by the spleen. When this happens, this is called ITP. All right. Immune immunogenic or immune thrombocytoenic prepar. Some people say idiopathic thrombocyopenic prepar. But again, this is immunogenic. This is an immune process. Thrombocytoenic pipera. What happens here is ITP is a diagnosis of exclusion. It's not something that's very easy to diagnose. In other words, if I have a patient CLL, I check their platelet count, it's low, and I go ahead and I say, okay, the I in this scenario, I think it's due to the hyperscellular marrow, I would go ahead and get a bone marrow biopsy. If I get the bone marrow biopsy, it shows me a hyper cellular marrow. Done. I can't really make the diagnosis of ITP completely. If this wasn't the case and I ruled out every single other potential cause, HIT, DIC, any kind of TTP, HUS, I ruled out all of these different things. And then I finally got to the last diagnosis of ITP. Okay, cool. I made the diagnosis, but it's not an easy one. Here's what I do want you to know. CLLL, it is associated with IDP and autoimmune hemolytic anemia. And there's a term that sometimes is tested here. If a patient who has CLL presents with autoimmune hemolytic anemia and ITP, this is called Evans syndrome. So that's something I would actually want you guys to consider remembering here. So CLL can precipitate as autoimmune and ITP which is called Evans syndrome. So this is the time where it might be a little bit more likely that you can think about ITP a little bit less as compared to all the other causes. If a patient also has associated autoimmune himalytic anemia and a pre dominant diagnosis or a historical different historical diagnosis of CLL prior to this. All right at this point we've talked about the biggest complications that are really really important to know for prognosis. There's one other one though. This is not a part of the rise system but it does tell you that it's important to remember the the the true function of white blood cells to fight off infections. So patients who have CML they're definitely at risk for infections still at risk for infections but CLL is a really really big one. Think about this in a patient who has this hyperproduction of lymphocytes. So here you're going to have all these abnormal again they're mature appearing but they're abnormal uh B cells. These abnormal B cells turn into abnormal plasma cells. These abnormal plasma cells produce less functional amunogloabbulins which I'm going to call IG amunoglobulins. Could be IGG, IGA, IGM, IG, IG. But this is the process here. I got these abnormal less functional B cells turn into less functional plasma cells. They make less functional antibodies. If I have less functional antibodies, why is that a problem? Antibodies are supposed to neutralize a pathogen. They're supposed to help with fagosyto opsinization which helps with fagocytosis compliment fixation causing direct cytotoxicity from different types of natural killer cells. If I don't have functional antibodies, I won't be able to neutralize, optinize, fixate compliments and cause direct cytotoxicity because of this because I'm not able to do these things such as neutralize such as opsinize such as compliment fixation such as cell killing or cytotoxicity because I am not able to do these things because I don't have the functional antibodies. All this does is it allows these bacteria to grow. And if these bacteria can continue to survive because they don't have the imunoglobulins to kill them, these bacteria can start causing a lot of havoc. And they can lead to things like sinocitis due to streptoccus pneumonia, hmophilus influenza. They can lead to things like bronchitis. But the scariest one is pneumonia. This is the concerns that you have to have is these patients can get recurrent infections such as this. If this happens continuously where they at least get two or more of these within a 6 to 12 month period, you're just hitting with antibiotics all the time. You should probably give them amunoglobulins. That's the significance here of why I wanted to talk about this is that if you don't have the functional imunogabulins, you can't fight off these types of bacteria which is which ones again don't forget this strepus pneumonia hmophus influenza put you at risk for sino pulmonary infections. they can become recurrent and you have to treat those patients with imunogloabbulins. All right, we talked a lot about chronic leukemias but we have to now put all of this together and let's hit the diagnostic approach. When a patient comes in with classic findings of chronic leukemia, you're thinking about what's happening to those cell lines, right? Enough of the white blood cells are really accumulating in the bone marrow crowding it out or in CLL they're producing auto antibodies that are destroying red cells and platelets. What are some common manifestations? While anemia often times presents with fatigue and palar. Thrombocytoenia oftent times presents with easy bruising and bleeding. Frequent infections and fevers could be evidence of hypogamagulinemia seen in what? CLLL. But it also can be due to severe lucopenia which can happen if you you have a blast crisis. You convert from CML to AML. Another thing is lympadinopathy is extremely common in CLL. It can start off with just a small kind of like painless rubbery lympodinopathy that if not checked can progress to diffuse large belly lymphoma. What was the name of that transformation? A rarer transformation. We see very rapidly progressing lymph nodes, lots of B symptoms and an elevated LDH. And then hpatosplenomegaly especially the spenomegali is very very intense and very heavily involved in patients who have CML. So really really remember that. Now, if I have any of these symptoms, the first thing I should do is to say, okay, do I have an elevated white blood cell count? And what do these cells look like underneath the microscope? Because that's going to give me an idea if this is a mature appearing lymphosy or if this is a immature like a blast type of cell. It's really going to be helpful to give me an idea of what's the white cell count look like, what are all the other cell lines look like, and on top of that, what does the cell look like? because that's going to really help me to differentiate is is this leukemia and if it is, is is it acute or chronic? If it is chronic, is it CLL or CML? Let me show you what I mean. Let's say that I get a CBC and I see that their white cell count is really high. They have a very high white count, greater than 100,000, anemia, thrombocyopenia. Okay, doesn't really tell me if it's chronic lymphocytic. Doesn't really tell me if it's chronic myoid leukemia. I don't really know yet. Let's look at the differential. I see basopilia and in a significant left shift. Light bulb should be going off. That screams CML. Why? Because in CML, it's a process of where you're producing lots of granulosytes at various different stages. And one of those granulosytes that it's very odd to have it be elevated is basils. So basilia is one in a left shift. Remember the miloy bulge. lots of myioytes, lots of metamyoscytes, lots of band cells that really suggest a CML as compared to like a luccoamoid reaction. And then the blood smear, the blood smear is going to show me lots of granular sites at various stages. So, for example, if I take a look here and I say, okay, I'm trying to compare CML from luccoid reaction again, my white cell count. What was it for this one? Greater than 100,000. We got that. Plus, we got the basopilia on the differential. Lukeoid is usually going to be less than 50,000. They don't have the significant basophilia. I say left shift, I'm going to have a heck of a left shift for this one. The myocy bulge. This one, not so much, but you'll have a little bit of a bandmia primarily. And then again, lap score. This is what I could consider checking. It would be low here and it would be high here. But one more thing, look at this granless set of various stages. If I looked at the microscope as a pathologist, look what I see here, dude. I see cells that look all kinds of different. Like, I mean, look at this. I got one cell here, one cell here. look none none of them look the same and so I definitely have granio sites at various stages that's really a characteristic picture of what you could see in a patient exhibiting CML all right so I think I got CML but the only way that I can truly confirm is if I actually evaluate the bone marrow and see if this is actually occurring inside of the bone marrow so if I get a bone marrow biopsy I tap into the bone marrow that really should give me an answer so if I do that let's say that I find that they have some myoblast but they also have again granulites at various stages but when I look at them I say some of those stages less than 10% of his myoblast which phase do you guys remember was say that for CML that was chronic phase if I said 10 to 19% you would say accelerated phase if I said greater than equal to 20% you would say that's the blast phase and they have likely progressed into what they're in a blast crisis and they've converted to AML right now to finish this off I often like to consider ordering bone marrow genetics the reason why is if I have the sample I'm going send it off to look to see if they have the 922 transllocation, the Philadelphia chromosome. And the reason why that is super critical is because it determines what kind of therapy I'm going to give them. If they have the Philadelphia chromosome, I'm going to treat them with tyrroscen kinus inhibitors. So, I should know if that's going to be effective. So if I have a 922 transllocation with a lot of that BCRABLE fusion gene present, oh baby, this is definitely going to be one that I can treat Philadelphia positive CML with tyrrosin kynise inhibitors. Really important to remember that. Now if I get this from the CBC and let's pretend I never had any of this information yet. Same thing. They look very similar. I got an elevated white count. I got anemia. I got thrombocyopenia. I don't really know if it's again CLL, all CML. It's really hard to tell. But here's the differential. Oh, I got greater than 5,000 lymphocytes per microL. That's a lymphocytosis, bro. That tells me that this is definitely almost likely either an alll. But I got I got I got lymphosytes, right? And usually that's the key is that these are going to be really what we would say are going to be mature appearing lymphosytes. But how could I really confirm that it's mature appearing lymphosytes and it's not blast? I get the blood smear. And if I get the blood smear and a lot of these lymphosytes are mature appearing, but here's here's the kicker. Sometimes what happens is these mature appearing lymphocytes when you try to put them on the slide, they're super fragile and they can they can bust. And then whenever you look at them under the slide, they look like they're smudged. They're smooshed. And we call these smudge cells. And so take a look at this actual image. So you can see here I got some lymphocytes, right? But then look at these guys. You see these ones? They're all smudged up. Smudge cells are almost pathonommonic for the most part for CLL. So I have elevated white count. I got anemia and thrombocyopenia probably because of the combination of Evans syndrome and on top of that what else? Kind of crowding out the marrow. I got my lymphosytes that are built up. They look appear and appear mature and on top of that I got smudge. Oh dude, this is this is likely CLL. How do I really confirm if it's CLL versus a normal kind of cell that I could have something else going on or a mantle cell lymphoma or something else weird? Peripheral flowcytometry. Come on. I'm going to test your knowledge. What was those proteins again? I want you guys to think they all have CD19 and 20. Mantle cell had CD5, but what did this one have? CD 23. Right? So when I see these, oh baby, I know that I likely got CLL because again it's reminding you that what do they all have? They all of them have CD19 and 20, but only CLL will have CD5 and CD23. Normal lymphosytes will not have that. So this is what really kind of screams that this is a patient who likely has CL. So you don't actually have to get a bone marrow biopsy for CLL. Some people will go that route, but often times you can do peripheral flowcytometry and that's good enough. Now with CLLL it is really important to determine their RAI stage and we do this by looking at what they have going on. So the first thing that you need to have for this patient is you have to have a lymphocytosis to have stage zero and so I need to see that they have a lymphocytosis which this patient has greater than 5,000 lymphosytes per microl. All right they're at least stage zero. From there lymphocytosis is always the base. It's whatever else they have that determines which additional stage that they could be upgraded to. For example, if I have stage one, this is a patient who has lympadenopathy in addition to their lymphocytosis. So, do they have lympadinopathy? Oh, they do. That is stage one. If it's stage two, that means that we've upgraded to now the liver and the spleen are enlarged. That's going to be stage two. If I then go and I have a patient who has anemia, then this is going to be stage three. And then the last one if the patient has thrombocytoenia that is going to be stage four. So this is kind of how we look at it. So at any point in time it doesn't matter if they for example if a patient had a lymphocytosis and they had all of these things they're stage four. You just look for again what do they have and that determines their stage. The reason why this is important is it guides the way that we will treat these patients that you'll see in just a second. All right. This really gives us an idea of how I want you to think about examining a patient with symptoms of potentially pansyenia and some classic symptoms. And then going from there and saying, how do I analyze my CBC? How do I analyze my differential? How do I analyze my blood smear? And how do I determine what the findings of the bone marrow biopsy tell me? How do I know what to look for in the flowcytometry? And why do I get the testing to determine if they're Philadelphia chromosome positive or not? All right. So, let's talk about the treatment now of CLL and really utilizing that modified kind of REI staging system. So, observation oftentimes will be the whenever they ask you in a question, how would you treat this patient with CLL? If they have really no symptoms or they're they're relatively stable. So, they could be any stage. I'm talking like stage 0, one or two, but they're just they have no symptoms really or they're just they're very happy with where they are. You don't have to do anything. You could just observe the patient. You don't have to do a dang thing. It's when they start to have things like stage one and two and they are symptomatic or they are a little bit more unstable, then you probably should escalate your therapy and you should probably put them on something like a BTK inhibitor. You could also in older patients if they're stage three and four but they're a little bit older, you could also initiate BTK inhibitors. But oftent times if they're just completely asymptomatic, they're very stable, you don't do anything. If they're stage one and two, they got some symptoms, they're a little bit more unstable, initiate it. If they're older, then you wait till stage three and four to initiate the BTK inhibitors. All right. Now, BTK inhibitors are actually kind of interesting and this is called a brutib. And really what it does is it basically you have antigens. They bind to the B cell receptor. The B cell receptor then signals that brutey kynise enzyme and then that then does what? Well, it's supposed to signal the nucleus to undergo proliferation and you know prevent apoptosis. Well, what I'm going to do is I'm going to take a brute nib and I'm going to bind it onto the bruty chinus and that's going to inhibit that signal to the nucleus. And if I block the signal to the nucleus, I say, "Hey, stop it with the dang proliferation and allow for these cells to die." And so it actually helps in that process of kind of the CLL patient. Another thing that we can do is we can treat patients with fluorabine and cycloposomide and rettoximab. So this is called the FCR therapy. We do this for patients who are stage one and two and they're also unstable and symptomatic. That's another potential therapy that we can go with. Or we can do this in patients who are REI stage three and four, but they're very young and they're fit. We've seen a lot of um a lot of the evidence and the literature suggests that BTK inhibitors are going to be more of the go-to should be more of the first line therapy as compared to the FCR therapy. But again fluiderabine cycloposomide retoximab this might be where it's primarily utilized is in patients who are re at stage three and four who are a little bit more young and fit and can tolerate this aggressive chemotherapeutic regimen. So again a brute nib for more of the three and four stage who are older it's going to be tougher for them to tolerate that stage three four younger fit more medically able to tolerate this aggressive regimen you would go with the fluerabine and the cycloposomide and retoximab. All right now last thing for these patients with CLL is a stem cell transplant. If you can get rid of the stem cell and as it kind of progresses it gets, you know, some type of abnormality that allows for it to not, you know, completely differentiate and proliferate into proper T- cells and B cells. If you replace that, that would be the best way. But we oftentimes don't do this because these patients are a lot older or we've tried everything. We've exhausted every option. So again a stem cell transplant is you're basically taking what you're extracting blood cells from their bones particularly the iliac crest and then what we do is we transfuse this into the recipient. So you may be taking this from another patient who has some type of again uh compatibility and so we've tested them we've gone through HLA testing and we found that this patient is a good match and they can donate their stem cells to this other patient who is exhibiting signs of CLL. All right. Now, CML is really one therapy that I need you guys to imprint into your brain. So, for CLLL, it's BTK inhibitors, a brutib. That's the primary one. That's for stages one and two if they're having again some degree of symptoms or a little bit more unstable. And for older patients who are stage three and four, really big thing I want you to remember is again it could be second line in patients who have stages one and two and they're sta you know, unstable and and symptomatic. But the primary way that we look at that one is FCR is utilized in three and four and younger fit patients who can tolerate that regimen with CML it's one therapy and that's tyrrosin kindness inhibitors and we look for this and this is why we do the cytogenetics we want to know do they have the Philadelphia chromosome because if they do it doesn't matter which phase it could be blastphase chronic phase accelerated phase we're treating these bad boys with the tyrroscen kinus inhibitor the concept behind this is you guys remember that BCR aable kind of like gene that gives me a BCR aable fusion protein This thing binds with a substrate and utilizes ATP and then again this allows for it to send signals and send signals down to the nucleus that allows for it to do what? To precipitate cell proliferation and to shut down apoptosis. All you do when you give a tyrroscen kynise inhibitor is you basically block the ATP from being able to bind and that doesn't allow for it to activate that tyrroscen kinise receptor which is the substrate and so then you don't allow for those signals to get sent down to the nucleus and so that shuts down cell proliferation and that basically kind of initiates apoptosis and so you're basically trying to kind of rid the patient of the CML you know ridden cells and so that's the concept by entire inhibitors is you're trying to inhibit that BCRAL activity at the tyrroscen kinace receptor. And so this is going to be the primary way that we would go in patients who have CML and their Philadelphia chromosome positive CML. Now another thing is that bone marrow transplants or stem cell transplants are also viable options for patients who have CML. Uh we usually do this when they're at the blast phase. And so in other words, they have greater than or equal to 20% um of those myoblasts that are in the bone marrow. It's really crowding out the bone marrows causing pansyenia. They're getting severe splenomegaly. They're getting oncologic emergencies. At that point, we'll hit them with a tyrroscenus inhibitor and then after that we'll also do some chemotherapy to really lower that burden and then try from there to do a stem cell transplant. So again CML we would do tyrrosenus inhibitors that is the primary therapy. But if we need to for a patient who exhibits the blast phase, we can do a stem cell transplant. We have to hit them with the tyrroscenus inhibitor, try to really shut down that that BCR activity and then hit them with some chemotherapy prior to us initiating the stem cell transplant. All right, my friends, that is chronic leukemas. I really truly hope it made sense. I hope that you guys enjoyed this and liked it. if you really did, please continue to support us by hitting that like button, comment down in the comment section, and dude, I just I just love you guys. You guys are awesome. Thank you so much. And u as always, until next time.