Welcome back to the Ninja podcast. Today we're talking all about CNS infections. We're going through them the way they should be systematically, one by one, no shortcuts. Zack, are you ready to live in the meningis? >> Oh my gosh. Yeah. You know what? Let's swim in CSF, my friend. >> Let's swim in CSF. >> I hope you brought the dexamethasone. >> I did. and I I'll bring some good vibes, too. >> All right, let's get into it. Here we got a few different cases we're doing, but we're going to start with case one here. And like usual, just try and guess what's going on here. And hopefully you can learn a lot by going step by step through this process. >> Let's rip it. >> Rip it, Lotto. Rip it. >> Okay. All right, Zach. We have a 56-year-old man with a fever, pounding headache, phototohobia, and confusion for the past 12 hours. Mhm. >> There is no reported trauma and he recently had a nasty sinus infection. >> Was it nasty? >> Was it just straight boogers just popping out on this guy? >> Oh. Oh. Oh. I don't know. I'm not sure. >> I wrote the script so I don't know either. >> I'm not. >> Could be. It's It's nasty. >> Don't you hate that though? Sinus infections. They suck. >> You're trying to like, you know, clear out your ears and pop them. >> Oh yeah. Honestly, I become I get the true man flu. Like when I when I get like a sinus infection or I get sick. Yeah. I mean, I just got it. I just got over it and stuff and I was just, "Oh, I'm dying, honey. It's over for me. >> Can't get out of bed." >> Yeah. Yeah. It's poor. >> On his exam, we note he has like like we talked about a fever, neck stiffness, a positive Brazinski sign, and a bit confused, no focal motor deficits, vitals otherwise are stable. >> All right. >> So, there's some pretty big terms here. Obviously, you you hear that that positive Brazinski sign. >> Yeah. >> All right. We're talking some menitis here. >> Yeah. I I mean that's what like when you think about CNS infections, it only comes down to a few. I mean like the most important ones menitis, acute bacterial menitis is like pretty terrifying. And there's different types. There's different ethologies that we can talk about in a second, but that's one. Aseptic menitis is another one. A lot of the times that's just another word for viral menitis. And usually those are like supportive. There's nothing that you really do with that. They're usually kind of like summer fall outbreaks. usually do something like an entirus like a coxaki or echo virus or something like that but they usually kind of just go away on their own and then there's the other one which is encphilitis so encphilitis is really the one that we truly care about is HSV there's another one called westnile but I think over here in the US we don't usually get exposed to that as much but and then the other thing is brain abscesses so I'd say acute bacterial menitis viral encphilitis and when I say viral and sephilitis I really just mean HSV or VZV but HSV most particularly and then brain abscesses those are the three types of CNS infections that you want to think about when you hear like fever, headache, phototohobia, those are general like symptoms that can be present in all three of them. So it doesn't really tell me one or the other, right? So if I have a fever, headache and I have some phototohobia again that's that's not going to tell me that it's menitis and sephilitis or brain abscess. They all can have it. What does add a little bit more utility is the meningial signs or we sometimes call them menismas which is the nucal rigidity which is the neck stiffness and then the positive kernigs or the brzinski problem is is here's the thing having a positive brzinski or positive kernig is not like super like sensitive and what I mean by that is if it's if it is negative it doesn't mean that it excludes menitis so it's not like a great test I'd say take it with a grain of salt but If you do have someone with nuclear rigidity and they have a positive Kernig, they have a positive Bzinski, I would consider them to have a little bit of a chance of developing menitis, but I wouldn't bank all of my money on just that. So right away that's what it tells me and a bit confused. So altered mental status that can be common in menitis and sephilitis and brain abscess. But the one that is the most likely to cause profound altered mentation is encphilitis. Like these people will be not the normal cells. I guess the best way of saying it. They they could have personality changes. They could be aggressive. They could be irritable. They could have inappropriate behavior, memory loss. So that's what I get a little bit concerned about when I hear confused is if I hear altered mental status and it's really bad. I think I can't really rule out encphilitis. So right now I'm definitely thinking menitis. Highly likely. I think that's more likely because usually encphilitis won't present a lot with the meningial signs but that's not always true because patients can have meningo encphilitis. They can have menitis and encphilitis and then usually brain absesses don't present with a a positive meningial kind of signs as well. So you got some pretty good differentials here. Obviously we're leaning a little bit more towards like a bacterial menitis. >> Yeah. >> But you still can't say that's definitively what's happening. So how can you definitively say what's the next step? Well, I I definitely would want to do an LP. That's the first thing I'd want to do. But before you always do that, if you have a high degree of suspicion on these patients, you should probably start them on empiric therapy. You know, at least get it started. Before you do empiric therapy of like antibiotics and steroids and all that other stuff. And if you consider encphilitis, antivirals, you got to get blood cultures because I think there's a couple thoughts behind this that blood cultures, if you give them antibiotics, you could technically sterilize the blood cultures. Blood cultures aren't great, but they do help because I think in like 25 28% of cases of brain absesses, they can be positive. So, and then also if there's a delay to getting antibiotics because you have to get an LP or something like that, you can give antibiotics and it's okay. It may sterilize the CSF, but at least you have the blood cultures. So, it's just it's always good like practice to get blood cultures first and then give them the empiric therapies. So that's the first thing I would do is I would definitely do that and then I would probably start empiric coverage right off the get-go. So 56-y old man fever, headache, phototohobia, confusion. I'm I don't hear anything about an immunosuppressed state. But for me, I'm getting started on v. First thing I would do is I give him dexamethasone. And that's when you say why >> I just, you know, before I told you I I brought the dexamethasone. >> You brought the dexamethasone. >> So we're going to use it. >> We're going to use it. And the reason why is that when you look at patients who have acute bacterial menitis, the most common eeology is streptococcus pneumonia. And they've correlated I want to say it's a 40 I think it's a 40 or 50% reduction in neuro disability. >> We won't dispute it. >> We we believe you. >> It's a either way it's a significant reduction in mortality which is obviously important. But the other thing is neurodeisability. So in numacco menitis they're predisposed to a lot of different problems but one of the biggest things is they can get sensory neural deafness. So it prefers cranial nerve 8. They it happens a lot. It's actually probably one of the most common complications of pneumacco menitis. And so giving steroids before you give antibiotics the theory behind that is if you give the antibiotics and it starts busting open some of these bacteria it may cause an inflammatory reaction. And then if you have the steroids coming after that you know you may not be able to have that around. So if you have the steroids in them first, then you give a chance to have this around so that way it's there to reduce any inflammation if it's already kind of like happening when the antibiotics get in there and start popping these bacteria. So again, the theory behind that is that just always give the dexamethasone prior to giving the antibiotics. That's the first thing. So >> you talked about giving the or you want to do a lumbar puncture, but wouldn't you want to start maybe with like some like a head CT or some imaging? >> I would only if there's certain features. So, so to recap this, I would say let's let's get the blood cultures at least two sets. Let's get the dexamethasone on board. Then I would hit them with broadsp spectrum for right now. Unless I can get I I prefer to get the LP first. But if I have a reason why I can't get the LP, which is what we'll talk about next, I'm not going to delay treatment. It's not going to it's not going to change things that much if I start antibiotics and I get, you know, the LP a little bit later. So first thing I would do is two sets of blood cultures start to dexamethasone and I would give ven venkcomy sept trioxone and because they're 50 plus years of age for right now I'm going to add on a >> and why is that >> look at you I love it >> I'm I'm curious now >> the vank and sept triaxone cover the most common pathogens which is three strepus pneumonia and a lot of people will argue this please don't like murder me venkcomy is aggressive like to give someone to assume that a patient has menitis is already kind of low but then to give them venkcomy for sept triacone resistant streptoccus pneumonia is also a little kind of crazy but I still think it's the safe thing to do so you give venkcomy to cover sept triacone resistant strepus pneumonia and then you give them septrioxone to cover n pneumacle nerium menitis and hmophilus influenza and then the ampeoin is an add-on for those who are there's a way to remember it I think it's like the a's So age greater than 50 alcoholic a pregnant a pregnant a pregnant you a pregnant and then AIDS or but then that helps you to add in the imunosuppress. Yep. >> So >> age greater than 50 alcoholic and then usually the a pregnant and then the immunosuppressed or the AIDS patient. Okay. You add on the ampeoin. So that's what I would do is going to cover most of the pathogens that you're most likely going to be coming into contact with in this potential scenario. And then I would go to the next question which is why would I not get a head CT first? Right. And >> well would you say that this patient has some neurological symptoms like like meaning you know some altered mental status? >> Exactly. And that's the hardest part is if I have a patient who has an altered mentation, I can't say with 100% certainty that there's not an al alternative explanation for it. So could they have a stroke? Could they have a bleed? Could they have an aneurysm that rupture? Could they have a tumor? Could they have something like a brain abscess? Is there something else going on that makes me think that there could be an alternative explanation? And so altered mental status while that does happen in menitis, it is extremely much more common in encphilitis or in brain abscesses. It's just it's usually with acute bacterial menitis they're really really really sick. So you know they sick as [\h__\h] kind of thing. So I'd say that that's right having a degree of altermentation. >> Yeah, I would definitely be concerned. But there's a pneummonic to help you remember. I think it was the IDSA who came up with like a way of determining when you should do a CT before doing an LP. And the only reason you need to know this is that if by chance you stick a needle into that subacoid space, you pull off fluid in a person whose pressure is already high, they have a high intraanial pressure, you'll create a negative like vacuum kind of like suction pressure. >> Oh god, they'll herniate >> and they could herniate. So >> can you imagine that? I think I think the risk I think it's still something you know we there was a lot of argument this working in the neuro IICU that a lot of my attendees would be like that's not really real >> but why even kind of risk it >> that that's why it's like it's a legal kind of thing where it's like just don't do it don't even take the chances just get the CT if you have any concern of them having a mass lesion anything that can if you do an LP and you drop that kind of spinal pressure it's going to suck pressure down and they could herniate so >> that's why it's you definitely want to do that. So think about that. If I got focal neural deficits, oh boy, I don't want to miss like a huge bleed or stroke or an abscess. >> Yep. >> And so there's a pneummonic called fails. So F is for focal neural deficits. A that is for altermentation. >> Okay. >> I is amunosuppressed. And so the reason why you think about the imunosuppressed patients is that they're highly susceptible to things like brain abscesses and menitis and encphilitis and things like that. But brain abscess is a really scary one. So look through the history. Do they have HIV? Do they have a recent transplant? Are they on some kind of imunosuppressive drug? I I'm sorry you said that. L >> L is for lesion. So is there any thought of a lesion? So do they have a known history of like a brain tumor, a stroke, a bleed, anything that they could potentially have? And then also is I think the other kind of concern here is do they have a lesion that is explaining their symptoms. Another what what I mean by that is do they have symptoms of high intraraanial pressure. So do they have papa edema on fondoscopy is one of the big things that they'll talk about accompanied with nausea vomiting and dipopia. >> Yeah >> dipopia usually is a six nerve pausy it's the most susceptible nerve whenever there's high ICP but in the exam if they say papladeema that means that the ICP could be high. So when they say lesion think about is there a known lesion or is there any symptoms that explain a potential lesion causing high ICP in the brain. And then the last one is so fa so seizure new onset. If they come in seizing, you know, that's definitely you do not go and LP them right away. You should say, "Let me get an image to make sure that there's not like a stroke, a bleed, something else that explains this structural a structural cause of their seizures." >> So, just to go over that again, you're only doing a head CT before a lumbar puncture for the fails pneumonic. >> Yeah. So, if they have any of those, you get the CT. >> Okay. >> And then if it comes back normal, great. Go ahead and do the LP. So, that's why I say like, you know, right off the get-go, get the blood cultures first. If you have a reason why you can't do an LP right away, all right, fine. You know, I got to wait to get the LP. I got to get a CT. I got to coordinate all these things. I'm just going to start the antibiotics. It's not I wouldn't delay treatment if it's if they're truly like sick. And so, I would start the dexamethasone first, then get the empiric antibiotics, coordinate the CT, get the LP going, and then do the LP. But if they have any of those fail signs, you got to get the CT first. So, that's kind of the way I would go about that and determining my decision to get a CT versus starting with the LP. >> Well, let's just say we go through the fails. Let's just say we do the head CT. It's all it's all normal and we now want to move on to our lumbar puncture. Yeah. What defining features are you really looking at for an LP? >> All right. Well, when I do an LP, you know, a lot of the we're not going to talk about the procedural aspects, but you know, usually when you when you do the LP, there's a lot of things that you're supposed to be doing during the process. So you obviously want to collect. There's going to be a bunch of different tubes. You have at least four tubes that you want to fill up. But during the process, you're going to be looking at color. So that's the first thing I'm going to look at. Is it clear? Is it cloudy? Pilent appearing. Is it bloody? And that's really really important because they they use the term cloudy is, you know, might be a perilent one. That suggests potentially a bacterial menitis. If I see that it's really bloody, the question that you have to ask is was it just a traumatic tap? like did you have to like were you fishing to to get into the subactoid space and you hit maybe a small little feeder or something like that and it's bleeding a little bit? Usually with those the blood goes away as you kind of go from vial one to vial four. So that would kind of tell me if it did if the less blood was coming as you went towards vial four it was probably a traumatic tap but if you have every single vial is bloody that's sometimes it signals like an HSV and sephilitis. So that's the that's the term or like you know a trigger thing to think oh HSVsitis if you see that on exam it's a bloody tap and not like I'm talking vial one vial two is bloody every vial is bloody a lot of the times it's going to be you know champagne clear right and so you know that's what you're looking for and that that's not going to help you a lot if it's clear it may tell you it could be viral but it could be TB could still be bacterial it could be cryptocanitis there's a lot of different things there but look at the color cloudy maybe bacterial bloody like crazy in every vial. Think of HSV and sephilitis. The next thing is you you put a little colander on there and it kind of gives you an opening pressure. Opening pressure is usually very high in bacterial menitis and really high in cryptocal menagitis. So if you see the opening pressure and I'm not kidding. I've seen it a couple times where I I'm I shhat you not. It went all the way up and it started dripping out of the top of the column. So wow those are you know you see some pretty high opening pressures >> and that's kind of beneficial because that can actually lower their ICP especially in cryptocoman menagitis we have to do it a lot you have to do serial LPS to kind of lower their their their ICPS but high opening pressure would be concerning for really any of them but the most likely ones is TB crypto and bacterial the next thing is you're going to after you collect your vials you're going to send it off to the lab and you're going to order AI'm not kidding usually you order a plethora of tests but the tests that you order depend upon the host So do their risk factors, their exposures, things that make you concerned. But often times it comes with just a basic CSF profile. They look at the protein, they look at the the white cells, they look at the red blood cells, and then they look at the glucose. And then you get a what's called a Graham stain and a culture. And that's kind of your basic kind of like start. But then you can add on a bunch of other tests like you could do a PCR for HSV and VZV. If you want to test for tuberculosis, you could do an acidfast basillus stain and you could do it in microbacterium culture. You could do a cryptocol antigen test and an Indian. There's just so many tests that you can add on. It just depends upon the person's risks. >> So you're only doing that like for example I wouldn't just test someone for TB like you know menitis unless I have the potential things that make me think about it. Yeah. >> Have they had recent travel from an endemic area where TB is prevalent? >> Do they have a history of a positive tuberculin skin test? Do they have nodules on their recent chest X-ray or imaging of their chest and do they have amunosuppressed states which is a big thing for them? I'm not going to test for crypto menitis unless they probably have AIDS with C low CD4 count and I would check that. So there's a lot of other tests that we won't bore with. We're going to focus on the most common. So if I see so let's just kind of go back. Let's say that you get the test back and it gives you the basic CSF profile and you see a lot of protein a low glucose and a lot of white cells like let's say more than a thousand and most of those are neutrfils or what we call PMN's polymorphuclear lucasytes you hear that it is bacterial menitis until proven otherwise if you hear protein is high and the white cells are a little high but it's primarily lymphocytes but the glucose is okay I would probably thinking could this be a viral menitis or encphilitis and then the next thing is if I hear that there's a glucose that's low a protein that's low and there's a high amount of white cells but it's primarily lymphocytes that could be TB that could be cryptocal so that's the way that I kind of think about those and then I wait for my grahamstain and cultures to come back and then usually with everything you there's things called me panels there's all these things in like your oftentimes in the epic or the software that you use for the hospital and you can plug them in like me panels and all these things that you an add-on, but a Grahamstain culture is going to be kind of the basic one. And that's going to come back and it's going to tell me is it streptoccus pneumonia? Is it homophus influenza? Is it necessary menitis? Is it sudamonus ma lesteria things like that the PCR the only one that I truly care you can check for any kind of virus you want. It doesn't matter unless it's HSV and VZV. It's not being mean, but if you find out that they have like, >> I don't know, Coxaki virus, you're not going to do anything about it. It's just you're going to treat them supportively. The only one that you're going to truly do something about is if it's HSV and VZV. So HSV herpes simplex virus and then VZV is vericelloser virus, the thing that causes shingles or chickenpox. So those are the only ones I I I give a crap about is check the PCR for HSV VZV and then from there that's going to give you pretty much most of what you need. All the additional tests are kind of like ah so Grahamstain culture if it comes back for those bacteria boom I know exactly which type of pathogen I have and I can narrow my antibiotics. If it comes back with the PCR is positive for HSV or VCV I'm going to treat it with asycllovere and kind of get rid of the other ones. And so that's kind of the way that I I go about these processes. >> Well, this all started this probably all originated from this patient's prior sinus infection. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> So is that something that would normally precede something like a bacterial bacterial menitis? >> Yeah. So often times in people who are probably, you know, greater than 50, you know, you have naturally, it's not not crapping on you, but you probably have a little bit more of a a weaker mucosal kind of immune system, a little bit easier chance for these pathogens to invade. And so the most common site is nasoperingial. So usually what happens is there's different ways that you can get bacteria into the minis. One is you could crack someone's skull open directly inoculate. If I took a machete and I had a bunch of bacteria on that and I just crack it through your skull right into your meningis. That bacteria can seed right onto the meningis. You're done for. If I'm doing a surgical procedure where I have to go through the skull or go into the brain, I have to I have let's say in a worst case scenario it wasn't sterilized properly or whatever or it's sitting there for a long time. Bacteria can tunnel right in along that kind of site. >> So trauma iatrogenic. >> Exactly. The next one is hematogenous. So it spread via the blood and usually the most common routes is the nasoparangial area. So if you have a lot of bacteria in those areas, streptococcus pneumonia, niceria, hmophilus and then the other one is infective endocarditis or pneumonia. So if you have infective endocarditis, you have a they have those like little vegetations, >> you got a little ping-pong ball filled with bacteria and clotty material on the valve. All you got to do is pink and flick that puppy off and it's going to go and it's going to, you know, spread potentially to the mining. They more often cause brain abscesses, but neither here nor there. and then a pulmonary infection. So if you have like let's say like really bad rip roaring pneumonia or a lung abscess and that bacteria gets into the bloodstream it can spread up to the potentially the meninges in the brain. So that's one way I'd say the most other considerable way is contiguous spread. So it's things that are near the meninges that it spreads from. So sinusitis, if you get a really bad sinusitis infection, frontal ethmoid, it can spread continuously through like sometimes it can spread via like little misery veins and it could even spread potentially through the bone and then go right to the meningis. The other one is going to be auditis media. My poor McGee. >> So this is exactly how it happened to him. He ended up having menitis and it was because he had auditis media. So he had an infection in his middle ear and it spread and it spread to the meningis. Masoiditis is another really important one that you got to worry about because that can spread to the meni. So yeah, basically to summarize that's what you have to be thinking about when you diagnose the person with menitis. You know, you're going to start treating them and the antibiotics are going to take care of it with the exception if it's like a a walled off abscess or an area that maybe the the antibiotics can't penetrate. Then you have to obtain source control. But in this particular scenario, there's no other likely cause except for this person probably just had a sinus infection. So they had some nasoparangial invasion, got into the bloodstream, got to the meningis, done for. Now we we started with the empiric antibiotics, but now we have our results back. Like let's just say we have the specific pathogen. Can we then tailor it to that exact pathogen? >> Yeah. Yeah. So exactly. And I think that's the beautiful thing of of getting the Graham stain and cultures is because it's going to tell you exactly the pathogen that you have and that's going to help you to determine which antibiotic to give because that's one of the beautiful things is in the reports when you get the Grahamstain and culture it'll tell you the pathogen and it tells you which antibiotic it's most susceptible to. >> Oh wow. >> And so that's kind of the beauty of that. But oftentimes in this case it's probably going to be streptococcus pneumonia. And so you'll do steroids. Usually only do steroids for about four or five days. And the antibiotics usually those are a lot longer. But I you could probably just get away with something like sept trioxone. And so that's kind of what you would do for these. And then you'd probably get rid of all the other ones. Like it's not lististeria. So we don't need to keep them on amplanin. >> Yep. Yep. >> Do they have any resistance to sept trioxone? I definitely don't need to keep them on venkcomy. And you could just kind of narrow that down to the appropriate antibiotics. So that's obviously the goal with these. I'd say the one thing to consider is when a patient gets menitis, you really got to consider the I'm not kidding that that sensory neural deafness especially with numaccoal menitis >> and that's that's pretty common. >> Yeah, I was like I was surprised like learning about this topic how common it can be. I don't know why but it loves so I think it's the CSF that it's kind of cons continuous with the coclear duct and so that can kind of cause some of that infected kind of fluid to get into the area maybe cause a cytoine reaction and inflame the coclear hair cells and then also the cranial nerve eight and so they can have potentially permanent hearing loss. So that's why the steroids are important. It's important to do like a a followup for their actual hearing to make sure they do >> a hearing screen. Yeah. >> Yeah. I think that's the big one. Other ones I will say that are important for the exam is any kind of like Nisseria one. That's a nasty little son of a gun. I think the incidence of that went down a lot because of you vaccination. You don't allow kids to go to school anymore and live in dorms if they haven't been vaccinated for Neria. So the incidence has gone down a lot. But in in underdeveloped areas where they're not being vaccinated or oh you know it's is weird if they have a compliment deficiency. And I think the only other two things I would say is and I think it's just so random to know this but compliment deficiencies there's another drug called we talked about this on the hemolytic anemas or the normocitic anemia podcast and lecture but echolymap we use it in proxismal nocturnal hemoglobinia it's a long time ago we talked about this obviously but it causes a kind of a functional compliment deficiency so that puts you at super high risk for niceria but the only other one I'll say is cickle cell so cickle cell or you lost your spleen you have a hard time clearing bacteria like niceria. And so when you get niceria infections, the problem with that one is that doubt that would kill you >> because what happens is it it gets into the bloodstream and that's usually the way it's it actually you get menagitis is you get meningoia. But this puppy if it gets into the bloodstream it can cause DIC. So you can get clots everywhere and you can start bleeding. You can end up with like a lot of problems with coagulopathy. And then it also causes a massive cytoine storm. It's got a really potent lipopolyaccharide that causes intense phasodilation, capillary permeability and you can end up with like septic shock and then usually this is the key thing that they think about with niceria. If you hear this one on the exam, it's nice is all of a sudden they develop profound hypotension and they develop hyponetreia, hypercalemia and hypoglycemia. That is a concern for what's called waterhouse Frederickson syndrome. I know. And so it's a profound adrenal insufficiency because when you have DIC, you get clots and you hemorrhage. So they hemorrhage into both of their adrenal glands and they get hypotensive. So it worsens that kind of shock. What are you What are you giggling about there? >> Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. >> Just pry that I couldn't spell this if my life depended on it. >> I Hey, I I got your back though, right? I'm always looking out. Just making sure. I'm always you're you're on the whiteboard, you know, drawing and I'm on my phone. I'm just looking. >> This guy's googling it. I'm like, "Oh man, I know I butchered this one." >> Yeah. >> I get so happy when when I do it and and you go like this, you're like, >> "Yeah." >> Yeah. I'm like, or I'm just like, "Wow, he actually got it." >> Oh, yeah. >> I can't believe it. >> But yeah, I'd say that's the big things to take away from like a menitis, which is often times numaccoal is just be careful with the complications like sensory neural hearing loss and then nicer menitis. Watch out for DIC, shock, waterhouse, Frederickson syndrome. And you can get seizures with this condition and you can get hydrophilis and you can get ICP crises if you get really really sick. But I would say that the seizures is way more common in people who have encphilitis menitis. I've seen people get hydrophilis a lot. It's a weird one. They get a lot of it's nasty to say but they get like a little pus infected like fluid and it blocks up the arachnoid villi and they get chocked up and then they can't drain the CSF out of the subacoid space and so fluid builds up. So, you definitely can get hydro. I've seen a lot of people have to get like EVDs and sometimes long term until the antibiotics are kind of cleared out. >> Yeah. >> Clear the infection out. They may need a VP shunt sometimes. But yeah, that's kind of the the big things I would take away from from this case is start off. Hey, they look like they got menitis. I ultimate goal is get an LP, get the blood cultures, get the steroids, get the antibiotics. Do I need a CT? Do they have the fail signs? Oh, they do. Get the CT. They don't have it. Go straight to the LP. your LP basic CSF profile is going to come back really quick and it's going to tell you if it's a chance of bacterial viral or like something else. From there, you can kind of make some informed decisions, but waiting on that Grahamstain and culture and the PCRs are really going to help you to determine which is the likely pathogen and how you can narrow your antibiotics, antivirals, and just make sure that with these patients, they can get really sick. They can lose their hearing, they could get DIC shock, they could seize, they could get hydro. And that's the things to think about along the All right, let's move on to case two. >> We have a 34 year old woman with a fever, bizarre behavior, new onset seizures, and profound antirograde memory trouble. >> That sounds not good. >> Family says she started speaking nonsensically. >> No menismas. She's mildly somulent postal. >> Okay. >> She sounds like she's got some some problems >> to say the least. Yeah. So if you think about CNS infections, this is like textbook for HSV and sephilitis. And the reason why is okay, you get the fever, right? That's the concerning thing. And then the other thing that's probably present to a degree here. It doesn't mention it, but I bet there's probably some degree of headache. But here's where it's like, okay, this is you cannot rule out encphilitis is the bizarre behavior, the memory trouble. That that right there, and then the nonsensical speech, >> and how about the new onset seizures? That's not >> Yeah. So, I was going to get to that one because I think that all of this screams temporal lobe involvement. And the reason why is the temporal lobe controls a lot of some of your cognitive your behavioral aspects. And so, I think that explains the behavioral changes because that's where a lot of your limbic nuclei is located. And then the anterior grade memory trouble. Guess what's also in the kind of medial portion of the temporal lobe? The hippocampus. And so, that may be explaining some of the memory problems. And then guess what else is controlled in the temporal lobe? Speech. I was just going to say speech. >> So, there's probably some aphasia here. speaking gibberish here. >> Yeah. So, and then new onset seizures. When you have temporal lobe involvement, it's like a very like whenever you have a temporal lobe involvement or anything near the cortex, you're high risk for seizures, but temporal lobe involvement is a very very high predilction for in increasing risk of seizures. So, that's a that's really why I'm thinking this. So 34 year old cognitive behavioral changes memory problems aphasia new onset seizures no menismas so no nuclear rigidity no positive kernigs no brazinskis that doesn't scream like a meningo and sephilitis it doesn't scream menitis on its own so that's why I'm thinking that this definitely screams more encphilitis so we have a clear pattern if you had to give like a good step-wise priorities like the first case what's your first priorities for this patient >> I think the big thing is at this point trying to figure out what to do is obviously not always as easy as what we see here like in true clinical reality you can't just say ah this is HSV and cipher lattes bro I'm done you know drop some cycle beer you know salt bay that in and then done no you got to you got to have more clinical just stalt and kind of thinking and you know processing so I think if I missed acute bacterial menitis because I say oh they don't have menisma symptoms I don't think it's going to hold up in court if they have acute bacterial menitis. So >> you better be thorough. >> Yeah, exactly. So I think right away I would say let's get my blood cultures. Let's still do that. Let's get two sets. Let you know am I able to get an LP on this person right away? No, they have fail symptoms like they got new onset seizures. They have altered mental status. I have to get a CT just to make sure. Then I could do my LP. So I'd get the blood cultures from there. I would also probably start them on broadspectctrum. I'd start some steroids. I would definitely start a cycllovere because I have a high degree of suspicion for encphilitis. Once I get the CT scan, I make sure that there's nothing really there. Then I would get my LP. My LP is going to give me my CSF profile with lots of lymphocytes in the in the white cell kind of involvement. May have a little bit of an increased opening pressure. But the key thing is they're going to have lots of proteins as well. And it's probably going to be more clear. And that will make you kind of lean towards saying it's not as likely bacterial menitis because bacterial is you have tons of polies. So thousands of polymorph luccoytes, low glucose and high total protein. So then from there I'd probably go like I think it's unlikely I'll wait for the Grahamstain and culture just to be safe but I think it's highly unlikely I have menitis. I probably could just bounce the antibiotics off if I wanted to in the steroids and keep the ascycllovere and then I would order my HSV VCV PCR. Here's the thing I had three patients when I worked on the ICU in the small time that I was there was three patients with HSV and sephilitis and in one of them the HSV PCR was negative. >> Wow. the first time we ordered it. And so I think we were just early. I think we kind of did the tap a little early and you just needed a little bit more time before it came back positive. And so what we ended up doing is we said, "Okay, I still have a high degree suspicion. Let's do two things. Let's reorder it in about three four days. Anything anything to seven days after you've done the initial LP is fine and get an MRI." And the reason why is an MRI is kind of helpful. and the interum it's not like a definitive thing but bilateral asymmetric temporal lobe like lighting up like a Christmas tree on a T2 flare on the MRI is really suggestive of HSV and sephilitis. So I'd get the MRI see if that helps me and then on top of that I'd repeat the HSV PCR in 3 to seven days but I'd keep them on a cycllovere in the meantime. So that's what I would do in this particular scenario is if this patient I had them I would definitely go down that process of blood cultures times two start my broadspectctrum antibiotics add on a cycllovere do I need to get the CT yes I'll do that if it's normal get the LP LP will give me my CSF profile that may help me to kind of say bacterium menitis is unlikely but I'll wait for my cultures and then I add on the HSV VZV PCR if that came back negative and I still had a high degree of suspicion continue the ascyc get another repeat PCR in 3 to seven days and then do an MRI. If it comes back positive, you're good. Drop all the antibiotics, drop the steroids, and just keep the ascyclo. So, that's kind of how I would go along this this road. >> That's a pretty crazy real life example of that where it's like you can get that false negative. You maybe just a tad bit early. Yep. >> And you can't just be like, "Oh, we're good. Roll it out." >> Exactly. That's why it's it's it's not always like super simple just salt banging some cyclloe on there and saying we're good to go. Because pretty nephrotoxic, man. So, you got to be really careful with this. When you put somebody on this, you carry a risk of further problems. If you put them on it, you're wrong. But you're like, you know, I think it could be, but I'm going to put them on this anyway. And you don't properly hydrate them. They have an underlying kidney disease. Boom. You can end up with an AKI, and then before you know it, if it's too bad, they may need to get dialysis or something like that. So, >> causing way more issues than you need. >> Exactly. There's always risk with everything you do. So, you just have to have a degree of certainty with it. >> Well, our patient had I mentioned earlier she had seized on arrival. It was a new onset seizure. >> Yeah. What's your move there? >> Yeah. So, this is always debated and what I mean by debated is when I we talked about menitis. Menitis is you're at risk for seizures, right? So, do you just start them on levator keer prophylactically? No. The evidence a lot of the neurocritical care society says don't do seizure prophylaxis unless they have a clinical seizure physically or you have EEG evidence that suggests that they had non-convulsive seizures. And so since the first patient didn't have seizures, >> you can't just prophylactically do that. >> Yeah, you can't. And Levitzam is like really low risk, the chances of having any kind of problems, you'd probably be okay. But it's just you're doing something that's not completely necessary and it's not evidence-based. So I probably wouldn't do it prophylactically. If you had a seizure like this patient did, >> right? Yeah. >> Or let's say that they didn't have a clinical seizure. We booked them up on continuous EEG and I see that they have lots of, you know, LPDS, lots of periodic discharges, or they have clinical non-comvulsive status. I'm definitely putting them on an anti-epileptic like levator. So that's what I would say is with this patient, they had a seizure, if they're post-dictal and they come back to their baseline, you probably don't have to get an EEG. And so that's what I was always taught is if you have a patient who seized, they come back to their baseline, you can just keep them on limit or put them on that as a preventative. You're only preventing recurrent or future seizures. Yeah. >> If they came in fully seizing for me in the ICU, then I got to go through my whole, you know, status epilepticus pro protocol. Do I need to hit them with larzipam? They've been seizing continuously for more than five minutes. Okay, give them larzazzipam. All right, they're you know they're done seizing but you know they're in the status epilepticus. Let me start them on levitzam and I'll do that with my loading dose and then I'll continue that with a maintenance. If they were still seizing beyond that then you start going into a little bit more of the other things like propall infusions and versed and ketamine and things like that. But for this scenario they came in postdictal as long as they returned to their baseline. I'd probably just do love Levitzam. If at any point in time in that hospital stay or when they first came, they were still super confused or they were kind of abnormal, their mental status was changed or they just weren't coming back to their baseline, I would definitely hook them up to EEG and make sure that there's not some non-combulsive status or something weird and then adjust my AEDs accordingly to that. >> In the first case, you talked a lot about ICPS. What are you concerned about with this patient and their ICPS? So I think like with ICP that's definitely something that can happen with encphilitis I'd say it's much more common to happen with menitis and brain abscess and the reason why was encphilitis you can get diffuse edema in the medial temporal loes and so that diffuse edema definitely can cause some mass effect and that is concerning but the thing I really get concerned about with menitis and brain abscess is menitis can cause the communicating hydrophilis and a brain abscess can literally smash on a ventricle and cause obstructive hydrophilis. So with ICP crises with these patients, I have seen it, but usually what happens is is they have so much diffuse edema in the the temporal loes and I'm not kidding. If you got bilateral medial temporal right where the encasus is and it's really inflamed, it can uncle herniate. And so if you started to see like their level of consciousness was going down, they had contrlateral hemiparesis or their pupil was starting to change. They were having like you know a you know dilated and fixed pupil. So they were showing something like a third nerve kind of like involvement. Then I would say okay this is an ICP kind of event. We would need to address that. We don't often like to do steroids for these kinds of conditions. That's something I would probably not do. I would go more with like what are your normal temporizing measures if they were having an ICP event and usually that's things like elevate the head of the bed greater than 30 degrees are they in pain do they need some sedation to calm them down and reduce their basil metabolic rate in the brain do I need to hyperventilate them to get the CO2 down to you know restrict constrict the cerebral vessels and reduce cerebral blood flow and do I need to give them manitol which I hate don't use manitol or hypertonic saline to really kind of get their sodium up to reduce and dehydrate some of areas of the brain and shrink it down a little bit. Those are things you can do temporarily, but really you just have to give the cyclloe time to work. And so that's kind of the key thing. These patients, they don't often have problems with hydrophilis like menitis and brain abscess do, but I have seen them have difficulties with their ICP. >> Funny enough, speaking of the temporal lobe edema, I was wondering like the first patient why you wouldn't want to start dex dexamethasone. This is this is like the perfect situation to >> Yeah. And I think like you know a lot of the times dexamethasone you definitely can like if you have a suspicion that they have menagitis and you start them on that dexamethasone that's fine. It won't hurt them. It's just it's probably not going to do a ton. It is a vasogenic edema. So steroids are supposed to help with vasogenic edema. I just think that the key thing is really it's getting the on board and just temporizing them and getting them through that tough time. And really I'm not kidding. Seizures are the worst possible thing for these patients. If they seize or they get uncontrollable fevers and things like that, it will worsen their ICP. It will make them sicker and it will increase their risk of mortality. So, it's really important that with encphilitis patients like this, you do not let them have ICP spikes. You really control their temperature and most importantly is you try to reduce the risk of seizures. So, those are all things that will just potentially worsen them if you don't take care of that. >> So, we we got to be pushing a cycllovere. >> Yeah, exactly. A cycllovere. you're going to be hitting that. And a lot of the times, you know, I I think it's it's fine. You hit them with IV fluids. You know, I think that's okay. Just be be mindful and monitor their urine output. Monitor their creatin. Make sure that you're not volume overloading them in these potential scenarios. >> Okay. Case three. We have a 28-year-old man with three weeks of worsening headaches and low-grade fevers. He just got over a tough bout of otitis media. Okay. Now he has new left arm weakness and trouble word finding. >> Oh my gosh. >> No menismas. It sounds like he's having a stroke. >> Could you imagine that? You just I had an ear infection and all of a sudden I had I had a big old goober in my head. >> All of a sudden >> Oh my holy crap. That's awesome. >> It's like that's incredibly scary. >> Yeah. >> I I would I would lose it. I'd be like I mean you're 28 years old. You just had a freaking ear infection. >> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And that's that's what's scary about this is this is exactly I now I have a suspicion of what's going on obviously but when you hear otitis media you know a middle ear infection you think of younger children you can see it in older individuals especially if they have like I'd say like chronic kind of problems or they have some type of like predisposing condition diabetes you know HIV things like that but right here otitis media there's a thin little membrane where it's just if you get a really bad rip roaring middle ear infection infection, it can spread right through that membrane and you're you're boom, you're right there. It's a thin membrane. So there's like a thin membrane between the middle ear and the meningis. >> Yeah. >> And so that's the scary thing about this is it's just easy for this kind of stuff to happen if it's not properly controlled. But yeah, this is this is concerning. And I think the the thing here is >> we have worsening headaches and it's it's not like acute. >> It's like it's three weeks, man. So menitis at this point I don't know that's this is getting more to like a subacute menitis if that's the case because usually acute bacterial menitis you it's pretty abrupt and so I I think it's possible but I'm I'm not completely convinced >> but it is a route of where you can get menitis low-grade fevers the funny thing is with with brain abscesses they tend to have progressive headaches they're not like sudden acute all of a sudden and terrible and they may or may not have a fever but after a bout of otitis media that is a very common source of contig usually brain abscesses is almost always contiguous spread so sinusitis dental infections middle ear infections mastoiditis and brain abscesses I'm sorry infective endocarditis so those are your common sources of where patients get brain abscesses so they have one of those potential risk factors they have progressive headaches they have a low-grade fever and Here's the I think the kicker is the new onset focal deficits. They have they have focal neural deficits. They have this new left arm weakness, right? So could it be that in this case since it's contrateral for this case could it be that they have a right temporal lobe abscess started from a right middle ear infection spread to the actual right temporal lobe maybe caused a temporal lobe abscess and that's explaining their left arm weakness and maybe some of the word finding difficulty that could be possible and then the fact that they have no menismus again it's it doesn't exclude menitis >> but again I think in this case of the exam it makes it a little bit less less likely. Well, here's the here's here's the real thing here. This guy's having stroke like symptoms. So, I'm guessing you got to image like hard. >> Yeah, I would 100% like you got to just just image them right away. >> Yeah. If I ever had a 20-year-old, you know, kid come into me and they had, you know, a focal deficit or new onset potentially a fasia, I'm going to be getting an a CT scan right away. So, this would likely come in potentially as a stroke alert, right? >> Yeah. Exactly. and you're going to get a CT scan and you're going to make sure that you don't identify any kind of like abnormalities. What I would expect in this perfect since we're talking about CNS infections, we're not talking about cerebrovascular accidents, I'd expect to see a brain abscess in the right temporal lobe is what I'm what I'm thinking that I would expect to see. And I think it would probably sometimes if you get a good window on the CT scanner that you're doing it with, you may even be able to see that middle ear infection. So a lot of the times if you get good windows and you get kind of good slices, you may be able to say, "Hey, there's the right middle ear infection and I can see it spread and you got the right temporal lobe abscess." So that's what I would expect to find. And so that's the first thing I would do. Get the CT scan. Make sure that it's not like a stroke. Make sure it's not a bleed. Make sure it's not an aneurysmal subacoid hemorrhage. It's not a tumor. It's not something else that could be present. >> I would expect to see a potential concerning brain mass lesion. And then you would say, "Oh man, is this like cancer? Is this a tumor?" Right? Is this is this an abscess? I think the clinical picture would scream more abscess than it would cancer. But what would you probably say if you got a CT scan, you see a brain lesion. CT scans are great, but what would you think would even be better? >> Got to get an MRI. >> I'd probably get an MRI. So that's what I would do is let's say that I got the CT scan. I said, "Okay, hey, this is a noncon. It's no stroke, no bleed, no hemorrhage. There's a mass lesion. I'll get the MRI." >> Yeah. I would feel a lot better at that point if you rule out some sort of, you know, emergency like like a stroke. Yep. You can say, "All right, well, hey, at least they're not like freaking bleeding out on me." >> Exactly. >> Let's then do an MRI, which is a little more timeconuming. >> Exactly. Yeah. It's a little more timeconuming and >> But you feel better about that. >> Yeah. And if I did that, I' I would have a better idea of sometimes I I've seen so many patients where they got a CT scan and you see one abscess or you see one little mass lesion. You get the MRI and you're like, "Oh my gosh, there's like five of them." >> Oh. and or or unfortunately cancer. Like you start off and you say, "Hey, there's this one cancer, this this MET that I see." And all of a sudden you get an MRI like 50 of them." >> Yeah. >> So a brain MRI will always give you a lot more information than you truly expect sometimes. And so one of the benefits of an MRI is that they can help to a degree in concerning for piogenic brain lesion. What I mean is it's just a it's an abscess fil. >> And so you can you look at a couple different things. One is on the T2 flare, the rim around the abscess, like the capsule, it it's usually bright. So, you get what's called a rim, a ring enhancing lesion. And then around it, you're probably going to have a lot of edema. So, on the T2 flare, you'll see a lot of this kind of like whitish kind of appearance. And then when you go to the DWI sequence, which is usually for strokes a lot of the times, it'll show up bright in the lesion. And then on ADC, it'll show up dark. That screams more abscess than it does cancer because cancer is usually a bit more of the opposite. >> And so that's why I would say if I got the MRI, it would help me to determine first off how many mass lesions I have. >> Is this mass lesion cancer or is it an a piogenic brain lesion? And if it's not a piogenic brain lesion, sometimes you can have them and they don't show like bright on DWI, dark on ADC with the but they have the edema and they look like they could be an abscess. You can get other conditions. Toxopplasmosis. You've heard of a tapeworm? You can get tapeworms in the brain, buddy. You know, so there's a lot of things that don't light up like an abscess, but you can still have them. And we'll talk about that with the host factors. But yeah, that's what I would do is I' I'd forsk get a CT on this patient. you would see this brain probably lesion and there's not a chance you're going to be doing an LP because you're gonna be like I don't need an LP. LPS don't yield a lot of the time for and they're potentially dangerous and this is the reason why that risk of herniation if you did an LP and so LP would be useless at this point. Get a non-con CT you'll see that you get an MRI for a better visualization characterization of it and then from there we kind of make our informed decisions in this scenario. >> So for our patient obviously this all originated from this middle ear infection. >> Yeah. And because it was, you know, otitis media, what type of bacteria would we be would be expecting then? >> Yeah, that's good. So, we talked a lot about the bacteria with acute bacterium menitis is kind of what I think you're alluding to with the strepnuma neria and lististeria hmophilus and stuff like that. And then HSV vzv primarily for your encphylitis and aseptic menagitis. But for brain abscesses a lot of the times, if you think about it, they're primarily streptococcus species. >> Okay? Okay. And and so there's there's a a big group called strepiccus viridans. And strepcus virans is probably going to be one of the more common. And then the other thing is is anorobes. Anorobes tend to have more of a a risk of kind of really forming that walled off infection which helps to contribute to the abscess. And so I'd worry about bactaroides. So bactarides fragility is a pretty good one. If I had a patient who told me, "Yeah, I just got an EVD put in the other day." Or, "Yeah, I just had neurosurgery." Yeah, funny enough they actually, you know, they pulled my skull off and stuff like then I'd be, >> you know, then I'd be like, "Okay, then I'm worried about more healthc care associated ones like MRSA. Yeah, sudamonus, things like that." But oftent times, more often than not, streptocockus verdans and an anorobic bactaroid is going to be my go-to. So, a lot of the times if you don't know where the source is coming, we know it's coming from the middle ear, but if if I have no idea where the source is, you can't go wrong with having venkcomy. And the reason why is venkcomy is going to cover a lot of your streptocous species but also in the chance that it's >> MRSA because you can't have MRSA cause these abscesses as well. The next one is sept trioxone and sept trioxone is primarily going to be the one that covers the streptoccus >> veriridans >> and then metroniditool and that's going to cover the anorob. So really what you're trying to do is you're giving vank to cover the chance of staff species. You're giving the especially MRSA you're giving the septra action to cover the strepcockus veridance and you're giving the metroniditool to cover the anroope. So you're covering all your bases in the most safe way possible. >> So like we've been doing you're going to start with the empiric antibiotics. >> Yeah. If I had like let's just say I didn't have any idea. >> At this point we don't let's just say we don't right now. >> If that was the case I'd start with those and then I would kind of narrow down based upon future findings. In this patient it came from an otitis media. Oftent times it's going to be the same. more often than not you're probably going to be okay and you could probably just say I could cover that but here's what I would say unknown you're a little bit more broad oftentimes you probably don't need that vank you often times you truly probably don't need that vencomy if I had a syogenic odtogenic dentogenic source I'm probably going to be fine just sticking with like sept trioxone and metroniditool that's pro because septrain is going to cover your strap verans and the metronid is going to call is going to cover your anorobes. Okay. Right. >> If this person had diabetes, a predisposing otitis media, like repeated otitis media infections, then they're at risk for pseudamonus. >> So then I would say that they need to be on something like sephopene or marapenum. But in this case, I don't have anything there. So I probably wouldn't do that and I probably feel good just for right now doing seph trioxone and metroniditool to cover my strep veridans and to cover my my anorobes. If it was a let's say that this person had I don't know let's say that they had a history where they did talk about like they oh yeah I actually had like you know tons of otitis media I have some actual tubes in I got diabetes HIV I would probably say okay we're not going to do this septone we'll do sephopm and we'll do metroniditool or I could just do marapenum on its own if they told me they had like we just were joking yeah dude did they just pop my skull off the other day you know yeah I'm sure that's how they would say it Yeah, they just popped my top and then they were fiddling around over there. Any kind of neurosurgical device penetrating trauma, you can't doubt that there's a chance of MRSA and then sudamonus. And so if there was anything like that, venkcomy is going to be a key to cover the MRSA and sephopm or merapenum is going to cover a lot of my my sudamonus. So that's one thing I would say is if there was a healthc care associated or penetrating trauma, I'd probably consider that. But oftentimes if it's otogenic, cyoggenic, dentogenic, you'd probably be fine with just septra, metroniditool. If you have not a clue in the world, venkcomy, sept trioxone, metroniditool. And then the last thing I would say is if you have a patient with let's say infective endocarditis, >> right? If they have infective endocarditis or they have risk, like let's say they get an echo, you get a blood culture, all those things like that, and you think that they have infective, they'll probably present the exam that they have a new onset heart murmur, right? Okay. And maybe there's some other things like some septic emblei findings like splinter hemorrhages etc. Venkcomy and sept trioxone would probably be good enough right because you're going to cover your strep veridans and then the sept trioxone is going to cover any additional streptoccus veriridans and a lot of other kind of species as well because oftentimes more than not it's staff orius for infective indicitis and strep veridans and so the venko will cover the mca and the septrain will cover the strep veriridans. So let's I know there's a lot let's recap one more time. Yep. >> Comes in unknown ven septra metroniditool it's going to cover ma it's going to cover strep virance it's going to cover anorobes cyogenic odtogenic dentogenic >> most likely what our patient has >> yep I'm going to just go with sept trioxone and metroniditool only reason I would consider sephopm as an alternative to sept trioxone is if I hear anything that puts them at a higher risk for sudamonis chronic otitis media diabetes HIV something like that tubes in the Okay, we'll we'll switch that up. Hematogenous source like infective endocritis venkcomy sept trioxone if they had someone popping their top and fiddling with their brain devices and sephop or maripenum. So that's going to give you the general coverage for these patients and you should be okay with any kind of piogenic brain lesion. Right? >> Let me float this next scenario at you. Okay, >> let's just say we let's just say right now it was unknown and we're we're going to do the empiric antibiotics. >> Yeah, >> we're doing vank, sept trioxone, and metroniditool. >> Yeah. >> Let's just say things aren't getting better >> and now we're starting to say the patient's not improving on antibiotics. We're we're we're actually starting to get worse. >> Where does your where does your mind go then? >> Oh, okay. And that's those scenarios I I start wondering should I should I actually sample the abscess? Because the reason why is I think the big concern is if there's something else that you're missing or if that bacteria that you think is there is resistant >> could could it also be if it's walled off and you can't even get to it. >> Yeah. And so I think that's why so there's a lot of indications as to when you'll actually because a lot of the times with brain absis you can probably get away with just doing antibiotics and then serially watching it and not having to touch it. >> They'll get better. >> But if it doesn't get better and then another indication is and it's this is like a very arbitrary number. It kind of annoys me when they do these weird cut offs, but greater than 2.5 cmters. And I think the reason why is that about that size, you get mass effect. And so I think it's just easier to remember that like if the if the abscess isn't getting better or the absess is so big that it's causing mass effect symptoms. >> You're getting hydrophilis, you're getting elevated intraanial pressure, you're getting kind of symptoms from that. Okay, I should probably drain the abscess more specifically for the therapeutic purposes. And then you get the additional kind of diagnostic utility. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> The main diagnostic is like, hey, they're not getting any better. I got to figure out what's in this thing. And then you sample it. Another reason I'd say is really concerning is if the abscess is in close proximity to a ventricle. I've seen this once and it was actually terrifying. They got they they the I'm not trying to be negative, but the patient didn't make it. They had an abscess and it was super close to their third ventricle >> and then it actually ruptured into their ventricle. And so then you get all that pus material into the ventricle. So if you have an abscess that's decent size and it's really close to the ventricle, it can literally get close and rupture into it and then you get all that pus material moving through the ventricles and subactoid space. So in those scenarios, I would definitely drain it to reduce the risk of a ventricular rupture. >> Yeah. So I'd say if it's really big or if it's more specifically I would prefer to say if it's big enough that it's causing mass effect ICP problems not getting any better so failure to improve or if it's really close to a ventricle and it's at risk for rupturing I would drain it for therapeutic but you're going to get that diagnostic utility as well. The only other thing I'll say is with brain abscesses is if I ever see so here's the way I like to remember these when you have an abscess near the temporal lobes it's often times more than not coming from like an middle ear infection or a mastoiditis or something in that vicinity contiguously. >> Yep. >> If it's in the frontal lobeish area it's probably coming from a frontal or ethmoid sinusitis. Maybe a dentogenic infection or otogenic infection or sorry denttogenic infection. Right. Okay, so maybe a dental abscess or something like that and it's spread. If you have lots of abscesses, multiple ones that are along the gray white junction along the middle cerebral artery territory, >> that's usually infective endocarditis until proven otherwise. And if they are severely immunosuppressed, I would consider this is very rare nocardia. No cardia is a nasty like weird bacterial infection that you can get in imunosuppressed patients and usually they have pulmonary infections too. So that's the way I like to think about it is if you see multiple on the gray white junction infective endocritis if you really want to think about in the imunosuppressed patient no cardiosis if you see solitary abscesses frontal lobe it's probably coming check the frontal ethmoid sinuses check for any kind of dental infections coming from the temporal or cerebellar lobe area abscesses check the middle ear check the mastoid check for infections in those areas the last thing I would say is if you see it in the basil ganglia and you hear the words that they have aids with a CD4 count less than 100 you cannot like without positivity you can't say oh you know it's it's not yeah it's not toxo so toxo should be on your actual differential with these lesions multiple like lesions in the basil ganglia and if they have aids and they put somewhere in the vignette that the CD4 counts less than 100 they have they have a high risk of toxopplasmosis >> and then the other thing is is if you see these lesions and they look like they have a hole with a dot in it that sometimes can be the little mouth of the tapeworm. >> Oh, come on. >> I knew where you were going with this. >> Yeah. So, it could be like the skulllex I think they call it on the tapeworm and that could be neuroscyistericosis. And so any other kind of lesion like like that has maybe that like you got to be careful saying pathommonic but they have basil ganglia or they have that hole in the dots hole with a dot sign I would check p corology and so I would do like a toxopplasma gandi IGG and I would check an anti-cystic antibodies and see if those come back positive and I would do a really good history. Hey you got you got AIDS bro? Okay let me check your CD4 count. Hey you've been traveling and eating any kind of weird food like pork or something like that you know just ripping them. Yeah. Okay. And then I could have the the history, I could have the imaging, and I could have the P corology kind of point me towards if it's neurosystericosis, cerebral toxopplasmosis. And then there's a lot of other weird ones. Any kind of immunosuppressed patient, they're not just at risk for cerebral toxopplasmosis, they're at risk for fungal infections. I've never seen it, but aspiggillis can cause this. It's a really nasty one. And I think the really nasty one, I've seen pictures of this once, is mucor micosis. So it's a it's a fungal infection that usually spreads from the sinuses and it causes like black necrotic like escars all over like their face and nose and it can spread up to the actual brain as well. So anytime they're immunosuppressed I would definitely be worried about like fungal pathogens and toxopplasmosis. So just to kind of briefly recap a lot of this again if you got a patient who's got that headache for a while maybe they have some fevers they got focal deficits you got to get the CT scan first. Make sure it's not something else kind of weird. You're going to see this brain lesion kind of appearing. From there, further characterize it. Get the MRI. Look to see if it's piogenic on DWI, ADC, rim enhancing. If it is, figure out where it is. Is it along the great white junction screaming infective endocarditis, no cardia? Is it in the frontal loes suggesting more of a frontal ethmoid sinusitis or a dental infection? Is it temporal cerebella screaming more of a mastoiditis or maybe a middle ear infection? Okay, cool. If they have an immunosuppressed state and it's not piogenic on MRI, think about some weird things like toxopplasmosis, fungal infections, and if they got that hole in the dots, hole with the dot sign and they've been traveling and there's a weird chance of neuroscysterosis, I would probably order a toxopplasma gandhi IGG, I would order the anti-cystic antibodies and then kind of go from there with the history kind of helping me to make those decisions. But yeah, that's a lot. But that's kind of how I would go and that kind of guides the decision- making. And then antibiotics we talked about really are kind of based upon unknown or this the actual source that we suspect. >> To wrap this up, our last case here on the brain abscess. >> Yeah. >> What are some really big complications that you have to anticipate and you need to be able to be on autopilot if you if you see them. >> So I think one of the big things with brain abscess is hydrophilis. So it's going to cause for shore skis is going to lead to a obstructive hydrophilis. If you get a pretty decent sized one, it can compress on a ventricle. And that actually leads to one other indication as to why you'd want to tap these things like aspirate them, drain them. I just thought of this. If you had an abscess in the posterior fossa, not only can that cause obstructive hydrophilis, but it can cause mass effect on the brain stem. And so if you have a mass in the mass lesion in the posterior fossa that'd be another indication besides it being greater than 2.5 besides it having mass effect besides it being not getting any better with antibiotics or it's close to a ventricle like a rupture into it. I would also do that if it's in the posterior fauca. But either way, obstructive hydrophilis, that's a really really common complication with this one. And you'd probably need an EVD if it's causing enough problems where the you look at the CT scan and the ventricles look like balloons. You know, I'd probably have to pop an EVD in, divert the CSF, let the antibiotics start cooking and working to decrease the size of it, but if it was causing enough problems, I may need to drain it. So, that's one. ICP crisis is another potential concern. I'd say that that it's if it's in the posterior fossa, I'd say if that's in like the medial temporal lobe, that's a pretty concerning one. You may need to do things like your basic head of the bed greater than 30, analesia, sedation, hyperventilation, osmotherapy. But I think the key thing is if it's causing mass effect symptoms, you have to drain it. You have to be able to go in there and to decrease the size of it to reduce the mass effect. So I'd say that's another one. Here's the one. So menitis really highly associated with communicating hydrophilis and we also talked about as a high risk of sensory neural deafness right viral and sephilitis super high incidence of seizures ICP crisis brain abscess I really want you to correlate that yes with hydrophilis yes with ICP crisis but correlate it with cerebral venus sinus thrombosis it's basically a clot in the cerebral veins it's like you know you get develop a stroke and acute eskeemic stroke is usually you're blocking off a cerebral artery If you block off a cerebral vein, you can still get a stroke. It's called a venus infar and sometimes it can bleed and you can get venus hemorrhagic you know kind of changes but a cerebral venous sinus thrombosis is very very common. So for example if you have a frontal or ethmoid sinusitis it can spread along the emissary veins and actually can cause concominant abscess in the frontal lobe and it can cause like a superior sagittal sinus thrombosis. Sometimes the abscess if it's close enough to one of those cerebral veins, it can also cause a local kind of septic phobitis that can then cause clots. So either way, the whole point I'm trying to make is that cerebravenous sinus thrombosis and brain absesses kind of come handinand they oftentimes overlap. Sometimes it's the abscess that causes the thrombosis or sometimes it's the preceding infection, the sinusitis, the accutitis media that when it spreads to cause the abscess also causes a concominant cerebravenous thrombosis. So that's why I always suggest that whenever you're getting a CT scan and you're actually checking and you see a brain abscess, do a CTV, which is a CTV or get an and if you're going to go get an MRI of the brain with and without contrast, add an MRV on. The reason why is that sometimes you'll be able to characterize the abscess and you may miss that they have a concominant cerebral venous sinus thrombosis. So that's why I always kind of like suggest that get a CV, a CTV or an MRV to really get a better characteristic if they have any of those because that's a huge one. you have to anti-coagulate them because if not and it gets a big enough clot, they can get a stroke or they can actually bleed. And so that's why it's really really important for those. >> So I think it's helpful now just to try and figure out how do we think on exam day like this is an algorithm you can say out loud how do you how do you phrase this and remember all of this information. So first thing does the patient have menial signs, cortical signs, focal deficits with mass effect. If it's meningial signs, Zach, what are we looking for there? I get the cultures. I check to see if they have any fail signs. I'd LP them if I have a concern for menitis. And with all of this, whenever you're getting those blood cultures, you should definitely start empiric therapy. I'd prefer to wait till after the LP, but if there's any delay in treatment and where I have to wait to get a CT scan or the LP is going to take a while for whatever reason, start your steroids, start your antibiotics, and then kind of just, you know, get your LP as soon as you possibly can. So, that's what I would say is definitely important for the menitis side. How about cortical signs? So like our case two, there is some crazy behavior changes, seizures, what do you do with like encphilitis? >> So with anything like that, if I have a high degree of encphylitis, you know, again, I can't ever con completely rule out menitis. So I'm still going to get the blood cultures. I'm still probably going to start some broadspectctrum antibiotics. I'm just going to add on a cycllovere. I'm going to see if they have any kind of concerning features where I would need to get a CT before getting an LP. Once I get the LP, I should be able to kind of narrow down and say, "Ah, it's less likely." This can get rid of the antibiotics, wait for the HSV, PCR. Sometimes it's negative. Repeat it in 3 to 7 days if you have to. If it comes back negative, correlated with an MRI. But usually with these, a cycllovere is the go-to for this one. And then just be careful because they can really seize. Now, let's talk about post ENT dental. We then see patients have progressive headaches. We see focal deficits. What then? How are you going to algorithm that one? >> Yeah. Yeah. So that suggests more of the brain abscess patient. So for there you always want to get a CT scan because if you for example you have a concern of menitis or something like that for this patient which could concur occur concominantly you do not want to LP them for the risk of herniation. So for this I'd get a CT scan. You'll find a brain lesion. It'll most likely explain their symptoms. You won't want to get an LP. Then from there MRI usually better characterizes what's going on. If it presents as more of a piogenic brain lesion. You start them on empiric antibiotics. depending upon if you know the source, don't know the source determines the antibiotic regimen that we talked about. And the only time that you're really going to go in and tap and really drain or excise or do anything with the abscess is if they're not getting better and you just don't know what the bacteria is or the pathogen is and you need to, you know, refigure that out or kind of, you know, change your frame of what you're doing or it's causing true like mass effect symptoms. It's in the posterior fossa which is a tight space. It's pushing on brain stem. and it's doing other things like causing obstructive hydrophilis or it's just too damn big or it's near a ventricle and it's ready to rupture then you should consider draining those puppies. But yeah, that's what I would say for this one. Always checking for host clues. So what would you do? What would you add for the following things, Zach? If they're older, immuno compromised devices, trauma or an HIV with a CD4 less than 100. >> Yeah. So anytime you have a device neurosurgery penetrating trauma, you always have to cover for MRSA, you have to cover for, you know, sudamonus. So that's the things where you'll add on you know sephopm or merapenum for the sedamonus vank for the ma if I hear a patient that I suspect has menitis and they're older you know greater than 50 they have you know alcoholism cerosis a pregnant or they're imunosuppressed like you said I would consider adding a for lsteria anytime I have an immunosuppressed patient though I'm definitely concerned about a variable amount of pathogens you know liststeria is definitely one for menitis is but there's other things you know cryptocinitis TB menitis is another thing to consider but one thing is whenever you hear the term HIV AIDS with a CD4 count that's pretty low >> you need to start thinking about could it be crypto menitis because that's a really important one and if you hear HIV AIDS with a CD4 count less than 100 and they have these like weird brain lesions in their basil ganga you got to think about toxopplasmosis so those are the big ones that I'd say for the exam day to definitely consider >> and then we have to remember the complications which ones should we anticipate for these conditions and and what do we need to know as far as being on autopilot for them? >> Okay, I think seizures is obviously a really common complication with encphilitis. You can see it with menitis, you can see with brain abscess, but it's going to be more with the hi HSV and sephilitis. If they come in acutely seizing, follow your status epilepticus pro protocol, but the biggest thing is to prevent recurrent seizures. And so keeping them on something like levatorazzam, valproate, phosphinitoin is the key thing. and then having a low degree a low threshold to do a continuous EEG if they have a continued altered mental status they're just not getting back to their baseline or you know you suspect non-compulsive status >> hydrophilis a lot of the times especially for some scenarios like crypto menitis where you don't want to keep an EVD in because those proteins can really clog those EVDs up and you may have to do serial LPS to really kind of reduce their pressure but a lot of the times if you have a a mass lesion a communicating hydrophilis that's you know occurring you may have to do an EVD and that's going to just be temporary until you treat the underlying condition and get that under control. ICP crisis a lot of these times it's from hydrophilis. So an EVD should help with that or an LPS. But if there is any potential region as to where it's like it's diffuse cerebral edema or it's a brain abscess. A lot of times you need to temporize them. Head of the bed greater than 30 analesia sedation hyperosmolar therapy hyperventilating them. But the definitive therapy depends upon the underlying condition. If it's acute bacterial menitis, you need antibiotics. You just got to wait for those to cook and treat them the best that you can. If they have hydrophilis, EVD for encphilitis, giving the ascycllovere some time to work. If they have hydrophilis, popping in an EVD for brain abscess, it's considering is it actually big enough that this thing needs to be drained. That's when I would consider something like, you know, surgical drainage or excision. But yeah, that's kind of where I would go with this. Honestly, that wraps this podcast episode up. I don't think we can hammer this into the ground anymore. >> No, seriously, it was that was a great recap. We've talked I mean, this is a lot of information. >> Yeah, this was this was like a Lord of the Rings movie here. And not quite. We you've done worse. >> All right. Yeah, I guess I have. But >> but overall, I mean, you've you've hit on these really three important C CNS infections. >> Yep. >> A lot. And I I couldn't think it was any better. >> Thanks, man. I I really hope that you guys liked it as well. I hope that you learned a lot. I hope that you feel comfortable with CNS infections in the sense that if you were to ever experience this on the wards or on the boards, you would feel comfortable and feel like you know what to do. So, thank you guys so much. I love you guys. I thank you guys. And just as always, until next time.