Welcome back to the Ninja Podcast. Today we're continuing through our oncology playlist. Today's episode is going to be on colorectal cancer. We've got a lot to talk about, a lot of guidelines, a lot of screening, a lot of numbers we're throwing at you. Yeah, it's tough, man. Honestly, when you look at all these guidelines, I mean, I I think that's one of the tough things about, you know, oncology is when you look at a lot of patients and you have to kind of screen and know what do you use to screen, what age do you screen, how often do you screen, that's a challenging topic. So, I think we'll do that as a part of this lecture and every other kind of cancer that topic that we discuss. But I think we should eventually have a podcast where we just talk nothing about just uh you know cancer screening guidelines. It really it will deserve an episode because it's just so important and there really are a lot of numbers involved. Yeah, a lot of different types of tests and a lot of different ages, a lot of frequency changes. So, that'll be something that we'll discuss a lot in this episode, but we'll have another one we talk about all of them and really trying to put them all together. But, yeah, that's going to be a big thing and I think that's the hallmark of what we talk about a lot in oncology is knowing really what is the particular risk factors, what is the age range that we should consider screening, what do we screen them with? Colonoscopy is going to be the gold standard. And then on top of that, it's also just noting what are the potential clinical manifestations that would make me concerned about colorectile cancer that I would go towards making a step like doing a colonoscopy. Well, enough said. Let's get right into it. Here we've got three cases. We're going to do an average risk, high-risisk, and a symptomatic patient. Let's get into it. All right. Well, we have three cases for today, and we're going to be going through each one, and uh hopefully you can try and get an idea and guess as we go through them with it. All right, let's go. Case one. So we have a 51-year-old male presents for his annual wellness visit for his HPI. The patient feels well. He denies weight loss, GI symptoms, rectal bleeding, or fatigue. No personal history of polyps, IBD, or cancer. For his past medical history, hypertension, hyper lipidmia, and he's currently on leinipil and a tovastatin. For his family history, negative for colon cancer. his exam. Normal vitals, abdomen soft, non- tender, no rectal masses or occult blood. All right, Zach, we've got a 51-year-old male coming in for a routine checkup. To me, this seems like an average risk patient. There's no red flags. He's on top of his health. He's just being proactive. So, as the practitioner here with this patient, what are you thinking and how do you go from here? Yeah, so this is an average risk patient. I'd say that this is a patient who is, you know, there's no, like you said, personal family history. There's no inflammatory bowel disease. um there's no symptoms and so with that being said, you know, I don't think that we need to be going earlier. So oftent times we kind of keep the range of when we would screen these patients to the age of 45. So greater than equal to 45, you'll start screening them with a colonoscopy. And the whole point of that is to go up and see, hey, is there any polyps? Is there any kind of like weird looking polyps? Is there any colurectal cancer in general that may be kind of like at this point in this patient asymptomatic? So that's something that we try to do to prevent from finding it at a stage four, stage three level. So this patient I would just recommend according to the USPSTF at this patient 51 they should definitely get a colonoscopy sometime very very soon since they're definitely overdue at this point. Um age 45 or greater start with a colonoscopy and then from there we usually do it like every 10 years. Okay. And and at that point if it's normal it's just every 10 years right. Yeah. Okay. Well if you had to choose what's your go-to screening method? Is it the colonoscopy? Yeah the colonoscopy is really the go-to. The reason why is there's different types of things that you could do. You could do like the flexible sigmoidoscopy. They don't really do that except in patients who have what's called um familial adenomatosis polyposis because those patients are almost always left-sided disease. So they usually get thousands upon thousands of polyps that occur in like their rectum, their sigmoid colon, their descending colon. Um but in patients who have colorectal cancer, it can occur anywhere from the rectum all the way to the seeum. And so we need to be able to evaluate that entire large colon. And so that would be the go-to is the colonoscopy. And again, for this patient, since they're average risk, I'd start at the age of 45 or greater, which this patient's definitely overdue. And then if it's completely normal, usually we just go every 10 years. Yeah. So in our patient, let's just say he is normal. So he's 51 now. So he would be due then for another colonoscopy at age 61. Yeah. Assuming everything was like perfectly normal and it was. Yeah. I think the other thing here is um there is alternatives. I think it depends on the patient. So for example, if a patient was like, I don't really want a colonoscopy, you could check for blood. So sometimes a lot of the times when patients have um you know colorectal cancer specifically I'd say right-sided colctal cancer it's a cult bleeding meaning that you don't see it. So you poop and you don't see any blood in the poo. It's usually mixed in with the stool so you can't actually visibly see it. So with those patients they're not coming and saying hey I have blood in my stool. So with those we can do what's called a fecal blood test. It literally just tests for blood in the stool. Or you can do a fit test which is like a fecal amino chemical or iminohistochemistry test and it's a little bit better at identifying proteins like hemoglobin which is a part of blood red blood cells. So those are things that you can do yearly and if you ever get an abnormal fit or fecal col blood test then you tell the patient hey I'm concerned you may have something that's bleeding in your colon and it could be cancer. Let's do a colonoscopy. So if they prefer I don't want to do a colonoscopy, you could say we could do fit testing or fecal co blood testing every year and if it comes back abnormal we got to we got to do a colonoscopy. Yeah. The other alternative is CT colonography. Um we don't really do this one that often. Um but this one is basically it's an image. So it's not like a little poop test where you kind of take poop and you literally put it on and say is there hemoglobin in the fit test or blood in it in the fecal cult. This one we actually do an image. We do a CT scan with contrast and it kind of really gives an image of what's going on inside the colon and we can see oh wow there's a big polip. there's a mass, there's an abnormal appearing lesion. At that point, if that's abnormal, you got to go get a colonoscopy because we got to figure out what that is. We need to biopsy it potentially and figure out a little bit more about it. If it's normal, then you can just keep doing it every 5 years. So again, alternatives is a fit or a fecal col. You can do that yearly or a CT colonography every 5 years, but if any of those come back abnormal, you have to get a colonoscopy. It's the gold standard. Let me float a different scenario your way. So our patient just now he was good. He he had no issues and now he should be due for another colonoscopy in 10 years. Yep. If he had elected for that. Now let's say he he different scenario. Let's say now that you actually do his colonoscopy. Yep. All right. He's 51 and now you find two small tubular adenomas. Okay. How does that does it change the 10-year rule? Yeah. So then in in those patients so there's a couple different reasons of why we would go to sooner time. So this is where if it came back abnormal, we can say technically according to like the guidelines, you can say I could go every three to five years. Well, how do I know if it's three? How do I know if it's five? So three years would be if it looks like if they have a bunch of them like three or more. If when you look at them under the microscope they have villis features, which is kind of like villis, remember villain, that's bad. That's a bad type of adenoma. And the last one is if it's a lot of dysplasia, that means a high-grade dysplasia, super super high risk of it kind of converting over. So in those we got to go sooner because that means there's a high chance of it turning into cancer. So I'd probably go three years. But in a patient who has like they don't have any villis kind of like adenomomas. They don't have like more than or equal to three adenomas. They don't really look like there's high-grade dysplasia. I'd push to go at 5 years. So that's what I'd probably do for this patient is they have two small tubular adenomas. There's no evidence of any high-grade dysplasia. I'd probably go at 5year range. And then any more than two probably saying three years. Yeah. Greater than or equal to three. High-grade dysplasia. Villa's features on microscopy. I'm going sooner. Okay. Yeah. All right. Well, that wraps up case one. All right. And let's move on to case two. Hit it. So, we did an average risk patient. I think you can probably guess where we're headed with this one. So, we have a 38-year-old woman presents for evaluation due to her family history of colorectal cancer. She's asymptomatic but concerned. Her father was diagnosed with colon cancer at age 45. She currently is presenting with no rectal bleeding, anemia, or change in bowel habits. She has no past medical history. She's not on any medications. For her family history, as I just stated, her father was diagnosed with colorectal cancer at age 45. Also, her paternal aunt was diagnosed with endometrial cancer at age 48. It's it's it's a little interesting, huh? Yeah. All right. For her exam, vitals are normal. Rectal exam is deferred. Asymptomatic. Okay. So, Zach, we have um a different one here. Yeah. Strong family history. patients concerned. She's only 38, but her dad had colorectal cancer at age 45. Yeah. Does she qualify as an average risk or a high risk? Yeah, it's definitely high risk. So, any patient where they have colorectal cancer and a family member before the age of like 60, in this case, they're at 45. That's that's pretty concerning. Um, and then on top of that, they had another family member with indoal cancer, which is kind of odd. So you can always remember I remember the demonic CEO in colorectal cancer. So CEO is colurectal cancer, indometrial ovarian cancer are almost always associated with Lynch syndrome for your exams. And so that's one thing that gets me a little bit concerned. Now Lynch syndrome, I have to go through a bunch of different kind of like genetic testing to really figure that part out. But at least right now, I would consider this patient high risk. I can't diagnose them with Lynch syndrome yet. I'd have to go a little bit further with that one. But when we look at high risk, the earliest way that we can like do a colonoscopy or a scope on this patient sooner is we would say we would start earlier than 45, at least age 40. But we could also make the argument to say they had a family member who had colorectal cancer at the age of 45. That's when they were diagnosed. We could even make the argument to say that we can go at the age of 40 or 10 years earlier than the the family member who was diagnosed. Okay. So 35. Yeah. And so that would actually make me and it's whichever one is sooner. So whichever one comes first that's the time that we would actually do the scope. So in this patient I would say at 35 that's when they should have technically have gotten a colonoscopy. So that's when I would say absolutely this patient definitely should be getting a colonoscopy. They have a family member with a colorectal cancer at a young age. That really suggests a hereditary cancer syndrome. And that's what I'm thinking about is Lynch syndrome. And Lynch syndrome technically you should be if you have a diagnosis of Lynch syndrome you should be getting scanned way earlier dude I'm talking like 20 to 25 years of age that's when they're scanning these patients but or scoping these patients so this one for sure they have colorectile cancer and a family member less than 60 that's definitely higher risk and on top of that they even have another family member with indometrial cancer screams hereditary cancer syndrome so we either go at the age of 40 or 10 years earlier than the the family member who was diagnosed and so yeah I think that falls right in there at the age of 35 They're 38. We should do a colonoscopy as soon as we can. All right. So, she's due now. We're a little concerned with Lynch syndrome. So, tell me a little bit more about Lynch syndrome because it's it's colurectal cancer, but it's it's hereditary. Yeah. So, usually the these are patients who have a mutation and the mismatch repair genes. So, these are genes like for example, imagine these gen. So, every time we have one cycle of DNA replication, you always get insertion deletion errors. It's just natural. It's a part of the replication process. That's why we have mismatch repair genes to fix those those those mess ups. Um, whenever you have a mutation in those genes, those mismatch repair genes don't fix the damaged DNA. They don't fix those insertion deletion errors. Now, that happens a little bit, but as that starts to accumulate and accumulate and accumulate over time, that leads to mutations in very critical genes that control growth. That's what happens in this disease. And so, they probably have a mismatch repair gene mutation. And there's a bunch of different types of them. But what happens is when those those mutations accumulate over time, over time of every single time having a mismatch from the DNA undergoing a replication, that's going to lead to the incidence of a normal cell turning into a tumor cell. And those tumors tend to just form in three particular areas. The colon, the endometrium, and the ovaries. So just to make sure I have this this correct, I just want to clarify. I'm not sure if I'm understanding this correctly. Yeah. So with with colorectal cancer is is this meaning like those two things are connected? Yeah. Or or like Lynch syndrome is commonly manifesting in those locations. Exactly. So Lynch syndrome can manifest in colorectal cancer, endometrial cancer and ovarian cancer. It's going to be more common to be colurectal, but you can see them potentially all three of those locations. And that is maybe what happened to her aunt was saying that she probably had Lynch syndrome, but hers manifested endometrial. Yeah. Exactly. So it's kind of scary and that's why usually with these patients, not only are you kind of like doing a probably earlier surveillance for just colorectal cancer, you're probably also doing that earlier for ovarian cancer and endometrial cancer. So those are definitely concerning features there. So that's what I'm thinking. I thinking that this patient probably has Lynch syndrome um given the family history of a very early disease, right, in the father and then on top of that an aunt that had endometrial cancer. That's concerning me. So usually what we would have to probably do is get a colonoscopy. We should do one right now. And then also we should test we should do an immunohistochemmetry test for those mismatch repair genes. So once we actually go in and we find the tumor, oh here or here's the polip, here's the tumor, take that send it off to the lab for an imunohistochemistry study to look for any mismatch repair gene proteins or mutations that are present. That's probably what I would do with this patient if we had that scenario. Let's just say we have the perfect situation, a textbook patient here. Let's say for just argument sake she's 20 years old. Mhm. In a perfect scenario textbookwise, you had briefly mentioned it before, but what's the actual screening for that? It's it's colonoscopy. Let's just say she's age 20. So, how would you do that if you're a textbook case and you're being very proactive? I mean, you can start at age 20 or 25. It kind of is anywhere between that age range. You But you're just going to be doing that every 1 to two years. Um, so one to two. Yeah. So, every you're going to be probably honestly with most patients, they're probably going to air on the side of cautions as a clinician and you're probably going to go annually. I would hope for that. Yeah. So 20 to 25, you're probably going to be going every one or two years and getting a colonoscopy just looking to see if they have any of these polyps that are forming. Usually the problem with Lynch syndrome is it doesn't make big polyps. So usually what happens is when you have Lynch syndrome, it starts off with a mutation, right? And that mutation in the mismatch repair genes, the epithelium gets a little abnormal, but it it doesn't make any hyperlasia. It doesn't actually start proliferating a lot. And so usually what happens is usually patients will get an early adenoma and then they'll get a late adenoma and they'll get these big polyps and then that'll turn into cancer. With Lynch syndrome, you actually can get anomomas, but they're flat or they're cessile. So you can't really see them. They're not popping off of the surface in the colon mucosa. So guess what? As you're going through and you're doing and you're looking and to see if you can find a a polip in Lynch syndrome, you don't often find these big polyps. And so they can kind of easily be missed. And guess what? Next time you go back and you you do a scope, guess what you're going to find? a carcinoma. Yeah. And so these things are very rapid and very aggressive. So that's one of the things about colurectal cancer and Lynch syndrome is that they can have these flat adenomas that you can't or they can be very cessile and you can't see them and then you come back a year later and all of a sudden they've rapidly grown into a big tumor. You mentioned this in the first case but how about other syndromes like FAP? So FAP is a scary one. Really really sad. Um these patients almost 100% chance that if they by the age of 40 they'll have colorectile cancer. So that's a massive like high rate of like developing colorectal cancer. So it's a mutation in the APC gene and this APC gene is basically it's a gene that controls the proliferation right of cells. And so they have this mutation and basically what happens is they can't break down this protein called beta ketin. And say that again. Beta catin. So beta ketinine usually unfortunately builds up and then they get this uncontrolled cell growth and that usually causes this cell growth to occur in the form of polyps. And they get I'm not I'm talking like thousands of polyps buddy like thousands. And so but usually by the age of 10 12 they have maybe hundreds to thousands of polyps in the left side of their colon. And so the chances of any of those polyps then converting into a carcinoma is very very high with an almost 100% chance that they'll develop colorectal cancer if it goes untreated by the age of 40. And so if that happens and unfortunately with familial adenomattosis polyosis or FAP we say we'll start off screening these patients with a colonoscopy at the age of 10 to 12 and we're going to do it every year. But the ultimate goal is we're just doing it until we can get to the point where we can do a callectomy. We're unfortunately going to remove the entire left-sided segment where they can form colorectile cancer and just prevent that and all because again there's almost a 100% chance. And so we're going to do a prophylacticctomy. It's just timing. When should we do it? Well, until we do that annually they're getting a colonoscopy starting at the age of 10 or 12 and you're just going to keep doing it and at any point we need to try and get them to a prophylactic. That's incredibly unfortunate to have to have a um colonoscopy at the age of 10. I know that's pretty sad. Pretty sad. But that's the problem with hereditary cancer syndromes is that FAP is a really big one. Lynch is a really big one. There's other ones. I don't want to go into crazy detail on them. There's like one called Pooseer. They like to ask this on the exam. The only thing I would sell in Pootzer is they get a bunch of polyps and they can occur anywhere. Stomach, small intestine, large intestine. So that's kind of odd because it's it can cause colorectal cancer, but these polyps can form anywhere. Um, and they're like these big hammerous polyps. But if they ever present a patient in the vignette, it's going to be a patient who has polyps and that look like very large and they have all these like hyperpigmented lesions around their lips um on the actual like sometimes it can occur on the tongue and on their hands and feet. So anytime you see that in the vignette, think pooer syndrome and sometimes you can even get kids like who can just get a bunch of polyps before the age of five too. Um and that's called juvenile polyposa syndrome. They don't usually ask much on that one but they do ask on pooer. Remember bunch of different pigmented lips, tongue, hands, feet, and a bunch of big polyps in the stomach, small intestine, large intestine. Think Pootzy Joerger. But these are the hereditary ones. So that's that's really important to remember is FAP, uh, Lynch syndrome, and I'd say Pootzer. So during this podcast episode, we've discussed an average risk patient and a high-risisk patient. Both of which who were non-symptomatic. Yep. They were asymptomatic. They were good to go. Yep. Well, what happens now if we talk about a patient coming in with symptoms? Let's find out. We have a 62-year-old male presents with fatigue and shortness of breath on exertion. Symptoms have been gradually worsening. He denies chest pain or cough. However, he reports new onset constipation and mild abdominal cramping. He has visible blood in his stools. And now he's also stating that his stools are narrower than usual. That's an odd finding, right? Yeah. If I saw some pencil-shaped stools, I'd probably be scared, too. Yeah, me too. I I I pooped out a number two pencil, Rob. Yeah. Anyway, his uh his past medical history, type two diabetic, gird. Uh medications he's on is metformin and omerazol. He has no family history. For his exam vitals, heart rate is 96. Blood pressure is 124 over 78. General, he looks pale. He's fatigued. He just doesn't look himself. Okay. Abdomen, mild left lower quadrant tenderness. No mass felt on on palpation. Zach, this patient comes in with changes in bowel habits and hematoclesia. Okay. What do we what are we thinking here? Yeah. I mean, when I think about this patient, I'm definitely concerned about colurectal cancer because the changes in bowel habits are concerning for a left-sided kind of colctal tumor and then also hematzia. So, the here's here's what you want to think about when you have a patient coming in and they're complaining that they have things like a pencil-shaped stool. They have periods of where they're constipated, but then they have periods where they have diarrhea and they feel like they they feel this urge that they have to go to the bathroom right after they just went to the bathroom and then they have blood in their stool. You should have a very high degree of suspicion for colorectal cancer probably on the left side because when you think about this one colorectal cancer can occur on the left side and the right side. So that's how we kind of define them generally. It's easier to do that for organization sense and memorization. But leftsided colurectal tumors which is actually the more common presentation probably 80 85% of cases occur there usually what happens is when you get a tumor there imagine you have here like let's imagine you got your descending colon here sigmoid colon going into the rectum and you got a tumor like right in the sigmoid colon and the rectum well poo is at this point coming down it's going to be solid it's going to run into a roadblock and that tumor that where it's in the sigmoid colon the rectum is obstructing the flow of poop out into the toilet bowl hopefully and so what happens is is as it runs in it hits that roadblock Let's imagine that it's not a complete obstruction. Well, what's going to happen? Some of that solid poo is going to squeeze through that strictcture and when it squeezes out, what's it going to come out looking like? Number two pencil. Yeah. You made you made the comment. Yeah. But like that's that's how they probably get that. The second thing is when the poo hits that strictcture and it gets stuck there, let's say that some of it squeezes through and some of it could even be liquid. That's why they probably can get diarrhea. But when they get through now that poop is stuck above it. That's where the constipation comes in. So they have periods where they don't go for a couple days and then they have liquid that kind of liquid that squeezes around it. So that's where they get the diarrhea. But the other one which is really important is if you have a poo that's stuck right above the obstruction. What's going to happen to the colon above it? It's going to start dilating and dilating and dilating. That's where you get that abdominal pain. Because as it dilates, your natural response is I got to expel this sucker. So then the the the colon tries to contract down on it and it dilates and it contracts down on it. And so that's where they get that collicky abdominal pain and the feeling that they got to go to the bathroom, but every time they go to the bathroom, I'm not pooping anything out. And if I am, it's like a little pencil or I have little bits of diarrhea. That right there is super concerning. And if I see blood, that means that that tumor is probably bleeding and it's kind of causing blood to coat the outer parts of that stool. So that right there is super concerning for a leftsided colctal cancer. Let's say we got blood work. What kind of blood work would you be interested in doing for this patient? Well, I'd say like for for this one, I would probably start off well, first I let's say that I saw the blood. Okay, that's good. I always like to make sure that it's actually blood. So, I'd probably do a fecal coal blood test or a fit test just to make sure. Okay, you don't have to, but I I would just to make sure, hey, whatever is coming out that looks and appears to be blood, is it blood? The other thing I would do is I could get like a CBC if I really wanted to to confirm that they have anemia, but I wouldn't say that that's going to be completely necessary. Now here's the other caveat. So left side of colorectal cancer usually it's visible blood. Yeah. Um and then they have bowel habit changes. Right side of colorectal cancer and this is not that patient but if they had right side of colorectal cancer you probably wouldn't even know. They wouldn't have visible blood. They wouldn't have changes in bowel habits. The reason why is in the the ascending colon the seeum transverse it's a really gargantuous lumen there. The lumens are pretty big. And also the stool that's running through there isn't solid. It's more liquidy. Yeah. And so when that happens, if there's this tumor, which is usually in the the the in let's say in this case the right side of the part of the colon, it bleeds. It mixes with the liquid. And so by the time it gets out, you don't really see it. It's not invisible. Okay? And so they have slow slow chronic blood loss. Slow chronic blood loss always equals iron deficiency anemia. So, if I had a patient who came in and they didn't really have a lot of symptoms, but they were like fatigued, they were like kind of a little bit, you know, palar or they just they felt really exhausted and they were greater than 50 years of age. I'm I'm probably going to get like a feal colt just to make sure I because I don't see it. Yeah. Is it there? Second is I can confirm it with a fit test, which is just a little bit more accurate because that's hemoglobin, not the blood. And then from there, I'd probably get a CBC. I'd probably check and see, do they have a low hemoglobin? Is their MCV low? check their feritin, their iron, and their transfer and saturation to see if those all suggest iron deficiency anemia. So that's probably what I would do in a patient who came in greater than 50, they got some like weird like symptoms, just vague general like fatigue, palar, weakness, I I would check I just make sure I'm not missing that. And then if I found that, I would say that that patient deserves a colonoscopy. Just like this patient who we have changes in bowel habits and blood in their stool, they deserve a colonoscopy right now. And then overall the major difference between left and right is really saying left you're having visible blood in your stool. Right, you're just not able to see it. Yeah. Exactly. It's a cult GI bleed. Okay. Yep. All right. Well, we have a good little difference now between left and right sided masses. Yeah. So, let's say now we want to go to the next step. It's a diagnostic colonoscopy and most likely with a biopsy. Yeah. So, our patient, we get a colonoscopy. It shows a large leftsided mass. Biopsy confirms adnocarcinoma. So, now that we know what's going on here, we have it basically diagnosed. What's our staging approach? Well, we got to make sure it didn't spread anywhere. Uh, so that's probably the first thing I would do is I I would probably I'd a full pan CT scan. Um, and so I'd do their chest, I do their abdomen, their pelvis. Uh, because with colarctal, it likes to spread to a couple different areas. Usually the most common one is the liver. So, it's almost always going to spread to the liver. You're going to get liver mets pretty quickly. Uh, it can spread to the lung. I'd say the next one, and it can spread to the paritinium. The brain is probably the less common one. But if they if a patient came in seizing, they had headaches like uncontrollable like weird headaches, they had, you know, focal neural deficits and I know that they have colorectal cancer, ah I may get a brain CT or an MRI just to make sure that I'm not missing that it spread to the brain. But oftentimes you're at least going to look for the liver mets, uh, lung mets. And so usually I get a CT of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis. And if I find any of those, that really helps me to look to see if these things have spread anywhere to the lungs, to the liver, and to the um to the paritinium because if it does, they're now stage four colctal cancer. Meaning you have met. Yeah. Exactly. Um the other thing that we do, we don't do it to diagn this is really important. I'm going to say it again one more time. We don't do it to diagnose colorectal cancer. We do it to determine their how well they're responding to therapy. We check a CA level. It's a carcinog carcinog embryionic antigen and it's basically it's a it's a molecule that's it's a tumor marker that is secreted by colarctal tumor cells and whenever it's secreted we kind of look at the number and say oh wow that's really high okay well it doesn't tell me how it it may kind of give you some of an inclination of how bad their colorectal cancer is but that's not perfect all we know is we look at their CA level as a baseline so let's say that we diagnose them with a colorectal cancer they have mets we get a CA level it's super high. We don't use that to diagnose it. What we do is when we get to the point where we have to do a callectomy or give them chemotherapy, we track the CA level. Got it? So, hey, this was their baseline of like whatever this number is. We gave them we did a callectomy and we hit them with some chemotherapy afterwards. What's their CA level now? Oh, it's it went completely down, super low. That's good. They're responding to therapy. If we were doing all these things and their CA levels are still really high, uh, okay, is this not working? or later on when we check them and they're kind of like maybe they're in remission, their CA levels are really really high all of a sudden. Oh shoot, did they do they have like relapse? Are they no longer in remission? So it's really helping us to determine the effectiveness of therapy and kind of it just uses a baseline right up front. Okay. Um that probably the big things I think when we already talked about like when we when we had that patient who had Lynch syndrome. Yeah. when we did the colonoscopy and we do a biopsy and we we take that tissue, we can send that off to make sure that it doesn't have any mismatch repair gene kind of mutations, we can use that as well. But I'd say the biggest thing is look to see if it's spread anywhere and then second get a baseline level of what their CA is. Those would be the two things for sure. Well, let me hit you first with the CT. Okay, CT shows no distant METSS, but plus two regional lymph nodes. With that being said, with that information I gave you, what's the stage? All right. So, I I try to make this one super easy for colorectal cancer because there's always these TNM staging and it's really annoying. Stage one and two, it's it's a tumor and there's So, stage one, two, you have a tumor, but it hasn't spread to the nodes. Stage three, it's in the nodes. Stage four, it's METS. So, there's stage three right here because they're in the nodes. Node positive, no distant METs. Yeah, exactly. So, what's what's treatment then? uh for stage three for these patients. We we'll still try and do a callectomy for these patients, but you may try to do uh chemotherapy to shrink it down a little bit before. So you may do some neoagivant chemotherapy with like there's these regimens. We always have abbreviations like you've noticed in oncology like ABVD, be a chop, R chop, they're all over the place, right? It's in medicine like overall every episode. But this one is tough because again with this one we can use like full fox which is a different type of like we use like five floruracil oxoplatin there's a bunch of different drugs that we can use in these um or fulfury and so we can use a bunch of these but it's usually we're going to use these medications or these chemotherrapeutic agents probably prior maybe as a neoagivant shrink the tumor down and then see if we can cut it. Some patients will just go straight to callectomy and maybe we'll do it agently but you're probably going to get a combination of those two which is the callectomy. See if you can remove as much of that potential tumor of where it is. In this patient, they had pretty decent size one. So, we'll cut that tumor out. See if we can anastimos the ends and then on top of that, maybe do some chemotherapy afterwards to eliminate any micro metastasis because you're trying to cut the tumor out. Right. But if you just happen to have a margin that's a little bit beyond that, then the chemotherapy can come through and help to kill any of those micro metastasis. Yeah. Rather be thorough. Yeah. Exactly. So, let's just another hypothetical for you here, Zach. What if it were stage four? Okay. And this patient isolated liver meds. Oh, okay. Well, that's a So, technically stage 4 technically you don't do any surgery. The only time where there's like this like theoretical thing is if you only have like a couple liver mets. I'm talking like and they're actually reectable. So, liver I told you is the most common sight of metastasis. If you look and they got like maybe one or three liver mets and there's not like I'm talking tens, hundreds, a bunch of them all in the liver, you can technically still do a callectomy. You can still do chemotherapy and you can do what's called a it's a weird term but it's a metasttomy. So you're actually going you're cutting out those mets. You're removing the mets in the liver as well. But you only do it if you got like maybe one or two potential mets. And so theoretically stage 4 you can consider a callectomy and then resection of the METs and chemotherapy but it's only if they have like a couple like METs in the liver that are very easily accessible and I can get rid of them. So they truly are isolated. There's not many of them. Yeah, I think that would be the only thing. Otherwise, you don't really do surgery. You go straight to what's called a targeted therapy. Um where you kind of look and see I actually have to figure out do they have any of these weird mutations? And so then I'd have to test and see, do they have that MMR, the what's called, you know, mismatch repair gene mutations with a high instability. If I do, I use a special drug. Do they have this Kraz or BFF mutation? Oh, if they do, I have to use this special drug. Do they not have a Kraz and BF mutation? I got to give this special drug. And so those are the only times. And we'll oftentimes just do chemotherapy potentially with those targeted therapies. All right, those are our three cases all wrapped up and done. But I think this kind of warrants a nice final high yield recap. Yeah. Yeah. Just going over our average risk, high-risisk, symptomatic, and then some staging. All right. So, I think again average risk, I think the biggest thing to remember is that we start doing colonoscopies in patients who are average risk at the age of at least greater than equal to 45. And we should be doing them every 10 years if it's completely normal. Your goal is to do this just to make sure that you're catching a cancer before it's too late. That's all it is. Um, and again, you're doing this in patients with no personal, no family history. There's no hereditary cancer syndromes. They don't have inflammatory bowel disease, anything like that that puts them at high risk. For the high-risisk patient, this is the one who has a personal history, has a family history where they have a a direct first-degree relative who had colorectal cancer or some other kind of associated cancer syndrome, less than 60 years of age, they're uh greater than 50, they have a lot of these risk factors, and those high-risisk patients, we got to do it sooner. So for example, in general with a family history or personal history, we go age 40 or 10 years before the first degree relative was diagnosed with that type of cancer. If they truly have a diagnosis of FAP, you go 10 to 12 years of age and you do it every one every year until they get the the callectomy. If they have lynch, it's 20 to 25 and you do it every 1 to two years and hopefully you'll catch it before it's too aggressive for these patients. Um, so that's your high risk. The other one is patients who come in symptomatic. Again, I like to separate them into left and then to right. So leftsided tumors, they're going to present with the changes in bowel habits, the teneesmas, the constipation, the periods of diarrhea, the um periods where they have hematesia as well. They feel this urgency that they have to go and poop, but they can't. Those are all concerning features of a leftsided tumor. A right-sided tumor, usually it's a cult. we won't know it. So this is a person who's a little bit older. They have iron deficiency anemia. Maybe they present with fatigue with palar and their CBC and their fecal coal blood test comes back showing it's abnormal. Those are patients which I'm going to want to screen sooner. So I'm not sooner right away because I want to get a colonoscopy as soon as I possibly can for these patients. Once I've done these things, so let's say that in any of these patients I've done a colonoscopy. I took AI found an abnormal appearing mass biopsied it confirmed that it's an adnocarcinoma of sorts then we have to say okay they're diagnosed with it how advanced is it I'll use CT chest abdomen and pelvis to figure out if it's spread anywhere else and based upon that I can even see if they have lymph node spread if I have a patient who has a tumor but they have no node spread it could be stage one could be stage two usually stage one you can just resect it pretty good stage two you can probably just still rect it but you may use a little bit of chemotherapy like fullf fox or theory. Stage three is this is now in the nodes. So now we definitely have to do a callectomy and we have to do chemotherapy. And then stage four, this is like this is met. You got it in the brain, you got it in the liver, you got it in the lung, you got it in the paritinium. And those parts we do chemotherapy, but we also target. So we do specific targets. And that's where I was saying if I test what's called the MMR mutation and it comes back positive and they have a high degree of instability there, we use something called PD1 blockers. It's called pembrlymab. That's a newer thing that we've been using. Um, if they have no kraz or brf mutation in those scenarios, we can use something called an eGFR blocker, which is an epidermal growth factor receptor blocker like satuximab. That's kind of a newer one. And then the last one is if they have a kraz or bf mutation, then we can't target the kraz. So, we use something called a veg inhibitor like bev bevicismab. And so those are things that we can use as targeted therapies if they're at the stage four level. But this this kind of scenario here, I think it's a just overall the big thing to take away from it is know when you screen for average, know when to screen for high risk and know when to identify concerning features of colorectal cancer and then know okay if they want to do this colonoscopy is the gold standard. But again some patients they're not a fan of it. So what are the alternatives? fit fecal colt yearly CT colonography every five years is an alternative that you can consider as well either way if those are abnormal get the colonoscopy colonoscopy comes back abnormal you need to determine is it cancer or not if it is cancer okay what do we do if it's not cancer but it's abnormal how we got to go sooner but if it's completely normal then you may be able to span these colonoscopies out a little bit further I feel like as we go through each episode in oncology it's just a recurring theme how important it is for screening Yeah. And to know when to screen, it just seems to be a recurring theme and especially with something like colurectal cancer that you would agree it's just kind of silent. Yeah. It's that's the tough thing and that it's just like the next one we're talking about is prostate cancer. Guess what? Prostate cancer is almost 80% of cases completely asymptomatic. Silent. You can't diagnose it. Usually it's unfortunate. Yeah. By the time they present, they're usually maybe at a more advanced stage. And so I think that's one of the important things and that's why I think eventually we'll have a podcast where we talk just about the screening guidelines just for cancer because there's so many and there's so many different numbers and age ranges and how do we do it here, when do we do it there? And so I think one of the best things is to talk about those as a collective which I think we'll do. I think that definitely deserves an episode. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Well, but thank you and uh that was a great episode. Jam-packed as always, but a lot of fun. I really hope that we're helping you. I hope that whenever you have some spare time, whether it's, you know, doing some laundry, running an errand, whatever, maybe, I don't know, you're at the gym working out and you just want to listen to us. I hope that you guys are learning a lot. I hope that you're enjoying this. I hope that you're able to understand this topic a little bit more, and I hope that we can just make a little bit of a difference in your day. But thank you so much. I really hope that we brought some awareness as well to colurectal cancer and how important it is to be able to know when to get screened, when to get a colonoscopy, how frequently, who are the patients that are at very high risk, and then when to notice potential symptoms that are concerning. So, I hope that you guys learned a lot. I love you guys. I thank you guys so much for being so awesome. And as always, until next time.