 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам What's up, Ninja Nerds? In this video today, we're going to be talking about colorectal cancer. This is a part of our clinical medicine series, and if you guys are really enjoying these videos, they make sense to you, they help you a lot, please support us. You can do that by hitting the like button, commenting down in the comment section, subscribing. Also, go down the description box below. There's a link that goes to our website. On our website, if you're a member, you'll have access to notes, to illustrations. We're also making other features, quizzes, flashcards, there's so much more, so go check that out. Without further ado, let's really dig into colorectal cancer. Hi, my friends. We're going to start talking about colorectal cancer. What I want to do is, I want to make it easy for you guys to remember. I think one of the ways that we like to do that, especially when it comes to you taking your exam, is separating them, unfortunately, into the right side of colorectal cancers and left side of colorectal cancers. The reason why I say unfortunately is that not all patients present exactly like this. Sometimes there's a little bit of a mix. I think one of the best ways of doing this is it's going to help you to organize the presentation. It's going to help you to organize a little bit more of the pathophysiology and the causes behind it. I think it's also going to help a little bit when we start talking about treatment. First things first, we're going to have right side of colorectal cancer left-sided. How do we define that? It's actually really straightforward. We talk about right side of colorectal cancer. Here's our tumor. Here's our tumor. It can be sitting anywhere within what parts? Here at the bottom part, this is called your cecum. If it involves parts of the cecum, that could be one consideration. It can involve the cecum. What's this part going up? That's called the ascending colon. If the tumor as it is here is in the ascending colon, that would also be a potential area to be considered as a right-sided colorectal cancer. Then the last one is any kind of location that goes anywhere from here up to the point of the splinic flexure. What I'll do is I'll draw a dotted line here. That's at that splinic flexure portion. Anything here, which is your transverse colon, that can also be considered. Out of all of these locations, cecum, ascending colon, transverse colon, where would it most commonly occur? Most often, if it is a right-sided colorectal tumor, it's usually in the ascending colon. That's going to be the most common location. We'll represent that by just kind of boxing this off in red. This is oftentimes, if there is a right-sided tumor, it's usually more often than not going to appear in the ascending colon. What's really interesting about this is that the ascending colon, the cecum, and the transverse colon has a really big luminal diameter. Because it's a pretty big luminal diameter, these tumors, when they come in, even though in this image it looks like it's very, very obstructive, it's still such a large lumen that they don't usually cause very significant clinical obstructive symptoms. In other words, they don't cause abdominal pain. They don't cause things like abdominal distension, nausea, vomiting, cramping abdominal pain, all of those things. It's not usually a classic presentation. We'll talk about it later. The most common ways that these present is asymptomatic. What do I mean by that? They don't present with symptoms. Unfortunately, they present with things like occult GI bleeds. All that means is that they don't see visible blood in their stool, but if we were to check their CBC or check a fecal occult blood test to see if there is blood in their stool, that would come back either showing anemia on the CBC or a positive fecal occult blood test. We'll get into that a little bit later, but it's just kind of introducing you into that. The left side of colorectal cancers, we define that based upon where does it end. Well, it ended right here. For the right-sided, if I draw that dotted line right at that splenic flexure, it's anything including the splenic flexure, the descending colon, sigmoic colon, and the rectum. Here I'll put here, this is the descending colon. Here's my tumor. Here we'll put the sigmoic colon, and here we'll put the rectum. It can involve any part here, which is the rectum, the sigmoic colon. Here's the tumor that we have sitting in that left side of part of the colon. Here is the descending colon. Out of all of these locations, where does the tumor most often usually situate itself? It often most likely situates itself in the rectum and the sigmoic colon. Funny enough, it's actually at a junction point called the recto-sigmaic junction. That's usually a very common location of where we can find these tumors. Again, right-sided tumors, most often the ascending colon, left-sided tumors, most often in the sigmoic colon and the rectum right at that junction between the two. Just as a little quick thing here, for left-sided colorectal cancers, these things, they don't have as big of a lumen in the descending and the sigmoic colon and the rectum as they do on the right side. Because of that, when these tumors do grow, they do cause obstructive symptoms. These patients usually often present what changes in bowel habits, the abdominal pain, tenesmus, which we'll talk about what that means. They can also present what constipation. They can present with very thin-shaped stools. These are things that are very, very obvious in a left-sided colorectal cancer. Now, here's the next thing that you ask. When you talk about the GIT, the alimentary canal, the layers, you always have a mucosa. Then you have a submucosa. Then you usually have a muscularis mucosa. Then you get it down into the muscularis externa and then the adventitius cirrhosa. What I want to tell you is that when these cancers usually arise, they arise from the epithelium, which is a part of our mucosa. What I want to do is I want to take pieces of a natural, let's say that you take a piece of this actual colon here, like the ascending colon or the cecum, and you look at it and it's normal. How does it turn into this? Same thing. I take a piece of tissue here at the rectum or the sigmoic colon. How does it turn into this? Without going crazy down the genetic pathway, this is all due to mutations. Let's say here's a piece of tissue. It's a normal right colon. All of a sudden, I take this one and I introduce a mutation. What kind of mutation? Well, there's different types, but I think the one that's actually really important to remember is called a BRAF mutation. If a patient ends up experiencing what's called a BRAF mutation, this is basically an enzyme that signals to the nucleus to trigger the transcription of genes that are involved in proliferation. Normally, a BRAF gene is connected with a receptor. When a growth factor hits that receptor, it activates BRAF, sends the signals down to the nucleus and tells it to proliferate. If I have a BRAF mutation, that means that the BRAF enzyme is always on. If this BRAF mutation exists and that BRAF enzyme is always on, it's always signaling to the nucleus to proliferate, proliferate, proliferate. That's what usually becomes a problem. Now, here we're going to have an epithelium. It doesn't look abnormal though, right? Doesn't it look kind of the same? This is just at this point, this is a mutated epithelium. It doesn't look like anything just yet. The reason why is the BRAF mutation is usually what we call the first hit. There's a first abnormal mutation in the allele. Then what happens, you get a second hit. You introduce a second hit to the other genes, and this one is by causing abnormalities in mismatch repair genes. We call this part, we're going to trigger what's called CPG methylation. All we're doing is we are methylating specific parts of DNA. We are causing DNA methylation. You know what DNA methylation does? DNA methylation usually silences specific genes. Guess which genes this decides to methylate? Your mismatch repair genes. You know what mismatch repair genes are supposed to do? If you end up, whenever we replicate DNA, if you have an insertion or deletion error, guess what? The mismatch repair genes turn on and they come and they fix that up. If those are silenced because of this, guess what happens? You can't fix that DNA damage. If they can't fix that process, what's going to happen? You're going to end up with an abnormal mutation. Then what happens to the epithelium? It becomes mutated. This is when these patients actually very quickly, they can grow pretty quickly. They can turn a normal epithelium without even forming a polyp. These things can form these big things called adenomas. They can be called, they're usually called sessile serrated adenomas. What is this one here called? Look at this one. Here's the epithelial tissue. Look how it just became all this weird looking serrated type of performance here. Usually it's sessile. We have a sessile serrated adenoma. Then usually what happens is these patients, over time, they develop more mutations, more mutations. They have these 353 mutations and then it turns into a carcinoma. Then eventually you end up with this really nasty cancer. Now we have a patient who developed a carcinoma. They started off with a normal epithelium and then they developed that tumor. How did they develop the tumor? They ended up with a BRAF mutation. BRAF mutation made the epithelium mutated. They get the second hit with the methylation of which type of genes? Mismatch repair genes. Now you're all jacked up. When that happens, you can get these things called adenomas. Perliferation of tissues because now you can't control any issues with fixing those mismatch repairs. Now they become mutated and you have a constant accelerator which is the BRAF. It's constantly signaling proliferation. This is going to make this nasty adenoma. Then at a pretty quick pace, it can convert to a carcinoma. That's what's scary. We call this the serrated pathway. If you want to, we actually call this the serrated pathway. The serrated pathway, we don't know what exactly triggers this. There's some things that we have association with. Out of all of these pathways, this is probably maybe like 10% of cases. The next one here, let's say that we take this normal piece of tissue. We decide to convert it and make it abnormal. A similar thing has to happen. There has to be a mutation. What kind of mutation usually arises the question? Usually what happens is they get what's called a mismatch repair gene mutation. That's what happened here. They methylated these genes and then it became silent. It's a similar concept. Except with this, you just completely mutate these genes. It's usually, unfortunately, it can be sporadic or it can be due to genetic causes. This is really important. I'll talk about this later called Lynch syndrome. It's a unfortunate hereditary condition where they have a mutation in the mismatch repair genes. If you have a mutation, can I fix insertion deletionaries? No. What happens if I can't fix them? That leads to a mutation. Mutations lead to abnormal epithelium. Now, same thing. I got a mutated epithelium here. I already started that with having a mutation. All I need to do is get a second hit. If that happens over time, we don't really know why. Sometimes it's sporadic. Sometimes it's weird genes that just pop up and get abnormal. That's what usually happens. There's different ones. I don't want you to go crazy. Usually the ones that we see that can pop up, don't go crazy trying to memorize this. But the ones that we see that can pop up is called transforming growth factor beta. That becomes mutated. Another one is called the Bax gene. All that you need to know is this is a growth factor gene. If you cause this to mutate, what do you think it's going to do? It's going to cause cell growth. It's going to cause proliferation. Bax is an apoptotic gene. If you shut down that gene, and when I say that you cause this mutation, technically this gene gets turned off. That's supposed to cause apoptosis. If you're supposed to cause apoptosis and you turn that gene off, guess what happens? Now your cell can continue to survive. Here's what happens. If we start with the mutation with the mismatch repair genes, we get second hits just like in these. Now we have an opportunity for that mutated epithelium to become cancerous. This is different though. In the serrated pathway, it became like this. It became this weird looking appearing of adenoma. This one is also going to be an adenoma, but it doesn't look like it's serrated. It appears kind of flat. This is called, that's the name, it's called a flat adenoma. It's called a flat adenoma. There's scary things about having flat adenomas. You want to know what it is? If I do a colonoscopy, I'd probably be able to see this one. It'd be a little hard. It'd be somewhat difficult because s-cell serrated adenomas, even though they look like they'd be big ones that pop off the actual mucosa, they're not pedunculated. What that means is that usually there's not like a stalk. It looks like there's a stalk there, but there is truly no stalk that's making it pop out into the colonic mucosa, the lumen. This one, do you see a stalk? No. If I were to go into a colonoscopy for these, what do you think I would find? I probably could easily miss these. That's what makes these scary. This one over here, I'd be able to see. That one would be obvious because it's pedunculated. These two might be a little bit more difficult to see. This is the most aggressive one. The reason why is if I go into a colonoscopy in this patient and then come back maybe a couple years later because it was normal, guess what can happen? It can quickly convert into a carcinoma. This pathway is called the micro-satellite instability pathway. We see this in a condition called Lynch syndrome. That's what I want you to remember. Serrated pathway, we don't have a specific inherited condition per se. The micro-satellite instability pathway, we do see a hereditary condition that we'll talk about and it's called Lynch syndrome. These two is how we see right-sided carcinomas. Some patients who have Lynch syndrome, guess what you're going to see it? Right-sided carcinomas. How would they present? A cold GI bleeds. With this one over here, this is where most cases, I'd say 10%, maybe 5% of cases. 15% usually are going to be occurring via this pathway. But 80% to 85% occur through the left colon side. We think about this one. Here let's say that we took a piece of tissue. We have a normal epithelial tissue. All of a sudden, it starts to, whoa, what happened here? This one looked normal and they looked similar. That's what makes these scary. They don't give you early signs. This gives you an early sign. All of a sudden, these ones straight to becoming adenomas to carcinomas quickly. This one, I see a sign of it kind of proliferating. Then it gets a little bit more proliferated and pedunculated and then it becomes a carcinoma. That's actually kind of helpful and this may help us to pick these up sooner. What happens with this one, this is really, really important guys. This epithelium develops a mutation. This mutation is important to remember and it's called the APC gene mutation. They actually lose it. The APC gene mutation. They develop an mutation, APC gene mutation. APC gene mutation, APC is supposed to basically help to degrade a molecule called beta-catenin. Beta-catenin is a protein that basically helps to trigger your cell proliferation. APC helps to break down beta-catenin so it doesn't cause uncontrolled cell proliferation. But if you lose that APC gene, what happens? Now the tissue starts proliferating. Now we end up with this epithelium. We end up with a hyperplastic, hyperproliferative, let's say, hyperproliferative epithelium. All right. Sometimes we even can say that this hyperproliferative epithelium can look like an early adenoma. When you look at it, it actually could look like an early adenoma. That could be helpful because I could pick that up a little bit sooner if I do a colonoscopy. But then what happens is they get a second gene mutation. So you're noticing there's always a first one and then there's usually a second hit. Same thing here. APC gene mutation, you're going to get a second hit. This one you actually do need to remember. This one is called a KRAS mutation. KRAS is basically a GTPase. Basically it's an enzyme that's connected to a receptor. A growth factor hits the receptor, it activates KRAS. KRAS then signals down to the nucleus to trigger transcription factors to cause DNA proliferation. KRAS depends upon signaling just like the BRAF does. And so if all of a sudden I constituently activate my KRAS and it becomes in a locked and activated position, it sends uncontrolled signals down to the nucleus to proliferate. Now what's going to happen? This thing's going to proliferate like crazy. And unfortunately that's when you're going to get these big kind of pedunculated tubular appearing adenomas. And so then what you're going to do is you're unfortunately going to start seeing this thing like a, we call this a late. Technically you can call this an early if you really want to. You can call this an early adenoma. And this one we're going to call a late adenoma. And this one's going to appear more pedunculated. So it'll definitely appear very pedunculated. So when you look at it, it'll look like it has a stalk on it and it's popping out. This is at the point now where, oh man, this can easily transform and become a lignant. Usually what happens is an encounter is one more mutation and that's a TP53 mutation and that's a tumor suppressor genes. It's supposed to put the break on proliferation, but if you lose that, guess what? Uncontrolled proliferation. And that is usually what triggers this patient to develop a carcinoma, a nasty adenocarcinoma. Now this pathway is an important one to remember. It has multiple different names. Some people call it the adenocarcinoma sequence. Others, they call this the chromosomal instability pathway. Or again, some people call it the adenocarcinoma sequence. What am I trying to tell you? Patient comes in with changes in bowel habits. They come in with hematocasia. They have a potential colonoscopy and you find that they have left-sided tumors. If they have left-sided tumors, you need to think about these potential genes being mutated. The reason why is there's familial conditions that I'll talk about. One is called familial adenomatosis polyposis. It triggers this pathway. If a patient comes in, they get a colonoscopy and you see a right-sided tumor. Sometimes unfortunately you find them at that stage because they usually either are flat or very sessile. They're not usually pedunculated where they pop off the surface. When you take them biopsided area, you'll find if they're presenting with an occult GI bleed, you find a positive fecal occult, a positive fit test, or an iron deficiency anemia, you get it done. You find that they have a carcinoma. In this potential situation, this could be due to something like this mutation, which one would this be seen in? Lynch syndrome. That's really, really important. Some of these, they aren't familial in this particular sense. We'll talk about some other risk factors that can pop up, where it has nothing to do with the hereditary cancer syndrome. It actually could just be due to an unfortunate family history. It could be due to diet. It could be due to other kinds of things. It's really, really important that we think about this when it comes to understanding the concept. Also, I'll talk later. The reason why I mention these now is we'll talk about drugs. We'll come into the discussion of, I really need you to know if they have this mutation and it's present and they have a high degree of instability. We use a drug called Pembrilizumab. If they have a K-RAS and a BRAS mutation, we can't give growth factor blockers because it won't matter because these are always turned on. We have to give something else. But if they don't have the K-RAS and the BRAS mutation, we can give growth factor blockers. That's why I'm trying to introduce this to you because we'll talk about it a little bit in the treatment section. All right. Let's move on now and talk about what are the things that put these patients at risk for these types of mutations to turn these tissues into these big whopping tumors. Discussing risk factors for colorectal cancer. It's important to remember that in colorectal cancer, a lot of these things could be, sometimes you can't do anything about it. Unfortunately, no matter how much you try to change things like your diet or other aspects, there's just not much you can. We should know what those non-modifiable risk factors are. Unfortunately, you can't change your family history. Family history is a really, really important one. If a patient has a family history of colorectal cancer, how do we define that? Just because you had a family member who was like 80 years old who had colorectal cancer doesn't mean that you are at high risk. Usually it's a first-degree relative before the age of 60 that they were diagnosed with colorectal cancer. That's truly how we should be defining it is when I say a family history of colorectal cancer was a person, usually first-degree relative that had colorectal cancer before the age of 60 years. A second one that I want to talk about is usually we just see this, unfortunately, and I'd say males who are above the age of 50. That unfortunately puts you at a pretty high risk in general. Males greater than the age of 50 years also is a pretty significant risk factor for these. The reason why it's interesting, it could be due to that in males, they have lower estrogen levels and believe it or not estrogen may have somewhat of a potential protective effect. That's interesting. We don't really know exactly how, but in males they may have a lower estrogen levels that kind of gives them less of a protective effect on colorectal cancer. Another one is if you unfortunately have a disease that causes a lot of inflammation of the GIT. That would be something like inflammatory bowel disease. Inflammatory bowel disease, there's actually two types. There's ulcerative colitis and Crohn's. Technically yes, both can cause this, but please remember that if I had to pick between the two, I'd say ulcerative colitis is more likely than Crohn's. What happens with this one is it causes a lot of inflammation. This inflammation of the GI mucosa leads to something called pseudopollops. They're like these inflammatory pollops. These types of pollops aren't cancerous. With that constant abnormality and inflammation, it can become dysplastic and lead to cancer. Chronic inflammation, multiple bouts of inflammatory bowel disease where you have these recurrences, that can increase the risk of developing colorectal cancer. That's why we should be screening these patients very, very early. Once they get the diagnosis, we should be probably screening them like eight years after their diagnosis. We should probably be doing it every one to three years to make sure that those inflammatory pseudopollops don't turn into a dysplastic tissue. Males greater than 50, a family history first-degree relative, less than 60, and again inflammatory bowel disease. The last one I want to talk about is called hereditary cancer syndrome. This is the one that I actually want to talk about because the board likes to ask about these. Even though they don't make up a large percentage, you'll probably see these on the clinical and yet. Before we move on talking about some of these hereditary cancer syndrome, I just want to finish off talking about some of the modifiable risk factors. Things that you do have control over and you probably should stay away from if you have some degree of risk of colorectal cancer. Obviously, some of these are dietary and just lifestyle changes. Diet is a really big one. Diets that are really high, highly processed meats. That would be probably a really big one to stay away from. They always say red meats and things like that just within appropriate amounts. The next thing is alcohol. Usually heavy alcohol consumption and what I mean by that is more than I'd say two drinks per day. That usually has an increased risk. Cigarette smoking is a really big one, especially in females. We actually have seen that cigarette smoking really increases the risk of those serrated polyps. Cigarette smoking, really big one. Last one is those patients who have an unfortunate metabolic syndrome picture. What do I mean by metabolic syndrome? Unfortunately, they have obesity and they have lots of physical inactivity. They have more of that sedentary lifestyle. These are all things that put them at higher risk of developing colorectal cancer. Big ones to really remember because if a patient comes into the clinic and they are, let's say, 40 years old and they have a family history of where their dad was diagnosed with colorectal cancer at the age of 50, then we probably should be screening them sooner. If a patient has inflammatory bowel disease, we should probably be doing colorectal cancer screening a little bit sooner. These are all things to take into consideration. Now that we've done that, let's talk about the hereditary cancer syndrome. The first one I want you guys to remember is called familial adenomatosis polyposis. This one is really important because we talked about some of the genes. That's why some of those genes actually come in handy here. One of the genes that becomes mutated is called the APC gene. They can develop the APC gene mutation. Now remember what I told you, whenever you have an APC gene mutation, what actually can occur? You guys remember, you lose the ability to break down beta-catenin so proliferation occurs excessively. What happens in this is that these patients develop, and I mean, I'm not kidding guys, they develop hundreds upon thousands of polyps. Where's APC gene mutations? Remember those carcinomas are tumors that usually appear in the left side. It's going to appear in the left side. These patients can get usually hundreds to thousands of polyps that appear within the left colon. Now, if you get hundreds to thousands of polyps within the colon, guess what? These adenomatous polyps, can they convert and can they become carcinomas? Absolutely. You know what's actually interesting? Is that these patients, usually because of having so many polyps, there's a hundred percent chance of colorectal cancer by the age of 40. That's absolutely insane. There is a hundred percent chance of colorectal cancer by age 40 years. That is insane. So, it's really, really, really important to be able to remember this fact. Because these polyps can easily, easily convert into colorectal cancer. So, then you can end up with a colorectal cancer. Now, this is what we see with familio adenomatous polyposis. So, sometimes these patients can present only with intestinal disease, hundreds upon thousands of polyps, and they can present with colorectal cancer. But sometimes they can have variants. So, they can present with polyps here, but they can also present with tumors in other areas of the body. So, this condition is called Gardener Syndrome. Now, Gardener Syndrome is one of those where they present with bone and soft tissue tumors. So, they can have tumors here in the bone. They can have tumors here in the skin. And so, they can get different types of osteomas and fibromas all over the place. They can do it in the hands. They can do it in the jaw. It can occur all over the place. So, it's important to remember that they can get what's called soft tissue or bone tumors. So, that's one way that it can manifest. The other way that it can manifest is, again, this combination. It's usually extra intestinal. So, it can also present with polyps that carry the risk of what colorectal cancer? So, they can also have colorectal cancer. So, it's usually a combination of these two that presents as Gardener Syndrome. The other one is called Turcot Syndrome. So, Turcot Syndrome is usually, it can actually be in both FAP and the next one we're going to talk about called Lynch Syndrome. And this one is a combination of having these problematic issues like colorectal cancer and, oh, it's really sad, having tumors inside of the brain. Now, the tumors that occur inside of the brain is really, really important because I'll talk about this one in a second. But here, we can have something called a glioma. And here, we can have something called a medjaloblastoma. So, again, if it's a glioma or if it's a medjaloblastoma. Now, unfortunately, with having familial adenomatosis polyposis, these patients can have polyps that occur at the age of like 10 to 12 years old. So, that's why we usually screen them very, very early. Patients with Lynch Syndrome, they can develop and it's usually more around the age of like 20, 25 around that potential timeframe. So, because of that, when you think about Gardener Syndrome, it's usually going to be something like where they have these soft tissue and bone tumors plus colorectal cancer. Turcosyndrome is colorectal cancer plus a medjaloblastoma. This is going to be something that we see more in the pediatric population. So, this one is associated with which one? It's associated with FAP. All right. This one is associated with Lynch. So, this one we would see associated with familial adenomatosis polyposis, which is going to be medjaloblastoma plus colorectal cancer. Glioma is going to be more like the young adult or adult age, Lynch syndrome and colorectal cancer. Really important to distinguish that. I like to remember Turcosyndrome. It's not to be offensive, but I think about Turbin. So, you think about having a hat on the head or something like that. So, you can think about brain tumors plus colorectal cancer. If it's a glioma on histology, it's Lynch. If it's a medjaloblastoma on histology, it's likely FAP. All right. All right. Now, let's talk a little bit more about Lynch syndrome. Lynch syndrome is usually a mutation. What do we say? Come on, guys. Let's think about it. Think about it. Think about it. It's a mutation in the mismatch repair genes. So, this is a mismatch repair gene mutation. So, that caused a mutation in the mismatch repair genes. You lose the ability to fix any kind of mutations. This is or any kind of insertion deletion errors. Mutations arise. You get a second hit, transform a growth factor beta, Bax mutation. All of a sudden, this thing goes and turns directly into a, you know, carcinoma very, very quickly. Usually, you can start as a flat adenoma. Boom, straight to a carcinoma. So, they're going to.  and then to get colorectal cancer as a very, very problematic issue. And which side is it more common? Right-sided colorectal cancer. Another unfortunate thing is there's a mnemonic out there to help you remember it, but you think about Merrill Lynch. So Merrill Lynch was a CEO, right? And so when we think about that, we think about C for colorectal cancer, E for endometrial cancer. So they can also get endometrial cancer because of this. So we'll add that one on, endometrial cancer, and then O, so CEO ovarian cancer. All right? So this is one thing to be able to remember here is that these patients who have Lynch syndrome, they are at very high risk for specific types of cancers. And you can remember C-E-O, Merrill Lynch, right? And so Lynch syndrome is a mismatch or pergene mutation that can lead to increased risk of cancers, which ones colorectal cancer, endometrial cancer, endovirian cancer. All right? The other potential presentation of Lynch syndrome is Turco, where it can actually present with a brain tumor and having right-sided colorectal cancer. Now again, Lynch syndrome, very, very rapid development of carcinoma. Start off as a flat adenoma, boom, can develop a carcinoma. FAP, you usually develop hundreds upon thousands of polyps. 100% chance of a little bit of colorectal cancer. All right? Know the variants. These are the really, really big ones you can get tested on. Know this really well. The next part I only mentioned just for the thoroughness sake of the lecture, but it's not something that you'll probably be tested on too often. What you may see about these is these things called hammertomatous polyps. So I'm not going to go through the genes because it's unlikely that you're going to be tested on them. There's all these different types of genes. There's these S-tech genes and SMAD4 genes. You don't need to know it. All you need to know is that these patients, usually at a young age, develop some type of mutation. All right? They develop a mutation of sorts. That mutation that they develop puts them at risk of developing these things called hammertomatous polyps. That can occur in the stomach, can occur in the large intestine, and it can occur in the small intestine. Funny enough, when we actually see these tumors, they look like they're very pedunculated, and they have this hammer-like appearance. And they can appear in the stomach. They can appear in the large intestine, and they can appear in the small intestine. Out of all the locations of where it usually does appear, guess where it appears more often in the small intestine? So when we talk about this in colorectal cancer, yes, you can get these polyps that can occur in the colon. They can occur a lot of other places though. So I can get a polyp here that can develop in the stomach. It can develop in the colon. And it can develop here in the small intestine. So not only does that put them at risk, yes, you can't deny that if they develop a polyp there, these have somewhat of a malignant potential. It's not an insane amount of malignant potential, but they do exist. These hammertomatous polyps can potentially convert them into cancer. But it's more often that it's going to occur in the small intestine than it's going to occur anywhere else. Now, there is two types of conditions that are more juvenile that you need to know about. One is called Putsjäger's syndrome. So Putsjäger's syndrome is they have two types of presentations. One is they have these hammertomatous polyps. So they get these polyps. Plus they get hyperpigmented lesions. This is what I need you to remember. If you hear about a younger kid who's got these hyperpigmented lesions in their mouth, around their lips, and their hands and feet, and they have polyps that are appearing somewhere in their GIT, anywhere in their GIT, that is Putsjäger's syndrome. All right, so polyps plus hyperpigmented lesions. What do these lesions usually look like? They look a little bit like this. All right, so you saw that that patient had these lesions all over their mouth and their lips. They had it on their hands and their feet. If they have these polyps, they have hyperpigmented lesions, that's called Putsjäger's syndrome. Now, yes, they do carry a risk of colorectal cancer. So they do. You can't deny that. That with these patients, because of having these polyps, they have a small risk. There is an increased risk, but it's not super high. They have an increased risk of colorectal cancer. But more likely is that they have a risk of small intestinal cancer. And you know what else they have a risk of? Breast cancer, pancreatic cancer. There's so many different things. And so all that you're going to be tested on for Putsjäger's is going to be these hamertomatous polyps plus hyperpigmented lesions. That's what I need you to remember. All right, there is another one. I won't go too crazy on it. It's called juvenile polyposis. Juvenile polyposis is they can develop hamertomatous polyps as well. And they can occur in the stomach. They can occur in the small intestine. They can occur in the large colon. The only difference is that they usually don't have any other kind of specific lesions. It's usually occurring in very, very young kids. I'm talking less than the age of five. So if you see a young, very, very small kid, less than five years of age, who has tons of polyps that are in multiple parts of their GIT, you can think about juvenile polyposis syndrome. All right, that gives us a pretty good idea of what I want to tell you when it comes to risk factors. The biggest thing that you're probably going to be tested on is family history and hereditary cancer syndrome. And the third one is inflammatory bowel disease. Knowing these things, you have to know them to determine how soon you'll screen. That's very common and tested on the exam. Let's now talk about what are the ways that patients who have colorectal cancer can present from the most classic to the worst case scenario. All right, friends, so now let's start talking about how these patients can present. Again, it goes back to the right and left side of colorectal cancer. So right side of colorectal cancer, again, what I want you to remember is that when it looks at the right side, again, I think it's important to remember that the lumen of the right colon is wide. So because of that, that makes obstructive symptoms less common. So that's really what I want you to take away from this, is that there is a decreased chance. It's not like 100%. It's just decreased chance of obstructive symptoms. There's also another concept here that also adds to why there's less chance of obstructive symptoms. When you think about the stool coming from the small intestine into the large intestine, not only is this lumen wide here, but the stool is also more liquidy. So it's, again, less chance of possibly having an obstruction that adds to the mix. What really happens here is that this tumor, usually in the right side of tumors, you get exophytic or another, or let's say it like this, ulcerative tumors. All that means is that these are very easy to bleed. That means that these tumors can easily bleed. If they bleed, you get some blood that appears here. What's going to happen? OK, well, that blood is actually going to, when it gets pushed out here, it's going to easily mix with the liquidy stool. So that's what's going to happen next. It's going to mix with the stool. So it mixes with the stool. And then by the time it gets out to where you need to defecate, you drop that that dentodon, what happens? You're going to get blood that is in the stool, but you're not going to be able to visibly see it. So this leads to non-visible blood in the stool. Now there is a term for this, non-visible blood in the stool. Do you know what we call that? Occult GI bleed. So the most common presentation is you don't know it. It's an occult GI bleed. So that's one way. Now sometimes when you think about this, occult GI bleeds, they can present a couple of different ways. If I'm losing blood, what happens is because of that chronic bleeding, your body actually starts to unfortunately experience anemia. So one way that an occult GI bleed can present is it can present as anemia. So it's usually iron deficiency anemia. So iron deficiency anemia will abbreviate as IDA. That is one very, very common presentation. Now this iron deficiency anemia can present in two like clinical vignettes. One is it's in a male greater than 50. So if you see a male greater than 50 with symptoms of anemia, what's symptoms of anemia oftentimes? Fatigue, pallards, some generalized weakness. Male greater than 50 with iron deficiency anemia, and no ascertainable cause, ascertainable cause, you think about colorectal cancer until proven otherwise. Another one is a post-menopausal female. The reason why I say that is because if it's pre-menopause, guess what? They have abnormal or they can have uterine bleeding. And so we can't really completely say is it just heavy menstrual cycles. If they're post-menopausal and they aren't bleeding anymore, then you want to start thinking could this be due to an occult GI bleed? Another thing is that these tumors, they're kind of like, they do have the capability that they can lead to cytokines. And so you can get things like a little bit of interleukin 1, a little bit of tumor necrotic factor alpha, a little bit of interleukin 6. And what that can do is that can kind of lead to activation of the hypothalamus. So you can get all these kind of cytokines. And that can then act on the hypothalamus. If this acts on the hypothalamus, what is the hypothalamus going to do? Well, it can change the way that we decide to eat. And if you change the way that you decide to eat, unfortunately, they usually don't have an appetite. What can lead to that happening? Unintentional weight loss. So a male greater than 50 or a post-menopausal woman who is having unintentional weight loss and iron deficiency anemia is colorectal cancer until proven otherwise. So watch out for this because what this is going to do is lead to unintentional weight loss. Usually that's kind of like greater than 10 pounds within a month, all right? Without really trying to do anything about that. So that's something that we would be kind of concerned with. With a right cytokole rectal cancer is a cult GI bleed and unintentional weight loss. Which types of tumors for the hereditary? This is usually going to be Lynch syndrome, all right? For left cytokole rectal cancer, which types of etiologies, hereditary cancer syndrome? FAP, remember that. Which one's more common? Left or right? Usually it's the left, all right? Now, we talk about left cytokole rectal cancers. What usually happens with this one is that the lumen of colon is smaller and stool is more solid. If the stool is more solid and the lumen is smaller, what does that mean? You have an increased chance of obstructive symptoms. That's what we can kind of start seeing here. So with this one, you think about, again, the lumen of the colon here is a lot smaller. The stool is more solid. Your chance of developing obstructive symptoms now goes up. Now, with that being said, let's say that I have stool that's trying to move through here and it's a little bit more solid. As it runs through this area, some of it may kind of squeeze by and it may really have to squeeze past this cancerous stricture. And if it does, you get a very small, I don't mean to be like weird or vulgar, you get like a pencil-shaped stool. So now this stool could be very, very kind of like small and weird kind of like shaped because it had to squeeze past that stricture. So that's one thing that I want you to remember is that they can develop things like a pencil-shaped stool. So that's one thing that we like to definitely never consider as a pencil-shaped stool. So let's just say change in stool size. We'll talk about this a little bit later though. All right. All right, that's one thing. The next thing is some of the stool won't be able to make it because maybe if this is like liquidy, it's also they can get diarrhea that passes by here. But if this thing's kind of like solid, it's gonna start doing what? It's not gonna be able to get past this stricture. And as it doesn't get past this stricture, this area starts kind of like dilating and getting kind of like larger and spasming. And you also can't pass stool. So what's another thing that you could potentially see? Constipation. So that's another thing that I like to think about is a lot of changes in bowel habits. So let's actually write that down here. A really, really common presentation here is changes in bowel habits. And what does that look like? Okay, well, it's actually kind of like recap what we just said. One thing is some stool can kind of squeeze past the stricture. What does that look like? That gives you the pencil-shaped stools. So pencil, they're gonna say this one on the exam some way, shape, or form. It comes up and you think right away, left side of colorectal cancer. Another one is the stool won't be able to pass. It'll hit this wall or the stricture and it can't squeeze through. So then it dilates. When it dilates, it causes spasming. That spasming is you feel like you have to go poop like right now, but whenever you go to sit down and go, you only get like little nibblets, all right, like little like goose turds. And so because of that, we call that tenesmus. That's called tenesmus. The next thing is, is if I can't pass stool, am I gonna be able to poop? No. So I can get constipation. Now here's the last thing is with that constipation, sometimes, sometimes a little bit of stool may make it pass the stricture. So you can get constipation with periods of diarrhea. So that's the other thing to remember is you can get constipation with periods of diarrhea, where some, just a little bit of the liquid stool can make it pass that stricture and unfortunately you get some diarrhea. The other thing is that these tumors, when they bleed, look, it's in the rectum, it's in the sigmoic colon. How close is it to your poop chute? Very close. And so unfortunately, guess what? If they do bleed, you'll see that blood. And so when these bleed, that's a little bit different because now it's not gonna mix with the stool. It's actually probably gonna coat the stool. And because of that, they can get a bloody stool and it's a visible bloody stool. What's that call when you have like a brighter, bloody appearing stool? So you wipe your, your tuchus and you see blood all over the toilet paper or all over the poop. That's hematocesia. So hematocesia is a potential sign that there's blood there in that kind of like distal part of the colon. All right? The last thing is that these tumors also secrete, yeah, you got it. It secrete things like interleukin one, interleukin six, two-metacritic factor alpha. What are these things all gonna do? They're gonna act on the hypothalamus. If they act on the hypothalamus, what's that gonna do to your kind of like hunger and a lot of your desire to eat? It's gonna decrease it. What's gonna happen to their weight? It's gonna start becoming less. So they can start to experience that unintentional weight loss. All right, so taking away from this, right-sided, a cold GI bleed, left-sided changes in a lot of their bowel habits. They can also have visible bloody stool. This one doesn't have visible bloody stool. They both can have unintentional weight loss. That's the way that I want you to think about these. All right, this is gonna be the classic presentations, especially on your exam. The worst case scenarios are gonna be these that I wanna talk about. So sometimes, and it's really sad, and that's why we're trying to get better at screening these patients, they may not present with these obvious signs. Or let's say that, and this happens a lot, you know, some of you, I've had them, I've had hemorrhoids, and so whenever that happens, you end up with sometimes some blood in the stool. And you just ignore it, and you chalk it up to hemorrhoids, or you chalk it up to something else. Those are signs that if you don't deal with it, it could become something like colorectal cancer that doesn't only present now with hematocysia, and maybe mild changes in your bowel habits that you just thought was just, oh, it's something I ate. All of a sudden, it can metastasize, and you can present with other complications. That's why it's really important to be able to identify these things early. So especially for patients who are at high risk. So where can colorectal cancer spread, and how can that present? Well, here we have colorectal cancer, right? In this case, it's in the left colon. Now when it spreads, there is different areas where it can spread, and it kind of depends upon the location. But for simplicity's sake, usually what happens is this gets into your circulation. Either it gets into the portal circulation, right? Or it gets into the inferior vena cava circulation. But when it gets into the circulation, it can then spread and go all over the place. If some of these kind of like, these actual cancer cells spread to the brain, and they get into the brain, and you start getting metastasis here in the brain, what could potentially happen? Well, one thing is I can end up with a headache if it's big enough, because it can increase the intracranial pressure, right? So one potential clinical presentation is the patient can present with a headache. All right? Another one is that if it gets in the cortex, guess what happens to the area of the cortex? It can cause it to become irritable. It can create an asynchronous kind of like firing, and that can lead to seizures. So seizures are another potential presentation. If the tumors get into a part of the lobe that control specific motor or sensory function, what else could they develop? Focal deficits. Now, out of all of the locations of where colorectal cancer could spread, this I'd say would be the least likely one of where it can spread. But this would be the clinical presentations that we would be worried about. If a patient presented with like a new onset headache, new onset seizures, new onset focal deficits, we're gonna image and we'll pry find these lesions. If we then go ahead and say, hey, where does these lesions come from? We scan them all over the body and we find that they had a lesion in their colon. That could have been the source. All right? The most common location of where these things usually seed via the portal circulation is to the liver. And they can cause a lot of lesions here in the liver. Now, the liver can potentially have all of these lesions that occur here and cause nothing. They cause no symptoms. If you get some really, really big lesions, I'm talking like some honkers, you may get hepatomegaly. But oftentimes the most common way that you could see this is unfortunately, incidentally, but LFTs may be a little bit elevated. Especially on the exam, they may present a patient who has a history of colorectal cancer. They got a little bit of a large, right upper quadrant that's palpable. You get LFTs and they're a little elevated. That could potentially suggest that. If the tumor cells spread to the lungs, this one's a little bit different, but usually this spreads via the veins that are in the lower part here. So they usually can actually get into the inferior vena cava. And so if they can get into the inferior vena cava, they can bypass the portal circulation, get right into the lung. This can cause a met lesions here. And so sometimes they can present like all different types of ways. They can present with a cough, they could present with homoptysis, they could present with pleural effusions. It's really like completely weird how these patients could present. So they could present with cough, homoptysis, they could present with dyspnea, or they could even present with like these, like really bad pleural effusions. It kind of just depends on where they decide to deposit. And then the last one is really interesting is it can also spread to the peritoneum. When it spreads to the peritoneum, it can cause these lesions to occur in the peritoneum. And whenever they get here, these cancerous cells, they really increase permeability of the capillaries around the peritoneum. And if you increase the permeability here, guess what happens? It starts to cause the capillaries to become super leaky and a lot of fluid leaks out into the abdomen. Lots of albumin kind of like rich fluid. And so they can literally get acides. This is called peritoneal carcinomatosis. We can see this with ovarian cancer and we can also see this with colorectal cancer. When they start having all of this fluid build up, this can cause such enlargement that it can lead to a presentation like acides. Now, acides is tough because whenever you see acides, the first thing you start to think about is do they have like some kind of like cirrhosis? So you would have to get potentially a paracentesis and then when you would analyze the paracentesis, you would check the sag ratio. And the sag is the serum albumin that you would take and you would subtract that from the acides albumin. And this patient would have a ton of albumin in their acides. And so they would have a sag that's like less than 1.1. We talked about that in our serotic lecture and are in an acides lecture as well. But this would be an acides that I would be concerned about. And if I hear, I'll write it down for you guys, but this would be an exudate of acides. We determine that based upon a sag that is less than 1.1. And we would also get a bunch of like cytology and we would try to make sure that there's no evidence of infection here, but because we don't want to have SBP, but most of the time this is going to be peritoneal carcinomatosis. You're going to have a cancer that's causing a lot of leakiness and abduance leaking in there. All right, so this is metastas. Obviously another location that they can spread is guess what's all around here? Lymph nodes. So they can spread to a bunch of different types of mesenteric lymph nodes all over the place as well. So there can be some metastasis in those areas. All right, so not an area that we want to catch this, but this sometimes may be the way that they present and we unfortunately find it as a result of another kind of presentation. One thing that you want to think about, and this comes up on the exam a lot, I'm telling you like every time I've taken an exam, this comes up and it's a very, very commonly tested one. So in patients who have colorectal cancer, you can have an abnormal mucosa. So in other words, bacteria that are supposed to stay in the lumen, don't always stay in the lumen. And there's one specific bacteria that can cross over this kind of ulcerated or lack of barrier here. And if this poppy gets across here and gets into the bloodstream, this can cause bacteremia. So what is this bacteria here? So there's a bunch of different names, what we call this streptococcus gallolyticus. It's under the streptococcus bovis species. Now streptococcus gallolyticus, if you have colorectal cancer, it can cross the GM mucosa, get into the bloodstream. Guess what streptococcus gallolyticus does? It loves like damaged or old or like prosthetic heart valves. It likes anything that appears to be old, damaged, or that's a valve. And so let's say that a patient has a damaged mitral valve. These bacteria will then do what? Well, they're gonna go find that valve because they love damaged valves because there's gonna be areas of where it's broken down. And they're gonna go and they're gonna start kind of seeding onto these valves. And they're gonna produce these vegetations. And then what happens is, when you produce these nasty vegetations, this can lead to an infection of those valves. It could ulcerate the valve. What happens if it ulcerates the valve? And then your valve starts breaking down. Well, blood can rush backwards. Guess what one way that the patient could present? They could present with a new heart murmur. All right? Another thing here is that patients with endocarditis consistently, consistently present usually with a fever. This is probably gonna be more subacute endocarditis, but still nonetheless, they could present with a fever. Another thing is that if these vegetations break off, so let's say that they break off and they get into the circulation, so this thing breaks off, so either the valve breaks and you get a murmur, you get fever because you have this kind of bacteria circulating through the bloodstream, or you can spread these kind of like septic emboli. These are called septic emboli. These can go all over the place. What's one area that we always see on the exam though? Right here, the fingernails, splinter hemorrhages. So you wanna watch out because these things, they can really, I'm not kidding, they can go anywhere, but the way that they'll try to test you on the exam is this patient having splinter hemorrhages. So maybe you'll have a patient who has kind of like a fever, they have splinter hemorrhages, they have a new heart murmur, they have a history of colorectal cancer, or maybe you don't even know, that's another thing. You don't even know that they have colorectal cancer. Let's just say that you have a patient who comes in, new heart murmur, fever, and some splinter hemorrhages, you get an echocardiogram, and the echocardiogram shows that you have a vegetation. So it shows that you have a vegetation there on the valve. And then you get blood cultures. And the blood cultures, when they come back positive, guess what they come back positive for? Two of the, out of those cultures, you take two of them, if it comes back positive for streptococcus galilidicus, what do you then need to consider that this patient has colorectal cancer? How they'll try to test you on the exam is, you'll have a patient who comes in, they present with some features of endocarditis, you get an echo, you get a blood culture, comes back with streptococcus bovis, or streptococcus galilidicus, they ask you, what is the next step in management? You get a colonoscopy, because your fear is that they have colorectal cancer. That's the way that they're gonna test you on the exam about this, so do not forget that. All right? The last one I wanna briefly go through, because it's not super calm, we don't see it all the time, but if you get a tumor that's pretty big, man, and it's really in the left-sided colon, and let's say that it's almost completely obstructing, so let's say that this tumor is a complete obstruction. All right? So you have a tumor causing a complete, not a partial, a complete obstruction. That is very, very dangerous, that's bad news bears. The reason why is, now stool, no stool, some of it could seep by, no stool is getting passed here. If no stool is getting in here, I'll draw a couple like-fucking giblets there, here's a couple little turds. All right, these things can't get by. This is gonna do what to the colon? It's gonna make it dilate. And so then what you're gonna get is, is you're gonna get a sequence of events. We talked about this in GI. You're gonna first get some dilation. All right? So then you're gonna get this dilation of the colon. When you dilate, what do you do to the vessels that it's within the wall? You squeeze them. If you squeeze the vessels, can you give oxygen to the wall of the actual colon now? So what's the next event? Aschemia. If aschemia goes on for a long period of time, what's gonna happen? The tissue starts to die. If it starts to die, that's called necrosis. Necrotic tissue, is it strong? Can it resist high pressure? No. So all of these things would occur. Usually it's one, two, three. And then what's gonna happen is, is this guy is going to perforate. Here's my marker. Boom. If this perforates, this is unfortunately the problem where any of this stool that's in here, here's any kind of stool, what else could be in there? Bacteria. All this bacteria, air, anything. All that stuff can come leaking out. So I can have air, I can have bacteria, I can have poo, and all this stuff is gonna start leaking out where? Right into the peritoneum. All right? And that's what we get scared about is that all of this can then spread into the peritoneum. And what's the potential presentation of this? They could present with peritonitis. So oftentimes the clinical presentation of peritonitis is what? So peritoneal signs is usually they have like guarding of their abdomen. You come near them, they're like, you know, they don't wanna move. They don't, you touch the bed that they're laying on and they'll scream, right? Rigidity. You touch their abdomen and it's like rock solid. Rebound tenderness is another really, really important presentation. So in other words, you press down and they don't have pain, but when you come up, they're like, ah, you know, that is a potential sign of a peritoneal sign, meaning you perforate and you potentially have peritonitis. The other one is unfortunately, they could be sick as, like I'm talking sick, like hemodynamic instability. So when I say hemodynamic instability, I'm talking that this patient has a blood pressure that's like zero, all right? So stability. So they could present with a very, very low blood pressure. They could present with shock, right? So that's another potential thing that you wanna think about is, are they presenting with like tachycardia and low blood pressure? These are some scary signs. Another one is that they may present this as a patient who, you get an x-ray. You get an abdominal x-ray or a CT scan and it shows the presence of a pneumo peritoneum. What is a pneumo peritoneum? So a pneumo peritoneum is when you look at an image, like an abdominal x-ray, you have the diaphragm and just underneath it is the liver and you'll see this air bubble. You'll see this space. That usually means that air has leaked into the peritoneum. And again, you can have feces getting in there so you can get peritonitis and goceptic. You can have stool leaking in there and you can have air leaking in there. And so sometimes looking for an abdominal x-ray that shows a pneumo peritoneum, it actually looks like  just a little bit like this. That could be potentially concerning for having something like a bowel perforation. This would be an emergency. Now, with all of this that I've told you about, what are the big things that I want you to take away from this discussion with colorectal cancer? Oftentimes, you may not have very, very obvious signs like this, a cold GI bleed, maybe some iron deficiency anemia. Think about that for right-sided. Left-sided, think about the blood in the stool that's visible and some weird changes in your bowel habits. The worst case scenario is you catch it too late and it spreads to the liver, spreads to the lungs, spreads to the brain, spreads to the peritoneum. Sometimes if you get lucky and a patient has endocarditis, which that's not lucky, but again, if you catch it and they get blood cultures that show that they have this bacteria, this is an ominous finding and you need to scope them to see if they have the tumor. That's one way that we would do this. And lastly, if a patient comes in with like hemodynamic instability or signs of peritonitis, think about a perforation. This is not always a very common cause of perforation, but if you get a pretty significantly obstructing tumor, it can cause a perforation. Alright, we've really gone through it in this lecture. Now what I want us to do is I want us to take some time and actually go through the diagnostic approach and put all of this together piece by piece. Alright my friends, let's talk about the diagnostic approach to colorectal cancer. So we're going to take everything that we've talked about so far up to this point and start coming up with a way of really kind of analyzing these patients and figuring out what do we do, what's the next step? How to interpret this. So first thing is you need to know if your patient has symptoms or not. That's a really, really important thing and obviously when we talked about right-sided colorectal cancer, it's usually a cult. They may have iron deficiency anemia. That may be it. For your left-sided, they may present with changes in bowel habits. That's definitely a possibility. They may present with hematocles and they may present with symptoms of bowel obstruction. There's the weird scenario where you may find this from a patient having infective endocarditis from streptococcus bovis also known as streptococcus galilidicus. But sometimes these patients won't present with anything. They're just completely asymptomatic and you have to potentially consider do they have a risk of colorectal cancer. They may not be presenting with any features of colorectal cancer and they may not have it. But how do I make sure that I am surveying to see if they do have it? I catch it early or I make sure that they don't have it by continuously doing things according to the guidelines. Screening is very, very important. We have to determine how early and how frequently we scan patients in the sense of colonoscopies is the biggest one. How do we know when we should do it and how frequently we should do it? Because every procedure carries risk when you put under anesthesia, when you're putting a scope up through the colon. There's always complications and you want to avoid that if possible. So for average risk patients, we prefer around the age of 45 to do a colonoscopy for the first time. And if you don't have any polyps, you don't have any abnormal lesions, great. You can come back in 10 years. If the patient doesn't want to do a colonoscopy at all, there is options for them. So there is alternative routes and we can talk about that. But if they do have a polyp or if they have an abnormal lesion, based upon that, they may have to come back before 10 years. They may have to be at 3 years if there's a lot of high-grade dysplasia, lots of polyps, or 5 years if it's more of a lower-grade dysplasia, not as many polyps. So that's really, really important to remember is if they have polyps or abnormal lesions, they may have to come back a little earlier, 3 to 5 years. If they don't come back in 10 years, if they don't even want a colonoscopy right away and they want to do other things first, we can do that. What are those things? Well, the other alternatives is you can do stool studies. They're not perfect, but they're going to help you to find a patient who's got something abnormal going on and say, let's do a colonoscopy. For example, we can do things like a fecal-immunochemical test, a fit testing. They even add on the DNA sample component of it as well. So you take a stool sample, you test it, and you're looking for specifically proteins like hemoglobin and things like that that are present in the stool. If that comes back positive, that's definitely concerning for blood in the stool. If there's blood in the stool, hey, I should definitely be concerned about this, especially in a greater than 50-year-old patient. They also have iron divisions, the anemia. They could have colorectal cancer. A fecal-cold blood test is another one. This one's way better. It's way more sensitive and specific. Fecal-cold blood tests aren't bad, but you take the same thing, the stool sample, you're putting in a testing solution and seeing if it comes back positive for blood. You can definitely do both of these. We say that you can do this at 45 if you're not going to do the colonoscopy. If it's normal, you can just keep doing it, just keep doing it yearly. The moment that it comes back abnormal, you should then say, hey, this is concerning. We should go ahead and consider doing a colonoscopy to make sure that there's nothing there. Another alternative to stool studies is you could do imaging studies. It used to be things like barium enemas. We don't really do those anymore. They're still tested on the exam and I'll show you what they do. Flexible sigmoidoscopy is another one. You can sometimes do that. Sometimes there's options to do flexible sigmoidoscopies and a fit test, and you can do that every five years. Oftentimes the one that we're starting to see now is CT colonographies. CT colonographies, you can do at the age of 45 as well. It's an interesting test where you get a CT scan. You can see on the CT scan there's a weird appearing polyp here, some stuff here. Whenever you do that, you get the three-dimensional image you get here. We can even run through and create this really cool run through of the colon and find particular abnormal lesions. That's one of the beauties of CT colonography. We can say, hey, there's some weird lesions here. We can look at this three-dimensionally. We can appreciate it here. It's nice because it shows you something without having to go into the lumen of the colon under anesthesia. This is a potential benefit, and this is something that patients will do. If it came back where it did show something, then we got to go further. If it didn't show anything, then we can go ahead and do this in another five years. If it does show something, we got to get a colonoscopy. It's the right thing to do to make sure. We not only got to take a better look at it, but we also want to take a biopsy. This is the way I want you guys to think about it is that the goal is a colonoscopy. 45 years of age is really the goal. If it's nothing on that colonoscopy, come back 10. If there is something, 3 to 5, depending upon the degree of dysplasia and the amount of polyps. If you don't want to do that, you can do stool studies or you can do imaging studies. If those come back abnormal, you got to get a colonoscopy. If they do come back fine, you can keep doing those according to their guidelines, yearly for the stool studies every five years for the imaging. Again, remember, we do have other tests that we can do. Flexible sigmoidoscopy is one, but usually it's one where we combine with the fit test and we would do that every five years. If it came back abnormal, you get the colonoscopy. If it came back normal, you can still do every five years. We don't really do that much and we don't really do barium minima, but they love to test the barium minima on the exam. Let's say that, for example, on the exam, they say a patient came in and they ended up getting screened, they ended up getting a barium minima and it shows this lesion, the apple core lesion. It looks like someone took a bite out of this thing. That is pretty consistent with a colorectal cancer. That's something that we would say on the exam. You ever see the apple core sign on barium minima? Think about colorectal cancer. This is for the asymptomatic patient who we're trying to screen and make sure that we finally identify it or we keep an eye on it so that we don't find it when it's stage four. What about the patient who is high risk? This isn't the patient now who's 45 years of age with not a lot of risk factors. This is the patient who has things like hereditary cancer syndromes. This is a patient who has a personal history of colorectal cancer. They have a family history or a first degree relative less than the age of 60 was diagnosed with colorectal cancer. They have things like Pusieger syndrome. They have things like juvenile polyposis or FAP or inflammatory bowel disease. Those are things that we got to be a little bit more aggressive and we should do colonoscopies way earlier than 45 years of age and we should do it more frequently than every 10 or every three to five years. We do this again based upon what is that risk. For example, if I said that a patient has a personal or family history of colorectal cancer, a colonoscopy is the way to go, we're still going to follow the interval of every five years instead of every 10 years if it is normal. The recommended age is starting earlier than 45, 40. 40 is the go to, but if you have a patient who has a family history of colorectal cancer and a first degree relative, if they had a diagnosis, let's say at the age of 45. 45, they were diagnosed. Well then, what you could say is you could actually give them the actual ability to get a colonoscopy at the age of 35. You want to go to whichever one comes earlier. For example, you could do it at 40, but if they have a first degree relative that was diagnosed with colorectal cancer at 45, you could theoretically start at 35. You should do that. You should go earlier. Whichever one comes first is the goal. 40 years of age or 10 years before the patient's loved one or first degree relative has a had that diagnosis. So as the example is if the loved one, the first degree relative was 45 years of age, you could theoretically start at 35, which comes before their age of 40. I hope that makes sense. With familial adenomatosis, again, it can be a colonoscopy, but he got to think about this one. It's primarily left-sided disease. You're going to see this most often in the sigmoic colon and probably in a little bit of the descending colon. It's going to be the primary area. Flexible sigmoidoscopy is definitely one of the ones that they suggest, but you still can do a colonoscopy. It's just that FAP is going to involve more left-sided disease. For this one, they're super high risk. 40 years of age, 100% chance of colorectal cancer. You got to do this one every year. You're going to start this one pretty young. You're 10 to 12 years and you do this every year until you get the colorectal cancer because there is 100% chance of them getting colorectal cancer if they live to the age of 40. You really, really got to keep a close eye on this one. Lynch syndrome is another one. Look at this. This is what FAP would look like. If you actually took a resection, so this is a person who got a colorectal, I mean, you're actually looking at this, this is how many of these polyps they have, hundreds upon thousands of polyps. That's why it's a super, super aggressive one because any one of these could actually convert into an adenocarcinoma and boom, you're done for. That's an idea to give you perspective of FAP. Lynch syndrome or non hereditary polyposis, Coli, this one, colonoscopy. This one definitely tends to involve more of the right-sided disease. Colonoscopy, you're going to only get over that right side, but it can involve the left side. Again, interval is you can do every one to two years. The big thing about this one is that usually we got to get to this one prior before, at least when they're at 20 to 25 years of age because that's when they're probably going to present what they're not. Again, you got to remember Lynch syndrome can also present with endometrial cancer and ovarian cancer. That's another thing that you got to be scanning them for and considering working them up for as another potential cancer risk. Poochieager syndrome, this is the one that I told you where they present with the hyperpigmented macular lesions that are going to be appearing over the lips, usually over the oral mucosa on the hands, the palms of the feet. This one can cause gastric cancer, small intestinal cancer, colorectal cancer, pancreatic cancer. There's a bunch of different cancers for this one. The risk of colorectal cancer tends to be on the lower side, but they like to include it in this one. It is something to consider that we would do a colonoscopy, but oftentimes you run more of a risk of gastric, small intestinal, pancreatic cancer. Sometimes we'll do EGDs and pancreatic MRIs. For Poochieager, it's every three years and you're going to start this at eight years of age. Again, pancreatic MRI, this definitely carries a pretty high risk of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Every three years you'll include a pancreatic MRI and you're going to do that around the age of 30. Juvenile polyposis syndrome, this is usually on the child, usually pretty young. They're going to be pretty young. With this one, they do carry the risk of, again, colorectal cancer, small intestine, gastric cancer. Oftentimes this one is usually a colonoscopy paired with an EGD. We're going to do that every one to three years and we're going to start that pretty young, usually 12 years of age. This is a lot, but I think the most important ones out of this is to remember is really the personal history and family history one. This is going to be a definite one that you can see. Flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy for FAP is a big one. There's one more that's really, really important. That's called inflammatory bowel disease. Inflammatory bowel disease, you're going to want to do a colonoscopy. Now, when we talk about this, this is Crohn's and ulcerative colitis. Ulcerative colitis is going to carry more of the risk of colorectal cancer as compared to Crohn's. It's just because Crohn's tends to involve multiple different areas. It has those skip lesions. It can involve the ileum most often, so small intestine. Whereas ulcerative colitis usually is going to involve areas like the rectum, the sigmoid colon, and it can even go continue. You can get pancolitis, but you're definitely going to see more of that rectum and the sigmoid colon involvement and even the descending colon. With that being said, colonoscopy is going to be really, really crucial here. With this one, we do it based upon the degree, when they were diagnosed, and the degree of colitis. If a patient was diagnosed eight years ago, then we'll start scanning them after that eight-year mark. We'll do it every one to three years. That's dependent upon the patient. But eight years after the diagnosis of pancolitis, we'll start doing this. We got to do it very, very soon, or 12 to 15 years after the diagnosis of left cytocolitis, meaning it's just involving more of the rectum and the sigmoid colon, and maybe even the descending. You can go 12 to 15, which is definitely a lot later because it's only just involving one part of the colon, but if it's involving the entire colon, you got to go every eight years. Eight years after the diagnosis, and then go every one to three years. That's a lot. But again, just to recap, personal family history is the big one. 40 or 10 years before the first degree relative was diagnosed, whichever one comes sooner. FAP, 10 to 12, you're doing it yearly because you are guaranteed to get colorectal cancer. You have to do it annually, get to the point of where they do the colactomy. In IBD, they carry a super high risk of dysplasia, inflammatory pseudopallops, and this can become cancer. It has to be eight years after the diagnosis of pancolitis, or 12 to 15 after just the procto, and usually just left side of colitis. That's a lot. Now I want to talk about the patient who comes in with symptoms. If the patient comes in with symptoms, then I got to start talking about a colonoscopy. Usually anybody who's aged greater than 50, plus they have one of the following. I'd say a big one is iron deficiency anemia. This is going to be super common on your step two. When you've got a patient who's 50 years or greater and they have iron deficiency anemia without an identifiable or easy cause to discern, then you should definitely be thinking about colorectal cancer. That's definite, and usually that's going to be one of the indications where you got to get a colonoscopy. Another one that I would consider is hematocasia. If a patient has hematocasia and they're older, but it's persistent hematocasia. You've done, you've ruled out things very, very simple like diverticulosis, or you've ruled out things like hemorrhoids, which are very, very common ones. I would definitely consider colonoscopy, and especially if the hematocasia is paired with the changes in their bowel habits. That's lasted for a while, greater than six weeks. The reason why I say this is because whenever you have, again, you have that tumor that's present on the left side of the colon, which is the more common one. It's going to create a partial obstruction or full obstruction, depending upon how extensive it is. It's going to make pencil shaped stools. That's one big thing. You're going to have periods of where you have frequent episodes where you're pooping out very small amounts of turds. You feel like you're not completely emptying your bowels because you're only getting small little turds to come out, and you keep feeling like you got to go. You may even have periods of diarrhea as well. That's something definitely to be considered of in this patient population. The last one, and this is the weird one, is a patient who comes in and they have a diagnosis of infective endocriditis. Their blood cultures and their echocom, and they say, hey, they have a little vegetation maybe, or their blood cultures only come back with streptococcus bovis or streptococcus galaticus. You always colonoscopy these patients because you may find a colorectal cancer. These are the things I definitely want you to be thinking about as a reason to get a colonoscopy. You've got A-50-year-old, most often iron deficiency anemia is the big one that they'll present on the exam. You're going to get a colonoscopy. When you do the colonoscopy, what you're looking for is the tumor. Is it going to be in the left colon, the right colon? You'll be able to visualize that on the colonoscopy. Once you biopsy that, you'll be able to confirm, oh, this is like an adenocarcinoma here that we're seeing. That's going to be super, super helpful. Because again, you can think about this. As I throw that scope up there, and I'm examining, and I see, oh, wow, look, here in the descending colon, I see this abnormal appearing mass that's friable, and there's irregularities in the mucosa, and I take that off, and I send it, and it comes back, okay, it's cancer. Or if I go down here to the sigmoic colon, I start saying, oh, man, there's another friable mass, and I take a piece of tissue, and I send it off. Oh, the pathologist says it's malignant. Or I go down here to the rectum, and I'm getting really, really low, and I see this friable tissue. It definitely appears irregular. It's ulcerative. It's exophitic. Boom, take it off, and I send it out. Okay, came back positive. All right. These are things that are definitely going to help me to make the diagnosis, both visually and then pathologically, from that tissue sample. Now, once you have diagnosed colorectal cancer, you need to consider working them up. What I mean is working them up for metastasis. All right? It's not just metastasis. There's other things that we'll talk about as well, but metastasis is going to be the big one. You should get a CT, chest, abdomen, pelvis, because you want to look to see if it's spread to the lungs. You want to look to see if it's spread to the liver. That's going to be the most common one. You want to see if it's spread to areas like the bones as well. All right? Liver lesions are going to be a big one. Also, I'd say pelvis, another really one. Actually, not bones per se. It's the peritoneum. That's what I should actually have said. Sorry. The peritoneum. The CT, chest is good for lungs. Abdomen is good for the liver. The pelvis is going to be looking for peritoneal carcinomatosis. I'll explain what the heck that means. Here we can appreciate on this CT scan of the abdomen, look at all these metastatic lesions, all these hypodensities. Pretty suggestive of metastatic disease. Then you can see here on the chest, we can appreciate all of these metastatic lesions in the lungs, bilateral, all over the place. Pretty consistent. Here is the, oh, look at this. This is called peritoneal carcinomatosis. You see some of the psides. Here's what's interesting. Once you get colorectal cancer, this tumor can start invading into the omentum. It thickens up the omentum here and it makes it look like the inside of a cake. Here's all the icing. Then here's the inside. That thing is omental caking. This is pretty consistent with peritoneal carcinomatosis, which we can see in colorectal cancer for starts to spread there. That's definitely one thing to definitely consider about is a patient who presents with omental caking. You see any kind of acidic involvement present on their CT scan? That'd be concerning, especially if they have a history of colorectal cancer. That really tells me that they got metastatic colorectal cancer. If they got liver lesions, lung lesions, or peritoneal carcinomatosis, I got metastatic colorectal cancer. That's pretty aggressive and there's not much that we can do with that. There may be certain exceptions that you can consider, especially if the only area that I'm a tacitize to is the liver. You could theoretically do a colectomy or remove a couple of the hepatic meds and consider it being a possibility, but oftentimes at this stage, there's not going to be much surgical option. Another thing I want to do is I always want to attain a CEA level. CEA is actually really interesting. CEA is a tumor marker. We see this when we talk about prostate cancer like PSA. We'll talk about testicular tumors and we'll talk about beta-HCG and AFP. Testicular tumors or prostate cancer tumors or any kind of tumor like this, they'll have these tumor markers. Now, these tumor markers don't diagnose colorectal cancer. Really, what we can for the most part say is that, yes, to the degree the higher the CEA level is, yeah, maybe the more advanced it is, but it's more used as a baseline and then determining efficacy of treatment. I always do it as a way of getting a baseline CEA level. You have a patient with colorectal cancer, you get a CEA level. It's probably going to be elevated, but I would just look at that and then compare it after you've done particular therapies like a colectomy. Hey, what happened to the CEA level? Oh, I got better. All right, cool. That's what we would want to do is use it as a way of being able to monitor efficacy of therapy. The last thing that I also want to be considering in my work up is I need to determine if they're going to be a patient who will respond well to targeted therapy because when we get patients who have metastatic colorectal cancer, there's not a lot of options. Surgery is not really an option. Sometimes we've got to dig into our bag of tools and tricks and see, can we come up with something that we can at least prevent the disease from getting bigger and bigger and bigger? You'll notice in cancer that as we get to the metastatic diseases or we get to the advanced stages, there's not a lot of surgical options. We then got to start digging into targeted therapies and immunotherapies. This is what I would want to do. But before I could even offer that, I need to make sure that they have specific genetics that I have an area to target. I'd obtain an MMR which looks at that microsatellite instability and see if they have a lot of that. The reason why is I can target specific drugs to this one. I want to know if they have the KRAS or BRAF analysis because if they have any mutations here, that changes which drug I can give. I'll make sense of all of this later. This is a big way of looking at colorectal cancer. Asymptomatic, you got to get a colonoscopy if they're average risk. Start at 45. If you don't want to do that, there's options. There's stool studies, there's alternative imaging studies, but if they come back abnormal, you got to get a colonoscopy. If you get a colonoscopy, comes back abnormal, you may have to come back in three to five years depending upon the degree of dysplasia. If it's normal, you can come back in 10. If they have high risk factors and one of the most important ones, a family history, you got to do it at 40. If their family member was diagnosed at a young age, then you can go 10 years before they were diagnosed with that cancer. Another one is FAP. We'll do it every year, 10 to 12 until they get a colic to me. The third most important one is IBD. You're going to do that again eight years after the diagnosis of pancolytus or 12 to 15 after the diagnosis of left cytocolitis. For symptomatic, we get a colonoscopy with biopsy if they have greater than 50 and the red flag symptoms, iron deficiency, anemia, changes in bowel habits, persistent amatic aphasia, or positive blood cultures. If you find the tumor, you diagnosed it. Look at the pathology, confirm that it's actually a carcinoma, and then from there, stage it. After you stage it, get their CEA level. See if they have a baseline that you can compare to with your therapies and then also look to see do they have mutations analysis that can help me to treat them if they have metastatic colorectal cancer. Let's talk about the treatment of colorectal cancer. The big thing here is surgery. Surgery is going to be the primary option for these patients, especially any from stage one to stage three. Collectomy is the way that we're going to go. We're going to literally cut out the diseased segment, or unfortunately, sometimes in severe cases, the entire colon if we have to. We don't like to do that, but we will if we have to. We will remove a portion of the colon that consists of that cancer. The more invasive, the more widespread that cancer is, the more likely we're going to have to take more of the colon. Collectomy is the way that we're going to go. As we do that, we'll remove some of the particular areas where there may be some lymph nodes that are actually going to have some spread from that cancer, or at least remove them to reduce the risk of it spreading to those areas. If there's anything that remains, you don't get as clean of the margin. We'll remove some of the periortic lymph nodes and we'll remove some of the actual, all the lymph nodes that are within that vicinity. One of the big things is deciding the colactomy. It just depends. You probably won't be asked exactly. I think the simple ones will come down to total and probably like right and left hemicolectomy. When you think about this, it's pretty straightforward. Let's say that you had right-sided disease. You'll do a right hemicolectomy. If you involve just maybe a portion, for example, in this case the transverse colon, you can do a partial colactomy. If it's the left-sided that's primarily involved, you'll do a left hemicolectomy. If it's really the only the sigmoid colon that's involved, it's a sigmoid colactomy. If it's going to be the sigmoid that's not involved and it's really just going to be the rectum, you'll do a total proctectomy. If it's involving the rectum, the sigmoid colon, parts of the descending colon, you'll do an abdominal perennial resection. If it's involving no part of the rectum, you'll do a lower anterior resection. If it's a complete involvement of the ascending transverse, descending and sigmoid is a total colactomy. If it's involving the rectum and the sigmoid, descending, transverse and then the ascending colon, that would be a total proctocolectomy. Obviously, in this scenario, it just depends upon what you're trying to resect. Depending upon how much you resect, it also determines if you're going to have to have some type of diversion, in other words, a stoma, where you're going to have to have some parts of the colon empty out into a bag external to the body. That depends especially if you're removing areas of the most distal parts of the colon near the sigmoid and the rectum, you may have to divert and have a diversion into a stoma sometimes. That's something to definitely think about. Stage one to stage three, we really just go colactomy and depending upon where it is and how much is involved determines the type of colactomy that we would do. Medical therapy is something that we can add on depending upon the stage. Stage one, you don't really need to add on anything. Colactomy would probably be enough. Stage two, only if they are high risk. I wouldn't even try to remember this. You can consider full fox, which is a type of chemotherapy regimen or full fury, which again, this is a chemotherapy regimen that you're probably not going to have to use here in stage two. When it would be most utilized is in stage three. Again, stage one, surgery only. Stage two, surgery, maybe chemotherapy with full fox or full fury. Stage three, surgery and definitely chemotherapy with full fox or full fury. With these usually is using things like flora uracil. You use like 5FU, you'll use other things like leukovorin, you'll use things like oxa-platin or arena-ticking. You're probably not going to be testing that. You'll probably just see chemotherapy or full fox or full fury. That's something that you can utilize. When we get to stage four, we're at metastatic. This thing is spread. Maybe it's gone to the liver, which is most often. If there's any metastatic site that's the most common, it's going to be the liver. The liver is the primary way that we're going to look for meth. You can see it in the lungs. You can see it in the paris name, but the liver is going to be the big one. Oftentimes with this surgery is not really something we go for. There is rare instances, and I'll talk about it a little bit later, where you can consider surgery. But oftentimes, it's not going to be up for curative intent. This is curative. If you remove it, you theoretically can cure the disease. In this stage four, you're only doing it if they have significant symptoms. You're just trying to help them to not be in pain or have some of the issues that comes with that tumor. For example, if they have a left-sided tumor that's really obstructing the lumen and they keep having obstructive symptoms, they keep having a lot of pain or a bowel obstruction, then I would say it's potential to go in a mennap by putting in a stent. You could actually go in. Here's the tumor. It's causing a significant narrowing here. I'm going to thread up a catheter, inflate a balloon, and I'm going to leave in a stent to help to keep that relatively patent so we can get feces to move. When we come to the medical therapy, really treating patients who have colorectal cancer, it can be chemotherapy as well. We have all these different ways that we can try to target it. PD1 inhibitor therapy, which is like Pembrolyzumab is a big one, this is becoming a really heavily utilized immune checkpoint inhibitor. It's becoming utilized in colorectal cancer, especially stage 4. This is one I would consider again. You talk about this one a lot in oncology. You have a tumor cell and you have a T cell. Well, T cells express PD1 and they also express T cell receptors. Tumor cells express their MHC complex with their antigen, and then they also express the PDL1. These can interact. It shuts the T cell off so it can't kill the tumor cell. It's kind of a way of masking itself. If I give a drug that binds to the PD1, then it doesn't allow for it to bind to the PDL1. That allows for the T cell to be active and it can start actually killing this actual tumor cell. That's the benefit here. We can do PD1 inhibitor monotherapy. There's just certain circumstances and I'll talk about that. That's why we order the KRAS, the BRAF analysis. That's why we order all of those things to determine, hey, do they have it? Do they have any of these abnormal mutations? That's the significance of doing that. Checking the macrosatellite instability, checking to see if they have the BRAF or the KRAS analysis kind of mutations.  eGFR-blocker, epidermal growth factor receptor blocker. We can think about epidermal growth factors as they bind onto a receptor, pretty straightforward. They send a signal inside via K-RAS that goes into the nucleus, activates the cell proliferation process. If we give a drug like satuximab that's going to block that growth factor at the receptor, it's going to shut down the K-RAS pathway and that's going to drop down the cell proliferation. This would be great if you have a way of doing that and this K-RAS isn't mutated in some way. That would be a potential benefit. Full-Fox or full-Fury plus a VEG-F inhibitor is another drug that you can give. It's pretty straightforward. When you think about VEG-F, that binds on, it's a growth factor, binds on to the VEG-F receptor, stimulates a pathway inside of the nucleus to help to increase the VEG-F release, and VEG-F will then say, okay, let me go ahead and stimulate endothelialization and help to make more blood vessels so it sprouts out all these little vessels. I got all these spaghetti tubes that are coming off of it and that's going to help to feed more blood to the tumor. That's called angiogenesis. If you feed more blood to the tumor, it's going to grow, man. If I give something like a VEG-F inhibitor, like bevacizumab, it's going to block that. It's going to shut down that pathway. It's going to reduce the VEG-F secretion from that to the endothelial cells. It's going to drop the angiogenesis and starve the tumor of blood so that it doesn't continue to grow. That's what I want you to think about. That's a lot, right? When we think about how we determine which one of these would we give, it goes back to why the heck that I ordered the macrosatellite instability, the MMR. Why did I order the BRAF and KRAS mutational analysis? For example, if they have the MMR mutation, this is going to be the one that you want to give. If you have a patient with stage four colorectal cancer because it shows that it's spread to the liver, you've got it confirmed on colonoscopy, you get the MMR and it comes back positive, PD1 inhibitors are going to be the way to go. Now, if they had a left-sided tumor and they had no KRAS or BRAF mutation, this is cool because when you think about it, no KRAS mutation. If you had a KRAS mutation, this wouldn't really work because you're trying to influence an already hyperactivated KRAS. Usually what happens is in this disease, as we talked about this on the whiteboard, KRAS is auto-activating it, it sends signals down to proliferate. It's not going to respond well to this drug because it's a little bit above. What I would want to do is in that situation, if they don't have the KRAS mutation, I can actually manipulate this then because it's not hyperactive. It's actually going to respond to my therapy. Left-sided tumors and no KRAS BRAF mutation, you give satuximab plus the full fox or the full fury. If they have no left-sided tumor, so it's probably right-sided and they do have the KRAS of the BRAF mutation, you're not going to be able to give them this because it's not going to respond well to the actual therapy because you have an already hyperactive KRAS. What I would say is give the VEGF inhibitor because it doesn't influence the KRAS pathway. You're going to give this because it's not even having any effect on the KRAS of the BRAF pathway. That's the beauty of this. All you're going to do is you're going to starve the tumor of blood supply and it's going to help it to prevent it from getting bigger and bigger. That's the beauty of this. If you have the MMR mutation, PD1 inhibitors. If you have left-sided tumor and no KRAS BRAF, satuximab because you're not going to be going after, in this case, an abnormal KRAS. If you have a KRAS BRAF mutation, then you can give a drug like a VEGF inhibitor because it's not influencing the KRAS pathway. Then again, if you have the satuximab and the bevacizumab, you combine that with chemotherapy. Two last things that I want to add on is an important side note. When a patient has familial adenomatosis polyposis, you have to give a collectimie. There is no decision about, okay, they're stage one. No, no, no. You do a prophylactic collectimie. There's a 100% chance of them developing colorectal cancer by 40 years of age. You do a prophylactic collectimie. It's very sad, but you have to in these patients. There is no waiting until they have stage none, no, no. You do a prophylactic collectimie. You do colonoscopy until you get that done. Last thing here is, I told you in stage four, colorectal cancer, we don't really do surgery unless it's palliative. You can consider it as a possible curative surgery if they have a colorectal lesion and maybe one or two mets in the liver that I can actually access and get to and remove. If you've got tons of hepatic mets or mets in other places, this is not an option. You can do a collectimie and you can do a metastectimie, but it's only offered if there's just a couple of those hepatic lesions and they're more accessible peripheral points where I can get to them, remove them without causing a lot of potential extensive damage and that there's no other mets anywhere else. That is something that could be considered, but I don't spend too much time thinking about that. It's just an option as an opportunity to think about. My friends, this is a ton of information on colorectal cancer. I really hope that you guys do understand it after this. I know that sometimes you get packed with information as a student and you're trying to really force feed your brain and prevent it from spilling out from your ear tubes. I get that, but I hope that we here at Ninja Nerd can make it a little bit easier for you. We can make it a little bit more enjoyable for you. Hopefully, you can remember this stuff a little bit better and longer so that when the exam comes, you're like, dude, roasted, killed it. I wish you guys the best. I love you guys. Thank you guys so much. Until next time.