Hi ninja nerds. So in this video we're going to talk about the treatment of COVID 19 which is caused by the SARS Kovv2 virus. Then after that we'll get into some detail about the prognosis things that are actually going to make very significant effects on the overall prognosis of someone who is infected with the SARS KV2 virus which leads to the CO 19 infection and lastly we'll talk about the precautions that you should take into consideration to again prevent the further transmission of the SARS KV2 virus again responsible for the CO 19 infection. So let's go and get started. All right. So first thing that we should know when we're talking about COVID 19 caused by the SARS corona virus type two is we should really really understand that whenever somebody thinks that they're having symptoms of it right fever cough shortness of breath maybe they're tacocartic maybe maybe they're typnic first thing you should try to do is self- quarantine okay when you self- quarantine for at least 14 days during that time period just monitor your symptoms is my fever getting any worse is it staying the same is it not breaking Is it still greater than or equal to 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit? Is my cough getting worse? Is it becoming more productive? Am I having a significant time breathing? Is my shortness of breath getting worse? Am I becoming dehydrated because of my fever? Am I not producing enough urine? Monitor all these things during that 14-day period. And if you start seeing yourself not improving or you start kind of going backwards and getting worse, that would be the time to call your healthcare provider, call your family doctor, set up a tele medicine visit. The reason why you want to do that is so that you don't go and potentially introduce that virus to other people. So that's one thing you should do. Also, if you are going to go to an ER, make sure that whenever they triage you, they're doing it by actually either doing it through phone call or they're coming out in their PPE and basically triaging you, getting a good history and checking your vitals, seeing if it's necessary for you to be quarantined in the hospital and monitored. Okay. After you've done that, you've notified the CDC of the case if they test positive. The next thing that you're going to start doing is treating the patient pretty much supportively. We don't have tons of information about this virus, but what we do know is that the SARS KV2 can lead to CO 19, which can lead to acute respiratory distress syndrome. Well, so what are the things that we're going to do? Well, if someone's having a fever, right, they can potentially lead to dehydration, but you have to be careful, okay? Because if someone's having RS, they're going to be fluid overloading a lot of that lung tissue. So you don't want to give them too much fluid and then cause them to have more pulmonary edema or interstitial edema potentially worsening the situation. So if you're going to give fluids, you want to make sure that you give those fluids sparingly. So we can give IV fluids, right? And again, this can be in the form of lactated ringers. This can be in the form of normal saline. But you just have to be careful. You don't want to fluid resuscitate them too much because you can water overload that lung. Okay? Okay. So, we want to give fluids sparingly. Okay. So, that's one big thing. Okay. Next thing is we want to try to be able to reduce the fever. How can we reduce the fever? It's really simple. Give antiparetics, right? So, you can give Tylenol. Tylenol is going to be one thing that you can do to help to act as an antiparetic. So, Tylenol, okay? And that's going to help to decrease the fever. What are some other things that you can do for these patients? Okay, there has been some research on a bunch of different drugs that they're seeing being used particularly when patients are at comfort measures only. So, they're pretty much really going downhill. Their ARDS has really led to systemic inflammatory response syndrome potentially septic shock. They are in severe cases and they're just going downhill. In those situations, they've given particular drugs which have have been able to uh help the patient in this recovery. Sometimes even turning the patient around and helping them to return back to their normal baseline. What are some of these drugs? Again, they're not easily accessed. They're not something that you can go and get. They are medications that are are being researched and some of them particularly the specific one rem desave is in stage three clinical trials right now. So some of these medications we're going to talk about that are are effective. Okay, we're going to talk about the mechanism of action can be used potentially to treat COVID 19. So what are some of these drugs? One is called rem desave. Okay, this one actually might sound familiar because rem desave was actually used to treat Ebola virus. Okay, how does rem desave work? It's actually really interesting. If you guys remember from when we talked about in the video in CO 19 where we went over the pathogenesis if we're going to briefly recap that right so again you have that AC2 receptor which binds to the spike okay so the spike on the actual SARS KV2 virus right when it binds it then gets taken into the cell and brought into a endoome right from there it's going to release the singlestranded RNA into the cytoplasm. From here that singlestranded RNA, that positive sense RNA, right? Positive sense singlestranded RNA is then going to get translated by the host cell's ribosomes. Now, once it gets translated, what does what happens with that? So, we're going to lead to translation. What is translation? It's we're taking the RNA and making proteins. So now what I'm going to do is I'm I'm going to make a bunch of polyroteins which we're just going to highlight here with specific colors. Here we'll draw here's a green polyrotein. Here's a black polyroin. We'll do a black polyroin. Right. And then we also have a pink polyroin. And we'll just do one more for the heck of it. Here we'll have a little blue one. Okay. Now from here these polyroteins, what happens to them? Well remember there's a specific enzyme right called protein aces which are basically proteases. What they do is they break down these polyroteins into the different units that are going to be making up the capsimes making up the nucleioapsid making up the spike proteins certain enzymes that are important for the virus. So again what are these enzymes here called? They're called protein aces. Okay, they're basically prote uh proteosomes, right? So they're basically going to be breaking down these polyroteins into smaller proteins. Then from here we have all these different proteins which are components of the virus. What do we do here? There's another enzyme. You guys remember this little cute enzyme? This enzyme is called RNA dependent RNA polymerase, right? And what does this guy do? He takes this positive sense singlestranded RNA and actually polymerizes it into making more RNA. So now I'm going to take singlestranded RNA, convert it into more singlestranded RNA, positive sense. And then guess what I have now? I have all the components I need to make my virus. Now what I can do is I take my positive sense singlestranded RNA combine it with the nucleioapsid the enzymes all my spike proteins and then go ahead and release this virus rupturing the cell and popping out little baby viruses that can go and infect other nearby cells. So now now that we know this mechanism right rem desave guess what he does he inhibits this enzyme. So if rem desave is actually going to be inhibiting this enzyme rem desave it's going to inhibit this RNA dependent RNA polymerase. Can you make more singlestranded RNA which is going to be a component to making more viruses? No. So that's one thing. All right. So the next thing is what if we can block the entry of the virus into this endoome? Well, we can't. There actually is another drug, an antimmalarial drug called chloricquin. And this guy can inhibit the entry of this virus into the endoome. If you can't get the virus in here, it's not going to be able to release its SSRNA to be able to make proteins and to make new SSRNA. We can't make any new viruses, right? And we can couple that with another enzyme called I mean another drug called retonavir. And ratonavir is a protease inhibitor. Where were the proteiases at? The protein aces. So if I combine chloricquin inhibiting the viral entry into the endoome and I use it with another drug called ratonavir which is a protease inhibitor I'm going to inhibit the conversion of these polyroins into the actual components that are needed for the virus like the nucleioapsid the spike proteins and enzymes I can't make that I can't make the virus okay what else could we use another drug that has also been seen in this besides rem desae chloricquin Ratonavir is another drug called tosselymab. Okay, tosselyab. This is actually one of the demarts, the biologic demarts. This is really cool. All right. Now, remember we said that if this cell whenever the viruses are released out, they're going to destroy this cell. And this is happening to a lot of our type 2 alvolola cells, right? This is a type two pumyite that we're zooming in on right now because they have that A2 receptor which allows for the virus to infect them. When they're destroyed, they release specific inflammatory mediators. And those inflammatory mediators then stimulate the macrofasages, the alvolar macrofasages. When the alvolar macrofasages are stimulated by tissue damage, they start releasing specific cytoines. What's one of the big ones? They release interlucan 6. If you guys remember, they did also can release interlucan one and they can release tumor necrotic factor alpha. But one of the big ones is interlucan 6. Interlucan 6. If you guys remember interlucan 1, TNF alpha, interlucan 6. What did they do? They stimulate the capillary endothelium to become really leaky which allows for a lot of fluid to leak out into the tissue spaces causing intersticial edema, alvolar edema, right? It also can promote vasoddilation to increase the blood flow through here, but that's going to allow for more fluid to extravisate out into those little tissue spaces. What else could it also do? If you guys remember, it also attracted in neutrfils. And if we get a lot of neutrfils that come into this area, remember what they release? Reactive oxygen species. They release proteases. And what does that do to the actual uh type one and type two alvolar cells? It destroys them. It destroys the capillary interface as well. If you damage that respiratory membrane, what's going to happen now? you're going to alter gas exchange, right? So, if we can actually give a drug particularly to block interlucan 6 like tossely, then we might be able to decrease a lot of that inflammatory response. Another thing you could also do to just generally decrease inflammation, and again, this is you got to be careful with this one, but you could do corticosteroids. They're significant at being able to reduce inflammation by inhibiting like the phospholipase A2 which is a part of that whole arachidonic acid pathway right which leads to excessive amounts of lucatry and even some prostaglandon production. Okay so a vaccine would be beautiful but unfortunately they're saying that this vaccine might not be available well pretty much won't be available potentially until 2021. So, we don't plan on having a vaccine within this 2020 year. It's probably not going to be till 2021, which again can allow us for us to have some type of immunity against this virus in the future. Well, these patients, remember what do we say? They have severe acute respiratory distress syndrome potentially potentially it can actually lead to pneumonia. The pneumonia can be very severe which can lead to ARDS. Ours can lead to SERS. SERS can lead to septic shock and septic shock can then progress to multi-systemm organ failure. So we got to make sure that we are properly ventilating these lungs because remember what happens in ARS. You guys remember that if what happens in ARDS is that the alvoli collapse because of the decreased surface tension because of all the interstatial edema because of the highland membranes that are forming. All of that stuff is impairing gas exchange. And if you impair gas exchange that decreases the oxygen diffusion across this capillary interface. If you decrease the oxygen diffusion across this, you decrease the partial pressure of oxygen in the blood and that can lead to hypoxmia. We have to try to help this. So we need to ventilate the patients. Okay. So the preferred thing to do here is mechanical ventilation. So basically we want to help them breathe. There is many different types of mechanical ventilation. And this is not to be meant to be a very comprehensive lecture of it. What I want you to understand is is we prefer in these patients because they can aerosolize the virus. We should not do high flow nasal canula that could potentially aerolize the virus. We do not want to do a lot of the NIPPVS which is the non-invasive positive pressure ventilations because those can also aerolize the virus unless there's a way that you can cover it like with a helmet mask interface. Either way, we don't want to do these. Unfortunately, we need to intubate the patient and control their breathing for them. So, some of the things that you might have actually heard about with respect to ARS is there's a couple different ways that you can do this. One is you can try to help them breathe through what's called the AC volume control method. Okay, this is not the best method, but it is a type of like lung protective method, but you got to constantly change the settings. The quick and dirty point of this is is whenever you're having a patient with ARDS, what you want to do is you want to try to ventilate them, right? But if you push too much air into their lungs, okay, that air is not going to be going into the damaged lung. It's going to be going into healthy lung tissue. Let me explain to you what I mean. Let's imagine here I have an airway. Here's going to be the damaged alvoli. And let's say here's the healthy alvoli. In an arts patient, I'm going to try to increase my tital volume on these patients, right? Because that's the best way to increase ventilation. If I increase ventilation, I increase the actual uh diffusion across the membrane, potentially increasing the oxygen. But if I do that, that air is not going to go into this alvoli. It's going to funnel into this alvoli. And so what happens is you're going to have too much air going in here, over distending the healthy lung tissue. What happens when you overdistend healthy lung tissue? You damage it and you could potentially make the patient even worse. So that's why whenever we have patients with ARDS, we don't want to push tons and tons of volume onto them. We want to do a low tidal volume method. Somewhere around four, if you really want to know, four to six milliliters per kilogram of body weight. Okay? Which is usually is like six to eight. Now, that might lead you guys to ask a question. Well, Zach, if I'm not pushing a lot of air in, I'm also not going to be getting a lot of air out, right? So, if I'm not pushing a ton of air into the lungs because I lower my tidal volume, doesn't that technically mean that when I'm trying to exhale, I'm going to exhale out less CO2? Yeah, it does mean that. What can that mean then? If CO2 builds up in the blood, that could lead to potentially a increase in the protons, right? carbonic acid and that can do what to the pH? Drop the pH. This could lead to a respiratory acidosis, right? Well, what can we do whenever we decrease the title volume to protect the lung, but try to breathe off enough CO2 so we don't have that building up so much in the lungs, I'm sorry, into the bloodstream. What can we do? What if we increase the respiratory rate? If I increase the respiratory rate, I'm technically going to breathe off more CO2. If I breathe off more CO2, what happens then? Remember Lhat Lehi's principle from chemistry, right? It says that if you actually decrease that CO2, the reaction is going to start shifting to the left. The pH is going to start coming back up. You're going to start getting a lot of rid of that CO2. So that's what we want. So technically, if we drop the title volume, we have to increase the respiratory rate. Okay? Generally, that might mean you have to go a little bit higher than 20 breaths per minute on the patient. The next thing you got to be careful of here is that yeah, we're going to be trying to ventilate the patient, but their alvoli are collapsed. How can I try to pop those alvoli open and keep them open when I'm exhaling? We can add in PEEP positive endexpiratory pressure. This is the key when it comes to ARDS patients. They have so much fluid accumulating around these lungs that if I go ahead and also just so much surface tension. If I go ahead and introduce a little bit of pressure in here after the patient exhales, I can keep those open a little bit and it's going to be easier for the patient to breathe. So, we might have to increase the PEEP a decent amount. What's a normal PEEP that we usually could use? Anywhere from 0 to five. That's usually the normal PEEP that you would use. But for an ARS patient, we might have to go higher. So sometimes they say greater than five centimeters of water for that peep. Okay. Now I told you that AC volume control isn't always the best with ARS patients. What could we do that might be a little bit easier? We don't have to constantly make all these adjustments. Well, we can do volume control or we can do pressure control. So there is a bunch of different ways. And again, we're not going to go into ton a ton of detail here, but what I want you to know is with pressure control, that's one way that you can do this. There's another type of pressure control method called by level. Okay. And then there's another one called ARV. Basically with these you can set a particular time of inspiration. You can set a particular time of expiration. You can determine technically how much PEEP you want in the patient. Do you want them to have five? Do you want them to have 10 that they're inhaling? You can determine the amount of pressure that you're pushing into the patient. the inspiratory pressure. Do I want that where maybe 20 to 30 centimeters of water? And so this is really really a the more commonly utilized um uh ventilation method in patients who have ARS uh pressure control there's a risk of asynchrony. Okay. B level it's a little bit better because there's not as much asynchrony because with B level again they have the opportunity to have what's called spontaneous breathing and they get a little extra pressure support with that. APRV is also a commonly utilized one but this one they don't usually get extra pressure support during those spontaneous breaths above the uh the u positive inspiratory pressure. Okay, what other things can we do to help this ventilation process? Well, obviously we want high PEEP. We would prefer more of the pressure ble APRV control methods. Sometimes you can use what's called inhaled prosttoase. That's been shown to help a lot with these patients. Sometimes if you really need to, you can neuromuscular blockade them, especially when their ARS is getting severe. You can give them paralytics. Another thing that you can also do here is besides the the inhaled prostray, besides the paralytics is there's shown that whenever you put a patient who is in severe ARDS into a prone position, it helps to kind of move the heart a little bit out of the way and helps their breathing process. So prone positioning is also a really big one here in these patients. So what if you try all of this? What if you try the mechanical ventilation processes and it's not working? The next thing you can try is you can try ECMO. Okay, which is the extracaporeal membrane oxygenation process. Really, you don't want the patient to have to go on that, but sometimes they might actually use ECMO if needed. So, basic concept I want you to remember here with the ARDS is here's the alvoli. They're collapsed. They have a lot of tension. What can I do that I want you guys to really remember if they have ARS, which is a part of this mechanical ventilation. Remember to have high peak the positive endexpiratory pressure. All right, that's what we want in these patients to help to keep those alvoli open and to allow for better ventilation. If we have better ventilation, we're going to try to increase that PAO2. You know what's crazy though? Guess what? We would prefer the PAO2 to maybe be in a patient with severe ARS. We would be happy with greater than 55 millimeters of mercury. Preferably you'd want that right in around the 100, right? You'd preferably you want 100, but if I get it greater than 55 in an RS patient, that's actually pretty good. All right, so we talked about treatment of patients with COVID 19 caused by SARS KV2, which can lead to acute respiratory distress syndrome, potentially SERS, potentially septic shock, potentially multi- systemm organ failure. We talked about giving them fluids sparingly. We talked about Tylenol to reduce the fever. We talked about some of the medications that can be utilized. Again, they're particularly more the comfort measures, but they have been shown to be very effective. And then particularly rem desave is in stage three clinical trials. We talked about mechanically ventilating the patient as well as if you're mechanically ventilating, you're breathing for them. So what also you're going to need to be doing unfortunately to check to see where they're at. You might have to do AGs to feel see where their PCCO2 is, see where their P2 is as well. Okay? And seeing if you need to change the settings. So now what are things that we really want we should talk about with this CO 19? There are certain risk factors that put patients at a very severe a higher rate of mortality especially if they're a little bit older. Okay, we're going to talk about that in the graph over here. But there's certain morbidities that put these patients at higher risk. What are some of those? One is cardiovascular disease. Cardiovascular disease is actually the highest risk factor which uh particularly the high the highest risk factor when it comes to morbidities that can increase mortality rate. So I want you guys to remember cardiovascular disease. What is the percentage their risk increases significantly by 10.6%. That's scary. That's not good. Okay. The other one is lung disease. So if they have some type of underlying pulmonary disease, if they have an underlying pulmonary disease, their risk increases by potentially 7.3%. So there is a 7.3% increase in their actual mortality. That's not good. Another one is diabetes. So if a patient has diabetes, whether it be diabetes malitis type 1 or type two, whether it be insulin deficiency or insulin resistance, their risk increases by potentially 6.3%. That's that's pretty bad. And the last one is if someone is immunosuppressed, they have cancer for some reason, right? Let's say that they're immunosuppressed or they have cancer, right? We'll put cancer or they're imunosuppressed. And again we also will talk about another risk factor which is age but cancer armosuppressed patients their risk increases by 5.6%. So you can see now that the overall prognosis of someone who develops COVID 19 their their mortality rate is going to increase by 10.6% 6% if they have an underlying cardiovascular disease, 7.3% if they have an underlying pulmonary disease, 6.3% if they have diabetes, and 5.6 if they're imunosuppressed, particularly if they have cancer. What are some other things that increase the patients mortality rate? Again, something that we don't want to have to see, but if we actually do blood work and we see specific inflammatory markers or uh uh markers of tissue damage, what are some of these things? If you see elevated d-dimer levels and elevated feritin, this could be identifiable. Okay, so elevated d- dimer which are the breakdown products of the actual uh whenever someone develops clots or there's widespread inflammation. This can also be elevated. Another one is if there is increase in feritin which is a protein that actually is going to be stored within cells and binds onto iron. The other one is if they're markers of tissue injury, particular cardiac tissue. If you see increased levels of CKMBB, which is actually one of the markers for maybe cardiovascular like a mioardial inffection, if that's elevated and last but not least, if someone had as elevated tropponins, okay, so if there's elevated troponins, there's elevated CKMBB. All of these inflammatory markers or markers of tissue damage have been associated with a higher mortality rate. Okay. All right. So we talked about patients who have underlying risk factors cardiovascular disease, pulmonary disease, diabetes, cancer or imunosuppressed specific markers that we might find in blood work that also has been associated with a higher mortality rate. What else? Let's look at here at a graph. Okay. So on here on the y- axis you got mortality and on the x-axis you have age. Okay, we can see by this bar graph where the highest mortality rate is when we talk about less than 20, it's relatively low. So, it's maybe actually like less than 1%. As we go 20 to 30, still relatively low. 30 to 40, pretty low. 40 to 50 starts increasing. 50 to 60 going a little bit up. And then look whenever we get greater than 60 all the way to greater than 80 we start ste seeing these actual mortality rates increasing with the highest being in greater than 80 years old maybe around greater than 14%. So what do we know the older the age or particularly we can actually say greater than 60 years old is associated with a higher mortality rate. Now, a lot of people are trying to constantly say out there that, "Oh, this shows that younger individuals aren't really, you know, they're not the population most affected by this virus." That's not necessarily true. Okay? Just because the mortality rates are higher within these older individuals doesn't mean that you shouldn't respect the severity of this virus, the SARS KV2 virus. It can infect younger populations. Although it's not as common and it is more common to affect and cause more critical illness within the older patients, we still need to be careful and be aware of how serious this virus potentially is. Okay. All right. The last thing that we should talk about guys when it comes to CO 19 caused by SARS KV2 virus is precautions. Things that we need to take into consideration. Remember remember that Rot, right, that we talked about in the previous video. The R not can range anywhere from two to three with CO 19. Now it potentially could be higher dependent upon those things we called super spreaders. Remember super spreaders the people that might shed the virus a little bit more readily or they're in a contact with a larger population size. So how can we reduce the arnot? The most important thing that we can do is to self-quarantine. Okay, by self-quarantining you decrease your exposure to other infected individuals. Okay, so we're not going to allow that's going to decrease that exponential growth. If you guys remember that that chart, remember that graph we drew this where we said here's kind of our our r here. We said that we see the coron the COVID 19 is growing exponentially with an R not greater than one, right? What we need to do is decrease exposure. So, how can you decrease exposure? You self- quarantine. Okay? And that's important as well is if you actually are developing symptoms and have COVID 19, the more we actually isolate, we quarantine, we decrease exposure, the more this AR not going to start to decrease and we will see a lower hopefully ao a lower case number as well as lower fatality rates. Okay, so basically isolation or self- quarantine. And again, this goes back to what I told you guys. If you notice you're developing symptoms, do not just go rushing into the emergency room. Why? Two reasons. One is there's a high chance of you spreading that virus to people also in the waiting room with you. Second reason, if you are not having the corona virus, let's say, let's say that you don't have CO 19 and you have the flu, well, you're technically now kind of immunosuppressed. So, what does that mean? There's a higher risk of you getting infected with this now because you're immunosuppressed and that could lead to some serious consequences. So, if you develop symptoms, do not just go straight to the ER. Contact maybe your primary care physician. Set up a telemed visit so that you're not going into their waiting room and potentially inoculating other people. Tell them your symptoms. They're most likely going to tell you self quarantine for 14 days. Monitor your symptoms. If it gets worse, call me or contact the ER so that they can set up the necessary precautions and steps. Okay, so very important. What else could we do? Wash your hands. Again, I told you that this can potentially be spread through fulommites. What does that mean? Surfaces. So, those respiratory droplets or fecal or route, remember, they can touch stay on surfaces for potentially 24 hours. Wash your hands. Don't shake people's hands as well. Fist bump, give an elbow, but just do not be trying to shake people's hands and then potentially going and touching your face. So, again, one big thing here is washing your hands, doing it with soap and water, using hand sanitizers. Okay. As well, the next thing is if you potentially are touching surfaces, the best thing to do is not expose it to your mucous membranes. So, let's say that you go and you touch a surface out where potentially there's have been other people who maybe have been infected. They're touching like uh a doorork knob or they're touching specific surfaces. You go touch that and then you touch the eyes. Potentially, even though it might be a low amount of inoculum, there's a potential for that virus to cause the infection. So, do not touch the T-zone. So, don't touch your T-zone. So, what does that consist of? The eyes, the nose, and the oral mucosa. Those are all sites for this to actually potentially cause infection. What else? Decreasing travel. Ninja Science Airlines, right? So, we need to decrease travel especially to areas where there is a high population of cases. Okay? So decreasing travel is a big one. What else? Staying out of large crowds. Don't go around large crowds because there's a potential that you could actually catch the virus. Okay. So again, washing your hands, don't touch your T-zone, decreasing travel, avoiding large crowds, staying greater than six feet away from people who maybe are showing symptoms. Okay. Self- quarantining, isolating yourself so that we can drop that or not. All right. Last thing we need to be aware of is we want to try to decrease. You've might seen these graphs out there called flattening the curve. We want to try to decrease the amount of patients in the hospital. That's the goal because the more patients we have in the hospital, the harder it's going to be to control this. Okay. So, what are some particular precautions that you should be taking into consideration if you're working in a health care system? Masks. There's two different types of masks that we should talk about. Okay. One of the mask is called the N95. So, the basic thing that you should know about the N95 is this mask prevents things from getting in. Okay? So, if someone's around you, they're coughing, they're hacking, and those respiratory droplets spread, this mask, it tries to block 95% of the things trying to get through the mask. Okay? So, this is preventing things from getting in here. We'll put in. Okay. The other one is the surgical mask. The surgical mask is basically protecting other people around you. So if you are actually coughing or sneezing, it's going to stay into the mask. It's not going to spread out potentially and cause infection to other people. So this is something that if you are having symptoms, you could potentially wear these. Okay? But again, this should be more for health care workers. It shouldn't be something that you're going and buying if you're going to be at home. There's no need to do that. Okay, the other thing is eye protection. That's a potential route for this actual virus to travel, right? So, if you're in contact with a patient who potentially has the COVID 19, again, wearing eye protection, all your your PPE basically, right? So, wearing the proper gown, maybe gloving. Actually, there's been an intensivist who said that actually double gloving is actually going to help as well. So double gloving, wearing your PPE, your gowns, making sure that you're wearing your eye protection, and if you are using masks, N95 to prevent things from coming in, and the surgical mask to try to protect protect other people from the things going out. All right, engineers. So in this video, we talked about the treatment, we talked about the prognosis, and we talked about precautions that we should be taking with COVID 19 caused by SARS KV2. I hope this video made sense. I hope you guys enjoyed it. If you guys did, hit that like button. Matter of fact, smash that like button, comment down in the comment section, and please subscribe. Also, if you guys get a chance, down in the description box, we'll have links to our Facebook, Instagram, and even our Patreon account. If you guys get a chance to go there, we appreciate it. As always, Ninja Nerds, love you and stay safe.