All right, engineers. In this video, we're going to talk about COVID 19 or the novel corona virus that was discovered in 2019. want you guys to know that this video that we're making today, all the information that we're going to be talking about is as of up to date as March 15, 2020. So, I just want you guys to know that. In addition, this video is purely for educational purposes only. We're going to have a medical disclaimer pop up here. Let's go ahead and get started. All right, guys. So, let's go ahead and get started on this COVID 19 lecture. So again, I want you guys to remember that we're making this video here on March 15, 2020. Obviously, things could change from this time until the future. As those things change, we will try to continue to guys to keep you guys updated with future videos to go into more detail on these things. Okay, but again, this is as of right now. All right, so what should we know about the Corona virus, right? Well, we know that the Corona virus or this 2019 corona virus, okay, it's similar to specifically the SARS virus. So if you guys remember what that was, there was an outbreak called the the severe acute respiratory distress syndrome and it was corona virus specifically in 2002. And what happened is that they believe that this virus, this SARS virus actually had the ability to hop over from a bat. Okay, from that bat it mutated in such a way that it can then infect another host, another intermediate host. Right? So it started off with a bat. From the bat, it then maybe transferred over what do we believe to be a civot. And then from that civet, it mutated enough to be able to infect a human. Because corona viruses naturally, they're pretty benign and they don't cause a lot of significant effects within the human. Maybe just your, you know, your viral rhinitis, viral fngitis, viral laryngitis. But rarely are they going to be causing these severe acute respiratory distress syndrome types of things. But again, if they mutate enough where they go through some type of uh animal reservoir, they can become mutated enough to be able to cause severe infection in humans. And that's what the SARS virus did in 2002. couple a couple years later, actually a decade later to 2012, it happened again where the corona virus had the ability to mutate again where we have a bat where we believe to be again the animal reservoir where the virus mutated then transmitted to what we believe to be a camel. So from bat to camel as this next intermediate host and then from there it mutated enough where it could then infect a human. Okay, this is the MS virus and again this is the Middle Eastern respiratory distress syndrome that occurred in 2012. Hop now to 2019 where we now talk about the corona virus particularly COVID 19 which was the corona virus discovered in 2019. Again we believe that this this actual virus underwent a mutation via this zuonosis. Right? So, we have a bat. It mutated within the bat. Then it actually had the ability to mutate within another animal as the intermediate host potentially. Again, we're still not completely sure, but we believe it could be what's called a panggalan. So, they think that this virus hopped onto a bat as its reservoir, mutated enough, got transferred to a panggalan, mutated enough that it can now infect a human and cause covid 19. Okay, which is the novel corona virus discovered in 2019. This is what we know about this virus. Now, another thing that we have to understand about this virus is not just the zuonosis effect of it, but we also should know some of the case fatality rates because this is becoming a big concern in society right now. Everybody is very very scared of the corona virus. And again, we don't want to overreact but we want to make sure that we don't underreact to this virus because it is a very serious virus. to give you guys a little bit of an example of the case fatality rates. If we take the SARS virus in 2002, case fatality rate is just again the total number of cases on the bottom. So if you guys want to remember the formula, very simple formula, the number of deaths divided by the total number of cases, okay? And then multiply it by 100. So they see that this virus, the SARS virus in 2002 had 8,000 total cases with 800 deaths. That gives us a case fatality rate of 10%. That's pretty decent. Move on to the next one. The MS virus in 2012, 850 died where there was 2500 total cases. That's going to give us a case fatality rate of 34%. Hop on down here to the COVID 19. As of March 15, 2020, we have 153,517 cases. Okay, this is worldwide with 5,735 deaths. That gives us 3.7%. Now, a lot of uh resources, the World Health Organization, CDC's, different things like that say that this number technically could even be lower. Why? You have to remember that there's a lot of people who are asymptomatic with this virus. Okay? In other words, they're not presenting with the classic symptoms that we would see with the corona virus. So, if they're asymptomatic, they technically would be one of the cases, but they might not present. They might not go to the hospital, get tested, and come up positive the for the corona virus. So, technically, if we think about it, there might be thousands upon thousands more cases where people are just asymptomatic. thought that they have the common cold or maybe the flu, but really they have the corona virus. And think about it, as this denominator increases, the more cases we have, that case fatality rate could technically decrease. And that's what you want to think about right now. Yes, it is scary the number of cases that we have and the deaths, but again, this this denominator, it could technically be a little bit larger. Okay. All right. All right. So that's what I want you guys to understand right now about the basic points of the corona virus when it comes to the zooonautic effects. In other words, how this corona virus mutated enough that it could infect humans and cause severe acute respiratory distress syndrome. Okay, if you understand this v via the SARS, it's pretty much the same kind of thing. The bat was pretty much the primary animal reservoir that then passed it on to an intermediate host, right? Which we believe at this point in time to be a penglin. Now, how is this important? Penglins according to a lot of the research showed that this actually its scales have healing properties. So therefore it's highly trafficked all around the world. So that's what also makes this very dangerous and therefore increasing the risk of a pandemic. Okay. So again we need to be careful when it comes to these and just realize that this intermediate host could potentially be one of the things that's actually allowing for this mutation of the virus and making it allow for it to affect humans in such a way. All right, let's move on to the next ep epidemiological fact when we talk about the corona virus. When we talk about the corona virus, we have to talk about what's called the R not. The R not stands for the reproductive ratio. Okay, special way of saying this is the degree of spreadability. That's really all it is. How much can one person, how many people can one person infect? That's a simple way of saying it. So if I take for example, let's say here is this one person here. Okay, patient number one, he has the corona virus covid 19. He's been infected. He goes around other people. He's in the same room with a bunch of people. Okay. If he happens to sneeze or cough and he spreads those respiratory droplets that could be airborne and they somehow get into the mucous membranes of people nearby, how many could he potentially infect? They say that he can infect three people. So therefore, the AR of COVID 19 is actually been said to be anywhere from two to three, could even be higher. We'll talk about that in just a little bit what I mean by that. So again, what's the AR not for COVID 19? We believe it to be anywhere from two to three. Let's take the worst case scenario and say it's three. Okay, one person can infect three people, right? So you start off with one person that infects three people. These three fe people, each one infects three more people. That gives us nine patients now infected with CO 19. Now these nine people can go and infect three people each. How many is that? 27. So you can see how this is an exponential rise. If we look at this on a graph, when we look at R not of CO 19, let's do it here in blue. If you look here, R not on the y- axis, what are you going to see? You're going to see this number. It's going to increase, right? It's going to be exponential. This is an exponential growth. If we compare the AR not of influenza which is around 1.3 approximately let's just round it to one and say that one person has the ability to infect one other person. So if this person is infected with influenza he's going to pass it on to one more person. That one person is going to pass pass it on to the next person which is going to pass it on to the next person. Right? So you can tell right now just by comparing influenza and COVID 19 that this is much larger spreadability whereas this has a much lower spreadability. Okay. So if we were to compare that is this exponential is this decreasing or is it pretty much just kind of the same? Is it a flat line? It's a flat line, right? So we should see the R kn here being straight. What would we prefer for this to look like? Less than one. Preferably, we don't want this to have such a high spread. So, if we had a perfect case scenario, we would love for this to start decreasing. How do we do that? How do we make the R not drop? You're going to be quarantining, staying away out of large crowds, trying to decrease that spreadability by spreading respiratory droplets, making sure that you're washing your hands, making sure that you're not touching your T-zone. And by doing that and self- quarantining yourself and staying out of large crowds, we can potentially decrease that spreadability. That's what we want with this virus. So currently, right now, you can see how r is greater than one. That's allowing for this exponential growth. That's why there's so many cases in comparison to something like flu, which is one. And what we would like, what we would prefer is an R not less than one. Okay, last thing I got to talk about here because AR not not only determines the rate of transmission or the degree of spreadability but there's also another factor and this is called the series interval. So SI is referred to as the series interval. A special like very simple way of describing this let's say here's patient one. Okay, patient one develops symptoms. Okay. And let's say from the day zero that he develops symptoms all the way until day 14. Okay. Let's say that he has symptoms for 14 days. So this is when the symptoms stop. This is when the symptoms start. Let's say that somewhere during his period of infection, he spreads that virus to another person. So let's call this X2. Right here's X1. Patient one, patient two. This person gets infected. Let's say somewhere about right here. Maybe it's day two. Okay, maybe day two. Somehow around that time, this actual PA patient exatient one comes into contact with patient two. And from that point there, their symptoms start. So now we're at is day zero. And let's say that they go through a 14-day period of of this actual infection. this point here to this point here from the symptoms of onset of patient one to the symptoms of onset of patient two that is our series interval. Now the shorter that is the more dangerous the virus is. The larger it is a lot better less risk of this becoming such a high speed of transmission. So what is the series interval for CO 19? It it actually depends. It depends on which source you're looking at. Some say that it's anywhere from five and some will say anywhere from 7.5. If you take influenza for example, it's actually approximately 2.5 around that. So what does that mean? That means that the time of symptom onset from patient one, okay, from when that person actually is infected to the symptoms of patient two start to develop, that's a period of 7.5 days. Whereas the period of infection so right patient one who is infected with influenza from his symptom onset until the symptom onset of patient two is approximately 2.5 days. Why would that be dangerous if you have a high arot in a really low series interval within a small amount of time? So imagine here within one person infecting three it took 7.5 days from 3 to 9 it's 7.5 days from 9 to 27 it's 7.5 days that spreads it out over a longer period of time thankfully. However if you were to imagine 2.5 days the symptom onset from patient one to patient two this would be extremely high. Okay, there would be a severely high spread of transmission at a very fast rate. So we got to be at least thankful that for right now the SI is relatively high and our R not is also high. This is the unfortunate aspect, but be thankful at least that we have a high series interval with the Rot here. This one's relatively low, but it does have a relatively low series interval. So it can spread pretty quickly. Okay. But this one you have more spreadability and higher number of infective cases. All right. So they think that there's two ways, right? Fecal oral route potentially and that respiratory droplets. So fecal or route is we one way that we believe that this could actually be spread. Okay. And what happens with this is that if someone goes to the bathroom, they shed the virus, they, you know, wipe their their bottom, they don't completely wash their hands, and they go and touch other surfaces within the bathroom. Someone else comes in, they touch those surfaces and potentially, you know, inoculate themsel with the virus. That's one way that we think it could potentially happen. Okay. Other things that we also have to remember is that if certain like there has been certain things that if someone lives in an apartment building where there's a faulty plumbing system where certain plumbing, right? So maybe fecal material from someone who's actually uh an infected individual has the ability to spread through a faulty pipe or faulty drainage system into another apartment room and allow for those virus to also infect certain areas and surfaces within another bathroom. That's one other way. So again fecal oral rod is one way of transmission of the virus and the other one is by coughing sneezing right. So it could be this airborne way or these via respiratory droplets. Now, one of the things that they say about these respiratory droplets is that they have the potential to spread and actually infect a person may be within three to potentially six feet. Okay. Another thing is they think that these respiratory droplets could stay on surfaces and actually still survive for approximately 24 hours. And if someone goes and touches that surface and then touches one of their mucous membranes, they have the ability to inoculate themsel. Again, newer research is also newer things are also saying that it could potentially be airborne for potentially 3 hours. So, if someone actually coughs or sneezes and then someone walks through that area potentially within a three-hour period, they also could inoculate themsel with the virus. Okay. So, again, feal or route and respiratory droplets are the way that we believe that this is potentially spreading. Okay. Now, another really interesting thing is that this can also be an asymptomatic carriers. So sometimes if someone is actually not showing symptoms, they do potentially have the ability to spread this actual virus as well. So that's what also is very nerve-wracking with this. Okay. Now, what happens? The virus gets into the respiratory system, right? Once it gets into the respiratory system, it loves to attack the alvoli. All right. So what we're going to do is we're going to zoom in on this portion of the lungs and look at the alvoli. Right? So once the virus comes down into this area, what does it do? Well, the first thing it's going to do is it's actually going to come over here and attach to these type two pumosytes. You know, within the actual alvolus, you have two different types of cells. Type one pumocytes, which are going to be for gas exchange, and type two pumosytes, which are going to be their structures that produce surfactant. And that's important to remember because what does surfactant do? It decreases the surface tension within this alvoli and reduces that collapsing pressure. That's going to come into play in a second. So, what we're going to do is we're going to look at how this virus infects this cell and uses the cellular machinery to make more viral particles and then cause havoc on the respiratory system. So, if we take a look here, we got our virus right now. This virus has different types of spike proteins on it. Right? One of the specific spike proteins that we've seen that is actually a little bit significant here is this pink one. And we call this the S spike. Okay? We call this the spike. Why is that important? Well, these spikes on this COVID 19 virus, all right, the novel corona virus discovered in 2019. It binds on to specific receptors on the type 2 pneumocytes. What is this actual receptor? This receptor is called angotensin converting enzyme type two. It binds to this and when it binds to this, it allows for the virus to actually be engulfed and taken into the cell. Once it's brought into the cell, it then releases its RNA, right? Because in here we have positive sense singlestranded RNA virus. It releases the singlestranded RNA into the actual cytoplasm of this type 2 pumite. Once it's released, guess what it does? It can do a couple things. One thing is it can actually use the host cell's ribosomes. And if it uses the host cell's ribosomes, it can then be what? Take mRNA and convert it into proteins. What is that called? It's called translation. So then what can happen is we can undergo what's called translation. And we're going to convert this singlestranded RNA. So let's write this down. What do we have here? Single stranded RNA. We're going to convert this translated into specific protein molecules. So we're just going to draw a bunch of different proteins here. different polyroins. Here's a polyroin. Here's a polyroin. Heck, let's draw another polyroin. And it's going to be making a bunch of different stuff. Right now, from here, after it synthesizes these proteins, guess what else it can do? It's actually really, really interesting. You see that ssrna, the positive sense, right? Positive sense singlestranded RNA, right? it has the potential to use another enzyme called an RNA dependent RNA polymerase. So what is this enzyme here called? It's called RNA dependent RNA polymerase. What does that mean? It takes RNA and synthesizes RNA. So what are we going to do here? Oh, this is cool, guys. Look, it takes this singlestranded RNA and converts it into more RNA. So now from this I have a singlestranded RNA. I'm going to make more copies of this singlestranded RNA. Okay, positive sense. Now here's my polyroins. I need to make these polyroins get converted into all the components of my virus that make up my nucleioapsid, specific enzymes, my spike proteins. So I need specific enzymes that are going to proteilize these polyroteins into the different individual points that I need for making this whole viral structure. So we have other enzymes here. Okay, we have enzymes. Let's pick a blue color. This enzyme are going to be proteinases. And there's specific type of protein aces that are going to proteolytically cleave these polyroteins into the different viral components that are making up the nucleioapsid enzymes and spike proteins. Now look what I did. Use the cell's RNA dependent RNA polymerase and use the cell's ribosome to make proteins that are going to be making up the components of the viral protein structure. Right? Then I synthesized a ton of RNA. What happens if I combine these two? I combined all of these actual nucleioapsid, spike proteins, enzymes with the singlestranded RNA, incorporate that into it, and then I butt off of this type two numacy. I just made tons of virus particles and in the process, I'm destroying this type two numacite. If I cause damage to this type two pumite, what's that going to do? There's a couple things that are going to happen. One of the things here is that this type two pneumocy is going to start actually becoming damaged. So it's going to release specific inflammatory mediators. Guess what those inflammatory mediators are going to do? They're going to tell the macrofage. The macrofase once he's stimulated he starts to secrete specific cytoines that cause a ton of problems from here. One is called interlucan one. Another big one is called interlucan 6. And another one is called tumor necrotic factor alpha. What these guys do is they actually come over here into the bloodstream and they cause these endothelial cells to undergo dilation. So it's going to cause the actual smooth muscle actually cause the smooth muscle to dilate but increases the capillary permeability by causing endothelial cell contraction. And then by doing that you increase the permeability. So now look, I'm going to release all these different inflammatory mediators, right? What's going to happen as a response to that? I'm going to lead to vasoddilation and I'm going to lead to increased capillary permeability. If I do that, what's going to happen now? All this fluid, all my plasma is going to start flowing out and leaking into the interstatial spaces and potentially into the alvoli. As all this fluid starts to accumulate outside the alvoli, it's going to lead to trying to compress the alvoli. On top of that, some of the fluid is actually going to try to enter into the alvoli. And what happens if you start to cause a ton of water to accumulate inside the alvoli? What does that do to the surfactant production or actually the surfactant concentration? So if I cause increased alvolar edema that is going to technically drown out it's going to drown out the surfactant. What does surfactant do for the alvoli? It decreases surface tension. So if I drown out that surfactant, what's going to happen to the surface tension? It's going to start going up. As the surface tension goes up, what's that going to lead to? Remember Laplas's law that says pressure is equal to 2 * the tension divided by the radius. As we increase the surface tension, we increase the collapsing pressure. What's going to happen? This alvoli is going to start to collapse. And now I'm going to lead to alvolar collapse. And look at that there. That's a problem because now as I have tons of fluid accumulating around this alvolas impairing the alvolar membrane, the respiratory membrane for allowing for gas exchange. That's a problem. So this is going to lead to decreased gas exchange. That decreased gas exchange is going to lead to hypoxmia. And that hypoxmia is a very dangerous thing especially when it becomes refractory. So that's one thing we have to watch out for. So again releases a lot of inflammatory mediators that cause vasoddilation increased capillary permeability leading to a lot of interstatial edema alvolar edema leading to drowning out their surfactant increasing the surface tension and leading to alvolar collapse. That alvolar collapse is going to increase the work of breathing. That's another thing. It's going to increase the work of breathing. Okay? So, it's going to cause hypoxmia and increase the work of breathing. Why is it going to increase the work of breathing? Because now I got to work extra hard to try to inhale as much air as I can to not only reopen the alvolus, but open it up against all this interstatial edema. That's significantly difficult and that's what can lead them going down the hill and leading into what's called ARDS. Okay, that's one thing. The next thing, all of these inflammatory mediators also bring in tons of neutrfils. So now I'm going to attract in neutrfils. So these inflammatory mediators are going to start pulling in neutrfils. These neutrfils are going to start coming to the area and with all this inflammation, they're going to want to start trying to destroy the virus. When they start trying to destroy the virus, how will they do that? They release reactive oxygen species. They release proteasis. Whenever I release these reactive oxygen species and proteasis, yeah, maybe I might destroy some of the virus, but guess what else I'm going to end up doing? I'm going to end up damaging all of these cells. And as I start damaging all of these different type one, type two alvolar cells, what am I doing as a result of that? What does the type one alvolar cells do, guys? They play a role in gas exchange. If I destroy them, am I going to have proper gas exchange? No. If I destroy the type two alvolar cells, what's that going to do? It's going to decrease my surfactant production. What's that going to do? Increase surface tension and cause collapsing of the alvoli. On top of that though, as all of these cells start to get destroyed, they start get sloing off into this the actual center of this alvolus. So now in the center of the alvololis, what am I going to have? I'm going to have all this collection here of fluid and also maybe some protein deposition and cellular debris. Type one pumoy cellular debris, type two numocy cellular debris. I'm gonna have some macrofasages here. I'm gonna have some neutrfils into this area. And now I just led to a consolidation. Okay, this consolidation is going to be a problem. Okay, because this consolidation is also going to alter gas exchange and if I alter the gas exchange process, I lead to hypoxmia. Okay, another thing is again go back this whole thing can also whenever there's the reactive oxygen species it damages the type one type two alvolar cells right and as you do that that leads to this significant alvolar collapse as well we talked about that right all right now the next thing that you have to also understand is that you're releasing tons of interlucan one interlucan 6 within the lung parankma right this interlucan one and interlucan six. Guess where it can travel? If it's releasing large amounts, it can travel via the blood to the central nervous system. And you know in the central nervous system there's the hypothalamus and the hypothalamus controls your temperature. So when interlucan one and interlucan 6 are in high concentrations, they tell anterinccrotic factor alpha. They tell the hypothalamus to release specific prostaglandins like PGE2 and that helps to reset this ther thermostat, right? And increase your body temperature and that increase in body temperature is going to lead to fever, right? And that's important because this is the one of the most common symptoms in these patients. So they present with fever. Guess what else? If someone has consolidations and all this kind of like uh accumulation of stuff with inside of the actual alvololis, eventually as this starts to degrade, guess what's going to happen? You're going to cough it up. And as you cough it up, you're going to cough up this productive mucus. And this might be a productive cough. So they might present with a productive cough. They may present with a fever. They may present with increased work of breathing which may present as dysnia or shortness of breath. And maybe they might even have some hypoxmia. Also, because if someone's hypoxmic, what happens as a result of that? What does that trigger? If you guys remember really quickly, if someone has low partial pressure of oxygen, that stimulates what's called the chemoceptors, right? So, it stimulates your chemoceptors. Okay? Whenever the P2 is really low, it can stimulate the actual peripheral chemoceptors. And those chemo receptors can do what? they can actually trigger a reflex where it actually causes the sympathetic nervous system to become stimulated and try to increase the patient's heart rate. So what else might be a thing that you see on this patient? They might also have a increased heart rate. Okay? So they might be tacocartic. They might have an increased work of breathing. What else does the sympathetic nervous system do too? If you're low in P2, what do you have to do to try to get more P2 in? Increase your respirations. So, they might have an increased respiration rate. They might have a increased heart rate. They may have a fever. They may have a cough. They may have increased work of breathing which can present as dizzy or shortness of breath and maybe even hypoxmia. Right? Let's go even a step further than that. Let's say that this starts to become so severe. This inflammation of the lung becomes so severe and it starts actually kind of leeching into the bloodstream and spreading and this systemic inflammatory response starts carrying all over to different parts of the body. So now this inflammation with the lungs leads to systemic inflammatory response syndrome, right? Or it starts off as ARDS, right? So you affect the lungs leading to ARDS. Maybe that progresses to systemic inflammatory response syndrome which can lead to potentially septic shock. How? If these actual inflammation spreads throughout the entire circulatory system, what's that going to do? That's going to start causing increased capillary permeability within your systemic circulation. As fluid starts leaking out and accumulating within the tissue spaces, what's going to happen to the overall blood volume? It's going to decrease. Right? On top of that, we're going to cause vasoddilation of the actual vessels. As you vasoddilate a lot of your systemic arterials, what's going to happen to the actual total peripheral resistance? It's going to drop. As you drop your total peripheral resistance and you drop your blood volume, what's that going to do to your blood pressure? It's going to tank it. And the patient can start to become hypotensive. And if they become hypotensive that decreases the perfusion to multiple different organs and this can lead to multi-system organ failure. So this can start off with just pneumonia that can then progress to ARDS, right? We talked about with the alvolar collapse and having difficulty being able to take in air causing severe hypoxmia that can become refractory. Then progressing from systemic inflammatory response syndrome to potentially septic shock. The patient becoming hypotensive. As they become hypotensive, they aren't able to peruse their organs. How may that present? If they can't peruse their kidneys, what's going to happen to that bu and creatin? that sucker is going to rise, right? So maybe the ability to get rid of the creatinine from the kidneys and the ability to get rid of the blood ura nitrogen that decreases because the kidneys aren't getting enough blood flow. So because of that, they may have an elevated buin and an elevated creatinine to show that there is actually kidney damage. Maybe the liver is also jacked up. it's not getting enough blood flow and because of that it starts releasing specific inflammatory enzymes like A maybe that starts to rise maybe the ALT your liver enzyme starts to rise maybe the billy starts to increase or maybe it starts releasing acute phase reactant proteins what are some of these CRP fibbrronogen Right? Interlucan 6. These might all be elevated. You might have an elevated vibranogen, an elevated interlucan 6, an elevated CRP, elevated liver enzymes. And actually, this is some of the things that they check for in a patient who maybe comes in with this actual COVID 19 infection. We'll talk about that in a little. So now that we talked about all the different effects that can come from this virus which is a pretty nasty virus again from the point of the infection okay until the patient develops symptoms that's called the incubation period right what is the incubation period for this virus it ranges right now the incubation period which is the period from when it becomes infecting in the patient to the patient develops symptoms it's believed to be anywhere from four to 14 days. So that is our incubation period. However, some have actually seen it up to 24 days. Okay, but just keep in mind that we potentially say max of 14 days. These are the things that we have to take into consideration when we're talking about the novel corona virus. Okay, let's go ahead and now move on to the diagnostics. All right, so we talked about so far epidemiology, we talked about pathogenesis, we talked about the signs and symptoms that the patients will present with, right? And out of those, what were the big ones that you guys want to remember? Again, the patient comes in, they present with fever, they present with a cough, they present with shortness of breath, and sometimes, you have to remember these are the big ones with the most important one being fever and then after that cough and shortness of breath. But sometimes the patient may present with URI symptoms or they may present with GI symptoms. So maybe they might present with rhinora, congestion, sore throat, maybe a little bit of a headache, GI symptoms may present with nausea, vomiting, diarrhea. Again, it's primarily fever, cough, shortness of breath. But you can't forget that some patients might present with early GI symptoms or URI symptoms. Okay? But either way, they come in with these symptoms. Okay? Maybe they also had tacocartic, maybe their typic SPO2 is a little bit lower. again, maybe it's less than 93% or something like that and you started getting concerned. Okay, what's the first step that you should do? First thing that you got to remember is sometimes this sounds just like the flu and it could potentially be the flu. So, the first thing you're going to want to do is swab the patient and also you're going to want to ask them questions. Have you been into contact with anybody who's been infected with the Corona virus? Have you traveled outside of the United States where there's also large amounts of infections? Again, those are questions you're going to want to try to ask to persuade the patient, figure out their actual clinical history. Now, from there, run a flu test. Do a nasoparangial swab and test for influenza or influenza uh B, right? Influenza A, influenza B. So, first thing you got to do is you got to rule out influenza. So, rule out influenza A and B. And how do you do that? You do this nasoparingial swab. You stick this actual swab up into the nasal cavity and you test for any of that actual mucus seeing if there is any of the influenza particles. So you can do a naso fingial or an oral fingial swab. There is another thing that you can also do. Okay, let's say that that comes back negative. It's not the flu. Doesn't mean that it's still not the flu. But again, your suspicion is high for the corona virus because they have a super high fever. What's a fever? That's also important. If a patient comes in and says, "I got a fever." And their temperature is 98.6. That's not a fever. Okay? We technically consider a fever to be greater than or equal to 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit. Right? That's what we consider a fever. If they're coughing, if they're severely short of breath, okay? Their O2 SAP maybe is a little low. Okay? Their tacocardic toipnic, again, you have a high suspicion. Next thing you can do is is you can do what's called an RTPCR. Now realize these tests have a sensitivity from what we've seen here anywhere from 30 to 80%. And they take a lot of time. Okay? So you run this test right away, sure, but you might not get the results back in time, okay, when you need them. And on top of that, their sensitivity really isn't that great. It technically is the gold standard of diagnosis. And you can get RTPCR from a nasopringial swab or just remember you can also get this from sputum. So from a sputum sample you can also get this from an aspirate. Okay. And you can also get this from blood but again you can do a nasop fringial swab as well. Okay. Do an RTPCR which is real time polymerous chain reaction. That's the ways that you can do it called the nucleic acid amplification test. Okay, this is very similar to the what's called and again they abbreviated as NAT. It is expensive from what I remember on my rotations they said it could be up to $300 for the test. Okay, patient comes in, they have these symptoms and again don't forget maybe they also present with specific vital signs that is increased heart rate, increased respiration, low SPO2 and then worst case scenario maybe they have low blood pressure. Okay, that's scary though. From there, what's the next thing that you're going to do? You're going to want to get some blood work. See where the patient's at. So, what are we going to do? We're going to order a CBC and a CMP. And we can also, if we want to, check specific markers that have been associated with high mortality rates with this disease. So, first thing we're going to do is we're going to check a CBC. CBC is going to tell us our white blood cell count, our red cell count, and our platelets, right? And then we can get a diff. What we're going to see here with this, and this is what's super interesting, you see what's called lymphopenia. 80% or more of the time you see lymphopenia. Okay, that is really odd because what would you expect if someone's having an infection? You'd expect a high white count. But again, you're going to see more commonly for some reason lymphopenia. Okay, so that's something to take into consideration. You're going to have low lymphocy count. Next thing you can do is you can order a CMP. A CMP can tell you a lot of different things, right? So a CMP it can is basically a BMP and LFTs. Okay. So let's check our LFTs. If we check the LFTs, guess what we see that in patients who are having this multi-system organ failure or they're in again severe case they can have if they're having decreased profusion to the liver, increased ALT, increased A and increased Billy. Okay, that's one thing we can get from the LFTs or the CMP technically. We can also get a BMP and BMP can tell us renal function. It can tell us the electrolytes and it can also tell us our glucose level as well. What would the BMP need tell us which is really important? If we're not getting proper profusion to the kidneys, are we going to excrete as much of the actual BU, the bloody urine nitrogen, the creatinine into the urine? No, because we're not perusing it properly. The kidneys are becoming damaged. So they might have an elevated buun and they may have an elevated creatinine. That's important. The next thing, this is a test that you can do. Now patients who get, for example, influenza, all right, they get viral pneumonia. They are at higher risk for getting a super infection with a bacteria. Bacteria though lead to a specific marker that you can see in patients with pneumonia called proalcitetonin. So sometimes there is a molecule called procalitetonin but remember this is particular to bacterial infections. The proalcitetonin is going to be normal. They will have a normal proalcitetonin level that is important. If it's primarily covid-19 if it's covid-19 with a super infection of a bacteria then they might have an elevated PCT or proalcetonin. So again, the only time there'll be an elevated PCT or proalcetonin is if there's maybe a COVID 19 plus a bacterial infection. Okay, and that's important to remember. All right, the last thing you can do is you can check for these general markers of inflammation. Okay, now what are some of these markers of inflammation? Again, they're not specific, but they help us in this in determining the patient's mortality rate. One of them is CRP. They'll have an elevated CRP. Another one is they'll have an elevated ESR. These are non-specific markers of inflammation, but they're going to be elevated. Another one is you're going to see elevated levels of interlucan 6. Where did that come from? Remember the macrofasages who are releasing tons of interlucan one six and TNF alpha. That's one. And it's also released from the liver as an acute phase reactive protein. Another one is when there's severe inflammation, an enzyme called lactate dehydrogenase is also in higher concentrations. Other things is whenever there's massive inflammation, there can also be an elevated d-dimer and there may also be an elevated feritin. Okay, so these are all markers of inflammation that might be found in a patient with CO 19. And again these high markers may be associated with actual higher mortality rates. Something that's also really important. Remember if someone is in multi- systemm organ failure we can see an increase in the BUN increase in the creatinine and we can see an increase in the A the ALT and the billy. What if there's not enough profusion to the heart? What we might also see we might see elevated. So also take into consideration high mortality associated with elevated traropponins troponins and troponent and elevated CKNB and again this is an indicator of higher mortality rates which could be indicative that you're not getting enough profusion to the heart as well leading to a possible myioardial inffection and that can make things worse because you can become hemodynamically stable as well unstable hemodynamically unstable. All right, we do all the labs. We get all this information back. We're waiting for RTPCR to come back. We didn't get a positive uh influenza. Now, what we going to do is we're going to do some imaging. All right. Generally, you want to start off with a chest X-ray, but you're going to see that CT is actually the most sensitive test at this point in time for being able to determine if someone has COVID 19. Now, it's not specific, okay? Meaning that there could be other infections. You can have influenza or viral pneumonia like influenza pneumonia or other different types like adn no virus. They can present with actual uh findings on a CT scan very similar to co 19 but again it's helpful in helping to kind of has a high sensitivity of 95%. In looking at co 19 so first thing you can do is you can do a chest x-ray. It's not going to be the best but it can lead you somewhere. What are some of the things that you're going to see in a chest x-ray? You might see this area of what's called ground glass opacities. So you may see what's called ground glass opacities. Now from there maybe you say I this is not as sensitive. This is not what I want. It's not as good. I'm going to go ahead and do a CT scan. I do a CT scan and I see ground glass opacities again in the peripheral lung fields. So, let's say I see some ground glass and then I go and I run through my actual CT scan a little bit more and then I start noticing some areas of consolidation. And if I start seeing these areas of consolidation, oh, that's not good. That means that I also have some pneumonia as well. So, we have some ground glass opacities which are going to be a little a little interstitial edema consolidation which is going to be a lot of those actual accumulation of cellular debris, proteins, right? and then leading to what's called a special term called the crazy paving pattern. So we can see ground glass opacities consolidation and you'll see later when we show you on CT scan you can also see what's called a crazy paving pattern. It's a special radological term that they say also could be associated with interstatial fluid thickening and membrane thickening as well as alvolar and intersticial edema. Okay. Other things you could do is if you're skilled or you have the time, you can do what's called point of care ultrasounds. Ultrasounds also can be utilized. What you can look for is you can look for what's called plural line thickening. And we'll show you what that means on an actual ultrasound. So, you can look for Another thing you can do is you can check for again with with interstitial pulmonary edema you can see these specific lines called bel lines. So we can also look for increasing belines within a specific zone. Okay. The last thing that we could also maybe see is consolidation with air bronco. So there may also be consolidation with air bronco. And again, we'll see all of this on the imaging here in just a second. All right, engineers. So, in this video, we talked about the novel corona virus or the corona virus discovered in uh 2019 which is responsible for the covid-19 that we talked about here. In this video, we talked about the epidemiology which included a little point on the zooonosis. We talked about case fatality rates. We talked about the reproductive ratio. We talked about the series interval. Right? We also went into the entire pathogenesis, how those pathogenesis produce the specific symptoms that we see in COVID 19 as well as pretty much your diagnostic process that you're going to be looking to go through in helping to diagnose COVID 19. In the next video, what we're going to do is we're going to start talking about treatment of COVID 19. We'll talk about the different types of ventilation management. Okay, mechanical ventilation. We'll also talk about if the patient is in need of empiric antibiotics, if there is a super infection. We'll go over different prognosis, things that affect the actual prognosis, things like if someone has an underlying heart disease, lung disease, so on and so forth. And also lastly, we'll talk about preventative measures and trying to decrease the spread of this overall very serious virus. Ninjers, I hope this video made sense. I hope you guys enjoyed it. If you guys did, please hit that like button, comment down in the comment section, and please subscribe if you guys get a chance. Down in the description box, we'll have links to our Facebook, Instagram, and our Patreon account. All right, engineers, as always, stay safe, and until next time.