Alright guys, so now we're going to take a look at the coccyx bone or the hip bone. And before I do that I want to kind of give you the three different divisions of the coxa bone. So if we look here, we have the tape to kind of mark out the three different parts of it. So if you ever see the tape, it's separating these two bones right here. This one right here is the pubis, this one right here is the ischium and then all this top one up here is the ilium. We're going to take a closer look at each individual one starting with the ilium. One of the first things I want to do is, I want to try to show you guys the orientation of the ilium. So if you imagine, I'm trying to hold this like a gun and this my finger that's the trigger finger or the trigger finger side is that's the anterior side and anything over here is the posterior side, okay. So now let's go ahead and take a look at this bone and each individual portion right. So we look here, you have this little spine right there, a little bump right there, that's called the anterior inferior iliac spine. Then if I come up here, we have another spine that's called the anterior superior iliac spine. Then I'm going to kind of move this all the way over here, this is the iliac crest. Then I'm going to scrape this surface right here, this is the iliac fossa, if I follow this all the way down it's kind of like a it can't really see it very well, but there's a line right here and this is actually called the arcuate line, actually which helps to form the pelvic brim. Then if we come back here turn a little bit here, this right here is the auricular surface of the ilium. Now the auricular surface of the ilium is important because it articulates with the auricular surface of the sacrum to form the sacroiliac joint. And if you look here, there's this little spine, there this is the posterior superior iliac spine and this one is the posterior inferior iliac spine. Then if you pretend going down a roller coaster right here, this is the greater sciatic notch. This is the ischial spine. So now we're heading into the ischium now. So now we're in ischium guys, so if we turn over here, this is the lesser sciatic notch. Then we have the ischial tuberosity right there, that roughened surface. And then right here is the ramus of the ischium, there's a big hole right here, this is actually the obturator foramen, the biggest holes in the body. And if I come over here, now we're in pubis guys. So this is the inferior ramus of the pubis, this part here, this is the superior ramus of the pubis. And again, this is going to be the part of this articulating surface of the pubis, it's actually going to help to form the pubic symphysis joint, which has again those nice fiber cartilage packing between it. And I'm going to kind of turn this up this way guys. So this right here, this little bump is called the pubic tubercle. That's the pubic tubercle, right there. Then if I kind of move this part right here, that is going to be called the pubic crest. So pubic tubercle and then pubic crest okay. Now I'm going to kind of flip it on the outside, here so we can see one more important thing and again, this is called the acetabulum of the coxa bone. This is where the head of the femur articulates with it, alright, to form the synovial ball-and-socket joint. All right. We'll come back up here, to the ilium. This is actually going to be the posterior side of it our gluteal muscles, they sit right here on this part of the bone okay. And so they call this the gluteal surface. Now you can't see it very well, probably not at all, but skeletal muscles are striated, so they form these lines too. And those are called gluteal lines. And that's pretty much covers everything you know about the coccyx bone. All right guys, so now we're going to take a look at the whole pelvis. So if we look here, we have the two coxa bones here articulating with the sacrum. And if you know, that's going to help us again this is the sacroiliac joint right there. And then this part right here in the front, this is the pubic symphysis and that's actually going to be an amphathrotic joint. So cartilaginous joint made up of fiber cartilage and again, this is going to be called a, specifically is called the symphysis joint, the pubic symphysis. Alright, so if I take a look here and I actually move and make a circle all the way around right here, this is actually called the pelvic brim. And if you imagine putting a plate on top of that anything above the plate or above the pelvic brim is actually referred to as false pelvis and anything below the pelvic brim is true pelvis. Next thing I'm gonna do is, I'm going to kind of pull this here back, so we can take a look here. So if you look here, looks like an arch right? This is called the pubic arch, the pubic arch is good for us being able to tell whether this is female or male pelvis. As my professor said in the past, if it's broad it's a broad. So this is a female pelvis, it's a very very broad pubic arch. Okay, one more thing is, if you look here, this is the pelvic Inlet and this is the pelvic outlet. Or you can think about it as, pelvic inlet anything in part here, pelvic outlet is anything past this point right there. Alright guys, that gives us everything we're going to need to know about the pelvis.