Welcome back to the Ninja Nerd podcast. Today's episode is all about deep neck infections. We've got some cases to cover. It's going to be a lot of fun. He's already having too much fun. Look at him. He's He's giggling over here like a little girl. >> I don't know. I'm such a child. >> It's all right. That's okay. He He's He's excited to learn deep necks. Let's let's get deep here, buddy. Let's get into it. >> And there it is. >> All right. So, tell me a little bit about what we're doing here with deep neck infections. Why is it so important? And why is this a big problem for patients when they have this? >> I think the the biggest thing to take away from deep neck infections in true honesty is that whenever these happen, because they're they're relatively rare. They're not something that you're going to see a lot. When you do see, you won't forget it, though. can guarantee that because it's usually going to present with I mean I'd say for the most part the most concerning component of this is airway obstruction. I mean think about this your ferinx your tonsils those areas they're relatively like smaller spaces and so if you occupy that with a large abscess like an a peronsular abscess a parapharingial abscess a retrofaringial abscess and then sometimes lwwood's anga isn't an abscess it's a really significant cellulitis but all of those infections usually they take up space they cause swelling they cause mass effect and they push things into like the oro fernx into the lingo fernx and they start obstructing air flow And if you restrict air flow, what's the most common thing? It's going to be some form of respiratory distress. And I think that's one of the really key big takeaways when you think about things like peronsular abscess, paraphringial abscesses, retrofaringial abscesses, and litiga is these patients, they'll present with probably the most common symptom is going to be like throat or neck pain, but it's going to be accompanied with some very concerning features, especially in severe cases of airway obstruction. So I think that's the biggest thing to be able to take away is when is a patient showing concerning let's say red flag signs that their airway is being compromised. I would always want to think about this when a patient is showing things like for example strider. So you know you've heard of strider before right? So because your your nephew Brooks right? >> Yeah. Yeah. Brooks he just had croo. >> Yeah. And so it's a it's a pretty familiar and usually they have that bark and cough but they also come in with like it's when you try to take a deep breath it sounds honestly like a high pitch like whistling sound. Yeah. And that's because this air is trying to flow through it's being obstructed and there's usually just the abscess or the overall swelling that's kind of protruding into that space. So a strider is a really concerning one. I think tismas you ever heard of tism? So trismus is basically when you have difficulty being able to open up the jaw and so that makes it kind of really really difficult where it's super super painful. It's usually kind of inflammation. There's probably infection near like the the masticator muscles, especially the terragoids, >> drooling or difficulty being able to handle like pooling of saliva because imagine if you're trying to swallow and you have this big abscess or swelling and it's obstructing the flow of that kind of like saliva or any kind of secretions, it's going to sit there because you're not able to get the normal volume through. So, drooling is a big one. speaking whenever you speak sometimes your voice will sound very muffled or like they sounds like they have like a hopp in their mouth that's a pretty concerning sign especially for those and then I think any signs of like respiratory distress if they're working hard to breathe they're breathing fast they're breathing heavy they're using their accessory muscles they're flaring their nostrils they're you know showing any concerns maybe even in worst case scenarios we get certain concern about hypoxia right those are all concerning features so the best thing I would say is when you have a patient who you suspect has a deep neck infection. The most important things to consider is do I need to look into securing their airway now or I need to really really closely monitor them because at some point I'm worried that I'm going to need to intubate them. I'm going to need to do something to make sure that I keep a patent airway. And I'd say that's probably the biggest thing to take away from this lecture is really knowing when to actually assess for that respiratory distress red flag signs when it's there and when it's not. Well, let's just do a true and false question here. So, if your airway if if you have airway compromise and it's it's suspected, your sequence is imaging and then airway. >> Oh, if they are in this scenario that is false. Okay, you always have to that's a really really good point and I think that points the paints the picture of how significant this is. >> You don't work on di making a diagnosis in a scenario of where there's airway compromise. you focus on stabilizing, securing the airway, and then sometimes, funny enough, it's not funny, but like as you're going through the process of intubating, as you're kind of getting usually a lot of, you know, clinicians, they use kaleidoscopes now. So, whenever they go and they actually use their blade to kind of open up the to actually take a look to pass the endotrachial tube down, you get kind of a visualization of things pretty well. And sometimes you're able to to visualize things a little bit better. But sometimes I think the biggest thing to take away from this is if you take the time and you think about this, if a person's having difficulty breathing, they're having difficulty swallowing, all of those things, and you have them lay fat flat, you try to poke them and prod them, all you're doing is worsening that scenario and potentially worsening their airway compromise, putting them in a other scenario for them to deteriorate. So, it's always first to secure the airway if there's any concern, then go the lengths of getting X-rays and CTS and doing labs, etc. I mean, that makes perfect sense. I mean, if if I'm like I can barely breathe and I'm having trouble like swallowing or or talking, it's like, "Hang on one second. Let me get your CT and then we'll talk about we we'll fix that airway in a second." >> It's the basic ABCs, right? So, you know, whenever you have any patient coming in, especially to an ED and ICU, you always airway, breathing, circulation. So, it's always at the top of the list before you start going down the lines of, hey, let's kind of diagnose this patient. Let's make sure that they're secured in the sense of airway, breathing, circulation, and then we can go from there. >> So, airway first, then imaging. So that's our sequence. The next step is we want to localize with one targeted exam. So if we're talking about these four diagnoses, how would you kind of do a quick exam for them? >> I would look in the mouth and feel the neck. I think that's kind of the biggest thing that you're because a lot of like I said a lot of the times they're probably going to present with I'd say for the most part because they're all going to be like bacterial infections. So for all of these they're usually some kind of polyimicrobial infection usually like group A strep or strep veridans and staff and a lot of anorobes like bactaroides and fusive bacterium. So they're all going to have fevers for the most part. They'll all probably have some pretty good fevers. They're all going to have for the most part throat pain, right? And they're probably going to have some neck pain just because of the proximity of it and maybe some swelling. And so the first thing I want to do is I want to take a look in there. I want to get in there and say what does it look like? So when I look in there, if I look at the oral exam, I should be able to say, okay, for a per tonsular abscess, for the most part, they're pretty they're standard clinical diagnosis. If they complain of like, hey, I have a sore throat, they got a fever, they got tismas, they got drooling, they got that muffled hot potato voice, and all of a sudden you look in their mouth and you see this big swollen kind of like tonsil and it's pushing into the actual oral cavity and it's doing so much that it's moving the uvula to the other side. That's that's pretty much a peronular abscess. >> Okay. So that per tonsular absess you're pushing the uvula away from the affected side. >> Yeah. That's the the classic board scenario is a contrlateral uvular deviation with a nice fluctuant like tender red abscess near that tonsular. And usually when you look at the tonsular pillars, you have an anterior tonsular pillar and a posterior tonsular pillar. It's usually going to be more involved in that anterior tonsular pillar. So that's where you'll kind of see that. And that's kind of hard sometimes to even see because everything is so swollen and red. So things kind of get blurred. But that's generally the idea of it. And the other thing is that usually these follow a kid who probably had strep throat. So they probably had strep throat at some point in time. Maybe they were treated or inadequately treated or weren't treated but it just progressed from the tonsil spread to that peronsular space and then that's how they got the abscess. >> How about PPA? A parapheringial abscess is usually so that one you can look in the oral cavity and it probably may look like a peronsular abscess sometimes where if you look in the mouth you'll notice it's usually a little bit further back so more of the posterior tonsular pillar but again everything's super swollen it's hard to picture that but you'll notice this bulge on like that lateral wall and it's going to be kind of pushing it tries to push the fairings the actual cavity of the ferinx not the tonsil and the uvula it's the cavity behind that it tries push it more medially. But the key characteristic sign is when you look because the paraphrial space has there's two spaces. It's a pre-styloid and a post style hyoid space. We call it an anterior and posterior fingial space. The anterior paraphernial space usually is going to be near the kind of the angle. So right around here where you kind of your your mandible kind of turns right at that point there is where that anterior paraphernial space is. And that's gonna usually that's pretty swollen. And so when you kind of feel around their neck or you just look at them, you'll notice this big goober on the side right by their jaw. Well, you were laughing at something. It's because I ain't got no neck no neck. Is that what you're laughing at over here? I've been known as neckzilla on on YouTube, my friends. >> No, no, no. I was trying to keep it together, but I'm like I don't see any angle. >> Oh, this guy. I don't I ain't got a jawline. I ain't got that Brad Pitt jawline. >> Or the Tom Brady jawline. >> Or Yeah. Yeah. >> He's got a chisel jawline. I don't think that thing has ever been seen by by a human before. >> I think you can say you got a mass right now. >> Jeez. But anyway, anyway, yes, that's the key thing I would be looking for is a kind of a a pretty tender, swollen. It might be red, but I I think for the most part, it's just very tender. If you kind of feel it, it's probably fluctuant, which means it kind of feels like like a water bed kind of thing. Really soft and gooey. And then it's also going to be very tender, swollen, right around that mandible, like angle of the mandible portion. That's that's going to be the characteristic feature. Sometimes if it's bad enough because it's near the it's kind of close to some of the like the sternocly mastoid it might kind of irritate it and they might get a little bit of one of these like a like a toricalis. >> Oh wow. >> So they and and and that's that's something that could possibly happen. Actually I think it's to the affected side. So it' actually be to the affected side. And so that's one thing you may see is potentially some toricolis with a kind of a a mass there on that side of the neck. How about RPA? So retrofaringial abscess is interesting. This one I'd say you can see two different things. So usually in an adult, this is going to be more often seen with like trauma. So what I mean by that is that maybe a person got intubated, maybe they ate like something that had bones in it, like you know like AI don't know like fish or chicken and it had some bones and it got back there and it scraped it and kind of opened up that space. you had some kind of procedure where instrumentation was going down there and just scratched it up. It just anything opens up that opportunity for bacteria to get in. >> For children, >> it's usually they have like a upper respiratory tract infection. >> So they get like a a URI, the infection then gets into the lymph nodes and then spreads into that retrofarrenial space and there's some lymph nodes in there and then they can actually become filled with pus and then they rupture and they fill that space up. So those are the two scenarios that you can see this in. when it gets into that space, it's almost in the it's completely in the posterior fingial wall. So, if that gets swollen, it literally when you look in the back of their throat, you'll see this posterior like fingial wall bulge >> and and it'll literally it'll kind of really push itself into the ferings pretty significantly. >> So, that's why you probably see the most like airway obstruction with this one. And it's also the most dangerous because it can there's a space we'll talk about it later, I'm sure, but it can there's a it's called the danger space. I'm not even kidding us. So there's the retrofile space and allar fashcia and it's called the danger space. And if infection breaches the allar fascia, it can go into the to the danger space and move right down into the chest into the mediainum. So that one's a pretty nasty one. When you look in their oral cavity, you'll see a big posterior fangial wall bulge. That's a pretty nasty one. You won't really see because it's so posterior and it's not near like the the anterior or the lateral sides of the neck. You're not going to see any swelling. But what you may notice is because it's right if you look at the anatomy you guys go back you have your retrofarrenial space your allar fascia your danger space and then there's also like your prevertebral muscles there. >> Yeah. >> And so because it's so close to those it's going to get inflamed and what's going to happen is those are usually involved with like extension. And so when you try to extend those those muscles ain't going to be happy. No. >> And so it causes like they they really don't want to extend. and if they do it really hurts and so they tend to kind of sit more in like a like a a naturally flexed neck position like AI think they call it a sniffing position. Yeah. So that's something that you may see with a retrofaringial abscess. >> And then finally what about a lwig anga? a Lwig, you would see that you would look at them and if you looked in the oral cavity, so this one's an infection of generally the submandibular spaces and it's both of them. And so it's not pus, it's not an abscess like these. It's a rapidly sometimes necrotizing, meaning death of tissue of of your submandibular spaces. And so what happens is you get like a dental infection. You you know that's usually so it's it's almost similar to paraphringial abscess. So paraphrilial abscesses they can occur like a a paratonsular abscess spread to the paraphrial space but they can you can also see those a lot especially in adults you can see it with dental infections if they get like an abscess of like the tooth that can spread to the paraphrrenial space it also can spread to the submandibular spaces. So we see dental infections causing bloodwig anga and also can cause paraphrial abscesses and that's by far the most common causes of those. But if they start off, let's say that a p person had like a really bad tooth ache or they had an abscess, they have a known problem with the tooth and then all of a sudden they have swelling. When you open up their mouth, it fills the subandibular spaces which is just beneath the tongue. You'll notice that that swelling will push the tongue upwards >> and so it's hung all the way up here. >> Sup so superior elevation of the tongue going to be super swollen and it'll go superior and a little bit more posterior. So what's that going to do to your airway? >> God, it's going to block your airway. >> Yeah. Yeah. So that one's a super scary one with retrofile for obstruction. But also if you look at the floor of the mouth because there's so much inflammation the submandibular space is just below just above the submandibular space is that that floor of the mouth it'll be super red inflamed. You might see pus there too sometimes but that's the key thing. And and then their neck because it's restricted that space is restricted. There's it's restricted posteriorly, right? It's restricted anterly by the cervical fascia and then it's restricted up upper by the floor of the mouth and so it doesn't have a lot of space and so it swells and swells and swells and because it's bilateral they get like a super sw almost like a bull neck >> and so it's but they I don't know why I don't know how they get this term maybe it's because it's like hard as a rock but it's called like woody. >> Oh wow. So if you feel it, it feels like it's really hard like rock like like induration of the neck >> and that's something that would potentially concern you for for blood wigs. Angela, >> let's say we secured the airway, then we did our localized targeted targeted exam. Now I'm wondering more about imaging. So I know it's airway first, then imaging, but let's just say we want to do CT neck with IV contrast. >> Where would we gravitate towards with those four conditions? >> Yeah. So that's a good question because I think oftent times if you have a person who came in with like you all pretty much have common findings where they almost all have like a fever, a sore throat, maybe a muffled voice. They might have some hot potato or you know voice or whatever we call it. They may have drooling, right? They may have some difficulty with swallowing. But usually how you differentiate per tonsil or Lwig is is clinically. So you don't really need imaging for those. >> Okay. >> So that one is like if you let's say that for example you don't know if they have a per tonsil. You don't know if they have something else. Like your your your suspicion is like inconclusive. You have no idea. So you're just I know something's wrong in here. I'm going to get a CT of the neck. You might find a per tonsil or you might find some findings of bloodwig ganga, but those are generally a clinical diagnosis and you only kind of get imaging if like you're treating them and it's getting worse. So you're looking for what's going on. Why aren't they getting better? Is the abscess spread? Has it, you know, something else happened? For the most part, the only ones that truly are hard to like identify because of, you know, when you look in the mouth, it you can have an idea, but you don't completely know is probably a paraphernial and a retrofaringial space abscess. So really, it's just looking for like a it looks dark. So if you look on the CT scan, it'll have a hypo so it'll be dark. So it's hypodense and then because you give contrast, abscesses can usually kind of highlight a little bit. So they can have like a rim enhancement. And so you'll see that they'll have a dark lesion in the paraphernalia or retrofaringial space and that determines which infection you got. And then around it you'll have a rim enhancement which is just kind of like a bright like highlighting line. And that will really tell you if you have oh I got an abscess and then the benefit of getting that is it tells you the size of it which is also crucial because size you know believe it or not matters in this case. If it's a really large one and we kind of define that as greater than 2.5 cm, that may indicate that you got to drain this thing because it's likely that if it's that big, it's causing mass effect. It's increasing the risk of airway obstruction. It could rupture and then dump pus into their oral cavity. They could aspirate it and they could get pneumonia. So there's just a lot of risks in those scenarios. So the benefit is diagnosis, identifying any kind of like nasty things that are happening as a result of it and then also it can kind of guide surgical planning because we also look at this and we'll get probably get into it but when you look at these based upon the location of the abscess with certain vertebrae and where it is near to the corateed sheath that determines the approach that you'll go like am I going to stick a needle into their mouth and pull that or cut it? >> Yeah. or am I going to go on the outside, cut through the neck, and then kind of access the abscess. So, that's the other benefit of surgical planning. >> So far, we've done our kind of I guess an algorithm at this point, but we've done step one, we've secured the airway, we've done some localized exams, we've gotten some imaging if need be. Step four, we want to treat aggressively. How would you treat as a whole? We're going to get into this more specifically for each for each case. As a whole, how would you treat these? >> Well, now that if if they needed their airway secured, cool. And then we've gone through everything. We've identified it. So then I at that point all of them are going to get antibiotics because it's a bacterial infection. But the next question is source control. So let's come back to the antibiotics. If if I pick an antibiotic, which one would I go with? And I think that's always an important one that you want to think about. And I think there's a lot of debate for these, but I think for the most part, the most common antibiotic that you're going to want to consider is called unison. It's also so that's the that's the brand name, but we the generic component is called ampeoin sactum. And you're going to want to give IV. Now, I'm going to ask a dumb question. Why would I want to give it IV? Well, one is rapid, but also I'm going to have them try to swallow a pill. And so, I >> that's something you should really think about that. >> Yeah. So, there's a benefit that it's going to be you're going to get high levels like you're going to get a therapeutic dose of it, but also it's just, you know, think commonly like I don't want to give something if they're having difficulty swallowing. I have all these other issues and there's I'm just not going to do that. So, IV is going to be the best form. If they have the ability to like swallow you could go with the oral version of that which is like augmentin okay >> but it's rare and I think for most of the times boards wards just say unison amplactum >> and if they have a penicellin allergy what you then do >> so there is an alternative you can do clintomy same thing it can be oral it can be IV it just depends upon their ability to swallow or not but clintomy you want to be careful so unless they have a really bad allergy and I mean like a type one hyper sensitivity You give it to them, they go into anaphilaxis, then I would go to clindo. The reason why is there's a lot of like strep species that are becoming resistant to clintomy. A lot of other species that are resistant to clinomy. And so we want to try to reserve clinomy for when it's necessary. Also, clinda highest risk of cadiff. I don't think you want to have all this going on and then that going on down there. You know what I'm saying? >> We we we fixed up here. Now it's a mess down here. >> So that's I think the biggest thing is resistance. And then also it comes with side effects and so I think it's always best to go with ampensum but yes consider clintomy if you got you know hey if I give this they're going to go into anifilaxis. >> We got a really nice algorithm and I think that's kind of cool. We haven't done it quite like this before in the past but we have a good foundation and now you're thinking all right as I'm going to go through cases I'm going to think of that algorithm how would I treat each patient here and how would I which direction would I go? >> Yeah. >> So let's start it off here with case one. We have a 19-year-old who presents with severe unilateral sore throat, fever, and painful swallowing. They're sitting forward, spitting into an emmesis bag on exam. >> You ever seen those? >> No, I I have no idea what that is. >> Yeah, just like the little vom the barf bag. Yeah, it's like a little blue one. You Yeah, we see those. >> I don't call it that. I call it a barf bag. >> Yeah. Yeah, I got you. >> On exam, we note tresmas, a muffled hot potato voice, and the uvula is pushed to the opposite side. >> All right. So, we kind of talked about this before. Should be fairly straightforward. I hope you all got it. But, Zach, what do we got? >> I think it's a per tonsler. So, it sounds like a per tonsler with all of the symptoms. Again, there's common clinical findings among all of them. Trismus is pretty dang common in a peronular abscess. It's way it's most common in a paraphernial, but either way, Trismus is going to be there and then having that kind of swelling that fluctuates there and around that tonsular area with the contrlateral uvular deviation. That's pretty much the the >> And then, of course, this is that clinical diagnosis. Yeah. Yep. So from there, I'm pretty good with saying that this is a per tonsler. We don't need to get any kind of leg imaging or anything like that. >> Are there any type of high yield path pathophysiology causes that you want to talk about for this one? >> I just again I kind of goes back to like what's the most likely cause? Well, if this is a pediatric patient, which is probably most often the case with these, it's usually related to strep. Yeah. So they probably had like a group A strep infection. they're treated with antibiotics or or maybe they weren't treated with antibiotics and it just kind of like spread spread to that peronsular space and that's kind of how this usually most often happens. >> So group A strep anything else >> you can see other kind of species. So for most of the case it's usually group based ship but we also consider it can be polyicrobial and so there is a risk of anorobes things like bactaroides is a possibility fuso bacterium but I'd say for the most part it's often strep dominant with a possibility of polyicrobial or anorob coverage or anorob mix >> so so definitely more so strep dominant. >> Yeah. Yeah. Strep dominant. Yeah. >> All right. Well I guess what's your first first move here? So we have this patient. You're it's a clinical diagnosis. You're pretty pretty sure it's per tons or abscess. Yeah. Where do you go from there? >> Again, I go back to the airway. I make sure that everything's good. I I don't remember if there was any kind of concerns. I don't think they had any stride or I don't think that they had any kind of like respiratory distress. So, I'm going to monitor the airway carefully and if I have any concerns that makes me consider that I I need to really intervene, I will. I'd say out of all of these, airway obstruction is probably on the lowest priority or I wouldn't even like all of them are concerning, but this is one that like I'd say you you're not going to see out of all of them. this is going to be the lowest one that you'll probably need to intubate somebody for. And so, but I'll make sure I very very close closely monitor. I'll start them on antibiotics again depending upon what they can tolerate. >> And then I would >> if I was, you know, able and capable of doing this in in an ED setting or if I'd reach out to ENT, I' just make sure that someone is actually, you know, very very skilled and has done this before, you're going to want to go ahead and drain that thing. And so, there's two ways that you can go about it. You can you can do a needle aspiration. Sometimes people do it ultrasound. Sometimes people don't do it ultrasound. You just I'm not kidding. You stick a needle into the abscess and you pull back pus. >> But the preferred way is to IND it. I'd say probably most of the time. Yeah. >> And so you're going to take a scalpel in and you're going to cut that thing open and you're going to try to drain it and suction out as much as that kind of like material as you can. And that is going to be the primary way that you would want to do this. So it does come with a definitive source control. A paraphernial and retrofarential you may be able to get away with like not doing source control. So in other words, draining the abscess. And the only reason I say that is because it's a little bit riskier in those whereas a per tonsler it doesn't you do have risk but it's it's pretty unless you stick the needle super far in and you are way off you could get to the corateed sheath so you definitely want to be careful if you're doing anything like that but you know and that's why oftent times it's ultrasound can be utilized but I'd say for the most part per tonsor it's a relatively safe bedside kind of like IND or needle aspiration that you don't need to kind of you know worry about asking the question should I drain this or not the only time I'd say that You wouldn't drain it if it's like really really really tiny. Like I think the guidelines say less than a centimeter. >> Okay. >> But often times you're going to drain it. >> And this is one where you would probably do IV ailactum. Yeah. >> Unless of course there's an allergy present. >> Unless there's an allergy. If they could swallow the pill, I would give them the oral equivalent of those two. >> And because you're doing an IND, do you bother culturing that to make sure that your antibiotics are good? >> Yeah. Because empirically you're starting antibiotics, but you obviously want to get you have a suspicion that's probably group A strep. So eventually you're going to kind of like you'll you'll you'll start off with IV antibiotics in these CA p cases until you can kind of get them therapeutic. They can swallow, they can take oral pills, and then you'll transition to the oral equivalent because you just want to make sure you're covering the most likely pathogen, which is group A strep with a possibility of anorobes. And so as long as you got oral coverage for that, you'll probably be okay. But I tell you what, it's always good to know if this bacteria that you have is different or if it's resistant to those antibiotics. And so I think it's always good that while you're doing that, si stick a swab into that abscess after you've cut it, get a good sample, send it off to the lab, and see if it comes back with anything. >> You're doing the the IND right there. >> Exactly. >> It's not very difficult to add that on. >> And then for our last little quick borrowed pearl, if you will, we have tismas, contrlateral uvular deviation, and a muffled potato voice. PTA until proven otherwise. >> I like it. >> Let's move on to case two. >> Hit me. All right, we have here next case. A 42-year-old presents with fever, sore throat, and increasing neck pain. They mention a recent dental problem, pain in the back of the jaw. Exam shows tismas and a tender swelling below the angle of the mandible. This is what Zach has every day. Or >> oral, >> don't jaw line. Oral exam shows medial displacement of the lateral fingial wall. Boy, this sounds a lot like we just talked about. We laid our foundation down. I think this was verbatim what you were talking about. >> Yeah, it sounds like again it sounds like a parapherrenial and I said dental I think parapherrenial and lwigs. >> Yep. >> So those are the usually the most common ones especially in you know generally in adults. So adonttogenic infections is usually going to be a big one in adults and so yeah that's one I would definitely definitely consider. So perhap I think is the the likely diagnosis here. >> So go through our algorithm. What do we got our our our four-step process here? >> So for this one I would say again I think based upon their presentation I can't remember every single aspect of it but signs of respiratory distress look for those things. And again I think if a person has a muffled voice, they have tismas, they have drooling. All right, that can be present. That doesn't mean that you have to tube them. >> No. In this in this patient there were really no red flag signs. Yeah, >> it was kind of like the case one where it was some mild findings but nothing where you're like I'm really concerned about the airway. >> And I think that's the key thing. So like for example, when you want to intubate somebody, you need to know the reasons why you're going to do it. You should always have a reason why you do anything, right? But if I'm going to intubate somebody, I'm going to do it because they're in obvious respiratory distress. Like if I don't do this, they aren't going to be able to maintain this rate of breathing. Another one is if I let this go so long, I'm worried that it's going to completely obstruct the airway so much that they'll esphyxiate. Another one is that they are visibly hypo or they're they're hypoxic and they're also showing signs of respiratory distress. We don't want consistent hypoxia. And then another one is that they are having a difficulty with being able to keep up with their secretions. Maybe their mental status is declined. Maybe they can't swallow properly and all that drooling. What if they aspirate? So the aspiration risk and so if any of those are there, all right, cool. Then I'm probably going to be intubating them. But it's not always GCS lo intubate. No, that's not like, you know, you got to think like a clinician say what is the indications because when you put the tube in, yes, it can come out, but again, there always is risk in everything that you do. So for this one, I would kind of evaluate that and determine that first. From there I would say that if I have a suspicion of a par perhapial absis not only should I confirm it and that's what CT neck IV contrast is for but also it helps me with surgical planning. >> That was my next question. >> Yeah that's perfect. So CT neck IV contrast. >> Yeah. And that'll highlight that that kind of thing that we talked about before. Paraphral space will have a hypodense lesion probably some rim enhancement and it'll show you where it is in relationship to the corateed sheath which is kind of helpful. And then also just has it spread anywhere else? How big is it? you know, things of that nature. So, that's kind of the benefit of doing that one. From there, once I've done that, I'm going to start them on IV antibiotics. Again, it'll be the same one that we talked about. Ampeo will back them most likely. Now, again, I I think staff orius is a possibility here. Unless they have MRSA risk factors, you don't need to put on Venko. Accilsa, it won't cover MRSA, but unless they have MRAA risk factors, I don't add Veno. And then the next one is from there is I would again I would probably reach out to the surgical team ENT surgical team and say hey what's what's the goal here should we do a drainage and oftentimes this is an interdisciplinary discussion where you'll talk to them and they'll kind of go through and they'll say okay yeah you know what they have some airway we had to intubate them okay if that thing still exists antibiotics aren't going to clear it enough that's not going to decrease in anytime soon and they'll be remaining intubated until we can remove or resolve the reason why they were intubated. Yeah. >> So, if they're intubated, you got to do a surgery. Another one is if I put them on antibiotics and I want to trial it and they don't get any better within like two days, maybe three, I' i'd do a surgery. >> But also, if it's just really big, if they're septic, you know, you don't have a choice. If it's a really big abscess, that's most likely going to cause air obstruction. It's most likely going to lead to complications. And if they're septic, hey, you don't have a choice. If I don't fix this, they're going to die. So, a lot of the indications to drain it is pretty like I don't know. I wouldn't say extreme, but it's like it's it's common sense like when you would do it. But it's also just dependent upon the surgeon. And then from there once you've made that decision you then kind of look at like the the location and this is more surgery like specific discussion but they determine the approach. >> Okay. >> So approach comes from that CT a little bit. If it's a more abscess predominant like in medial to the corateed sheath I could probably get to that from the oral cavity. So you could do a transoral. You could actually go in there and you can cut it. >> Okay, >> you can. Sometimes people cut it. So, I'm not kidding. Sometimes people actually stick a needle in there. But either way, you got to drain that thing transorally. If it's lateral to the croted sheath, then I wouldn't be able to do that because I'd be going through the croted sheath to get to it. >> So, you got to go externally. And so, you can get good visualization and stuff. So, that's what I would say for this one. And just, you know, I think I think that's kind of the biggest thing for these. And they they can spread. So a paraphernial it doesn't intrinsically spread often to the retrofaringial space. It can the biggest concern with this one that I would also be monitoring for is it's next to the curate sheath. The karate sheath contains a bunch of cranial nerves. So anything cranial nerve nine all the way to 12. I mean that that's some important suckers. >> Yes, it is. >> So you can get things like dysphasia. You can get like a loss of a gag reflex. You can get dysphonia or horarsseness of the voice, right? You can have changes within your cardiac heart rate, especially if it's really, you know, involving the vagus. You can get difficulty with your accessory nerve. So, you may have like a shoulder droop because of the trapezius kind of getting hit and SCEM and then hypoglossal. You may have some tongue deviation to the affected side. So, those are all things I'd be looking for. The internal jug of the vein runs in the croted sheet. That's probably the most there's a there's a syndrome. It's called Lamir syndrome. That's probably pretty rare, but it's only really seen most often with anorobes like like if a paraphranging abscess formed. Let's say someone got strep throat, they got strep strep fingitis or no, sorry, not strep fangitis. They got fngitis tonsitis of some sort. Usually it's fusoboacterium. That's the fusobacterium necroorum. Sounds ridiculous. Sounds like I'm naming something like off dungeons and dragon fusacterium necro. >> He'll he'll take six points, please. But he gets into that kind of like tonsil and then usually gets into that peronsular space and spreads over to the paraphernial space. But that one usually can get into that internal jugular vein and it can it can cause like clots. So it causes infection of the vein and then you get clots and then where does the internal jug of the vein drain? >> You're going to get that pulmonary emblei. >> Yeah. Oh wow. Look at you, man. That's awesome. Yeah. So >> it was written down. >> Yeah. I'm not as good as him. I >> I need a script. He does it. >> Yeah, but that's exactly what you be. So, usually it's it's right. So, your SCM's right there. >> And so, they'll get like a lot of tenderness. It'll hurt like a son of a gun. And then it'll feel cord-like too because a thrombophilitis usually does feel like that's the common term is a is a cord-like kind of sensation or palpation. And then exactly like you said, you get worried that those clots if they break off, they'll get down into the uh right atrium, they'll go into the right ventricle, get into your pulmonary circulation and there's septic emblei, so you can get abscesses, right? You can also get PE symptoms, so puritic chest pain, dysnia, cough, hypoxia, all things like that. So >> Yep. >> And and that's called Laamir syndrome. >> That's called Laamir syndrome. Yeah. That's that's what I would also want to be monitoring for is is that. And so usually it would become relatively obvious, I'd say, especially on the board exams. I think clinically it would be pretty hard to pick out and it's also kind of rare. That's why the boards probably like it. But >> yeah, >> other things that you watch out for is the sympathetic plexus runs in there. So you could get a Horners. >> So watch out for the tois meiosis and hydrosis. And >> you're corroed. That's obviously in the corateed sheath. So watch out for they call them mcotic aneurysms. They basically eat away at the corateed wall. they can get ballooned out and then you can get like you know they can rupture so you could actually get potentially like stroke symptoms. >> You can even get like hemorrhage into that area. So they're pretty rare though. I would say that that's like unlikely but again it's something to consider. >> Yeah. And if you have a patient where you know you originally had some throat pain and you know the hot potato voice all that stuff and now all of a sudden hey I have pluric you know you're noticing pluric chest pain shortness of breath. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Wait what? >> Yeah. >> A cord like >> Yeah. you start noticing those things, you start thinking about, oh my gosh, did it spread to that? Is it really involving the corateed sheath, >> right? >> And I think that also pushes you to say, "Oh my gosh, I really need source control." Again, I think anything that kind of gets the patient to where they're showing like concerning signs of sepsis or airway obstruction or karate sheath involvement, it's a really large one, they're not getting better, you you really it's best to drain that abscess. Before we move to case three, I had one little question where this is like worst case scenario. This is like a patient that's getting really bad. >> What would you do if you are trying to intubate? You're trying to secure their airway and there's so much swelling and obstruction that you can't even advance an endotrachial tube. >> Do you have to do a correct thy thyroid at that point? >> I think often times in these scenarios and this is something I'd say like an anesthesiologist would probably be like they're going to be struggling. I've I've seen some scenarios where this usually happens. What happens sometimes and it's probably not the best thing is you might give a little bit of force but that's where you got to be really really careful with because if you push hard enough you could literally you could rupture the abscess into that space and then you could cause them to aspirate that and they could get pneumonia because you usually when you're intubating for most of these there might be some scenarios where you do like an awake like fiber opt like it's an awake intubation which are crazy but you can use fiber optic like scopes and stuff which you can either run through the mouth or you can run through the nose and visualize it and then that can help you to guide your tube and stuff. But >> often times you you're kind of going with the route of gently trying to push that thing through. Sometimes it may even involve you using a smaller endotracheial tube as well. So it's a smaller diameter to get through. Sometimes you use bougie. There's a lot of different ways that you'll do this. But >> worst worst case scenario >> worst case scenario then you might have to cri them. Yeah. That's usually the worst case is if you've tried everything. >> Yeah. That's like last resort. I have nothing like they're going to go into respiratory distress. And I think that's why it's important to be on top especially like patients like for like this it should remind you of something like epiglatitis and lwig. Lwig is a really really scary one. >> Lwig I would be shedding my pants if I had to like work on intubating these patients because >> you don't want to intubate these in your traditional RSI mechanism. So rapid sequence intubation where you like sedate them, paralyze them and then you put an endotricial tube down. Usually with a you can do a blind or you can use it with a glyoscope. for those ones that that's really dangerous. You actually oftentimes probably have to go like nasot tracally and use a fiber optic scope and stuff. But yeah, these ones you got to be careful. A lot of this is really patient dependent, but it might start off where you're trying things like trying to finagle it in. Then it might go to a bougie or it might go to a smaller tube or things of that nature. And then from there it may result in, hey, we're they're starting to like actually almost crash. Yeah, >> that's what I've seen. I've seen I haven't seen this. I've seen patients who had postc extabation strider and it was because they had significant lingial edema. So it's a similar kind of concept where again you're trying to shove a tube through a very swollen langial inlet and what ends up happening is you're trying your best trying your best they're getting super super super hypoxic you're seeing your sats in the 40s and 30s and you're like oh my gosh the patient's going to code and those scenarios where you're really like you're not getting anywhere then you just you might have to go to a trike. >> Okay. Yeah. Again I just wanted to touch on that worst case scenario. >> Yeah. Yeah. Case three, we have a four-year-old presents with fever, drooling, refusal to eat. The parents say the child's neck posture is weird. The the child will not look up. They don't want to look up. They're keeping their neck a little bit flexed. For the exam, we have a muffled voice, drooling, and on oral exam, there's a posterior fingial wall bulge. What do we got? >> In that scenario, it sounds like an RPA. And again, I think well, it seems like we're going kind of going through these like sequentially in this scenario, but at least we've built up a pretty good foundation, I think, for these where again, I think that this is you have all the common clinical findings. The oral exam and I think it's painting a nice picture here of the oral exam is showing a posterior fingerial bulge. Y >> and you're seeing that again involvement of like the prevertebral muscles where they don't want to extend. Yeah. >> And sometimes they can even get toricalis too. they can't get some toricalis and and I think that's really what's screaming this the RPA but again also look at the clinical scenario it's not always the perfect scenario but I think you think about this in a kid they probably had a viral ur upper respiratory tract infection recently or they had some kind of like direct trauma and inoculated it and they ate like a fish or chicken bone or something they got something like that they in instrumentation of some sort >> that's for more of an adult >> but being that this is a pediatric patient maybe under six years This could also be so you could see this with the upper respiratory tract infection 100%. And I'd say rarely rarely it could be contiguous spread where they had a tonsillop feritis that then spread and moved its way through >> per tonsular space paraphernial space into the retrofarangial space but I'd say more often than not it's usually uh lymphatic spread which is a kid who probably had an upper respiratory tract infection. Now earlier you said Lwiganga really really scary for airway compromise. Would this categorize as another one that's very scary for that? >> Yeah. Yeah. It's pretty it's a pretty scary one too. I'd say the the highest risk for airway obstruction is those two. >> And is that just because of that that posterior fingial wall bulge where you have like a physical obstruction. >> Yeah. I think that's big. And then it's also just the the other risk is is this spread to the danger space. >> Yeah. >> Sounds so ridiculous when you think about the name, but that's that's that's another really bad concern about this one. can lead to mediastenitis which I'm sure we'll talk about here soon. >> Okay. And then for this patient, what do you do next with imaging? >> That's the same thing. I'd say if I have a concern for this one like a retrofenial, I think it's always best to get an imaging. It confirms the diagnosis, but also it again, same thing. Shows the size, shows what it looks like. It helps with surgical planning, especially noting where the most significant size of the abscess is with respect, and I want you to memorize this, the C3 vertebrae. the C3 vertebrae. Okay. >> Yeah. It's it's kind of like you want to know the the position of the C3 vertebrae to the actual abscess because it guides. Again, this is more of a surgical thing, but it can help to make a decision of the approach. >> Okay. Talk more about that. So, if it's if it's above or below C3, I'm guessing. >> Yeah. So, let's say that you did this, you found it. If it's at or above C3, you can safely attack this because it's not going to be you'll be able to actually attack this from the oral cavity. >> Okay? So, transoral. If it's below, it's going to be out of your field of view within the oral cavity. And so it would be more danger. It's a little bit lower. Yeah. And so doing that, you're taking a lot of risk and you're going in areas that you might not be able to see completely. And so those ones you you're probably going to have to externally target that one and come at from the the lateral side of the neck. And so that's that's one thing that they they could consider if you're on your surgical rotation. They want to pimp you. They want to say, "Hey, it's at at or below the C C3 vertebrae. What are you going to do?" I like what you do. That's Sebastian mascal. >> Sebastian mascal. >> What are you gonna do though? >> I'm guessing treatment for this one. We didn't I kind of skipped over it, but it's pretty much the same thing, right? IV ampeoin subactum. >> Yep. Secure the air if they need it. Ivy, amplacter risk factors, you can add on vent, but I think you're good with these. And then I would reach out to the surgical team and all the same things, which is just is it airway obstruction? Is it septic? Is it not responding to antibiotics for the past two days? Is there spread to the mediainum? Is there spread anywhere beyond the retrofarrenial space? And is it a really big one greater than 2.5 cm something like that? >> Then yeah, you should definitely drain this. And then the way that you drain it is dependent upon that C3 vertebrae. >> That C3 vertebrae map. >> All right. Okay. Okay. >> All right. Here's a twist. >> Okay. >> We have a little bit of a nightmare twist actually. >> Okay. Unfortunately, after admission, the child develops retrosteral chest pain and dysnia. Yes, you just brought this up. So, what complication are we talking about here? >> Yeah. So, that's the biggest thing. So, like how we talked about lamir with paraphrilial, >> this is the this is the nightmare for retrofil. >> It just seems so odd like you're having chest pain, shortness of breath. That's that's scary. And I think the the key with this one is and that's something that you know you usually your your nurses your you all the people who are working on that that that floor and who knows this patient's diagnosis is what you're going to be monitoring for. And so that's the the descending necroizing medastinitis is a is a big concern. And so the concept behind this is that when you get that infection in the retroial space there's a fascia right behind it called the allar fascia and then the danger space. And so if it gets into the danger space, gravity and is is one thing. It's going to pull pus down. >> Yeah. >> And then also when you take a deep breath in, what happens to your intrathoracic cavity pressure? It drops. >> And then that's going to suck the pus down further into the thoracic cavity. So gravity and intrathoracic cavity pressure drops. >> Suck that pus down into I got to be careful. Suck that pus down into Get keep your minds clear. >> That gets pulled down into the mediainum and especially >> the posterior mediastinum. >> Y >> because of where when you when you look at the actual location of that danger space, it's running in the posterior mediainum. And that's really really really important. When you run through the posterior mediastinum, the biggest things in those areas is you're worried about the plura, you're worried about the paricardium. And so the things that usually can happen here is that you can get pluritis. So they may have some plural eusions. They may have pleuritic chest pain. They can even get pericarditis. So they can get chest pain. A lot of it because of its location. That's why it sounds like it's behind the sternum. It's it's it's deeper is the best way. It's a retroal chest pain. >> And then the other thing is the infection as it is tracking in these areas. It can cause like gas production. And the gas can cause like crepitus is the best way of saying it. Let's say that you start palpating around their neck or around the upper part of the chest. It'll feel like Rice Krispies and that's usually the gas production maybe from as a byproduct of the bacteria eating tissue that's going to cause that crepitus. It's called a Hammond sign. Yeah. >> And so look for that. If you get a chest X-ray, you might see some some actual subcutaneous like gas or emphyma. If you get a chest X-ray these patients because whenever you get a chest pain you should always get a chest X-ray. It's just a part of the workup. You'll also notice that their medastinum is very wide and there's a there's a a very large differential with a widen mediainum right >> but you know having something like media is a part of that but also why differential but this is a four-year-old. >> Yeah. And so whenever you think about that it's like all right I got the classic scenario where it started they have retroernal chest pain maybe they have some paricarditis symptoms which is chest pain usually it's positional maybe they have some plural eusions maybe they have a paricardial eusion they may have some that's the big one the hamman's decrepitus maybe I get some subq emphyma why mediainum you really start thinking about medastinitis and these patients their their fevers usually go up pretty bad and they can they start to get almost like septic looking and I think that's usually the big difference is you'll notice that their their vitals start changing drastically and that's probably because of the involvement of the heart and the actual lung itself but it's also just because it's probably starting to seed into the bloodstream it's probably they're probably starting to get bacteric and so you start you got to watch out for like low blood pressure you got to watch out for tacic cardia watch out for typneia and so those are the things that also you probably start seeing with medastinitis with these patients and so yeah I Needless to say, your ENT and cardiothoracic surgery are they're getting a call. >> Yeah. Yeah. There's going to be a lot of involvement here. And usually with this one, they'll probably make you extend the CT down to get a good look. So, you'll probably go from a CT and you'll you'll probably redo the neck and then probably go down to the chest and get some contrast there. You'll get a good look at it. But yeah, this is going to be one of those that you're going to have to probably just talk to surgery, but it's going to be you're probably going to escalate your antibiotics a little bit and then you're definitely going to have to figure out what are we going to do here. >> Okay. >> Yeah. All right. We have one more case left. Last one. This is on Lwigang. >> We have a 55-year-old with poor dental health. Presents with rapidly progressive submandibular swelling, fever, and difficulty speaking. Y >> his exam shows firm bilateral that woody neck inulation >> edema of the floor of the mouth and the tongue is elevated and pushed posteriorly. >> Yep. >> Again we know this is lewood ganga. So what more can you say about that >> at this point? Usually when you see this it's again it's probably had a dental problem sometime dental infection >> poor dental health. >> Yeah. Yeah. So, they probably had a dental abscess spread got bad. Usually for this one, it is really airway first obviously. And so, for this one, I'd say most of the time, I think I looked it up. It's most of the time with these patients, they more often than not, they require intubation. >> Okay. >> And so, because of that, you want to get on that quick because usually this isn't one that you do your classic RSI with. So, you're doing this awake. >> Yeah. >> And I think it's because you don't want to lose a lot of muscle tone. You don't want to take the risk of causing any kind of issues. And so whenever they're breathing, first off, you want to be able to visualize. You want to be able to see where you're pushing a tube through. Second is that you don't want to agitate these patients in anymore and cause any issues. And then I think the biggest thing is you're depending upon their muscle tone. Yeah. >> If you take away their muscle tone and you think about this when your your muscles in your ferinx, they usually their tone helps to keep the the airway. It keeps that ferinx open. And so if you lose that muscle tone because you sedate them and paralyze them, what's it going to do? It's going to start kind of drooping in and then you're going to kind of potentially collapse that airway and then now you you're bagging through this swollen mouth. Can you imagine how that would like you're not going to do anything. I've seen this before. That's why post exhibition strider when you're bagging them, it just sounds like >> Yeah. Air's flying right back out. >> It's just not going through. And that's that's the scary thing is because if you lose that that tone of the airway, if you don't get that tube in right, then >> you're in big trouble. You're probably converting to a cri at that point. So >> that's why in these ones you do most of the time you have a very heavy involvement with anesthesia, ENT, your ED, ICU docs are all going to be there and you're going to be looking to say, "Hey, should we should probably do like an awake like fiber optic like intubation? Maybe nasot tracy." Yeah. >> So you're you're avoiding going through the mouth. you're going through the nasal cavity using a scope to see where you're going and then that can help you to guide your tube down. So that's probably the first thing and then after that again you you diagnose this clinically and then once you do that you start antibiotics >> and I wouldn't you don't really you can I'd say like you because it's going to take time and there is it's it's not an abscess >> but oftent times more than not this causes airway compromise. Yep. >> And so you need to get them off the ventilator eventually. antibiotics isn't going to cut it right away. So oftentimes, more than not, you're cutting in to the neck to decompress. Wow. >> Rather than really drain something. So it's usually external like decompression if you want to think of that space because it's a cellulitis. It's not usually pus. So you're not going to be draining anything. It's more decompression so that you can actually give them an opportunity eventually to hopefully say, "Let the antibiotics work. Let them remain intubated for some time while the antibiotics work and then we can get them off the ventilator." But if you put them on antibiotics, you don't deal with all of that high degree of tension. You take them off the ventilator, they're going to be right back where they were probably before they got intubated. So you got to treat the underlying problem before you get that tube out. >> All right. Well, that covers our four cases. I want to go through a really quick high yield rapid review. >> Nah, I'm just kidding. >> We're we're going to give maybe a one minute summary here. just some to start with like localization clues, imaging, antibiotics, drainage triggers, just a nice recap of what we've talked about because it was a good amount. >> Yeah. So, here's here's what we'll do. I'll say whenever you have a patient who comes in and they got that like throat pain and they have maybe that a lot of the common clinical findings that maybe suggest like a deep neck infection, right? From there, you just have to assess the red flag signs. Is there anything that makes me really going to be concerned that this patient's in distress? They need to have their airway secured essentially. Monitoring is obviously key, but I I got to know that first. Airways is always the king in this scenario. And so because of that, that's the first thing that you need to know. It's just when is it time to intubate? And we talked a lot about that. The next thing is if you're not going to do that, all right, cool. I'm going to monitor them, but then I can say, okay, I can take the time and maybe do a good oral exam, feel the neck, look at their lymph nodes, assess their vitals, get some labs, get some imaging. And from there, that should help you to really assess your likely clinical diagnosis and then help your suspicion to say, "Oo, I need I still need imaging, especially like CT next with IV contrast in certain scenarios. From there, you'll you'll make your definitive diagnosis on certain abscesses like the paraphernial and retrofarrenial. But at this point, you have an idea of what it is and you kind of have an idea of what to do. Now, from there, your decision kind of lays upon antibiotics, right? And then from there drainage is almost always standard in per tonsler. It's almost always necessary to decompress the submandibular spaces and lwigs. And then the decision to drain those abscesses in a paraphrrenial and retrofile depends upon you know I think the basic concepts are they really really sick do they have airway obstruction? Are they septic? Is it spread to those appropriate spaces? Is is it really large? Are they not getting any better with antibiotics? And you've triled it. And those scenarios you got to drain and then depending upon the location which we used lateral medial to the croted sheath C3 vertebrae above below that kind of determines your overall approach but I think that's the biggest thing and then as you're treating these patients especially those who have lwigs and retrofaring watch out for the risk of descending mediaitis and the ones who have paraphernial definitely be considerate of those opportunities for karate sheath involvement and I think other than that you should be good and you should feel confident being able to kind of navigate your way through deep neck, right, >> my friend. That is deep neck infections. >> Yeah, we went deep on the neck, right? >> He's so funny. >> Lame. >> Yeah, I know. But man, I just thank you guys so much for tuning in. I hope that you guys really like the podcast. I hope that you felt, you know, it was engaging. I hope that you felt confident now after this that you feel like you maybe have an approach. I think that's the goal of these these these discussions is to not really like go through and get into all the crazy details of everything. It's really just to come up with a way of thinking through things >> because you do that any hey you got the whiteboard for that. >> Yeah. Exactly. And I and I think the the key here is to really think like more as a clinician to say okay if I'm presented with this scenario how would I navigate through it? And I know that this is a clinical scenario that we're painting in a perfect picture. And oftentimes in the clinical world it's not like that. That's where clinical expertise and your your overall zen and your your your just stalled in that scenario is built. And so I really hope that in this scenario you feel confident in the boards and on the wards. And man, I love you guys. to thank you guys. And as always, until next time.