What's up, ninja nerds? In this video today, we're going to be talking about deep neck infections. And again, this is a part of a clinical medicine series, and we're going to kind of dive deep, no pun intended, into the different types of infections, such as things like a paraphernial abscess, a retrofaringial abscess, a peronsular abscess, and we'll talk about something called Lwig's angula, which is technically not an abscess, but we'll get into that. If you guys are digging these videos, they're helping you, they make sense, then support us. Hit the like button, comment down in the comment section, subscribe, tell a friend. Also, I really suggest going down in the description box below, clicking on the link that goes to our website, and get some access, become a member, and have access to things like notes, illustrations, quizzes. We're developing flashcards. There's a lot that I think allows for the application of all this information, which is critical to learning. Nonetheless, let's talk about learning. Learning what? Deep neck infection. So when we talk about these, there's obviously a bunch of different deep neck spaces and I don't want to go absolutely ham bone on anatomy. That's what anatomy is for. We're going to do a little bit of a quick reminder on specific components here. So imagine here I'm taking a look at someone's uh primarily their throat and the deep neck spaces around it. So essentially how I want you to imagine it is imagine I'm taking like a slice like I'm just getting cut right in half and I'm going to slice through and I'm going to look at this kind of like axial section. if you will. And so what you'll see is is you'll see here is going to be kind of parts of like the fernx like lumen here would kind of you could imagine here's the tongue and you'll have some teeth over here. But there's a couple different components here. The first thing is here in pink we have these structures called the tonsils. Right? So that's your tonsils. So here we'll have some tonsils. And the next component here is that we're going to have some arches. And so I won't label these but again you have this arch here which is going to form like the anterior tonsular pillar. This is called the plateau glossal arch and there's a muscle in there called the palatto glosses. Then there's this structure here in the back and this is another this forms the posterior tonsular pillar or arch and we call this the palatto feringial arch and there's a muscle in there called the palato feringius. The tonsils just behind them there is this white space. Do you see this white space here? This is called the perry tonsular space. I'm going to write that down. This is called your perry tonsular space. And essentially what it is is it's just going to be this little piece here just behind the tonsils and in front of this muscle here. This red strip of muscle. What's that red strip of muscle? That red strip of muscle right here is called the superior fingial constrictor. So the superior fingial constrictor. So so far we have the tonsils right here on this both sides. The palatine tonsils they're sitting in the fossa the tonsular fossa formed by the arches and the muscles. There's a space just behind it called the peronsular space. And just behind that is a superior fangial constrictor. All right. So we're going somewhere. All right. The next thing is in the back here you would have this little this little speed bag in the back of your throat. What's that called? That's called the uvula, right? So you technically have this thing here called the uvula. And then if we wanted to, this would be the back of the throat. So this would be the back, the posterior wall of the fairings. This black line here would be the posterior wall of the fairings if you really wanted to think about it like that, right? All right. So we're going somewhere. Next part is we are going to go into this next area here. Here, this is actually going to be the mandible. So right here, this is going to be what's called your mandible. And then you're going to have some muscles. This one technically is called the massitor. And then this one here on the other side is called the medial terragoid. Then here you have the parotted. And then here you have what's called the styloid process, the black structure. This little black circle is the bone, the styloid process, right? And then there's a bunch of muscles around it like the styofarangius stylo hyoid, right? And so all of those muscles are definitely around the styloid process. The next thing is you have this thing called the corateed sheath. We're not going to go into the contents of it just yet. We will a little bit later, but this is called the corateed sheath. And inside of that there is the corateed artery. There's the jugular vein. There's some nerves like cranial nerves etc. The next thing that I want you to know is we've already talked about one space and this is the per tonsular space. That is where certain types of infections can form and organize and lead to a peronsular abscess. Right? The second space is kind of like I'm going to do something where I'm going to create like a dotted line. This styloid process is a landmark. And what that does is is it breaks this space up into like two areas like two subspaces if you will, right? And so this here, which I'm going to kind of point in here, I'm going to kind of do it. I'm going to shade it. I'm going to shade all this area here in blue. And then the space posterior to the styloid process, we're going to highlight in this pinkish color. All right. So, this is going to be two. It's it's technically one whole space, but it's subdivided based upon the styloid process. What are these two spaces? We have essentially kind of separated this into two spaces. Let me let me kind of show you what I mean. And if I come over here, I'm going to do where we can kind of have this here. And then we're going to have this kind of go across. We create these two little compartments. This is called the posterior para fingial space. Some people call it the um like when you kind of look at this, it's like there's it's behind the styloid process. So they call it the post styloid paraphrase. I just like to call it the posterior. Essentially, this is the part that is in the compartment behind the styloid process. And then if it's the one that's actually in front of the styloid process, it's called the anterior para feringial space. So, so far we've colorcoordinated the paraphrilial space. We should do that for the peronsular. Perons make orange. So again, per tonsular space is kind of this orange space right here if you will. Okay. So there's the per tonsular space. So so far we've talked about the peronsular space. We've talked about the paraphernial space. What's the next one? Well, the next component here is we have again I told you that there is this posterior part of the fingial wall. Then you have the superior fingerial constrictor muscle and then you have this next black line. The next black line that we're going to have right here is called the bucko faucia. So this the buck fraringial faucia. So that is going to be this part right here. The space between the buckingial fashcia and this pink line. What's the pink line called? The pink line is called the allar fascia fajia right? So it's the allar fascia which is this pink structure. And then if you wanted one more there's this blue one and that is called the prevertebral fashcia. Well we create spaces right. So we talked about the peronsular space which is the space between right behind the tonsular capsule and the superiorial constrictor. The paraphernial space we said is two compartments. It's the posterior paraphernial space which contains things like the corateed sheath and it's behind the styloid process and then the anterior paraphernial space which is just going to be anterior to the styloid process. The retrofaringial space sits between the buck fraringial faucia and the allar fascia. So what color should we pick for that one? Let's do that one in this purplish color. I think that'll work. So here I'm going to fill all of this space in right here. This is your retro fingial space. That is your retrofial space. Let's actually write that one out there. So retrofaringial space because we're getting close on the the tightness here is this here. This space right here into here. This is called your retro fingial space. All right. So I have to red square that up. And the reason why is is I have to get you guys oriented to a degree to somewhat of the anatomy because the infections occur in those spaces. So when we talk about peronsular abscess, it's a collection of pus. This is a collection of pus. This is a collection of pus. And again, I needed you to understand the definition. You have to understand the anatomy. So it's a collection of pus where in the perry tonsular space and then if some anatomist or some surgeon came and said hey Zach explain to me where the per tonsular space is you could say oh it's the space just behind the capsule of the tonsils and in between the superior fingial constrictor muscle. Oh good deal. Okay, parapherrenial abscess. This is a collection of pus in the parapherrenial space. But then you could have a really really particular surgeon or anatomist that would say hey Zach explain to me where that collection of pus is the paraphrial space. You would then say okay all right doc. So what it is is you have to think it's beyond the superior ferendial constrictor muscle and it's into this area and how we divide it is it's based upon the styloid process. The styloid process has an a space a triangular space that is filled with fat and muscle and lymph nodes and that's called the anterior parapharingial space. Pus can collect there. The other one is the posterior fingial space. So it's just posterior to the styloid process and that contains a very critical structure called the corateed sheath. You're getting to the point of why this is so critical because once we start talking about the reasons for these things, how these actual things cause mass effect, how these things cause scary complications, we'll get it because we've gotten down the anatomy. The retrofaringial abscess, this is a critical one because it's a collection in the retrofaringial space. And again, you're probably like, "Dude, do you really need to write that?" No, I don't. But what I would then say is, explain to me if you could where this actual abscess is. It's in the posterior portion of the fernx between this black line, the buck feringial fascia, and this pink line, the allar fascia. That is the retrofaringial space. And again, the reason why I mention these things in these fashions is I didn't get into this next one which I'll talk about a little bit later. There's another space which is between the pink one and the blue one and it's called I'm going to write it in here for now. I just want you to trust me. It is called the danger space. It's super ominous and it should be ominous because it is a terrifying space. But the reason why I say all of these things is when you think about a per tonsular abscess, it's a tiny tiny little space. Tiny tiny little space. When you think about a paraphrilial absess, dude, that's an infection that could really wreak havoc on vascular structures and muscles. This one here can get into the dangerous space. Why is the dangerous space so dangerous? We'll talk about it. It connects to your mediainum. If I had pus going to my mediainum, I could cause mediastitis. That's dangerous. So that's why I'm kind of getting you guys to understand the anatomy. All right, cool. We talked about peronsular, anterior paraphrilial, posterior paraphernial and the retrofaringial space and then its connection, how close it is to this thing called the danger space. There's one more and this is called Lewig's. Lewig's angula, we do have to understand a little bit of anatomy here. So here we're going to have the in we're going to have the tongue, right? So here's our tongue and there's a bunch of different e you know intrinsic muscles of the tongue and then on top of that there is kind of another kind of muscle just here at the base and we call this one we call the geneoglossis and then there's one more. So here is we have what's called the hyoid bone. So the hyoid bone is our is our kind of like our reference point for this the hyoid bone. There's two muscles that come here that form these like spaces. This one comes up here and it's going to connect to the mandible, right? But we call this one here, this is called the geno hyoid. I'm going to draw it back here. This is called the geno hyoid, right? And that is going to be this muscle belly right here. Then you're going to have another muscle belly which is going to be this one going here and again going to the mandible. What's this one called here? I'm going to draw this one backwards. This one is called the milo hyoid. The myo hyoid is your reference point. The myo hyoid is really going to be the line in the sand that creates two spaces. Here is a space here and it's between what? The genio hyoid and the myo hyoid. There's a space there. Then there's like fascia which is this orange thing. It kind of controls the limitation. But there's there's another space just beneath the myo hyoid and then the the actual fascia. Do you guys know what that's called? All right, let me explain here. There's two spaces and these are important because these two spaces get filled with infected material. This one here is called the sublingual space. And this one here below the myo hyoid is called the subm maxillary space. These two spaces we say makes up and I know it sounds dumb but these two spaces make up what's called your submandibular space. So these make up your submandibular What happens is in patients who get Lwig's anga is they get cellulitis a necrotizing cellulitis not pus all right so that's the key thing it's necroizing cellulitis of the submandibular space so that's why I really kind of talk to you guys about this is lewig's anga is really it's not a collection of pus it is a ne son of a gun it is a necroizing cellulite itis not pus of the submandibular space. And if someone said to you, "Oh, Zach, okay, well, where's the submandibular space?" It is technically a sublingual and submaxillary space that is formed by a a line in the sand called the myo hyoid muscle. So infection can accumulate in the sublingual space and infection can accumulate in the submaxillary space. Here's what we'll get into when we get into these. These are controlled like what's what's restricting this thing above the dang tongue. What's restricting this thing from actually moving below the fascia. These infections when they get bad they cause swelling and they got nowhere to go and that becomes really really dangerous. This is one where I want you guys to understand that this Lwigsen is not a pus collection is a necrotizing cellulitis and that's a different component between these. All right. So we've really taken some time I think to get the anatomy down. I got peronsular abscess infection of the peronsular space which we talked about paraphr abscess infection of the paraphrial space retrofaringial abscess infection of the retrofaringial space. And I got it down the anatomy right I'm pretty good with that. It's pus collections. Lwigs is a necrotizing cellulitis of the submandibular space which is made up of these two spaces. What I want you guys to then start to think about is when a patient has something like a deep neck infection. What would make me think of this in general? Well, there's a lot of things that cause deep neck infections and we'll get into that with each individual deep neck infection, but oftent times there's a couple characteristic signs that are pretty standard across the board. Well, one of the things that I want you guys to think about is that there's infection and pus in all of these areas and it's usually in the mouth or it's near the throat. So, one of the classic kind of features I would say is you're probably going to have a patient with some degree of like a sore throat or we could even say some degree of like the floor of the mouth is going to be really really sore. So they're probably going to have some type of throat pain we could say or we could even say maybe like mouth pain ex and that would be the exception for which one more particularly probably for the Lwigs angel you'd probably have more pain there on the base of the floor of the mouth whereas all of those there with a patient who has a per tonsler retrofarrenial paraphril it's going to be more involving the throat so you get what I'm saying there so that's going to be because of inflammation of those tissue areas the second one is with with this a patient may also have, and this is kind of interesting, they may have um drooling. So, there may be some degree of drooling. And I want you to think about this. If you have a lot of swelling and it's so much pain that it's difficult for you to swallow, what happens if you can't swallow those secretions? They pull up. And so, this is due to inflammation of those tissues. This is probably due to what concept that I want you guys to add on just to your repertoire to understand the why they're drooling is because the difficulty with swallowing because it's painful. So so modophasia swallowing causes a buildup. It causes pooling of secretions. Right? So that's something else I would want you guys to add on here. So that difficulty with swallowing is going to cause that pooling of secretions. So there's that's another one. The third component that is also critical here is that the patient will probably have some degree of a muffled or hot potato voice we call it. So you ever taken and eaten something, you know, usually if you have something in your mouth, it's it's difficult to speak and so it muffles. You have a muffled voice. This is actually pretty pretty simple. Um, so muffled and we sometimes use this term that you may see on the exams, hot potato voice. So it sounds like something is in their mouth. The concept behind this is pretty straightforward. Think about this for a second. You have all of this swelling that is inside of like the fernx or around the tonsils or in the base of the tongue. All of these things are doing what to this lumen? They're narrowing it. When you produce sound, sound waves are supposed to be generated from the larynx and they'll they'll run across your vocal cords. They'll produce that sound and then what happens is it runs through your mouth. It runs through the nasal cavity, through the sinuses, and it's supposed to help with the the resonance of sound. If you have things that are obstructing the resonance, that's going to cause the muffling of the voice. So what happens here is this is due to a decreased resonance of sound and that's what I want you to understand is decreased resonance which is basically whenever those sound waves are being produced by your vocal cords and they run through these areas to gain resonance to make your speech become clear there is something that is obstructing that kind of sound resonance and that is a critical thing here. The last thing is that almost actually pretty much all of these infections are bacterial in origin. Bacterial infections oftentimes produce more systemic inflammatory responses enough that a patient will have some degree of a systemic inflammatory response. And one of the ways that we determine that is the presence of a fever. So this fever is likely due to what? It's likely going to cause the patient to be uh usually it's guaranteed greater than 38° centigrade, but it's likely due to bacterial infection and that bacterial infection is causing a more intense inflammatory response. I hope that makes sense. Okay. So, if I have a patient comes into the hospital, they come into the clinic, they come into the odarangologist and they say, "Man, I've been having some." And they would probably have a hard time. I'm having a sore throat. It's difficult to swallow. you notice that they're drooling. They have lots of secretions pooling up, their voice sounds muffled, almost as if they were talking with a hot potato in their mouth, and they got a fever, you're going to be like, "Oh crap, okay, could this be an infection somewhere within the neck and the deep neck spaces?" Then you got to start looking around. And when we'll get into what we should be looking for to say, "Oh, I think it's this one over this one or this one over this one." That's where anatomy and also just a good physical exam comes into play and history. The thing I want you guys to understand because we'll get into it in a little bit later is that with these infections, the reason why they're so critical for us to be able to ID them quickly and efficiently is because of the risk of complications. I'll get into them and I'm going to talk about them now. But one of the big things here is with things like for example, we talked about these and I'm going to abbreviate them a parapharingial abscess. What's in that space? I I I I told you what's in that space. It's a really really important one. You have to remember that it's the corateed sheath. So the feared complication of this is if we don't take care of it, it can invade the corateed sheath and that can cause some terrifying types of presentations. So that's what we get worried about here because in the corateed sheath is the corateed artery, there is the internal jugular vein, there's cranial nerves. We don't get that infection to treat properly. they could have that kind of problems where they could have vascular and neurological complications. Second one is the retrofaringial space. The retrofaringial space I told you there is a space just posterior to it has the danger space right the danger space is dangerous because what does it connect to the mediainum so we'll talk a little bit later but media stenitis medastinitis is the just the absolute I got I think I got a lot of te's and eyes here there media oh I got it all right medastinitis that there is the really concern concerning feature of a retrofaringial abscess. And the third one is the ludwigs. Now lwigs is terrifying because if you think about this, if this thing if you get an infection here and it starts to swell, it pushes the tongue back posteriorly and upwards and then it pushes all the soft tissue structures of the neck backwards. I'm going to obstruct my airway and if I have so much swelling, I can't even stick a tube down their airway. So the most concerning feature for Lwig and is it can become a respiratory emergency and that is because it can lead to almost complete near or you know total airway obstruction which can cause esphyxiation and I think that would be a terrible terrible way for a patient to die. So that is why we need to be able to identify these. The reason why I mention these now is in these patients when they come in with this if you see karate sheath invasion I want you to think when we talk about it oh that'll have a patient who has something wrong with their J something wrong with the cate something wrong with the cranial nerves if they have a retroful absess you want to start thinking about things could they have infection of their medial what does that look like if they have lwigs I need to know that what is the most important thing to do for this patient secure their airway so that's why I wanted to take some time because now what I want to do is we have the general presentation we have the optimal fears of what can happen if we don't get to this and treat it appropriately. We know a little bit about the anatomy and the different types. Let's dig into each one just a little bit more. All right, so let's start off first and foremost with the peronsular abscess. We know it's an infection of the peronsular space. Now the question that you have to start thinking about is what causes this? There's a you know it really comes down to I'd say most often we talked about this in the tonsular feritis lecture is for the most part it's it's going to be some type of group A strep. That's really the key trigger. So it's oftentimes going to be a patient who develops a group A strep tonselo fngitis and that's really it and maybe it just wasn't treated maybe it just got really really nasty either way that's the trigger. So here we got our pathogen. We have the responsible trigger, the eeteological component here and that's this nasty son of a gun, the streptococcus pioines or the group a strep. What happens is that obviously this is going to trigger what it's going to get here in the tonsils and it's going to cause inflammation. It gets trapped in the tonsular crypts. You get an inflammatory reaction here and generally in most people if you treat them with antibiotics you treat it acutely or quickly enough you can clear it. But what happens if that infection from the tonsil starts spreading and breaking past the tonsular capsule? And as it gets into the tonsular capsule, you break into this peronsular space and it starts to fill and fill and fill this perons space with pus. Well, then now my friends, you have a peronular abscess. What's the problem with that? All right, I know it's going to cause throat pain. I know because there's an infection, a bacterial in origin, it's going to potentially cause a fever. I know that if it's really painful to swallow, they'll accumulate their secretions. I know that they may have a muffled hot potato voice. But what else is really the problem with here? I'll tell you a couple things. One of the concept here is that you're going to have two pathophysiological responses. One is going to be a mass effect problem and the other one is going to be a tissue invasion. So one is going to be due to mass effect. So that pus is going to cause mass effect and push things out of the way. All right, let me explain that one first. So imagine here that this pus continues to accumulate and accumulate in the space. What's that going to do? Well, here let's pretend I have all this pus accumulating in this space. What's it what it's going to do is is it's going to start bulging things. This thing is going to accumulate and it's going to start swelling enough that you're going to notice that the tonsils are going to be pushed forward so much and on top of that the uvula is is going to be muffin caps going to be bent that way. Right? So what you're going to notice from this mass effect here is that this tonsil is going to have all of this kind of thing behind it. All this pressure being generated behind it. And because of that, all of this pus, all of this material, this infected material is going to have a mass effect here in the peronsular space. And what is it going to do? It's going to bulge the tonsil out and it's going to push the uvula to the contrlateral side. So two things happen as a result of that abscess. One is I bounce that tonsil out and I bounce the uvula to the other side. So you'll have tonsular swelling and it's going to be the affected side. tonsular. It may look like in this scenario it's bilateral. It's not. It's just one side. So tonsular swelling and then uvula deviation and it's going to be to the contrlateral side. The reason why I tell you this is when you take a look in a patient's mouth who comes in with a sore throat, a fever, hot potato or muffled voice, some drooling, you look in, you see the tonsils bulging out and on top of that the uvula is deviated. you start to think it could be a per tonsil or abscess. But let me add one more. I told you that this was what structure here? This was the mandible. And there is a muscle that's just right here. All they have to do is that infection can get just a little bit out right here. What was this muscle called? The medial terragoid. This is an important muscle. It's one of those mastication muscles. What if an infection from here kind of just was able to get over here and irritate or you get enough inflammation whatever it is enough inflammation that it causes irritation of the medial terragoid. So one thing is I'm going to get irritation and it could be because of just local mass effect. It could be because the infection is breaking through and getting into the space. It's oftentimes maybe a combination of both, but irritation of the medial What will that do? This is a really good thing to remember. Whenever you're medial terragoid, it's helpful for helping to kind of open up the jaw. This thing is going to be spasming and you're going to try to open up the jaw and it's going to hurt so bad. And so they have inability to open the jaw. What's that called? What's that called? When you have inability to open the jaw even a little bit because this muscle spasm and it's contracted down. That is called it's not called lock jaw even though you would think it. We call it tismas. So it's called tismas. And that's basically in other words it is in fancy terms inability to open the mouth even a little bit like 2 cm or so. And that is because the either the mass effect or the infection has started to cause irritation of what muscle? This muscle here, the medial tergoid. Either it's due to mass effect or it's due to invasion into that area. By the time it invades into that area, the problem is is you're kind of getting into the paraphernial spaces. Paraphral abscesses tend to have the most severe uh types of tismas. But you can see tismas in patients who have peronsular abscess. So to recap this one with peronsal absis patient comes in muffled voice they have a fever they have a sore throat they have drooling you look in their mouth you see the uva is just ping pong into one side u ping pong into the other side they're having difficulty opening in their mouth that would be something you would think about with a peronsular abscess what's oftentimes the story it's a child who ended up having a strep throat maybe they didn't get treated or they weren't adequately treated and all of a sudden they have this fluctuant abscess that is what I want you to take away from this one all right cool that's Parapheringial abscesses are a little bit more of a different story though. The problem with the paraphernial abscess is that these things it's it's it kind of depends the trigger it it differs. So for example what do I mean? Well eeteology wise it could be two things. One is it could be a patient who had a per tonsill or abscess and it spread. So for example you could have a group a strep tonsillo fngitis. This is common in children oftentimes. What happens is this then causes a patient to develop what a peronsular abscess. The peronsular abscess then progresses and breaks through the superiorial constrictor into the paraphrrenial space and they get what's called a parenial abscess. So what patient population would I want you guys to remember for this one? Think about this one. This one particularly I want you to think about this one in children. So this one I want you to think about in children or pediatric patients. All right? So think about the spread from a per tonsil or abscess in children. All right. The other cause in adults is usually a dental abscess. So they have an abscess of one of their molers. Which molers? Usually it's like the third moler, the lower thirds. So usually this is a dental abscess of the lower third molar and it gains access to that space. So either this thing is it it gained access in one of two ways. Let's let's actually make sense of it here. One is he had a tonsil fngitis broke through the tonsular capsule got into the peronsular space from here. It then broke through the superior fangial constrictor muscle and when it broke through that superior fingial constrictor muscle it started to spread and spread and spread into this space. All right, that's one mechanism. You guys got that? Is that it started here. Here was one. Here was two and here is three. All right, started off with the tonsular feritis to the paratonsular abscess to the paraphernial abscess. The other one is that you had an infection here at the root. All right. So, you have a dental infection, an abscess here, and from that molar, it breaks through and it travels backwards into this space. And now you have an abscess that's filling this space here. All right? Do you guys get the point here? So, that's two ways that it really can happen. There is technically one more way, but it's rare. And that's what else is really close here. the parotted. So if someone had a parotted infection, right? So scalo addeditis of the parottid glands that could also potentially spread into this space as well. But I want you to remember two of them. One is a contiguous spread from a group A strep that caused peronsular and a paraphrial or a dental abscess. For dental abscesses, I want you to associate this more with the adult cases. All right? So that would be the way that the patient would come in. They'd say, "Oh man, I had a dental abs. I've been having some tooth pain all of a sudden now they have some other features and we're going to talk those are or hey it was a kid who had streped throat all of a sudden got a per tonsler spread to the paraphrial space well now we got to talk about what happens here well it's the same kind of dang thing here we get two components here we're going to get a mass effect and we're going to get some irritation right so we're going to have a mass effect the mass effect is actually pretty straightforward except Sometimes it's hard to tell because look at how this all can happen. You're going to be taking this and I'm I don't want to mess up the diagram hardcore here, but imagine all of this is under pressure. It's going to push this whole wall this way. And so if I push this whole lateral side of the fingial wall in medially, you'll have bulging there, which sometimes it's hard to tell if it's the tonsils. Sometimes it might even push the uvula. So the one thing I want you to think about here is that all that abscess that's building behind that is going to cause the lateral wall to bulge medially. So the lateral fingial wall is going to bulge medially. So that's one thing. All right. The second thing is whenever you get an infection of this paraphrial space, the posterior paraphrilial is going to have more of that mass effect. If you kind of start tracking over here into the anteriorial space, it's going to be near the the jaw, the mandible. And so what I want you to think about here is let's say here I have like parts of the mandible here, right? All right. this infection generally when you look at this part of the mandible it tends to occur right here around the angle. So that abscess it's occurring behind it's it's behind the mandible. So here would be if you had to think about it here there would be a muscle that you would have here here is your which one is this one the massitor and then behind this one which you can't really see but if I were to have it there which one would this one be that would be the medial terragoid right so this is behind it's behind that area there and so it's going to cause kind of a a bulging kind of component there right on the the the angle of the mandible and so because of that if I get that infection that builds up in this space it's going to tent the skin in that area of the mandible. And so what will I get? I'll get some neck swelling, but it'll be right around the angle of the mandible. So you'll get some neck swelling near what? Near angle of the mandible or the jaw and that's really going to be in which space? So technically the lateral fingial wall when that bulges that's going to be from the posterior space that's going to be more posterior space. For the next swelling near this point of the angle of the mandible that's going to be more the anterior space but again you can have this in both of them. The next component here is the irritation. So you're going to get irritation of two things. You can get irritation of what muscle is in this area? Think about it dude. Come on. Think about it. Or even here, you're going to get all of this occurring right here. It's going to start bulging. Bulging at that angle of the mandible. But what muscles right here? I told you that before the medial terragoid. And if the infection is spreading around the corateed sheath and it gets into the corroted sheath, what can you get irritation of? The corateed sheath. Oh my gosh. So there's irritation of two things. One is the medial terragoid. What happens if you have involvement of the medial terragoid? you're going to get tismas, which is inability to kind of open up the mouth. Right? The other thing that we're not going to talk about yet because it's a complication and it doesn't always have to happen is I'm going to talk about the corateed sheath invasion. So, if it gets into this area, it can cause irritation of the corateed sheath. We'll get into some scary scary complications of that one, especially something called Lamir syndrome. And you can get corateed blowouts and you can get cranial nerve pauses. They're relatively rare, but the one thing I want you to think about with these ones is if a patient came in with a sore throat, a fever, a muffling muffled voice, and they had some drooling. You look in their mouth, and I say tonsils pushed out, uvulas deviated to the contrlateral side. You would then say per tons. If I said, "Hey, the patient came in sore throat, muffled voice, and uh they had some drooling, a fever." You look in the mouth and you notice that the lateral fingial wall, maybe the tonsil and the uvular bulged, but then you look around the jaw line, that angle, and you notice some swelling there could be paraphras. Which one's worse? Usually paraphernial is going to have much more severe tismas. The other thing that you can see here is it can get into some of these muscles around the neck and they can get some toricolis but I don't want to go that far. All right, I want to save that because there is a muscle there is some muscles that are really really critical for understanding the next complicate or the next disease. All right, so we got the differences here. Both of them can be due to group A strep and then contig like this could be a spread from the tonsil to the berry tonsular space. This one could be spread to the peronsor space and paraphrase. Another one that I really want you to think about in adults is if it comes from a dental infection, an abscess that spread from the third mer. So the feared retrofaringial abscess is pretty terrifying as well. Now you're kind of you're getting kind of a trend that things can spread via these spaces, right? So when I talk about eeteologies really what happens with this one, it's a tiny bit different, right? So there's usually two particular eeteologies and the reason why we kind of we break these up is because it is important in children. So we'll actually we'll preface this first the way I should have done it first with the paraphrils in children they use a lymphatic pathway by which we see this retrofaringial abscess and the reason why I say children is this oftent times is in children less than five to six years of age. All right. The reason why I I I tell you this um is because when we talk about these usually these lymph nodes that sit within the retrofarensial space are called the technically called the nodes of ruvier. They typically they atrophy and they kind of go away as you start to get greater than six years of age. So we see that these types of retrofaring absesses definitely have a predilction towards children who are on the younger side if it causes what's will lead to we'll talk about there it's called separative lympadinitis. So, here's what I want you to understand. Let's say you have a child. They're really young and they get a upper respiratory tract infection, right? So, they get an upper respiratory tract infection. And this is usually it could it's most often mixed. It's probably a mixture of viral and bacterial. And this could be of the sinuses, it could be of the middle ear, but it's oftentimes, guess what? Most often associated with like a tonsiloparitis. So, it's usually like some type of tons of ferangitis. What happens is the infection let's say it starts here starts here you get an infection gets into these tonsils right what will happen is is you have lymphatic channels and the lymphatic channels they connect to these lymph nodes here I'm going to have some lymph nodes I have a couple lymph nodes here and what happens is this infection it'll spread it uses lymphatic channels that it can then move to these lymph nodes And when it moves to these lymph nodes, the infection gets into those lymph nodes. And basically what starts to happen is is it causes a lot of inflammation and enlargement of these lymph nodes. And eventually they build up so much pus in them that I'm not even kidding, they just pop. And when they pop, they spill out all this kind of like infected material into the space. So you know what they call this? They call this separative lymphatinitis. So here's what happens again to kind of prepare you for this. First thing I'll do it over here on the side. First thing is you have an infection. You start off with a upper respiratory tract infection. Usually it's a mixture. It's probably viral and bacterial. What do they do? The second component is they spread to lymph nodes. What are these nodes called? They're called the nodes. Oh, here we go. I think this is how you spell it but it's called the nodes of ruvier right they love to say these things so it spreads to the nodes of ruvier so the infection gets into the tonsils access the lymphatics and gets to the nodes of rubier where are the nodes of ruvier that is important to remember what space did I tell you this is the retrofaringial space so where is it found the nodes of rare ruvier in the retro fingial space. Once it gets into this and it starts causing infection and it starts actually causing pus to accumulate in the lymph nodes, what is that called? We call that separative lymph atonitis. And again, this is of what lymph nodes? The nodes of rudier. I love to say that word. I just I didn't want to spell it. Now, once that happens, these start to break open. So not only do you have the separative lympodites which is pus kind of building up they start to break open and then you have the let's just say the breakdown of the lymph nodes and it goes into what space that retrofarrenial space. So now once they bust open they have all of this kind of pus material that's sitting here in this space. Tell me that's not absolutely horrific. That's one mechanism and that's the one that they are going to probably test you on for the exam. For the adults, it's a little bit different. So, this is the children. The children, think of the children and the upper respiratory tract infections. For the adults, it's a little bit different. For the adult, it's the the person who's eating a chicken, right? They're they're eating fish. They're doing something like that that has bony structures. They're sucking on that chicken wing like hardcore, and then all of a sudden, I don't know why, but they would swallow it. And when that happens, there is some type of trauma. So we c we often say that in these cases, it's usually in adults, it's some type of trauma. So it's trauma and that could be like so many different things, right? I was just being funny, but a chicken bone could obviously be something. But usually bones like fishbones, intubation, so you're, you know, being a little aggressive with the intubation. Um, you're doing scopes, so maybe some type of endoscopy. Again, you get the point. It's some type of instrumentation or something rough that's causing trauma. Well, why is that a issue? Here in the posterior part, I told you this is the posterior fingial wall. So, here let's write that down. This is the posterior fingial wall, which is what part here? Right here. Then you have the superior fingial constrictor. Then what is this other black line right here? I'm going to put it like if I can find a dang place to put it. I'm have to kind of dissect here. But to remind you, this is called your bucko. Hey bucko. So bucko fingial fascia. Awesome powers. Fascia. Then you have the pink one there. This pink one here is called the allar fashcia. So we have the buckarangio fascia and then we have the allar fascia. The space which is sitting between those is called the retrofaringial space. If I have injury where I have trauma and I break a hole through this area here. Look what I broke. I done broken it. It I broke this buckle fingial fashcia the posterior fangial wall. I create an opportunity for what? Pathogens to get their way in here. And if they can sit in here, they can create a collection of pus. When that starts to happen, this space comes under pressure and it has mass effect and it bulges the posterior wall forward. Oh man. So you get the point here that with this we're going to have again mass effect. So what's the mass effect going to do? Well the mass effect is going to have two components here. One is you're going to bulge the posterior fingial wall forward. That's really it. So you're going to bulge the posterior fingial wall anteriorly. And that's pretty terrifying, right? But there's one other thing. There's an irritation component. I got to go to this next part here. I know it's getting a little messy, but again, here's the retrofaringial space. What was this space again? I wrote it in here. What was it called? This is called the danger space. And then what was this last fashca here in blue? I'll write over here. This last fashca. This last fashcia in blue here was called the uh prevertebral fashcia. And then right here is these muscles called the prevertebral muscles. Man, the arm is killing here today. Um, this is going to be things like the longest coli, which are deep neck flexors. So, here's what I want you to think about. If you have an infection in this this space, and it's pretty easy for it to unfortunately travel or cause irritation, it can travel into these areas. It can cause direct irritation. Those prevertebral muscles, if they get irritated, dude, we're going to have some problems. So, we're going to get irritation of the pre-vertebral muscles. And the problem with this is is if you get irritation of the prevertebral muscles, they're supposed to want to cause you to flex, right? If you cause irritation of these muscles, just like the medial terragoid, it's going to get inflamed. When they get inflamed, what do muscles do? They spasm. And when they start to spasm, what is their function? To flex. And so what they'll do is they'll cause spasm of those muscles. And that's going to push you into more of like a flexion of the neck. So you're going to have spasm of the muscles, which causes them to be like two things. One is it causes a slight flexion of the neck because they might be in a constant state of kind of contraction because they're spasming, right? The other thing is if you have muscles, you ever had like a muscle spasm and you want to try to do the thing to oppose it. Like if you have a spasm in your back, you're like if I if I move a specific way, we don't want to go against that kind of action. And so sometimes these patients, not only will they have a slight fat flexion of their neck, but they refuse extension of the neck. And on top of that, if you cause spasm of muscles, it can cause the muscle to contract and contort your neck in a very weird way. So what's another thing that they could get? Torricalis. So there's a couple different things with the spasm of the muscles. They get slight neck flexion. They get refuse refusal to extend the neck if you try to do it. And then also it may cause some degree of tortoolis which is kind of like a weird kind of form like the weird kind of twisting of the neck. That's usually the things that we get concerned about with this patient. So with a retrofaringial abscess, the scary scary components here is that if it gets access to the danger space, oh boy. Peraphernial if it gets into that corateed sheath, oh boy. We'll talk about Lwig's engine in a second. Peronsellular at least we can be thankful that it's not one of those where it can spread, but it directly isn't going to cause any kind of dangerous kind of complications. I think we got this one down. We now know how to really differentiate this one. When we look in the mouth, you're not seeing any neck swelling. You're having a very specific type of swelling inside of the oral cavity. We have a very specific clinical picture. And we have some very specific changes in their neck musculature and movements and willingness. Ledwiga lewiganga is terrifying because time is of the essence. Time is of the essence here. What's usually the eeteology with this one? It's usually for the most part going to be an infection of the molers. All right? And and so usually this is going to be some type of dental infection. Usually like a periabical abscess and usually it is of the third or even the second even the second uh lower molers. Right? So the mandibular ones. Now what happens with this is with these you have an infection here like near this root. And what happens is this infection it's kind of weird. Usually here's the myo hyoid muscle again, right? It usually empties. Usually the root is at least below the myo hyoid muscle and so it gets into this space starts to cause again an infection. So cellulitis and it's rapid and it causes necro necroizing. So it basically kills a lot of the tissue. Then what it does is is it comes backwards and posterly it wraps around the myo hyoid. So it's going to wrap around and then it's going to fill up this space the sublingual space and again it's going to cause cellulitis here. So what we see here is we have a patient who comes in they have a dental infection usually that third or that second lower mer and again it's usually an abscess. It breaks into this space here, that submaxillary space, wraps around into the sublingual space, and this entire submandibular space gets filled. I told you before there's limitations to where this thing can move now. So, as this infection gets worse, it's going to push on the floor of the tongue and it's also going to push against that cervical fashcia, which is limiting it. Here, I'll draw the cervical fascia in orange. So, here's that cervical fascia. We could maybe we kind of have it right here. It's moving down. It's limited from moving that way. So, it's it's limited. It has its limitations here if you want to think about it. And so, because of that, it can it whenever expands, it's going to push against the actual the tongue and push the tongue which way? Well, it's going to push the tongue, you would say, upwards, but also posteriorly. So, you're going to push it like this. Boop, boop, boop, boop. And so what's going to happen is that this patient is going to have mass effect, but there's going to be two components of the mass effect. One is the mass effect is going to cause you're going to see obvious swelling at the base of the tongue, right? There's going to be I mean, I'm not kidding. You're going to look at the mouth and you're going to see if you had them lift up their tongue, there's going to be massive swelling up the on the floor of the mouth, right? So that's one thing. You're going to have massive swelling. But that massive swelling. All right. So you'll have swelling on the floor of the mouth. Sometimes you may even see pus there. So swelling on floor of mouth. But the concerning feature is that it can push the tongue posteriorly and superiorly. So it pushes the tongue because again it's limited. It has nowhere else to go. Its superior border is the tongue, the the floor of the the tongue. And it's going to push the tongue backwards and superiorly uh superiorly and posteriorly. So it pushes the tongue superiorly and posteriorly protruding or obstructing the airway. I mean, tell me that's not absolutely terrifying because if that happens and you don't actually get to it enough, you can completely block this thing off and cause asphixxiation. So, that's why this one is super super terrifying. The other component of the mass effect though is that it's limited anteriorly in this submaxillary space by the cervical fascia. And so because of that, it's going to kind of push against the actual cervical fashcia in the neck and it's going to stint out the actual the skin and the swelling of the neck. They have bilateral swelling of the neck. Basically, they have a bull neck. That's I'm not kidding. That's the way I would describe it is they have a bull neck, but the the textbooks like to describe it a little bit differently. So technically we we use a very specific we call it a bilateral woody induration of the neck. All I want you to know is they got a big old swollen neck. So we can say a bull neck or a bilateral woody induration of the neck. If I look at a patient, they're coming in and they'll be in obvious distress sometimes. Sometimes maybe not. But if they come in and say, "I got pain somewhere in the mouth, they have a fever, they have lots of drooling, they have um maybe some changes in their voice, you look in their mouth and you see that the floor of the mouth is swollen, you see that the tongue is pushed upwards and posteriorly, and you try to look at their neck and their neck is significantly swollen. That's gonna scream Lwigs and you're gonna want to call somebody immediately because this thing if you don't get control of it. Look what can happen, dude. I won't be able to get any air in this way and if I want to get air in this way, it's going to be limited. And so that's why this this one carries the highest risk of airway obstruction. And that's pretty critical to understand. Now the last thing I will say is all of these infections that we talked about usually they are polyicrobial. What the heck does that mean? It means it's not just one microbe. It could be group A strep but it could also be other things. So a lot of the infections that I want you guys to remember here is usually streptocous virans. It could be streptocous pioens and anorobes. So again I want you to remember that this is polyicrobial meaning that you could have infections of streptocous staflacccous and anorobes and the reason why that is important is because when you treat these patients empirically for these infections you have to be able to cover strep you have to be able to cover things potentially like uh streptoccus verit and streptococcus pyiogens and anorobes and that's what I want you guys to take away from this but before we actually end off and get into the diagnostics we got to talk about what does it look like in these Three, whenever a patient has airway obstruction, when they have medastinitis and when they have kurate sheath invasion. All right. So when we talk about complications of deep neck infections, again I I I did tell you guys we went over the spaces, we talked about their anatomy for for relevant reasons. We went over the potential eeologies, the triggers as to why these even these abscesses and necroizing cellulitis would even form. And we talked about overall kind of the effect of the mass effect and irritation of nearby prevalent structures. But one of the critical things to know about these is their capacity to cause true mortality producing kind of like complications. And so airway obstruction is obviously going to be the immediate concern. Think about this for a second. If you have a patient who has a significantly large retrofile abscess and oftentimes we define that like largeness uh as greater than I know it's so ambiguous but greater than 2.5 cmters. You're like oh that's big. Wow I'm doing all right. No I'm just kidding. But you get the point. greater than 2.5 cm, pretty large abscess. It's causing mass effect. And that mass effect is, think about this, as air is flowing through here, you have an obstruction here. And as air is flowing through here, you have an obstruction here. Because the whole point is for air to flow down where? Into the larynx, into the airways to perform gas exchange and undergo the ventilation process. So if I have that abscess there, it is obstructing the airway. And as a result, you're going to end up with some pretty terrible complications. So again in this example I want you to understand that retrofaringial abscesses basically what do they do? They obstruct the airway especially in the level of the fernx. Now because of this what would this kind of patient look like? What would be their overall presentation? Well airway obstruction usually presents with things like strider. They may present with hypoxmia. They may present with cyanosis, right? There could be a lot of different ways that they present, but oftentimes more than not is they may have some type of decrease in their SPO2, which is their part their u their saturation of oxygen. If you got an AG that might be low and so this is kind of relevant particularly for hypoxmia. If the oxygen delivery to the tissues is persistently low in scenarios of hypoxmia, they can develop a bluish discoloration called cyanosis. If you have an obstruction of the airway as you're trying to bring air in, this may produce potentially a strider. And then on top of that, the other really concerning feature of this is um when these patients have this kind of problem where they're really struggling to bring air in, they may work a little bit harder. And so there may be an evident increase in their work of breathing. Maybe there's nasal flaring, maybe there's intercostal retractions, maybe there's use of accessory muscles. You get the point. That would be a concerning feature. All right. in combination with things like drooling, with tismas, with muffling of their voice, with a sore throat, with fever. That's when you're concerned about this. Right? So, that's what I want you to take away from this one. With um Lwig's anga, it's the same concept here. We have some type of necroizing cellulitis. It's filling up the sublingual space that's filling up the submaxillary space. This collectively is called the submandibular space. It's limiting its ability to be able to spread somewhere because of the anterior cervical fashcia and the base of the tongue. So what does it do? It pushes the tongue posteriorly and superiorly. You create a bull neck which compresses on the neck structures. Either way, as air is kind of coming in here or it's coming in this way, you're leading to an obstruction in that pathway. You guys get the point. As a result, you don't get enough air down into the lungs to undergo its gas exchange process. So again, another one here is besides RPA that carries a pretty high obstructive risk. The other really really scary one is Lwig. So Lwigs, so Lwig anga also carries a really high risk of airway obstruction probably more so than a patient who has a retrofarrenial abscess. So you guys get the point. This is the ones that whenever we see these, what should you prioritize? You should prioritize airway management. Maybe I need to intubate the patient and do it quickly. And sometimes with intubation, I might have might not be able to do my traditional rapid sequence intubation. Maybe I have to do things like I have to do nasot tracheal. Maybe I have to do some type of fiber optic process. So it becomes challenging and that's why airway becomes the king in these kinds of scenarios. Okay, let's now talk about um let's actually just go through this one and then we'll pop over here to the right. Let's talk about descending necrotizing media stenitis. That's a heck of a name, right? It goes back to a retrofaringial abscess, right? I told you that this was the retrofaringial abscess. So what we're going to go through this step by step. So retrofaringial abscess is really the trigger here. So that's going to be your starting point. A patient will have a retrofaringial abscess. So once you have that retrofaringial abscess where would it be? Let's go back. Let's say this black line is the buckarrenial fashcia. This uh pink line here we'll do this again. We'll put here this is the pre vertebral fashcia. I won't write all this out. I'll just do the the fascia part. I'll just put allar. And here is your bucko. I don't know why that just makes me laugh. Bucko fingial fashcia. And so the spaces are kind of representative here. This space here between the buckle fringial and the alloor fascia is the retrofaringial space. And so here is where the abscess starts to form. All right. So here's the abscess. The problem with this abscess is that eventually it kind of terminates at the level of T4. And so you're like okay well how the heck would that get into the medastinum? That's not really the issue. Then what happens is there's a space between the allar fashcia and the prevertebral fashcia called the danger space. If this spreads through that fascia, it can then get into the danger space. When it gets into the danger space, the danger space is problematic because it can actually go all the way from the base of the skull down to the diaphragm. Now gravity gravity right will pull this pus down into the actual posterior portion or close to the medastinum and also changes in intrathoracic pressure. So two things. So again here let's let's actually phrase it like this. What pulls the pus downward to even get it near the posterior measinum? There's two things. One, one of those things is gravity, right? Gravity. And with that gravity, that's going to pull the pus downwards, right? The second thing is intrathoracic pressure changes. So intrathoracic pressure and we're going to represent changes by the delta sign. When you have your inspiration, you drop the intrathoracic pressure. that's going to suck things into the like suck air into your lungs. Those things pull the pus downwards into this area which is very very very close to the mediainum. And obviously the mediainum is broken up into the different compartments. You have the superior mediainum. You have the anterior mediainum, the middle mediainum and the posterior. Right? So here I'll put superior, anterior, middle, posterior. So here's the superior mediainum. Right? And this is all inferior which is broken up into anterior, middle and posterior. Once this infection is moving into the danger space, right? So what pulls it downwards? Gravity and intrathoracic pressure pulls it down the danger space. So again we're going to have infection is starts at retrofarrenial space. Second thing is it moves into the danger space, travels inferiorly and moves into the technically it starts with the posterior mediainum and that's how this all happens. So again first thing is you have an abscess that starts in the retroial space moves into the danger space through the allar fascia travels inferiorly how by gravity and intrathoracic pressure changes and then from here once it gets down to where it needs to guess what it does it invades into the mediainum which one particularly the posterior but again once this infection is in this area it's a big cavity which guess what it can do it can start moving into all the different parts of the media so it doesn't just have to be the posterior here. It could be any part of the mediainum. Then once you get this, my dudes, my my dudets, you're going to get inflammation of the mediainum and that's where we see some problems. So then the fifth component here is that you have inflammation of the media. So inflammation once that pathogens get in there, that pus gets in there, inflammation of the mediainum. Now the question that I'm going to ask you is, okay, what would this look like? Here is going to be the medastinum. I'm going to kind of outline it in orange. Here's like the superior mediainum and then we're going to get all down here into the inferior. All of this is going to be walled off here. And what I'll do is I'll do it like that. Everything inside of that orange is the mediainum. When you cause inflammation, which we're going to represent in here, we're gonna kind of just show this is the inflammation of the mediainum. You got to think about all the dang things that are in the medastinum, bro. What's some really important things? The esophagus, the aorta, the the trachea, the heart. There's all of these things. The most common problems that we get worried about with this is that these pathogens, they actually when they're in this area, I'm not even they they fart. You're like, what? What? What did he say? They fart. They produce gas. They actually can cause gas production. And so, one of the things that happens here is that these pathogens, these anorobes, they like to produce a lot of gas. And that gas can fill up in this cavity. So now imagine I have some like let's say I just have gas. I have some air, right? And this is that air really who is producing it. It's the pathogens, these anorobes. These pathogens in here are causing some air to actually accumulate. This is that gas from the anorobes. That air is going to start kind of filling this space and kind of distending it. And so you get a couple different things. A couple different things present in a patient who has medastinitis. Let's actually write this out. So here's a patient who has medastinitis. We have we see evidence here. All right. Media stenitis. Mediainitis. I missed the eye. It's always good to double check there. So here we have the media stenitis. What is going to happen? Well, the first thing and this one is pretty obvious. Where is your mediainum with respect to like if you had pain somewhere, where would it be? The chest. Usually this pain is like pretty deep though. So we kind of like to say that this is a retro sternal chest pain. All right. And it's also sometimes defined as like more puritic. So it changes with breathing. So that is something to think about here. And it's also kind of makes sense because if you have inflammation of the mediainum, guess what's really really close to it? The plura, right? So it's going to have more of that changing with inspiration. The other component here is that because of the air production that air can get in it can kind of fill the mediainum and it can kind of as it fills the mediainum what it'll do is it'll kind of make the mediainum appear more wide. So it kind of opens it pushes out right pushes out. So the air kind of pushes up and so what happens is if I were to do two things if I were to do a chest X-ray which you're probably like wait why are we talking about that? If I were to do something called a chest X-ray, there'd be two things that I would potentially be able to see. One is because of that air, there would be a wide mediainum, right? So the mediainum would be wider. Let's actually write that down. There may be a widened mediainum on the chest X-ray. And the other thing is that that air what happens is it can actually be visible. So you have a wide mediainum, but the air sometimes you can see it. And so we call it a numo medias. We have a wide media, but we actually have what's called a numo. So the reason for that wide media is a numo mediainum. And this would actually be sometimes visible on the chest x-ray. Sometimes you actually have to do a little bit more and you have to do like a CT scan, but that is something else to consider. So on the chest X-ray, you may either see a widened mediainum to consider this or you may see a numo mediainum. Sometimes this air finds its way and it can actually you can get some air and I'll represent here. Let's say it finds its way and it kind of gets here moves upwards into the chest. Maybe it moves upwards here into the neck area and you get air pockets that form in the chest. some air pockets that form within the neck and they call this subcutaneous emphyma. So another thing that you may see on the chest X-ray is you may see subcutaneous. So we'll put subcutaneous emphyma. I hate spelling misma. Now with the subcutaneous emphyma there is a potential physiological or there is a potential physical exam finding if I go and I press on their neck or on their chest what would I have what would I feel I'd feel some crunching and that crunching from this subq air so this subq air can pre precipitate upon palpation a potential sign called crerepitus and that crerepitus we technically give it a particular name we call it Hammond's sign and that's basically it's just crerepitus upon palpating the chest and the neck so that subq air that leaked out if I go and I palpate it and I have the presence of crerepitus we can call that a hamman sign so if they have retroernal chest pain their chest x-ray shows some weird potential things bro they got hamman sign I'm starting to think that they could have medias here's the other problem in the mediainum do you know what kind of things you have in there. Bunch of vascular structures, things like the aorta, things like the vennea, things like the you got bunches of them. This pathogens can access your bloodstream. So, let's actually pretend here that I have just a blood vessel right here, right here. This this pathogens, dude, right away, they can easily access your vascular system. when they access your vascular system, they can cause a bunch of problems like sepsis. And so here, that's my that's one of the biggest concerns is that the pathogens actually get into the bloodstream and the patient gets something like sepsis. So that's a that's a potential fear. And so one of the big big scary things here is you can have a patient who has a sepsis like picture. They they look sick as crap, dude. I'm not kidding. And so the sepsis is the weird kind of picture where they may have things for example they may have a very high white blood cell count. They may have a fever and they may even have their blood pressure can be really low and their heart rate can be really high. And so these are all pictures that a patient is is really really as sick as can possibly be. So having the presence of a very high white blood cell count and a fever, low blood pressure and some tacicardia in combination with retrosteral chest pain, some chest X-ray findings, some physical exam findings, I'd be pretty concerned, especially if a patient if I looked in their throat and I noticed that they had an abscess in the back of it. Do you see why this is so dangerous? This has the potential to cause mortality producing effects. That's why we really need to know this one. All right. All right. I think we got that one pretty good. So let's finish off here with the next one which is the paraphrrenial. So again Lwigs definitely the highest risk of airway obstruction. Retrofaringial definitely can do that as well. Retrofaringial I want you to associate with descending necrotizing mediaitis. How it gets into the danger space. The danger space goes all the way down to the diaphragm gets into the mediainum inflames the mediainum. When it inflames it you get pain in that area. Retroal chest pain you get inflammation. You can get fever. On top of that, it can cause a lot of chest X-ray findings and physical exam findings, but the scariest thing is it can cause sepsis and the patient can die. And that's what we have to be able to identify with paraphernial. This one's I mean, I'm not kidding. It's also pretty pretty stinking terrifying. Do you guys remember right here? There was this imaginary line that broke up this paraphralial space into the posterior and anterior right at the styloid process. When a patient has an infection or they have this abscess that's sitting back here in this posterior paraphrial space. Here's your corateed sheath. What if this infection invades in seeds through it starts damaging the corateed artery starts seeding in and getting into the veins starts getting in here and really agitating some of the cranial nerves that's when we start to see problems. So again the key thing I want you guys to understand here is that this is a patient who has a posterior parapharingial abscess and then what happens it invades the corateed sheath and in the corateed sheath is a bunch of different structures right so you have a posterior parapherrenial abscess and what happens here is this is the first thing you have a posterior paraphrrenial abscess it invades the corateed sheath And then you get vascular and neurological complications. So you can get vascular and neurological complications. Now I'm going to preface something. I I told you before that most often in any of these um deep neck infections, what are they? poly microbial strepus pyioagene, streptococcus viridans and anorobes. When we talk about invading the corateed sheath, we do especially when it comes to this next one that we're going to talk about with the internal jugular vein thrombosis because when they do in here, they cause all these vascular and you know neurological complications possibly. Usually the pathogen that I want you to see this most often with. So there is a really really important thing here. So let's say here I have again here's my abscess and it's in this area. It's filling up this space. What I really want you to know is is the ones that really cause particularly especially the vascular complications, there is a specific pathogen that we see the most risk of this happening in. So I want you to remember this. The highest risk pathogen is going to be which one? I want you to remember it's a weird heck of a name, but it is called fuso bacterium necroorum. Sounds terrible honestly just by the name of it sounds like some kind of Harry Potter. Fuso bacterium macro forum. So fuso bacterium necro forum. Now with with these what I really want you guys to understand is that whenever you get this this is a particular type of anorob. It's a nasty nasty anorob. If it causes this kind of infection one of the scariest things that we see associated with this is the internal jugular vein thrombosis. But I don't want you to always associate with this because jugular vein thrombosis can happen from anything. But when it happens due to a septic thrombi, in other words, that pathogen gets into the space. We're going to zoom in here now. It gets in here into the internal jugular vein. But when it does it, it forms thrombi, but it forms septic thrombi, which means that you have clotting material that's all mixed in with clots. So you have clots and you have pathogens all up in that thing. So this is what do we call this? This is called a septic thrombbo flabitis which means that you have inflammation of the blood vessel. So that means that the lining so I would I would represent it like this. I have inflammation of the blood vessel wall, right? Inflammation of the blood vessel wall, which is the the actual flabitis. And then on top of that, I have a thrombus. But what kind of thrombus? It is a septic thrombus that is inside of there. This is most often associated with the fusobactorium. But when it is, we like to be particular. We got to give it the name to something because someone probably figured it out, you know. Hey, credit to them. But it's called Lamir syndrome. Lamir syndrome. Now, Lamir syndrome is primarily whenever we talk about perhapial abscesses, they're usually due to fusive bacterium necroform. And they are primarily the most common kind of issue that you can have when you invade that corateed sheath is this one, the internal jug of the vein septic thrombophilitis. When this happens, what will we see? Well, internal jug of the vein runs where? It runs in the neck. So, if it's inflamed, what's going to happen if it's if it's inflamed there? It's gonna be painful. So, one of the things that's going to happen is because of the septic thromboflabitis that's going to be appearing all right here. This will precipitate a kind of tender neck pain. So, it'll be tender upon palpation. So, let's actually write that down. Let's actually do it in let's just say in red. you're going to have a tender neck pain especially along uh it runs along the sternoccllyomomastoid. So along the sternoccllyo mastoid that's where you're going to have this. So if a patient you're palpating and you feel kind of maybe like some some nodules it feels hard it feels and it's really really tender maybe it's red that could be due to the septic thrombophobitis of what vessel of the internal jugular vein. So septic thrombophilitis of internal jugular vein but that's not it. So they get that they got some tender neck pain right especially pump palpation. Here's the scary thing. What if that clot breaks off? So now I have a septic throi that then breaks off. So it was a thrombus but now it becomes a what is this called? An embolis. And when that embis forms where can it flow? It can go down the superior venneav into the right atrium. From the right atrium into the right ventricle. From the right ventricle into the pulmonary trunk. From the pulmonary trunk, it can go into the pulmonary arteries. And then once it gets here, it can go and deposit these septic emblei where in the lungs. And oftent times they're kind of like in multiple different places and they look like cannonballs. You're getting a kind of a terminology that I'm going to give you here. They call these cannonball lesions. And so they may also have the patient may have some associated problems with this. So maybe they have things like dysnia. Maybe they have things like hypoxmia as a result of this. Right? You can have any of these things potentially as a process of the result of these lesions, these septic emblei that get stuck in the lungs. Right? They definitely can cause potentially presentations like this. Often times what you may end up doing is you may end up getting some imaging. And when you get something like a chest X-ray or a CT scan, probably more likely the CT scan, you'll look at these and they give them very particular names and these are called cannonball lesions. I already kind of told you that. So cannon ball lesions that are going to be apparent on a chest X-ray, but more specifically probably the CT scan. So you're going to get these and kind of when you think about it what these really why they really can cause dis and hypoxmia is because they're kind of like septic emblei. They're kind of like a septic PE. So you theoretically they can get into the lung perma but they can also block off a pulmonary artery and if I block off a pulmonary artery I could have patients who present with PE like symptoms. That's why whenever I say dysnia, hypoxmia, typnia. So we can even add that in disnia hypoxmia typnia they can have more of like what we call a septic PE presentations or we can just say a pulmonary emblei presentation. So P type of presentation that's not physical education that's pulmonary emblei like presentation. So that's what I would want you guys to think about. If you see someone who comes in, they had that abscess, the paraphernial, all of a sudden they're presenting with some signs of respiratory distress, they got some tenderness along their neck, along the SCM, you get some imaging and you find these cannonball lesions all over the place, you should think about Laamir syndrome. And what's the pathogen you should associate it with? Fusive bacteria necapform. Okay, what's the other thing? Cranial nerves. There's a bunch of cranial nerves in here. What I want you to remember is again we talked about the vascular component, particularly the IG. We'll get into the croted last, but this infection gets into this croted sheath. Maybe it involves the internal jug of the vein and starts actually causing maybe some compression, some inflammation, some damage of the cranial nerves. Well, what cranial nerves you have here? Nine and 10. That's glossophrenial and Vegas. What would these potentially cause? Well, you could have things like maybe dysphasia. That's definitely potentially problematic, right? Because we know that the Vegas obviously controls the esophageal contractions and ability to move things down during deglatition. We also know that the vagus controls a lot of our uh speech. So the patient so it obviously controls a lot of the muscles that are involved within the movement of the vocal cords and so dysphonia is also a possibility. So dysphasia dysphonia and then obviously these both are involved in your gag reflex. So they may have a diminished or reduced gag slash maybe even cough reflex. But that's kind of what I want you to potentially remember is there could either be some type of decreased cough reflex and gag reflex or it could also just be that they lose it. So that's that's definitely problematic if we have things like that happening. Cranial nerve 11, this is going to be the accessory nerve. So they may have some trapezius weakness, right? So they may have some trapezius weakness. So maybe there can be some sagging of the affected side. So maybe if they had some type of trapezius weakness there may be potentially some sagging or difficulty in being able to elevate the trapezius muscle. Cranial nerve 12 hypoglossal they may have some type of tongue deviation right so they may have some tongue deviation as well. And so these are the things that I want you guys to likely associate with that potentially being the case. But I again I I I spent the most part of this discussion on the one that you'll probably likely be tested on more likely which is the Lamir syndrome. But if you see that these patients do have some type of again involvement of these cranial nerves, you can see these potential clinical presentations. Sympathetic plexus is a possibility as well. You got to remember this thing is also traveling up along with the corateed sheath. If it gets hit the cranial nerves, especially the sympathetic plexus, it supplies particularly things like the pupil. And so it's supposed to allow for what? Pupilary dilation. If you can't do it, it goes constriction, meiosis. It's also supposed to allow for the sweat glands of the forehead to produce sweat. If you can't do that, you can't sweat and hydrosis. And it's also supposed to elevate the upper eyelid. If you can't do that, it droops. So what are the potential presentations? We call that her syndrome. We call this her syndrome. And again we can remember her syndrome via the particular triad. Let's actually remind ourselves what is this triad again? Bop bop bop. It is you can't dilate the pupils. So it is miois. You constrict them. You can't sweat from the dang forehead which is anhydrosis. And then on top of that you have difficulty elevating the upper eyelid. So it starts to droop. You havetosis. So if you see any of these potential pictures like a cranial nerve pausy of this potential magnitude in combination with a patient who you you know has a paraphrial abscess you should be concerned that is it invaded the corateed sheath. But the first one that you want to think about is the internal jugular vein because again that's the one that we're going to talk about on the attached etc. Here's the one that's probably the least common but carries the highest risk of mortality. So I definitely think it's worth mentioning it. Whenever you have an infection in that corateed sheath, what can happen is the pathogens can get near the corateed artery and it kind of like eats at the corateed artery. I'm not kidding. It like chews away at it and so it weakens the wall and if you weaken the wall you can produce something called an aneurysm. And we call this aneurysm that is due to like maybe this infected materials around it. You know what they call this? They call this a mcotic aneurysm. So one of the things that can happen is that this can precipitate something called a micotic aneurysm. It can also just kind of eat at the wall too. So there is two different things that could happen. One is it can cause a micotic aneurysm and the other thing it could do is it could just literally erode. it could erode at the wall. So, it can also cause just small little tiny erosion. So, a second possibility is it may cause something like a erosion. Either way, the concerning feature here is that you you weaken the wall in some way, shape, or form. This thing is under high pressure, bro. If blood is coming through here and you have a small erosion, boom, blood can just shoot out. If blood is coming through here and this is weak enough, blood can do what? Shoot right the heck out. And then the problem with this is you can get something called corateed blowout. You're not blowing out your draws. You're blowing out this thing in the neck. Now that's the problem. So you can get something called corateed blowout. Now the problem with this is that this could be something that is hard to pick out. So what I mean by this is what could happen is maybe initially you don't really have any kind of symptoms maybe just a little bit of pain in the neck but if this gets bad enough it can potentially block off blood flow. So one potential complication here is a stroke. That's that's probably one scary dang thing to happen here is you could end up with potentially a stroke or a cerebrovascular accident. And usually the concept behind this is that you cause inflammation. the infection then causes like a thrombi to form or you have like some kind of like pseudo aneurysm that forms here. Either way, you end up blocking this vessel off. So, that's one thing and that's definitely scary. But the other one is massive bleeding and this is probably the one that you would probably never be able to forget if something like this happened. But let's think about this for a second. Here you have a patient's corateed artery and what happened is you had the infection let's say over here all this infection was eroding or over here you had an infection this abscess and it caused a micotic aneurysm son of a gun. But either way in both of these scenarios you create a rupture point. What happens is blood will fill into these spaces into the paraphernial space and eventually it could even dissect into the actual fairings. I'm not kidding. You can have patients who have significant swelling that would become acutely worse or you could have frank on like Harold like Frank bleeding into the oral cavity. And so that's one of the probably the most terrifying complications, but thankfully it is the most rare. But if you have an infection and it eats and erodess away at the corateed artery, you can bleed into the paraphrases and sometimes that can dissect into the fingial cavity and you can have massive bleeding hemoptsis and and because of that this patient could potentially die. So that's what I want you guys to understand is this can cause just frank bleeding. So technically this would cause like frank bleeding that could potentially present with hemoptsis. So frank bleeding into the actual fernx and then cause potentially exanguination if you inhale that if some of that bleeding or you aspirate some of that blood or if it and then because that you may have hemopsis because you're coughing up that blood. So it can potentially cause hemopsis. It can cause things like if it's severe enough and it's not treated, it can cause hemodynamic instability. So, this is a very very scary complication. All right. I think we really we really nailed down deep neck infections, right? We understand the different types. We understand how we define them based upon their anatomical spaces. We know basically what are the eeological triggers that really come from this. We know that all of them are polyicrobial in nature that they're probably some type of group a strep. They're strep virans. There's anorobes involved. We know that they all have similar types of presentations like throat pain and fever and a muffled drooling voice. They may have some type of problem also with just drooling in general. But they have different features that distinguish them when it comes to their oral exam, their neck exam. And then on top of that, we know which ones carry these high risk of scary scary complications. And we need to identify those immediately when we can. Now that we've done this, let's put it all together and talk about this in a diagnostic approach. All right, my friends, let's dig into the diagnostic approach. So, when we talk about deep neck infections, what are the things that we should be thinking about? Well, a lot of these patients, they're going to present with throat pain, right? And it's it's obviously a result of the infection. It's pro, you know, where it's actually occurring. But that's going to be the most common presenting symptom among peronsular abscesses, usually parapherrenial, retrofaringial abscesses. And again, even Lwig anga can actually cause throat pain as well. So the that's not the concern because that's a commonality among them. What's a differentiating factor and very very critical to the decision-making process is assessing if there is any red flag signs or airway compromise. And the reason why I say this is that throat pain doesn't just have to mean that you have a deep neck infection. It could mean something else like what like a basically an uncomplicated tonsiloparitis. It could be viral. It could be bacterial. So that's the important thing. So remember, first thing to think about is when a patient comes in with throat pain is it could be streped throat, it could be viral fngitis, it could be mono. We talked about that a lot in the throat infection lecture. However, what makes it more concerning is the presence of these red flag signs or any airway compromise. The reason why is if any of those are present, it screams more of a deep neck infection. So let's ask ourselves again, what are these red flag signs? Well, a couple of them would be any evidence of airway obstruction. So, this could be strider, dysnia. We could even go further than that. They're teipnic. They have an increased work of breathing. Um, maybe they're even showing potential signs like they have nasal uh flaring, intercostal retractions. Anything of that nature is concerning. And that's going to make me think more likely there's an abscess or there's some type of swelling that's obstructing into the luringo fairings or oral cavity that's obstructing air flow. Another one is tismas. So tismas is not going to be super common in a patient who has a basic uncomplicated tons ferenditis. It means that we have some kind of irritation of the masticator muscles especially things like the the terragoids which are very very close in these spaces like the per tonsular and the paraphernial spaces. So difficulty with being able to open up the jaw or pain with that is a very common sign of deep neck infections like trismas. Right? A muffled voice. We often hear the term a hot potato voice. It's just the way that this the actual whenever you have an obstructed luringo ferinx. Um what happens here is that whenever you have and even or ferinx so an obstructed oral ferinx and lingo ferings whenever sound is supposed to resonate through those cavities if you have an obstructive abscess or swelling in that area it's affecting the resonance of the person's voice and that's why it presents more muffled. You're not going to get that with a basic tonsil fangitis. You may have a horseness because the infection is maybe spread a little bit to the larynx or you have post-nasal drip or something of that nature, but it's not going to cause this degree of a muffled voice, drooling or inability to swallow secretions. Think about this. If you have so much swelling in the oral ferings, luringo ferinx, it's going to impede the movement of that saliva, any kind of like secretions that you need to move down into the esophagus that's going to pull. And the concern with that is that that drooling or inability to properly swallow. Maybe it's driven by pain. Maybe it's driven by the the actual swelling itself. This increases the risk of aspiration. And that's a concerning thing. Neck swelling and pain. Again, you can get neck swelling. It's usually anterior cervical infinopathy that occurs with like, you know, something like a strep throat. So neck swelling, you can get like an anterior cervical infinopathy. You can get posterior cervical infinopathy with mono. And that's definitely possible. But when it's a very very enlarged and it's usually unilateral and it's significantly painful and maybe it's fluctuant that makes you think more about an abscess or maybe even a Lwig's angula than we think about potentially a basic tonsil ferngitis right and last but obviously pretty rare hemodynamic instability this is usually a patient who has something like a deep neck infection like a retroparitinal uh abscess or a Lwig's uh anga that is then spread to the mediainum or spread to the actual bloodstream. They become bactermic. Um or they've developed a necroizing mediastinitis that puts them at a high risk for things like hypotension, tacocardia, which again is possible but also relatively rare. I think the key thing I want you to take away from this and this is I think really really important when it comes to your exams. If a patient comes in with throat pain and they come in with any of these red flag signs or any signs of airway compromise, and I want to emphasize more in the airway compromise point, you don't waste your time getting a CT scan. You don't waste your time getting in there and kind of looking at their oral cavity and things of that nature. If they are in respiratory distress, if they say, "What is the most important next step in management?" It is always monitoring and if needing securing the airway. Obviously, it's your ABCs. Monitor the airway. Monitor their breathing. And if they have any concerning signs of an airway obstruction, they're not breathing properly. What is the next step? It might be oxygen support. Maybe that's a nasal canula. Maybe that's high flow. Unfortunately, sometimes it may actually result in intubation. But the goal is not to wait too long to where that near total obstruction of the airway leads to you having to crank the patient. Right? So, airway, breathing, circulation, but make sure that you put emphasis on stabilizing the airway first before doing any kind of imaging or tests. All right. If you don't have any of these red flag signs, then you don't need to be worrying about an airway. That's when I would be thinking again, also this isn't concerning for deep neck infections. This seems more like a tons of feritis that's viral, bacterial, mono, something of that nature. And we talked about that in that lecture, the throat infection. So, go watch that if you guys need a little bit more of a reminder for that. But if you do have any of these red flag signs, that's when the discussion comes into play, which is okay, I now I'm concerned that there might be a deep neck infection. So that's when I'm going to do a really, really good exam. Now again, first thing that's most important is airway management. If I have a patient who is in respiratory distress, they have intercostal retractions, they're also having difficulty, they're breathing really, really fast, they're hypoxic, they're cyanotic, anything like that, I'm not going to look in their oral cavity as until when I'm intubating them and I'll I'll get a good look. But airway comes first. All right. If you have a patient who's pretty stable and you have the opportunity to do that, that's when I would do a good oral exam. Take a look in, see if there's any kind of problems going on, and then look at the neck, feel for lympodinopathy, look for any obvious swelling, whether it be unilateral, bilateral, etc. So, let's say that we did a really good oral and neck exam. If I did that and I have something where there's swelling on the floor of the mouth and the tongue is being pushed upwards and maybe even a little bit posteriorly, that makes me start to think about something like Lwig. So again, swelling on the floor of the mouth, usually it's red, maybe sometimes there's pus and again the tongue is pushed upwards and posteriorly start to think Lwigs. And then on top of that, Lwigs, it's so restricted in its ability. It's a it's a very nasty necroizing cellulitis. It's not an abscess. When this thing actually causes an infection, it can't really spread because it's limited by the tongue and the the floor of the mouth uh superiorly and then it's also limited by the cervical fascia and and and because of that it really swells significantly and their neck they get a really really bilaterally enlarged bull neck and they kind of use this term a woody induration. So if you take a look here you can see this poor child its tongue is being pushed upwards and posteriorly. You can notice that the floor of the mouth is kind of swollen. This is an obvious airway obstruction issue. Can I intubate this patient? Probably not. And it's going to be really dangerous if I even try to. Oftentimes, and we'll talk about this a little bit later, we oftentimes have to go through the nasal cavity and we have to do like a a nasotracheial fiber optic um kind of like intubation process. And we'll get into that a little bit later, but this is really really concerning. And then you can see the mouth, but then look at the neck. You see how the neck is kind of like uniformly swollen and it's almost like a bull neck type of appearance. That's concerning. And that would make me think about Lwig Ganga. All right. And and we talked about this. Usually it's due to some type of like odontogenic kind of process like an infection usually of the second or third kind of like tooth mer we talked about. All right. That's a clinical diagnosis. I don't need to get imaging to do Lwigs. That that's it. That's that's how I diagnose it is based upon the clinical presentation and what I get off of my physical exam. Similarly to that, if I see that the tonsil on one side is really swollen and so much so that it's pushing the uvula to the contrlateral side. So take a look here. We can see on the right side, you can see that this is really, really fluctuant. It's swollen. It's tender, I bet you. And look what it's doing to the uvula. It's pushing it a little bit to the other side. So, we have tonsular swelling and uvular deviation to the contrlateral side of where this inflammation is occurring. That's per tons. And you can look at their neck, but they shouldn't have any kind of invading of space or deep neck space, which actually causes visible neck swelling. If we take a look here, it would be kind of a normal neck exam. I wouldn't have to worry about it. So it's primarily this finding and that's what really screams a per tonsular abscess. At this point the diagnosis has been made. I don't need to get imaging. It's right there in front of me. Unless there's other concerning signs because the problem is a peronsular abscess can spread to the paraphrial space. So if I am concerned that it did spread to that paraphrial space by by all means I could do imaging. But in this scenario it's pretty you know pretty clearcut dry clinical diagnosis of a paronsular abscess. All right, we do this one. We do the oral exam. Sometimes you may see this and here's the problem. It's kind of hard. So, for example, you have tonsular pillars and usually there's an anterior and posterior tonsular pillar. You know, peronsular abscesses, they kind of reside more within that anterior tonsular pillar and recess. Whereas paraphernial abscesses, they're usually more in the posterior tonsular pillar and then behind that tonsular pillar. So it may be hard to see these but anytime you can see that the actual fairings not in this case not the tonsils not the tonsil or pillars I'm talking the fairings behind the tonsil or pillars or at least the posterior tonsular pillar being involved if that is swollen and pushing the fairings in medially that would suggest a paraphrilial absis I don't have any image to really show you that but one is really really clear is a neck exam this is really one of the few that because of the space and the areas that it involves it can actually cause a visible swelling right around the like the angle of the jaw, right? So, right at the angle of the mandible, you can definitely see some swelling. So, we can appreciate here this patient has some pretty significant swelling here around that angle of the mandible. And so, that neck swelling and often times sometimes it can involve some of the other muscles like the sternoccllyo mastoid. It can in it can kind of get cause some inflammation, irritation of that one as well. It may cause things like toricalis where their head is kind of tilt tilted and twisted. And so, that is something to consider. But again, look for some kind of mass inside of the oral cavity near that lateral fingial wall behind or at least involving the posterior tonsular pillar and a visible kind of swelling of that actual neck. That's usually the key because again there's different spaces as we talked about there's an anterior and a posterior paraphernial space and usually with these kinds of patients that posterior kind of like fing a paraphrial space causes more of that medial displacement and that anterior paraphernial space is going to cause more particularly some of that swelling at that mass and and that's I think the key thing here all right so that would make me think about a paraphernial abscess all right so for the next component here when we think about retrofaringial abscesses when we look in the oral cavity What should we suspect? Well, the first thing is that poster feringial wall is going to be bulging more anterly. So, if I took a look in this person's mouth here, whoa. You can see that there's a very very large bulging of that posterior fingerial wall. So, that'd be pretty concerning for potentially retrofaringial abscess. Now, neck exam again because of the retrofaringial space, you're not going to see this kind of pushing outwards and causing any neck swelling because of the location of it. But one of the dangerous things about this is that because it's very close again, it can move from the retrofile space to the danger space, get to that prevertebral fascia and irritate some of those prevertebral muscles, things like the longest coli that puts it into spasm. And so they kind of flex their neck because their muscles are so tight and spasmed, they're going to not want to extend their neck and they're going to refuse. And so that's really one of the key things. Also, when you agitate those muscles, you can cause them to contract and kind of contort you in a particular weird way called tortoricalis. And so, those are definitely some things that I would want you guys to consider. So, you can see again here's a young child with kind of like that neck stiffness and you can see that there's some head tilting that toricalis picture. So, this would be kind of picture perfect for that retrofarrenial absess. With truly these two, you want to consider a CT scan, a CT scan of the neck. Now, here's what I will tell you. In the exams, sometimes you may have a patient that has some kind of issue where they're having difficulty with again that swelling of the uh of the posterior portion of the fairings. They can cause difficulty with breathing. They may have difficulty where they're extending their neck and they may end up getting a neck x-ray. That is not the gold standard. It can be done, but it's not the primary reason why you do it. A CT is the gold standard. So you may see sometimes where a patient gets like a lateral neck x-ray and you'll see look how widened these prevertebral uh tissues are. That's definitely evidence of a lot of inflammation and likely a pus collection. But again that is not the gold standard. So that's the definitive way of kind of going about these. When you do it it's going to be clear as day. If I see a hypo dense which is a dark collection on the CT scan and the rim around it is really kind of bright that's the contrast enhancing the abscess. And if it's in the paraphernial space, look, you can see it right here, guys. This is a right paraphernial abscess. You can see how it's kind of dark. You can see the rim is a little bit enhanced like a whitish color um or that hyper dense type of appearance. That is an indication that this is a paraphernial abscess. Now, if I looked on the other scenario here where that same kind of like presentation was within the retrofaringial space and this one's super large and it's almost like multiloculated if you think about it. This one has a significant amount and it's causing a lot of like movement here and really this is the one that you get super concerned about with retrofaringial abscesses. They can cause a lot of mass effect where you need to be concerned about airway but also these things can spread as we talked about into the danger space and when they get into the danger space retrofile abscesses can cause acute necroizing descending mediaitis which can be life-threatening. So that's why it's really crucial and sometimes they may even extend that neck image if we have any concern or even thinking about looking for it. We can say how far is this extended? We can get a little image of the chest to see if this is extended down into the media spin because that would be the definitive way. All right. One thing I want to say is is that we don't have to get like you don't in other words a lot of the times we want to know what is the the bacteria what is the pathogen that is causing this and cultures are one of the best way of doing that right you know blood cultures I think are always beneficial if you have a concern that the patient is getting septic or they have a you have any kind of fear of that that's that's never a bad thing but the best thing is getting a culture at where the actual source is and source control is the key here so whenever you're going to attack these abscesses especially per tonsler, you're going to be indinging it or you're going to be aspirating it. When you do those things, the actual sample from that aspirate or drainage should be sent off to the lab to figure out what pathogen comes back so that it can guide your antibiotic decision. But usually that's done while you're actually surgically aspirating or draining that abscess. All right. All right. Cool. I think that really gives us an understanding here. Again, what I want you to take away from it is a patient who presents with throat pain doesn't have to be all these things. It can just be tons of ferngitis. It's just do they have any concerning features that make you think that it could be uh really more of a deeper infection that's spread from tonsiloparngitis. If it is go down this path if it's not go down this path and we talked about in a separate lecture really the exam is key for these two but it also helps us with this x-rays are not a bad thing for retrofile absess but you're probably getting it for other reasons besides suspicion of a retrofile abscess. really these have to be clinically I mean these have to be definitively diagnosed with a CT scan for best resolution and you'll see why in a little bit later surgical planning it comes into play looking at hey where is this abscess with rel relationship to the C3 vertebrae where is this abscess with relationship to the corateed sheath and that comes into decision-m of how you're going to drain and approach it with that being said let's talk about treatment how do we treat these deep neck infections it's pretty standard across the board if you wanted just a generic way of thinking about this my friends is really antibiotics and really with these there's many different options. I think a lot of the guidelines suggest ampeo sulbactum and the reason why is a lot of these infections are polyicrobial. They can have some gram positive, right? They can have some gram negative, but I think the other thing is that they have anorobes. And so really, you want to have that broad coverage, right? You want to be able to cover things like streptocous pio. You want to be able to cover any kind of anorobes and methasylan sensitive stafylocus. And so that's where ampean sulbactum really gives you that coverage. And it's an it's generally an IV medication because if someone's having difficulty swallowing and all of these different problems, IV not only does it get you that dose that you need right away, but it also bypasses that painful process of the oral cavity itself. I think the other key thing that has to go along with this is source control. You got to drain the abscess. Now, that doesn't mean every single person gets the abscess drained. A good good chunk of them usually have to get it drained because of the size, because of the location, because of all of the problems that come with it, and we'll get into that. But across the board, if you wanted a one-word thing, it's ivy ampic sactum plus an abscess drainage. There is other antibiotics. You can use things like penicellin and metronidazol. You can use all these different types, but I think across the board, you'll see more likely than not ivamp is usually going to be the standard way to go about this one. All right. So, any deep neck infection I think is always crucial. We talked about this. Airway is king, my friends. If a patient is showing signs of airway obstruction, the first way that I want to try to manage this is assessing, okay, what is the key thing here with with with peronsular? It's probably not often that you're going to have to tube a patient or do anything like that. Parapharrenial and I'd say retrofarrenial carry a pretty high risk of airway obstruction. So, you have to always be prepared for that. If there is significant airway obstruction to the point where you're worried about it getting so large that you're going to be too late and you have to emergently do a cri if they're showing respiratory distress if there's significant signs of strider hypoxia then yes you need to escalate your therapy to maybe a standard endotracchial tube intubation where I'd say that that doesn't always apply is in certain case scenarios and you'll kind of understand it as we go through this. Let's say when you're intubating a patient, obviously your goal is to be able to use a luringoscope to be able to get you some space and run that cuffed endotracchial tube into the airway, but it has to run through the fernx. If the ferinx is significantly swollen, okay, you might have to use things like a bougie. You might have to also kind of like get a smaller tube, but the goal is is you're trying to get this in before it gets so swollen that it's too late that you have to go to the emergency option, which is to bypass that and crank them. So that's why early air airway management is better than late. What is key is what if I have a patient with Lwigs where their tongue is so swollen and I just don't have space and if I just accidentally tap the tongue or I kind of get anywhere near where this inflammation is, it's going to trigger pain and it's going to obstruct the airway more and it's going to cause the patient to rapidly deteriorate. Lwig anga probably wouldn't be best for this one. The other thing is that if I lose my muscular tone, that's probably the only thing. If I lose the muscular tone of the ferinx that's going to cause the ferinx to want to collapse a little bit more. So in high risk high risk paraphrial retrofenial absess is where I'm talking the airway is so small and there is very little room for error. If I take away the muscle tone by paralyzing them and sedating them with which is what your standard RSI intubation would be, the airway will get smaller and I'll lose the one thing that's keeping that airway almost somewhat patent which is their muscle tone. If I take that away, it's going to be even harder to intubate them. And it's almost impossible sometimes with Lwigs. So in Lwigs and in your high risk patients, you may need to do an awake intubation where you don't give them those things like sedation and paralytics so that you can maintain the tone and you can see where you're going. And often times it's a fiber optic kind of process where we're going to run down where we're going to start through the nose and we're going to run this thing down so we can see what we can see. And then what we'll do is we'll guide that endotracheial tube um as along the way to be able to secure that patient's airway. All right, that is really the key thing here and that's what I want you guys to see is is as we would do this, we would get a visualization of the epiglatus. We would get a visualization of the vocal cords and we would say, "Oh, there we go. There's my cords. I can pass my endotracchial tube properly through there and not pass it somewhere where it doesn't belong." So, you're getting a direct visualization that's going to guide your tube where you want it to go. And it's also going to be helpful because you're maintaining the muscle tone in this process to give you a little bit of a patent airway. All right. The reason why we do all of this earlier rather than later is this. You do not want to have to cri somebody if you don't have to. So, uh, you know, when you do this, you're literally doing a surgical procedure where you're making an incision um between the crycoid and the thyroid cartilage. And when you do that, you then have to pass a tube through that little incision site. Um, and that's it's pretty it's pretty intense and you just don't ever want to have to do that. And this is what happens if it gets to the point where you've waited too long or you've tried multiple attempts at a standard intential tube intubation and then you're stuck with this because hey, if I don't, the patient is not going to have an airway. They're going to become hypoxic. They're going to go into um cardiac arrest. And so we want to try to avoid this at all cost. That's why the first step in management for all of these patients is airway first and then get into your steps of antibiotics and aspiration etc etc etc. So once we've secured the airway, ivampylactum is our go-to, right? Again, I think clintomy is an alternative for those penicellin allergics. Um, and again, I told you that penicellin and metroniditool is another option for amplanactum as well. Um, but again, I want you to try to remember this one is the primary one. You're going to give that for all of them because it's going to cover most of those types of pathogens that you're most likely to see. All right? Especially the anorobes and your your group a strep coverage with that with peronsular abscesses. All of these you should pretty much drain and and and and that these ones are just it's easier for you to a lot of these are done in the emergency department. Um and it's and and and that's kind of one of the things here is you can do this two different ways. The only time you probably might not do it if it's like super super super small like less than a centimeter, but again you would have to probably get imaging to really kind of size that out. So often times these are just usually drained more often than not. So for most part we're doing needle aspiration and INDs on these patients. And so it's a simple thing. You're kind of taking a look here. We see that this is the area that I want to target. I can do it two ways. One is I can stick a needle in there and then pull back and then kind of suction out any of those areas there. Or another option is I can cut it, allow for it to drain, suction all of that out to make sure that I allow for good source control. So I'm letting the antibiotics have, you know, do their job, but I'm alleviating the effects of the abscess and getting good source control right away. So that's really the goal of this one and that's pretty much going to be standard across the board for peronsial and retrofaringial. Do you really want to be specific about these? They don't carry that same standardized thing. You could always in a general blanket term say, you know, draining them. Yes, I think it comes down to specific scenarios. And that's what we're going to talk about. But again, I think this is an important note to take away from this. Anytime again, we're going back to this when we're kind of go aheading go aheading when we're going and we're actually kind of draining this abscess. Usually, for example, if you're doing a needle aspiration, you can kind of take a sample. But for example, I'd say if you're IMDing it, taking a little swab, sticking it into the abscess, getting a little bit of that on that and sending it off to the lab to identify again, hey, what kind of pathogen do we got? Because it's going to help me eventually. I can't keep them on ivy and sold back them forever. Um, I want to get them on oral antibiotics. And obviously, there's empiric oral antibiotics that we could think about that would cover all of them, but we don't know if people are resistant and we don't know what kind of bacteria that they have. We want to make sure that we always have them on the specific nar antibiotic with the least amount of resistance. So, that's the key. All right, the next thing is if I do have a paraphralial abscess or if I have Lwig's anga or if I have something like a retrofaringial abscess, those are again I think times when you have to ask yourself the question, I already got them on antibiotics. I've secured their airway. Do I need to do an abscess drainage? It's not always. And I think the general indications that come across they're super super obvious. It's all about the airway. If I'm going to put someone on antibiotics, right, and that can take care of it, good. But if I have an airway issue and this is really becoming super problematic where I have to intubate them and I'm going to keep them on antibiotics, that means I have to give those antibiotics enough time to get that abscess down enough and the swelling down enough that eventually I can take the tube out. And so it really comes down to is it affecting their airway? And that's really what you'll notice. For example, if the abscess is really large, why would that be a problem? Because if it's super large, it's going to cause airway obstruction or mass effect to other really critical structures. We got to drain those. That's common sense. If they're septic, that means that they're literally septic. This is continuing to seed the bloodstream. Get that dang thing out of there. Sepsis can be treated with all the antibiotics in the world, but if you don't got source control, it's not going to change anything. Airway obstruction. If it's causing airway obstruction, they have to be intubated. How am I going to get the tube out if I don't have an improved airway? All right. The next thing is medastinitis. If this thing has actually spread, we got to make sure it doesn't keep because the problem with retrofile abscesses is it's all based upon pressure changes and gravity. That thing will if you have a retrofile absis, it'll continue to drain based upon changes in the intrathoracic pressure and and and what just gravity down into the mediainum. And so if I don't get source control of where the mediainitis is actually coming from, it's going to continue to occur and I'm not going to get better. So medastinitis, sepsis, airway obstruction, all things that we talked about are true legitimate complications of these kinds of conditions like deep neck infections. And the last one is your trial antibiotics. You said, I want to try and give them a little trial, maybe two days of antibiotics, see if they get better. These patients are usually being observed in the hospital. So this is an opportunity to put them on the antibiotics, monitor their airway, make sure that we're not missing anything, and see if they get better. If they don't get better, okay, we don't want to waste time. Let's go ahead and get this thing drained. And that's what we'll do. Now, I think that's pretty self-explanatory. The next part is maybe a little nuance when it comes to more surgical decision-making. So, you can feel free to tune out at this point if you want. I thought it was kind of interesting when it comes to surgical decision-m retrofaringial abscesses because of their position. When you think about this with the relationship of the C3 vertebrae, it gives you an idea if it's going to be an abscess that's in view when you look in the oral cavity or out of view. And that comes into play of how safe it is to do a procedure transorally or you have to go externally through the neck to get to it. So for example, if the retrofarrenial abscess is what let's say for example here above well that means I can actually see it wouldn't be below like the tongue or behind the tongue where I couldn't actually kind of safely go back there cut and drain. So for that one if it's above I'll be able to see it. I could do a transoral IND. The other concept here is with this is you can you know again aspiration but a lot of the times it's it's usually going to be you're going to IND this thing you're going to take a scalpel you're going to cut it you're going to let it drain and you're going to suction that out right if you have a parapherrenial abscess you need to know when you look at it on the image and that's why we get that IV contrast to really get a good look at the actual vascular structures in the corateed sheath is how where is it with respect to the croted sheath is the paraphernial abscess medial to the corateed sheath or lateral to the croted sheath That's medial. I can probably get to that because if you think about it, medial would mean I could probably attack that from the oral cavity. If it's lateral, that means I got to go through the corateed sheath to get to it. That's dangerous, dude. So medial to the corateed sheath, I could get to it potentially, right? But then we go to the other option in that scenario where I would be able to do that. Cool. But what if I had a patient who had a retrofile abscess and it's below the C3 vertebrae? It's out of my view safely. I got to go externally. If it's lateral, I'm gonna have to go through the dang karate sheet to get to it. I got to go externally. And I hope that makes sense because with external INDs, you're literally opening up this triangle of the neck to visualize things because I want to make sure that I'm not cutting something that I shouldn't be cutting. I want to make sure that I'm accessing an abscess safely and I'm not damaging any structures along the way. So, that's the benefit of knowing this and I just thought that that was kind of helpful to take away from this. Now again I think again a really really important thing here is you're probably like okay we talked about retrofaringial we talked about paraphrrenial but you didn't really assess more specifically yeah you said the indication so I get lwigen if there's airway obstruction if there's sepsis if there's med I get it but is there anything specific that I need to know about performing these surgeries would I do it transorally would I do it externally these ones are not abscesses so you're not really draining them the only reason you're doing these is to decompress so because of all that necroizing infection ction and gas production and swelling. All you're really doing here is opening up an area to decompress and allow for space to come back within the oro fernx and luringo fernx. That's really all you're doing in this scenario is because if that is causing the airway obstruction that significant amount of swelling and mass effect, decompress it, give space and that's going to help that patient significantly where we don't have to kind of have them intubated for a long time. All right. So I think that's the true key thing here is you're not doing any kind of like procedure per se on um Lwig anga to drain an abscess. They can get abscesses but it's more of a necroizing cellulitis that may give gas production a lot of swelling. You're more focusing on externally decompressing so that you can alleviate that severe airway obstruction. Woo wee. I think this kind of gives you a very perfect, not perfect, but I think a a general picture as to how to approach deep neck infections and think about them thoroughly. Don't just say, "Oh, you give antibiotics and drain the abscess." Maybe take the second step to know again when do I really focus on airway management. What are the antibiotics? Why am I giving these antibiotics? And then also, when do I drain? And if I drain these abscesses, how do I drain them? What's the approach? I think this just makes an overall better clinician. But man, I hope that you guys like this lecture as much as, you know, me and my team did making it because we love this and we love helping you out. And if you guys are appreciating it and if you guys are learning a lot, let us know. You know, you can do that by hitting the like button, comment down in the comment section, subscribing. If you guys want more information on these things, we provide quizzes, we provide flashcards, we provide notes on our website. So, go check that out. But man, I love you guys. I thank you guys. And as always, until next time.