What's up, ninja nerds? In this video today, we're going to be talking about ear infections. And again, this is part of our clinical medicine series. And if you guys are liking them, you're enjoying them, they're making sense, they're helping you, there's a couple things that you can do that really goes a long way. One, hit the like button. Second, smash that subscribe button. And also, I think just, you know, leave a comment down in the comment section if you have any questions or if you really do enjoyed this video. We'd appreciate it. Also, for your overall edification, for I think truly taking you to the next level, we do offer some other premium services. We offer a lot of high yield notes, great illustrations to follow along with me as we're going through this lecture, some quiz questions to allow for space repetition, some flashcards that I think aid in that process. All of those things can be checked out on our website if you go down in the description box below. All right, without further ado, let's get into ear infections. When we talk about ear infections, it's really just coming down to two. One is an infection of the external ear. We call that acutitis externa and then an infection of the middle ear. So we call that autitis media. You're probably like, "Oh, is there one of the middle ear?" I mean the inner ear. Yes, there is. We're going to talk about it. It's more likely to be a complication of the cutitis media, but we'll talk about something called labyrinthitis. And there's another one that we'll mention briefly called vestibular nitis. And those are kind of more infections particularly of the inner ear. But we're going to focus on these two primarily. And you'll also see this a lot more particularly in the pediatric population. We'll explain why. We talk about acutitis externa really it's an infection of the external ear that's really all it is it's an infection of the external ear what really happens is that you have skin it's a stratified squeamus epithelial tissue that lines the external ear canal the external acoustic miatus whichever one you want to call it what happens is whenever you have a breakdown of this skin and serumin barrier that's really the trigger and so let's actually write that down there's a breakdown and what thing. It's a breakdown in the skin and the serumin barrier and basically this is the barrier that prevents you know bacteria which is the primary culprit from getting into like the soft tissue and causing an infection. And so that's the primary kind of initiating trigger here and and we'll talk about some risk factors for that. But there's a breakdown of the skin serum and barrier. When you break that down, the potential issue here is that once you get breakdown, you allow for a lot of bacteria to thrive, to get in there to cause inflammation. And so what happens is you get inflammation of the external acoustic matus. So let's actually write that down. So now you're going to get inflammation. So inflammation of the external acoustic mus. Now this thing is going to get inflamed, right? So you have a trigger. The trigger is there's something that breaks down this barrier. After you break down the barrier, bacteria can kind of get in there. They start kind of initiating some inflammation. When that inflammation kind of occurs, now you get swelling. You're going to get some swelling of this external acoustic mus. And look at this. You got the breakdown and then now you got this swelling. From here, we're going to represent the swelling by this thing being red and angry. And now it's all red. It's all angry and it's bulging into the lumen of the external acoustic miatus. So now because of that, here's the next thing. The next thing is that this inflammation traps fluid and bacteria into this like little cave. So now a bunch of fluid can kind of start sitting in here. So a bunch of fluid can start sitting in this area. When that fluid sits in this area, guess what else can sit in that area? Bacteria. And now bacteria can start kind of populating in this area. And if they start populating in this area and growing and growing and growing, guess what happens? Imagine this. Bacteria love when it's very moist environment. Yeah, I said moist. It also loves it when it's very dark, right? Guess what's kind of blocking light from getting in there? This massive obstruction of the ear canal. And also, you know what serumin does? Sumin actually helps to control your pH of the ear canal. And guess what? When you break down that serumin layer, you alter the pH and you make the pH a little bit more alkaline. So now the bacteria has a dark, wet, and alkaline environment. Perfect conditions for this thing to grow. So what's going to happen is is you're going to get an increase in the bacterial growth. And that increase in bacterial growth eventually becomes enough to make worsening inflammation and now infection. So you're going to get increasing bacterial growth and that increasing bacterial growth is going to do what? That's going to lead to a ear infection. And that's particularly of the external ear canal or the exter external acoustic miatus. And that's what I really want you guys to think about is again there's something that's causing a breakdown of the skin serum and barrier that causes inflammation. That inflammation obstructs the outflow of fluid and bacteria. They grow, they grow, they grow, and then they start to infect this tissue. And that's really the the crux of all of this. The question then becomes is what's causing the breakdown of the skin serum and barrier. So if I actually zoomed in and actually took a look here, it is I'm breaking down that serumin. I'm breaking down the skin. And this is a perfect opportunity for some of the bacteria that are sitting in this area to get in there. And then whenever they get in there, they start causing injury. When they cause injury, they cause more inflammation. As they cause more inflammation, you obstruct the ear canal. As you obstruct the ear canal even more, you block more fluid. You cause a dark, wet, and alkaline environment. More bacteria grow. And eventually, this thing becomes angry and infected. And that's what we see here in this scenario. But we have to ask ourselves a question, what's causing the breakdown there? What is the particular risk factors for certain patients that are causing a breakdown in the skin serum and barrier? One is you have too much moisture and what that moisture does it strips the serum layer off a little bit. So too much moisture is definitely a problem. Also with a lot of moisture comes a little breeding ground for certain types of bacteria. Do you know which types of bacteria love moisture? Sudamonus. And that's one of the big things and we'll talk about that. But there's two kind of scenarios and I'd say the first one is the classic clinical vignette. This is a person who's swimming a lot. swimming, snorkeling, anything like that. We'll even put snorkeling, I don't know, anything where there is a constant exposure of moisture in the external ear canal. Another one is extremely humid climates. That's another opportunity, especially if you're kind of blocking that off and putting in earphones. That can create a humid environment as well. The other one is skin injury. So, anything that's kind of injuring the skin, especially in combination with that heavy moisture, that's enough to also create an opportunity for a breakdown in that skin serum and barrier. So, either we're breaking the skin down because we're injuring it or we're stripping the serum in a way by causing a lot of moisture to build up. What are some simple things? It's not complicated, guys. What can cause skin injury? I mean, we tell you sometimes to be careful using these, but cotton swabs, right? So, you're picking at your ears with these cotton swabs. Sometimes those can cause some abrasions of the ear canal. Not too big of a deal, but in certain scenarios, especially if there's excess moisture, it can create a breakdown that can cause discom. Another thing is anything that's causing constant abrasion consistently, especially in elderly hearing aids. And the last one I'd say is any kind of scratching. This is like probably one of the perpetual cycles for kids. A kid goes out, gets swims, strips off the serumin layer, they have a lot of fluid in there. What's their natural reaction? To pick at their ear. They scratch that ear. When they break the skin and they have a lot of moisture that creates an inflammatory event, more fluid, more bacteria, infection ensues. Question is, and why it's important is what are these most common pathogens that brew in this external ear canal? The most common by far is going to be pseudomonus. This is the one that I really want you to remember. This is a gram negative bacteria. By far the most common. All right. Most common. Another one, especially with the skin injury, especially if you're picking and it's on your finger, it's on your skin flora, is staflacccus arius. It's rarely ever MRSA. It's usually almost always missa. So that's another potential one. But I want you to definitely remember sudamonus. Now you may be asking, Zach, what's the deal of us knowing the bacteria? Is that isn't that more like step one? Isn't that more basics like microbiology? Yes. The reason why a sudamonus is needs to be treated properly with some type of amoglycosside or a fluoroquinolone and that's what we always want to think about is why do we need to know the pathogen because it guides the most likely antibiotic that we need to treat with that's crucial to infectious disease. So to recapitis externa is there is some type of breakdown of the skin serum and barrier. These are the risk factors. Most pertinent is going to be the moisture with swimming and snorkeling combined with the skin injury like scratching. That breakdown leads to them things again causing inflammation of the external acoustic mus. That inflammation is going to cause an obstruction that's going to block fluid that's going to block bacteria. It's going to create a humid dark alkaline and moist environment for bacteria to grow and eventually that will infect the ear canal. What are those bacteria? These are the ones. What about acudotitis media a middle ear infection? Again, when we think about anatomy here, here's our penna, right? Here's the external acoustic miatus. And then here we have some bone and then here we have the temporal bone and then here we have the tempanic membrane and then here we have the middle ear. And in the middle ear, we can appreciate some oicles. We have some holes here. This actually can lead backwards and behind into the mastoid sinus. And then here we have the inner ear which is consisting of the cookia, the vestibial, the semic-ircular canals. And then here we have this portion of the vestibular cclear nerve popping out through the internal acoustic miatus. Right? And then there's another structure here which actually appears to connect the middle ear into this area over here which I'm going to label here for you. This is called the naso fernx. So you're probably going to ask yourself the question, what is this tube that connects them? Because it's super crucial. This is called the ustaceian. This is called the ustaceian tube. Now another name for it could be the fngotmpanic tube. Another name could be the auditory tube. Either way, this is going to be called the ustian tube. Now the importance of the ustaceian tube is that it's supposed to equalize the pressure between the nasop fernx and the middle ear. We want that constant ventilation and equalization of pressures to occur. That's super crucial. What happens though if I cause some kind of obstruction? Let's say for example this ustation tube becomes inflamed. So I'm going to kind of inflame this and I'm going to obstruct it a little bit here. So now I'm going to inflame it and I'll represent this as inflammation. I'll make it a little bit red. So here here's the scenario where I inflame this son of a gun, this ustation tube. And now I obstruct that. I'm blocking the ventilation of air between the middle ear and the nasal cavity. And that's going to affect the pressure differences. And it's also going to block secretions that are supposed to drain out of the middle ear. Okay. What if I have something that's obstructing the middle ear? I'm sorry, the uh ustation tube. So there's something here in the nasop fernx that's blocking. And so normally it's supposed to allow for ventilation to occur back and forth. But again, you're blocking this type of movement. And so because of that, if I'm blocking that movement, that's another scenario where the ustation tube becomes, if you want to think about it, obstructed. The disease process that often is the trigger for acutitis media is a problem with the ustian tube being obstructed. All right? So it's usually some type of ustian tube obstruction. Now, this can be functional or it can be literally a some type of anatomical obstruction. So we have some type of obstruction of the ustation tube. If that's the case, what happens is is I lose the ability to equalize the pressures. And so what happens is you're supposed to have naturally some secretions that are supposed to move out of the middle ear. That's how it's supposed to happen. But now that's going to be obstructed. It's going to be blocked. And so what happens is I start to build up fluid. Fluid starts accumulating in the middle ear. And this is called an eusion. So, I'm supposed to be draining the middle ear secretions out into the nasal cavity, but I'm not now. And I'm supposed to be equalizing the pressures. I'm not. And you usually know what happens is because this is blocked, you get a negative pressure that occurs inside the middle ear, and it kind of sucks on the tempanic membrane. So, sometimes it can actually cause the retraction of that tempanic membrane a little bit. So, ustian tube obstruction creates what? It decreases the ventilation of the middle ear. So, now we're going to have decreased ventilation of the middle ear. and secretion drainage. So, we're going to have decreased ventilation and we'll call it drainage of the middle ear. The problem with that is that now if I can't get some of that fluid out of the middle ear, it accumulates and you can get what's called a middle ear eusion. Now, we have fluid that's sitting in the middle ear. If the fluid sits in the middle ear too long, guess what else should actually be there? It's a part of our flora. It's it's a naturally occurring flora in our actual mucosa bacteria. The bacteria can kind of start to sit there for a little bit and they start to get more stasis and eventually this bacterial growth occurs and then this fluid becomes super infected and now we have auditis media. So what starts to happen is that we get a bacterial stasis that occurs in this eusion and then it starts to grow and eventually that fluid becomes infected and then we end up with a infected middle ear fluid and that is usually how this type of process occurs. So again we have an obstruction of the ustation tube. You can't ventilate or drain the middle ear properly. Pressure gets negative inside of the middle ear and pulls and retracts on that tempanic membrane. Also, the fluid can't get out. So, it builds and builds and builds. You get an eusion. The bacterial starts to the bacteria sit in there and it grows and grows and grows and then eventually it triggers an infection of that middle ear fluid. The question that you have to ask yourself then is what in the heck is triggering this ustaceian tube dysfunction? What's obstructing it? All right. So there's two potential scenarios that are most often the case and there's a universal concept. One is there is inflammation. I told you there was two scenarios. Inflammation of the ustation tube which we're going to represent as ET or there is a obstruction like an anatomical obstruction of the ustation tube. So we'll put and I'll actually put here anatomical. So something is physically obstructing it and one is causing inflammation that's obstructing it. What are these scenarios? This is going to be two of them and one is extremely extremely common and if yeah don't if you don't remember any of these you have to remember this one. A viral upper respiratory tract infection is going to be by far the most common cause. So what happens is a person gets like an ADN no infection. So they get adno virus. when they get adno and they get that viral upper respiratory tract infection, it inflames parts of the nasal cavity, the mucosa, and then guess what? The ustian tube. So now this ustation tube becomes inflamed. If it becomes inflamed, it causes all of this process and then allows for bacteria to super infect that fluid. That's the issue, my friends. Another one is a similar situation, but it's a little bit more chronic, and that's in patients who have severe allergic rhinitis. If you have severe allergic rhinitis or even rhinocyitis, these are o opportunities for inflammation of that ustaceian tube. So that's another potential scenario. The obstruction is usually something that's obstructing the outflow, the exit of the ustian tube. What would obstruct this? So what's in my nasal cavity? Okay, trying to think. What if I got some polyps, bro? Oh, that would definitely do it, right? So nasal polyps would definitely be one trigger. And another potential trigger that I would want you guys to think about here is going to be usually some type of addenoids. So if a patient has really enlarged addenoids that can definitely be a trigger. So enlarged addenoids. So these are your tonsils. So you know you have your fingial tonsils, you have your tubal tonsils. If those things are getting super enlarged and hypertrophic, it's going to obstruct and block that outflow or the exit of the actual fluid getting out of the ustation tube and into the nasal cavity. So either you got a nasal polip that is obstructing it or you have a very enlarged tonsils that are blocking it. So that's what I want you guys to think about. The last scenario is just a general universal concept that exists across the board and that's pediatric patients are very high risk. So, pediatric patients are high risk. And you're probably like, okay, what the heck does that mean? Their ustation tube is affected because it's just anatomically at a disadvantage to adults. What I mean is that normally in an adult, they have a vertical they have at least more of a vertical orientation of their ustation tube. that allows it easier for things to be able to ventilate and drain properly. That's one thing. Pediatric patients, they have more of a horizontal endotrichial tube. So, let's write that down. They are high-risisk because they have a horizontal endotrichial tube. I ustian tube. The other thing is that they also have a ustian tube that's a little bit less rigid. In adults, theirs is a little bit more rigid. So, it's not easy for it to collapse. In pediatric patients, it's a little easier because it's not as rigid. It can collapse more. If the collapses more, that can cause an obstruction. So, that's another thing, horizontal ustian tube and it's less rigid. And then also just another disadvantage is it's short and it's a little bit longer in those patients who are a little bit more of the adult range. So, this is why patients who have um who are at higher risk of developing middle ear infections are pediatric patients generally. And then if you add on top of them them getting a viral upper respiratory tract infection and allergic rhinitis or they have nasal polyps or they have enlarged adoids that increases their risk even a larger fold. This is a general universal concept of why pediatric patients are at higher risk for acutitis media than adult patients. Either way the overarching theme here is that a patient who has ustian tube obstruction triggers this. The other thing I want you guys to remember is when you drop the ventilation of that that middle ear, it does create a negative pressure. I told you that. And that kind of sucks the eardrum in. But what happens is as you start to build up an eusion and you start to build up fluid, the pressure starts to rise and it actually can bulge the tempanic membrane out. And that's one thing I want you to remember is that generally with this decreased ventilation, what happens is you get retraction. Initially, you may get some retraction. you get a little bit of retraction of I'm going to put the tempanic membrane the TM then what happens is this middle ear fusion it starts to build up and build up and build up and what happens is over time this switches it and this tempanic membrane goes from being retracted to bulging and that's primarily because of that eusion accumulating over time as more fluid more fluid more bacteria more swelling more pressure builds up what's it going to do This is a critical thing. Eventually, it's going to push this tempanic memory out because the pressure is so high, it wants to get it out and that eventually can lead to ruptures. And I'll talk about that later. But this is going to eventually cause a bulging tempanic membrane. And we'll talk about why that's so critical because it aids in the diagnosis. So again, what will eventually become a very critical thing here is that tempanic membrane will bulge. Initially it will retract but eventually what happens is the fluid and fluid fluid accumulates it bulges. All right. Next thing here we got to talk about the bacteria because again it's usually a viral upper respiratory tract infection that triggers this. So what we could say is here's here's here's what I want you to remember. There is an important kind of like I'd say note or connotation to take away from this and that is that usually acute otitis media is a mixed infection. So it's usually I'd say 70% of the time it's a mixed infection. And what that means is is it's both viral because what's the most common trigger? What is the most common one guys? It's a viral upper respiratory tract infection usually like an adno virus or a rhino virus and then it becomes super infected that fluid with bacteria and that's where we get the bacteria come into the play. We don't give antibiotics for viral infections. We don't give antivirals for a viral upper respiratory tract infection. We give antibiotics when there is a super infection in certain scenarios. What are those bacteria? because it determines what type of antibiotic I need to treat with one and a very common one is called streptocous pneumonia and that is usually going to be this grandpositive bacteria. Then we have a coxoboacilli and that's called hmophilus influenza commonly written as H flu and this is the non-typable and the last one is kind of a more of a it's a gram negative diplo and this one is called maracella cataralis. So maracella cataralis now these are going to be the most common pathogens. One thing I wouldn't forget is always consider I think it's always beneficial to consider anorobes. These aren't always the case but I would definitely consider them. All right. So with that being said what do I know now? I know that acutitis media is ustian tube obstruction from these particular scenarios. Almost always universal for the pediatric patients. add these on to it, you worsen the obstruction. You worsen the obstruction, you decrease the ventilation and drainage between the middle ear and the nasal cavity. But the biggest thing is that you're going to decrease the drainage. If I decrease that drainage, I get eusions. If the eusion becomes infected with bacteria, I then have a middle ear infection. That negative pressure initially because it becomes negative pressure because I can't ventilate. What happens? Retracts the tempanic membrane. But eventually over time as the eusion builds it bulges the tempanic membrane is critical. What are the pathogens that usually trigger this? It's these but oftent times more than not it's usually a mixed infection and that's pretty critical. All right. Now what I want to talk about is now that we got the kind of the overall patho the causes or the eeological factors how will these patients generally clinically present. So with a cutotitis externa, it's super easy. If you got a red, angry, inflamed and adeitous um ear canal, what's it going to do? It's going to cause. Soalgia is usually going to be the most common type of presentation. All oalgia is is it is ear pain. And you want to think about this. And I think what's also really common is because there's so much ear pain that can extend out to the PA. So sometimes the PA can also become pretty inflamed in adeus as well and that's very sensitive. There's a lot of nerve fibers that actually intervate the external ear. So because of that, one of the things that we actually like to do here is what happens when you actually pull on the PA or push on the tragus which are part of the external ear because those are inflamed and they're very innervated heavily by things like the facial nerve, the trigeminal nerve, the vagus is going to be in the ear canal, the glossopherrenial. What happens if I pull on the PA or push on the tragus? It worsens. So an increase in pain and an increase in pain when I do what? Increase in pain with pushing the tragus. That really kind of signifies more of a concern for otitis externa or increased pain with pulling the penna downwards. So all I mean is patient comes in, oh man, my ear hurts. Wow. Ah, you know that's one thing. or you push. Ah, those are potential triggers to make you think about otitis externa. Another thing that's also really important is that again, what are they doing? They're obstructing the ear canal. All of this infected fluid is building up proximal to that obstruction sometimes. So, what may happen is some of that fluid may want to leak out through this small little narrowed space. And whenever that fluid starts kind of leaking out or you even see it in the ear canal, what would that be called? Otohea. All it means is it's fluid draining from the external ear canal. So otohea. Now ottohea is normal in otitis external. It is not normal in a patient who has otitis media. What that means is if they have ottohea, they perforated their tempanic memory because the fluid's here. You can't get that fluid out if there's a there's a structure there blocking it. So odora really helps with a concerning feature to diagnose more that otitis external picture. But if you have odora, take a look. Look at the tempanic membrane. Is it there? Is it visible? And is it perforated? That may be their explanation. Now, in a patient has they have odora, you want to look at their ear canal. So, you want to get out your otoscope and you want to take a look in. You want to kind of pull down and take a look and see what I see. Generally, what you're probably going to see most often with otoscopy is you're going to see a very inflamed ear canal. That's pretty much it's going to be a red and inflamed ear canal. That's really going to be the biggest thing you may see a lot of the pus and the odoria there present. The key thing that you also want to note and you have to document these things is the tempanic membrane. Is it a normal tempanic membrane or could you visualize it? often times it's a normal tempanic membrane but it may be so swollen and so ademous that you weren't able to see the tempanic membrane. All right, so that's the key thing but you the hopeful goal in this is that you can pick out a normal tempanic membrane. It's not bulging. It's not red and in this case their external ear canal is super inflamed and red. That's the key thing that you want to note is that it is normal. But sometimes I think it's important to note may be so inflamed that you can't even visualize the tempanic membrane. But that's what you want to notice. Now this is the classic presentation ofitis external. It's not that hard. Where it gets scary and it gets complicated is when it actually extends a little further. We'll talk about this a little bit later, but there is a patient population that is at super high risk of the otitis externa extending past this into what we get worried about is extending into the bone. If it starts to extend into like the deeper soft tissues, the bone structures, that's when we worry about a condition that we'll talk about a little bit later called malignant otitis externa. In this one, there's a certain patient population that you want to consider. It's usually the uncontrolled diabetics, the imunompromised patients who come in with way more severe ear pain than general. And maybe they also come in with some other concerning features, but we'll get into that a little bit later. All right. So, oitis external, what are you looking for? You're looking for the right clinical scenario. And you're looking for otalgia that can be precipitated and worsened with maneuvers and maybe odor, but big thing is a normal TM. Sometimes it can't be visualized and the ear canal is super super inflamed. And then in certain patients who are at high risk, you want to monitor them for the risk of them developing malignant otitis external. Okay. What about for acutitis media? With acuteitis media, what you're going to have is there's going to be there's nerves again. There's still nerves, cranial nerves especially like vagus nerve, glossopheringial nerve. They also help to inervate a part of the middle ear. And so this is going to cause pain. You're definitely going to get pain here and especially if it's comp pushing on the tempanic membrane. So atalgia is usually a very very common presentation. It's going to be that ear pain but it's going to feel a little bit deeper and the and the the type of sensation that they often complain of is a their ears feel full. It feels full and that's the eusion. All right. What happens here with the otalgia is that we have it's not worse. So let's actually write this down. The otalia does not get worse with the maneuvers. So it is here we'll write it in big capital red letters. Not worse with pulling of the pa or pushing of the tragus. Not worse with pulling pa or pushing on the tragus. Sometimes, funny enough is a kid who gets this, they'll constantly feel like they have to pull their ear cuz it feels like they're helping to open up kind of like help with the inexflation to kind of help to equalize that pressure between the middle ear and the nasal cavity. So sometimes you'll actually notice that the kids will be tugging and pulling at their ear a lot. When a patient comes in with ear pain, external uh acoustic miatus, you know, usually anything kind of like prior or before the tempanic membrane won't really precipitate a fever unless it's spread into the deeper tissues in the bone like malignotitis external. For acutitis media, they they do present with a fever. And this is because whenever you have a fever, this really is an it's a sign that the infection is extended beyond the ear canal. All right, that's really really critical. So the presence of a fever anything greater than 38 centigrade uh is concerning for a patient having uh an infection beyond the external ear canal. Uh and that's again malignotitis externa and acutitis media. So that should really make you consider that. The other thing here is it is not common. We mentioned this before odora is a plus or minus. All right. And what I mean by that is that if they have odorhea then you need to say okay could this be otitis externa how do I know that I have to look into the ear canal look to see if it's inflamed what do I need to note what's the tempanic membrane look like and this situation if they have odorhea what that means is is that they probably have a tempanic membrane perforation and that's a complication that can occur as a result of this kind of condition all right so tempanic membrane perforation. We'll put perf. Usually what would precede this is the patient will say, "Man, my ear was really, really hurting. All of a sudden, I had this like sudden relief of pressure." And then I noticed some drainage. That's a common clinical scenario that would make you think about them perforating that middle ear. Now, here's what's important. They can have otalgia. They can have a fever. What's really critical is not just the clinical symptoms, but the otoscopic findings. You can have a red tempanic membrane, but that's not enough for the diagnosis. The diagnosis really requires the presence of what we would support as an eusion, something that's pushing on the tempanic membrane. So, what you really, really need is a bulging. You really want that bulging tempanic membrane. That's the key. You can have a red or irrious tempanic membrane, but it's not needed for the diagnosis. It helps, but it is not needed. The critical finding is the bulging tempanic membrane. So often times we will say that otitis media acutitis media is a clinical diagnosis meaning that the patient has symptoms otalgia and fever and then on top of that on otoscopic exam they have a bulging tempanic membrane. Doesn't matter if it's red it's got to be bulging. And so sometimes we can do that with otoscopy but sometimes you may not see it. And if you can't see it, we have to kind of maneuver and do some other tests. And we'll talk about that in the diagnostic approach, but we may talk about something like pneumatic autotoscopy or tempanometry, which gives you a little bit more, one's a little bit more subjective, and the other one's a little bit completely objective um identification if there is a bulging tempanic membrane. All that bulging tells me is that there's an eusion present. All right, my friends, that covers this part here. But I got to lead you to the next concept. Often times, the cutitis media will present like this. pain, fever, they'll have a bulging or red tempanic membrane or both. But you need at least the bulging. They may have odoria if they perf the tempanic membrane. But the key thing here is what otitis media can actually lead to. It's much more dangerous than malignotitis than otitis externa. That can lead to malignotitis externa in certain clinical scenarios. Complicated acutitis media can lead to a lot of other things. This infection it can spread to a lot of places. So what we get worried about is can this thing spread to the mastoid? So you see here there's these little like holes where it can kind of take the the infection and it can move into this and then imagine it kind of like moving behind and then infecting this. That's called mastoiditis. So that's one thing that we get worried about is complicated accutitis media can be leading to something called mastoiditis. Another thing is the infection can spread right over here via the round window into the inner ear. And when it does that, that's called labyrinthitis. All right? So we'll call that labyrinthitis. And then lastly, all right, not lastly, if the infection actually gets terrible enough, sometimes what can happen is it can spread into the actual meninges and in the brain. So that's what we get worried about is this thing spreading up into the meningis or spreading up into the brain and we can call that a CNS infection. So that's another one that we get worried about. And then another scenario is if the infection gets bad enough, we already kind of talked about this, but if it gets bad enough that it's pushing on the tempanic membrane so hard that it creates a little hole. Let's draw like a little hole here in the tempanic membrane. then you can get a perforation and you can get this fluid to leak out here and that's where you get that odora right that we talked about. So that's called a tempanic membrane perforation. And the last thing I will talk to you guys about here is a cholesttoma. And that's basically it kind of goes back to that concept that I told you guys that whenever you have the middle ear pressure initially it gets negative and it sucks it pulls the tempanic membrane in. It retracts it. That can create what's called a retraction pocket. And that retraction pocket over time can get filled with like a lot of squee cell and keratin debris. And it can cause this little nasty keratin debris to spread throughout the middle ear, destroy the oicles, get into the mastoid sinuses and cause mastoidisitis. And that's called a cholesttoma. That's called a cholestio. Now, one other thing that you can also see is called cranial nerve 7 palsy. It actually does run through the posterior wall of the middle ear and it kind of comes down and comes out around the silomtoid framan. So I would also always consider the possibility. It's just it's not common as its own due to cutitis media. You usually see it more as a result of mastoiditis or you see it with malignantitis externa. But every now and then if you get a really bad enough infection of acutitis media that pressure and a fusion may cause cranial nerve seven palsy. And so you'll see ipspsilateral. So if they have a right ear infection they'll have ipsyal rights sided facial weakness. And it includes the whole side. The upper part even the forehead is included. And that's really critical to remember. All right, this gives you a big justification of what we're talking about with acudotitis media. What I now need us to do is move into the next scenario, which is okay, a patient has otitis externa and they don't only present with otalgia and odorhea. Now they got some weird kind of manifestations that are really really scary or they have acute otitis media and they're not presenting with just otalgia and fever. They're presenting with some scary complications. Let's talk about those. All right, my friends. A little bit of a blank canvas here. may look a little bit different like, "Zack, what the heck? Am I watching a new video?" No, no, no. You're watching the same video. We just had a little editing error. We have to come fix this part here, finish this off, and then we'll get back to the original whiteboard. So, it's just going to have like a little, you know, back and forth. All right? But it'll be cool. So, we were talking about complications of otitis external. I'd say one of the most common features is probably going to be hearing loss. Think about it. You have a lot of swelling here. So, if you have this big old angry swollen external acoustic mus, this thing is all kinds of angry and it's a dematus. And as that happens, I mean, think about it. You ever looked in like a really really swollen child's ear? If they end up having otitis externa, sometimes you can't even see anything in there. The whole thing is kind of plugged off. And obviously that's because there's probably a significant amount of edema here, right? From the inflammatory reaction, bringing inflammatory cells in, bringing all the different types of um increased capillary permeability causing the vasoddilation of the capillaries in this area. So that's going to be the edema factor, right? This is going to be all swollen, but it's also going to be really, really angry. There's going to be a lot of tissue damage from the bacteria, right? And usually that's going to be things like sudamonus. That's going to be the most common offender here. So, we got a really, really angry and swollen external acoustic mus. Now, the reason why that's a problem is is air is basically our sound is going to move right what via the external acoustic matus. And as it tries to get through here, it's going to be like and it's barely going to be able to squeeze through this dang thing. Because of that, if you have a reduction going through at that point, at this point here where there's all of this narrowing, what's going to happen? Well, you're supposed to have the tempanic membrane vibrate and move back and forth, compress and decompress. And what that does is it causes movement in the oicles. And so what happens is if air isn't kind of getting to this point, you're not going to get this back and forth of the tempanic membrane. I'm going to represent like kind of like ringing. You're not going to get the vibration of these oicles. You're not going to get the vibration of stapes. And if that happens, what's going to happen? It's not going to tap on the oval window as well. If it doesn't tap on the oval window, that's not going to produce the fluid fil vibrations that occur within the cookia. And if that's the case, it's not going to send those signals down the vestibular cclear nerve and eventually this will go to the brain stem. So what's happening here is you're stopping it pretty dang early and where you're stopping it here. So everything at this point is all being reduced and so you're getting reduced signals that are actually moving towards the brain stem. And that's what we're having here is we're having a person having some type of issue with that process. Now when we think about this, what would this actually precipitate? Well, one of the things is that the person would actually not be able to hear things very well. But sometimes we want to be able to know, especially in children, is that a sensory neural deafness? In other words, is there something going on with like the vestibular cclear nerve potentially? Or is it something in the external acoustic miatus, which is here's where the problem is. Is it the oicles? Is it the tempanic membrane? Is it some part of the inner ear or the cookia? That's what we want to try to be able to figure out. And so we do something called the Weber and Renee test. And for simplicity sakes, what I want you guys to know here is that the Weber, and I'm going to explain what this means. There's going to be two components here. The Weber test will show lateralization of these actual sound which we're going to talk about with a tuning fork. It has lateralization to the good ear. Uh actually, sorry, I apologize. To the bad ear, and I'll explain why it has lateralization to the bad ear. And the Renee test is a negative test. And all that means is is that usually in normal individuals when you take a tuning fork and put it up against their ear, they should be able to hear the air conduction better than they do the bone conduction. But in these individuals who have conductive deafness, it's actually the opposite. And so what we mean by this is that their bone conduction is greater than the air conduction. I'll explain what I mean by that. All right. So they have conductive deafness. Why? Because of the swollen external acoustic matus. signals aren't actually air sound is not moving through this external acoustic matus as well. It's not causing the vibrations, right? It's not causing this nice movement of the tempanic membrane. It's not allowing the vibration of the oicles. It's not tapping on the oval window. It's not leading to these nice kind of fluid fil vibrations within the indolymph of the cookia. And it's leading to decreased signals decreased signals via the vestibular cclear nerve to the brain stem and that's what leads to the decreased sound. So what we do is the Weber test is you take your tuning fork, smack it, put it on the top of the head and what you want them to tell you is where do you hear that sound the most? And generally what happens is let's say here is where the problem is is all of the issue is on this right ear. they have some swelling here of their external acoustic miatus. Well, what happens is this external acoustic miatus is kind of in a way blocking out sound from the environment from coming in. And because of that, it's blocking all of this out. What's going to happen is if I take a tuning fork and I place it on this bone, it's going to cause vibrations within the bone. And that's actually going to cause the conduction to move to which side? More? Well, if there's less uh action potentials that are going to this actual inner ear from the air, most of them are going to be more amplified here on this side. And so, you're going to get more of an amplified effect. You're going to hear more of the actual uh bone conduction effect or that tuning fork there on the actual affected ear. All right. Renee test. What you do is you take the tuning fork, you tap it, and then from here you place it on like the mastoid process, and you have them kind of tell you if they can, you know, hear it. And then at some point after that, you're going to move it over in front of their ear so that they can actually hear it as well. And what you're trying to compare is is like basically the time and the sound uh the duration essentially and if they can hear it from here and if they can hear it from here. Now again think about this because the external acoustic miatus is really swollen. It's the same kind of concept here. You should be able to hear it better normally when it's actually right here and less effectively right here. But in these individuals, think about it. I'm going to res represent with a dotted line. Less of this is getting to the inner ear. Most of it is getting from this direction. And because of that, the bone conduction is going to be much more effective than the air conduction for the Renee test. So again, otitis external, what I really want you guys to remember is hearing loss is a pretty common complication. It'll go away as the actual infection clears and this edema reduces. But the primary mechanism behind that is that it's basically just obstructing the conduction of sound through its normal pathway. And the way that we determine if it's sensory neural versus uh again conductive is we do the Weber and Renee test. If the actual bone conduction whenever you put this on top of their head lateralizes to the affected ear, it tells me that something is happening where it's actually sifting through and it's not it's actually not sifting through the air conduction as well. Renee test normal individuals air conduction should be more effective than bone conduction. But in these individuals they have an obstruction and so they're going to amplify that sound that bone conduction effect in this individual. All right. So the next thing is malignotitis externa. This one is less common but I think it's important to remember in the appropriate scenarios. So the people who we think about with malignotitis externa is usually going to be individuals who have one of two particular risk factors. And I'd say uncontrolled diabetes is probably going to be one of the biggest ones. especially if they have like d diabetic ketoacidosis. The other one is immuno compromised patients. So any type of immuno uh suppressed patient of any sort is at higher risk for this type of condition. Now the the thought process behind the diabetes is probably due to like microvascular eskeeia and just disease and so they probably have poor wound healing. The hypoglycemia definitely makes things a little bit more difficult in that regard. And then the immunosuppressed patients, they probably just don't have the proper immune response to fight off particular pathogens. But the big thing that I want you to know about with this condition is that there's a primary pathogen. Again, we talked about it before and it's sudamonus. So sudamonus is going to be the primary pathogen that is going to cause this type of disease. Now the thing about pseudamonus is again in a normal immunompetent individual no underlying coorbidities like diabetes you should be able to fight this thing off it'll cause something like what it'll cause malignant I mean it'll cause generally like otitis externa and so you'll get some inflammation of the external acoustic miatus that kind of skin right the epidermal tissue will get a little inflamed you get a little bit of edema but the big thing here is that this pathogen And if normally not contained, it has a little gateway to get into the bone. You see these little spaces here between the blue? These little spaces are called the fissurers of Santorini. Such a interesting name. I don't It sounds like something where you go like, you know, on vacation. I'm going to the Fishers of Santorini, you know, but it's it's an interesting one to say the least. But the fissures of Santorini is kind of like a little it's a gateway essentially. Um, and what I want you guys to know, Santorini, Yep, there we go. The fishes of Santorini is basically little gateway for the pathogens to be able to move their way into the bone tissue. And so if they can get into the bone tissue, they can actually start wreaking havoc, man, and causing a lot of damage to the bone. Well, like what? Well, let's say that the bacteria gets into the bone. So, we'll represent a couple bacteria here in the bone. Well, now what can it do? Well, here it's going to cause tissue damage and it's going to cause inflammation and infection of the bone tissue. What's uh what's that called? When you have infection and inflammation of the bone tissue, especially kind of really deep within the bone tissue. That's called osteomiitis, isn't it? That's essentially what malign malignotitis externa is. is essentially this pathogen. Which one here? This is pseudamonus originosa. So p sudomonus p sudamonus gains the ability in these types of conditions in normal immuno competent individuals no coorbidities. This wouldn't be able to pass those fissures of sanserini and if it did you get demolished by immune system cells. But if it crosses over, it leads to osteomiitis. And that's what's pretty kind of detrimental to this condition is it can lead to osteoitis. The problem with this is the osteomiitis is of specific kind of like bones. And so this is going to be a lot of the skull base, the mastoid process. And so you'll see this of like the skull base. You might even get things like the the TMJ, the temporal mandibular joint, and even the mastoid process, right? And so that's the that's the real kind of issue here is that this can cause a lot of detrimental effects. And so one of the biggest things here is when you get something like osteomiitis, what's probably the most common types of symptoms that you would have from something like that? Pretty significant pain, dude. And so the common clinical manifestations from the osteomiitis is usually going to be things like ve very severe ear pain. Often times it's worse at night though. So ear pain is probably going to be a common one. Normally patients who have otitis externa shouldn't have fevers. But because this is starting to evade the bone, invade the bone, they're going to start getting things like fevers. So they'll have otalgia, they'll have fever. The other thing is that you're probably going to have another potential problem here. And that's because you see this nerve here. This is your facial nerve. So this is called cranial nerve 7, also known as your facial nerve. It kind of runs through, it actually comes through the internal acoustic miatus and then it kind of wraps in the back part of the middle ear and then it moves through the mastoid bone. And so whenever a patient gets malignotitis externa, it's very common for them to get a facial nerve pulsey. And so that's another thing I'd watch out for is if it does happen to occur here in this bone and be edema that's compressing the nerve or if it's directly kind of infecting the nerve itself that's going to cause a facial nerve pausy. And so I would watch for something like a seventh a seventh nerve pausy. So a cranial nerve seven pausy is also a pretty common clinical manifestation. So again this patient's going to have some pretty significant ear pain. and it's most often pretty significant. Nocturnal is another common one. They can have cranial nerve 7 pausy. The other thing I would watch is because this bacteria is really damaging the tissue in here. It starts to it tries its best to heal but it does lay down a very very thick granulation tissue. It seems to be somewhat pathommonic from malignant totitis externa. So watch out for the presence of granulation tissue on otoscopy. All right. So the big thing here that I want you to know is in malignatitis externa it's really not going to be a super common one es unless the patient has diabetes and they're imuno compromised of some sort they'll probably come in with what seems like an ear infection a lot of ear pain they may even have odorhea there may be possibility of odorhea as well but the pain is going to be really really bad oftent times at night there's going to be fever sometimes the pain can even extend over to the skull base because of the osteomiitis and so they may pain at the skull base. You're going to see facial nerve pauses potentially. That's a really concerning one. If you look in their ear, you'll see a lot of edema, but you'll see a lot of areas of dead tissue and debris called granulation tissue. But again, I think that's the real key thing here. But one other concept is just imagine here is where it is. I just want you guys to get an appreciation of this. Here's where the infection is. It's here. But they have those gateways. What are those gateways? The fissures of Santorini. And in those scenarios, look where it can travel, dude. It can travel back here, right, to the skull base. It can travel here to the TMJ, right? It can travel all over the dang place. It can travel to the mastoid process. You guys get the point. And so, what I want you guys to know is that this can really cause a significant amount of problems. And sometimes if it gets near the skull base, it could even start affecting like things like your jugular fammen, which you have, you know, a lot of vessels in that. You can even affect other cranial nerves as well. And so really really important to understand that concept here is the the the capability of this infection is to spread to the bone and that's what makes this one so detrimental. All right. Well that covers this part here on otitis external. Let's move on to the complications of acutitis media. I'll see you back at the original board. All right. So let's move on to the complications of acutitis media. So when we talk about this one same thing you can get hearing loss when you have acutitis media. It's pretty straightforward to think about the reasons why. But what I want to do is I want to talk about something. So with acutitis media that in itself right can cause conductive deafness. The reason why is it can cause two things. One is reduced uh I'd say decreased mobility let's go with that decreased mobility of tempanic membrane and also just the eusion that fluid in the middle ear is also going to kind of create this environment where it's going to kind of cause this problem. I mean, you think about this. If you have some fluid, all of this eusion, that's going to make it harder for the sound waves to be able to move through the middle ear and then actually allow for that stapes to tap onto the oval window, right? The other thing is if you have all of this fluid and it's pushing on the tempanic membrane, it's bulging it outwards, which then whenever it needs to compress and decompress, it doesn't really move much. That's less vibration in the oicles, less tapping on the oval window. Less tapping on the oval window leads to less fluid fill vibrations in the inner ear and less action potentials being carried down the vestibular cclear nerve to the auditory center in the brain. And so because of that you'll perceive the sounds as being less. Now here's the thing. Acutitis media can lead to these events but also here's one other thing I need you to remember. Auditis media can also lead to a couple other issues which is important. So autitis media can also lead to something called a cholesttoma. So it can lead to a cholest. It can lead to a tempanic membrane perforation and it also also can lead to what's called labyrinthitis. Now in these scenarios because auditis media can trigger these three events that also can cause deafness and here's what I want you to remember. So this is how itself causes a conductive deafness. But acutitis media can cause a choleststema tempanic membrane perforation and labyrinthitis. With a cholest this is going to cause conductive deafness. Tempyanic membrane perforation you're not going to have mobility of the tempanic membrane. And cholest it affects the oicles. less movement of the oicles. Labyrinthitis is an inner ear problem. So these here we'll talk about this as an o overarching theme here is that acutitis media can cause conductive deafness via this mechanism and it can also cause conductive deafness via these complications. But with labyrinthitis that's causing sensory neural deafness which you want to remember and we'll talk about that a little bit later. All right. So, with that being said, again, we got to go back to our testing, the Weber and Renee test. With this scenario, it's the same exact dang thing. The Weber, you're affecting it because you have something obstructing the air conduction. So, because of that, what will happen? This will cause the sound to lateralize to which ear? To the affected or to the bad ear. because again we have a reduction in that air conduction which then allows for most of that kind of movement most of that sound that's interpreted to be carried via the bone. So again that's going to be to the bad ear. So you're going to have that concept. The Renee test is going to be a negative Renee test and the reason why is because you have an obstruction of some sort or decreased mobility of the tempanic membrane that's reducing the air conduction. So now you're going to be depending upon the bone conduction. And so with this one, we have a negative Renee test or we say bone conduction is greater than air conduction, which is not normal. All right. So again, in the scenario, what you're thinking about here is that you have air moving in to hit the tempanic membrane. You have bone conduction moving to hit the inner ear. What's being affected in these conditions is you're having a problem with air conduction. And as a result, most of the information is moving via bone conduction. And that's what's happening in conductive deafness. That's what's really really critical to remember. All right, that's the hearing loss. So what I want you to take away from acutitis media, its complications and acutitis externa is all of them can cause conductive deafness. Weber lateralization to the bad ear because what are we depending upon now? Bone conduction. Any conductive deafness, bone conduction is going to be amplified. Same thing with the Renee test. Bone conduction is going to be more amplified than air conduction. Let's now talk about another complication. This is a really nasty one. A nasty one of acutitis media is mastoiditis. If you get an infection of the middle ear, what can happen is it can spread via these like little holes. So like little antrum that can move into let's say it kind of moves backwards and comes right into this area. Here's the mastoid, right? So here's going to be the mastoid sinus. So here's the mastoid sinus. And you have a bunch of like air cells. All of these little pockets are air cells. What happens is the infection spreads and it gets into the mastoid sinus and it starts causing some nasty problems. So this infection gets here and what it starts doing is it starts kind of breaking these bony septa between the air cells. When I break the bony septa of the air cells, I create this big coalescent mastoid cavity. And all that happens is is this thing gets filled with pus. It's filled with a bunch of pus material. So that's what happens is what I want you to remember here is in this patient they have acute otitis media. So they have acute otitis media. It spreads where? To the mastoid sinus. And then what happens is the infection destroys the air cells and then you have one coalescent cavity filled with pus. or we'll put perulent material. Now with that being said, that is how a person gets mastoiditis is they have auditis media. That infection moves into the mastoid sinus. That infection as it kind of moves here starts breaking breaking breaking down more of the air cells. As you break down the air cells, it becomes one big cavity fil. And here's the thing, you think, oh well, if that's the case, can't it just drain back into the middle ear? No. it becomes so clogged up that now all of this starts kind of becoming enlarged. And as it becomes enlarged and more enlarged and more inflamed, it becomes very visibly evident when you're you're actually um examining the patient. And so now what happens is the mastoid process becomes really enlarged and swollen and tender. And so what becomes the primary clinical manifestation is we say that they have a mastoid process edema and swelling. And it's so much swelling that what it does is it pushes the ear outward and forward. And that's really really a key clinical differentiation here is once you start having this patient who had acutoitis media and all of a sudden they got this big old goober in the back that when you press it's like ah you know or it's swollen it's red and it's so swollen that it actually starts to push the ear outward and forward that's when you start being concerned for mastoid ititis. Now, one of the big things with mastoiditis is that yes, they're going to have all of the same kind of clinical pictures. They're going to have otalgia, right? They're going to have a lot of that deep ear pain. They're going to have fever, but one of the other clinical manifestations that's really, really critical here is they have that mastoid process or that post-urricular tenderness and swelling and orythemma. And that's going to push the ear outward and forward. So, you're going to see all the same clinical features of acuteitis media, otalgia, fever, and then what else? the mastoid process swelling. What you get really concerned about here is look what runs through this kind of like anterior to the mastoid sinus and in the posterior wall of the middle ear. There's this nerve. What's this nerve here? And I kind of annotate this one here. This nerve is called cranial nerve 7. And as you can see, cranial nerve 7 runs through the posterior wall, kind of comes down and then pops out here. This can easily get damaged and because of that what's another clinical manifestation that you have to worry about a seventh nerve pausy. So one of the things that we also get kind of concerned about is a cranial nerve seven pausy. So these are the things I want you to think about with mastoidisitis is ootalgia fever potentially a seventh nerve pausy but the biggest thing is the swelling and tenderness andthemma of the mastoid process that it pushes the ear outward and forward because of how nasty this thing can get it can sometimes form abscesses and so sometimes we actually do have to scan these patients to see does it become a fluctuant so that's one thing I would actually also say if you tap on that and it's really mushy like it's like a water bed and it's fluctuant That would be concerning that it now became an abscess and you actually might have to go and actually drain that and do some surgical intervention. So that's really really critical because that can also occur in this condition. All right, cool. Mastoiditis, we got that one. Really really important you remember this one. Cholestyoma is another complication. How this happens is actually really interesting. So when a patient gets you have to remember eusions like having ustation tube dysfunction puts you at risk of developing otitis media with an eusion. These eusions can then become infected and cause acute otitis media. But what happens is usually in patients who get recurrent acute otitis media, they develop these scenarios where they create retraction of the tempanic membrane. Now you guys remember what I told you that happens is when you start having this retraction of the tempanic membrane, it can create a little pocket if you will. So imagine here that this is a person. We start off here. They start off and they have we're going to say this is a patient who has recurrent acutitis media and they develop a retraction pocket because remember whenever you get the inflammation of the yeastian tube it creates a negative pressure in the middle ear which sucks the tempanic membrane inward. Right? I told you that it kind of creates a little retraction. That retraction event allows for debris, cellular debris, squamma cells, keratin to build up in that retraction pocket. So then you get this keratin debris that gets in there. So here's the retraction pocket that we formed. And then let's represent the debris with this orange color. So here some of the squee cell debris starts kind of getting in there. What happens is that eventually this pocket starts to erode into the middle ear cavity. This thing literally, I'm not even kidding. Watch this. It starts to erode its way in to the middle ear cavity. So, it kind of breaks through the tempanic membrane and it's usually at the pars flaccida, the top part of the tempanic membrane. And then you get this like nasty kind of area here where it broke through. And now all of this keratin debris is sitting in this middle ear. And then what it starts to do is it can start to invade onto the bones. It can start causing destruction of the oicles. And it can also move what's into that little antrum. That little antrum leads to the mastoid sinus. So this is what we see is this nasty cholestatoma that what happens over time is that this cholest can lead to some nasty issues. So the cholest which is this big keratin debris and squamic cell debris that keeps migrating inward into the middle ear can destroy the oicles and it can also do what? invade the mastoid sinus and that's what puts you at risk for mastoid ititis and it also can destroy the oicles and if you destroy the oicles what can that do that can lead to deafness. So this is why they get conductive deafness. If you invade the mastoid sinus, they can get mastoidisitis because it can obstruct the mastoid sinus. And you if you reduce that ventilation and drainage from the the actual mastoid sinus and that can lead to mastoiditis. So here's what I want you to remember. Callestoomas occur from patients who have chronic ustation tube dysfunction that creates recurrent events of acutitis media that cause a retraction pocket. That retraction pocket gets filled with keratin debris. As it gets filled with keratin debris and it continues to invade into the middle ear, it becomes a cholestatoma. The cholestat can destroy oicles and invade the mastoid sinus. And again, what can this lead to? Deafness. What can this lead to? Mastoiditis. Let's actually write this down. So, this can lead to deafness. Which type? Conductive deafness. And this can lead to mastoiditis. The reason why this is so critical is that often times we have to actually remove the cholestatoma and we have to repair the oicles, repair the tempanic membrane and cut out the mastoid sinus to do a mastoid ectomy. That's why it's critical to know. Last thing is when we think about a cholestatoma, they'll present maybe with deafness, maybe they'll present with symptoms of mastoiditis, right? They may even present because of all of this like nasty debris. Another thing that's also critical is that this stuff can really cause a nasty odorhea. And so I would also look for the term a foul smelling odora and that's because of all that squamicell debris kind of getting trapped in that area of the middle ear and that's going to be a really really critical one. So watch out for the foul smelling odora. That's probably a tellt tell sign. You also want to watch out for this deafness, this conductive deafness. These are the probably the two biggest ones. But to add on to that, whenever you have these types of presentations, you should take a look in the middle ear. I mean, look at the actual ear. So, you should do an otoscopic exam. What you'll notice is you'll notice the retraction pocket and you'll notice this like brown mass that's near the top part of the tempanic membrane within that retraction pocket. And sometimes this thing is pretty like look nasty looking. All right. And so that's the key thing is you're looking for a retraction pocket and you're looking for this brown mass which we're going to call the keratin debris. So two things you're going to want to notice. See if you can find a retraction pocket. And in that retraction pocket is going to sit some keratin debris. And usually that keratin debris is kind of like a brown orangish appearing mass. So we'll say a brown mass. All right, that's the key things that I want you guys to be able to recognize. So look for the otoscopic exam findings. Look for the foul smelling odora and look for the deafness due to the destruction of those oicles. That's a key thing. All right. So far, hearing loss and we already talked about how cholest can cause this type of hearing loss. We got that down with conductive. We got mastoiditis. We got cholesttoma. What else we got? We kind of talked about this one a little bit already. So it'll be a quick little reminder, but whenever a patient has acutitis media, it's pretty straightforward. Think about this. You have this middle ear fusion, this infected fluid. It's building up pressure, dude. So because of that, you're having a high pressure, high middle ear pressure because of an acutitis media, right? So you have a high middle ear pressure. And what happens is is if that pressure builds up enough, it can cause a perforation in the tempanic membrane. Now, whenever you perforate that tempanic membrane, what's going to happen is you're going to create a little hole. So, let's actually draw like a small little perforation here. There's going to be a little hole. Now, that now allows for communication of the contents from the middle ear into the external ear. And so, what you're going to notice is all of this infected fluid is going to ooze out. So what is going to be the common clinical manifestation? It's going to be odora. Now whenever a patient has odorhea, you start thinking could this be malignantitis externa, otitis externa. You often don't think about acutitis media unless they perfed. So what happens is is usually on the exam you'll have a patient has odora. And here's the classic clinical case. They're going to have otalgia prior because of this high middle ear pressure. So because of this high middle ear pressure, they're going to present with otalgia. And that otalgia or that ear pain, they're going to have a perforation. That perforation in the tempanic membrane is going to cause a sudden relief of otalgia. And that sudden relief in combination with some odora is really gonna start making you think about a a perforated tempanic membrane. Right? So the presence of odora with otalgia that then has a sudden relief of what they feel is pressure is really suggestive of a perf. So what you're going to want to do is take a look. And when you take a look to your surprise, guess what you'll find? you'll find a perforated tempanic membrane. Now again, think about this with a perforated tempanic membrane. What else would this patient potentially have? They may have some worse hearing. All right? So they may have some conductive deafness. Again, that's common because again, when you think about the perforation of the tempanic membrane, you're now affecting the vibrations of the tempanic membrane. You're affecting the vibration of the oicles, the tapping on the oval window. But we know that acutitis media, cholestatoma, and a perf and panic membrane all can cause conductive deafness. What causes another type of deafness that could be a complication? Labyrinthitis. Here's what I want you to think about. Labyrinthitis, it is a potential complication of acuteitis media. It's not super common. There's two different types of inner ear infections. One is called vestibular nitis. Now, there is a difference. I actually want you to know this. This is not the same as vestibular nuritis. These are not the same thing. All right? Not the same thing. Vestibular nuritis is primarily inflammation uh usually of the vestibular cclear nerve due to some type of a a viral infection. Usually labyrinthitis is inflammation of the inner ear structures particularly the cookia and the vestibule. That's the difference here. So let me explain something. In a patient who has labyrinthitis, you have a cutitis media. What happens is this infection, there's a little window here called the round window. That's where this the stapes kind of like you have the round window and the oval window, right? So sometimes this infection can spread through the round window. It can spread from the oval window and it can cause an infection to now move right via these windows into the inner ear and the cclear duct or into the vestibial where the mac the uh utricle and the saculle are. And because of that, guess what you can get out of this? You can get vestibular dysfunction. So now you're you're going to have vestibular dysfunction because you're going to damage the hair cells, the hair cells in the vestibule, which this controls a lot of your balance and your your overall kind of equilibrium. Then it's also going to destroy the hair cells in the cclear duct. So now you're going to get coclear dysfunction. All right. So I got the cookia all jacked up. With that being said, in this patient who has acutitis media that didn't spread via the round window, the oval window, damage the vestibular hair cells, the cclear duct hair cells, these things get all jacked up. How would that clinically present? Well, vestibular dysfunction may present with vertigo or may present with nestagmas. So may present with vertigo or may present with nestagmus. That's one potential thing I want you guys to think about. The other thing is with the colear dysfunction, this may present in two particular ways. It may present with hearing loss. And here's where I want you guys to think about this hearing loss. And it can also present with tonitis. So that ringing in the ears that you can sometimes hear when we think about this if a patient has acutoitis media all of a sudden they develop a combination of vertigo or nestagmus plus tonitis or hearing loss you now have to be concerned that they have labyrinthitis especially if it's an acute onset that is the difference between these two whereas vestibular nuritis it usually is only going to cause things like vertigo things like nestagmas and associated nausea and vomiting ing that they may have because of the vertigo. That's what I want you to remember. And one other thing here that hearing loss, what kind of hearing loss we talking about, bro? We're talking about sensory neural. So, let's write that down. This is sensory neural deafness. So, this is going to be sensory neural deafness. And that's another thing that would help you to distinguish between these two. So if you did the Weber and the Renee test on this patient, what would you potentially show? The Weber would show lateralization of the bone conduction to the good ear, right? It's going to the good ear because now there's no obstruction. Air conduction is always going to beat bone conduction. But because there's no obstruction, those things get to the inner ear at the same time. It's just in this scenario, it won't really matter because again, in this scenario, the inner ear is going to respond no matter what. uh is actually not going to respond no matter what because it's damaged. The Renee again, same thing. Air conduction is always greater than bone conduction. So in this situation, it doesn't matter. So what you'll see with the sensory neural deafness here is you'll see that the Weber the Weber will show what it'll go to the good ear. So lateralize to the good ear. That's an important thing to remember. All right. And then for the Renee, what will you notice for the Renee? It'll be a positive Renee test. And what that means is that the air conduction will be greater than bone conduction. Essentially, I like to remember that it's essentially opposite of what the conductive deafness is. Now, this is because you're damaging the inner ear. Anything usually by the point of from the the actual stapes going outwards is usually your conductive deafness. Anything from the inner ear going inwards to the actual brain stem going onwards that's going to be your sensory neurode deafness. All right. So with labyrinthitis I want you to watch out for vestibular dysfunction which can be manifested in the form of vertigo or nestagmus and colear dysfunction which can be manifested in the form of tonitis or hearing loss. All right. So let's kind of go through now in a scenario. Let's say that a patient came in, they had acutitis media, and then all of a sudden they developed vertigo, like an acute onset of vertigo, they develop maybe some nestagmus, they develop some hearing loss. Yes, that screams more of a labyrinthitis picture. But I think it's always important to remember, especially when we're talking about being clinicians, if a patient presents with an acute vestibular syndrome, so an acute onset of vertigo and estagmus, it's important to always consider like a central lesion as a potential cause. And that's where sometimes something called a hint exam will come into play. And a hint exam is a simple kind of like physical exam that you can do to help with a certain degree of saying I think it's unlikely to be a central lesion and they don't need imaging and it supports more of a peripheral lesion. And so a peripheral lesion in this case would be something like there's something wrong with the inner ear. There's something wrong with the vestibular cclear nerve. There's nothing wrong in this scenario with the brain stem or with the higher control centers inside the brain. That's what's really important to differentiate. So we do this the hints exam is a head impulse. That's the HI, the nestagmus, and the test of skew. So that's where we get the hints exam. What you do is with the head impulse, you just kind of have them keep their eyes fixated on your nose and then you quickly turn their head. Normal vestibular ocular reflex should be that your eyes, if you have them look at you and you kind of have them turn their head quickly, they should be able to stay fixated on your nose. They shouldn't have something called a corrective sacad. So corrective sacad means that if you had them kind of like you wanted them to fixate on your nose and you kept turning their head to the right and they went in that direction and they beat backwards. You see how that kind of happens? You turn their head to the right and then they beat backwards or you turn their head to the left and they beat backwards. That corrective cacod tells me that there's an abnormality in the vestibular ocular reflex. There's something going on maybe in the inner ear or the vestibular cclear nerve. So if I have them turn to the right and keep fixated on my nose, then what should happen is this would be the normal response. you have them turn their head to the right but they are able to fixate. This is a normal response. All right. So that tells me that there's a normal kind of vestibular ocular reflex. This right here where they keep going and then they have a corrective cacod afterwards. That corrective cacod is what's concerning. All right. And that is abnormal. All right. The next thing is I want to know nestagmas. Now nestagmus is kind of like a beating of the eyes. So you can have nestagmus and what we kind of get we're considering here is if what I'm trying to do is to determine if there's a central or peripheral lesion. If they have a normal head impulse test that kind of concerns you more potentially for a central lesion. If they have a corrective cacod from the head impulse test this suggests more of a peripheral lesion something like labyrinthitis. For nestagmas, what you want to know is is that in a central kind of lesion versus a peripheral lesion, so peripheral lesions more like labyrinthitis, this will have a usually a gazebeating nestagmus. So a gazebeating nestagmus. All right? And so that means if you have them look to the right, they're going to have that right beating nestagmus. So that's one thing that would kind of make me concerned more for a peripheral lesion. If I think about a central lesion, a central can have what really I think differentiates it is that usually peripheral won't have any kind of vertical nestagmus or torsional nestagmus. And that's really the big kind of thing here, but it can have a unidirectional nestagmus. And so that's what's really the key thing here is that it can have a vertical a vertical nestagmus and a torsional. And that's really what more I'd say likely screams a central lesion is a vertical or torsional nestagmus. So again peripheral lesions think about a gazebeating nestagmus. For a central lesion think about a vertical or torsional nestagmus. For a central lesion they should have a normal head impulse test. For a peripheral lesion they should have a corrective sacad. And then lastly is the test of skew. What you do is you take your hand over an eye, the eye, and then you look to see if their eye deviates. And usually it will deviate vertically. If it deviates vertically, that's a that's a central lesion. So if you have a vertical gaze deviation, that is a central lesion. So that should concern you for a central lesion. if there is a gaze deviation and if there is not a skew deviation. So in this scenario, let's say that we kind of represent this with positive and negative. So if there is a deviation or a skew whenever you cover their eye, that's a central lesion. If there is not any deviation with covering their eye, that is a peripheral lesion. So what you look for is you want to have a person have all three to have a peripheral uh to support more of a peripheral lesion like labyrinthitis. So if a patient came with an acute onset of vertigo nestagmus I did the head impulse and it showed a corrective sac. They have a gazebeating nestagmus without vertical or torsional nestagmus and their test of skew shows no skew deviation when you cover their eye that supports a peripheral lesion. If you have one of these that are positive you then need to be concerned it's a central lesion. You need to get imaging. All right, that's the that's the key difference here. So, that's a quick little rundown on what I want you guys to remember is in a patient who presents with an acute onset of vertigo, nestagmas, you really want to differentiate if it's a peripheral or a central vertigo. And you can do that with the hints exam. You need all three of them to support a peripheral lesion though. You only need one of these to support a central lesion. That's critical. If you have one, you get imaging. The last thing I want to talk about is the complications of acutitis media CNS infections. This is a sad one because what happens is when you think about these infections like acutitis media, if you have this infection, it's occurring here in the middle ear. What happens is you have a small little bone here called the tegment tempani. It's the roof. And this infection can easily spread via the tegment tempani to the brain or to the meningis. And so because of that, you can get an infection of the meninges. And when you get an infection of the meningis, what is that called? Menitis. If you get an infection that starts off with like cerebritis and that cerebritis becomes like you start having necrosis of that tissue in the center and then you encapsulate it and you get this walled off infection. What do we call this? A brain abscess. Right? So there's I think the two biggest things that you want to remember here is you run the risk of something called menitis and you run the risk of a brain abscess. Other things can happen like empaimeas. You can get like an epidural empa. You can get a subdural empathema and those are also something to consider but a brain abscess is definitely one to think about and menitis is definitely one to think about. Now what would be the clinical concerning symptoms? What would be some red flag signs here? Some red flag signs that make me really really concerned that the patient could have some type of intraanial extension is if they present with a very very um high fever. So high fever, headache, some type of meningial sign or a cortical sign and I'll explain what I mean with that. So headache is we have some type of dural irritation. We have some type of process here where you're causing irritation of the dura. Right? Another one is fever and usually this is a pretty high fever especially menitis. And then the next one is we talk about meningial signs. So the meningial signs are your nucal rigidity, your brzinskies, your kernigs, right? that would support more of the menitis picture potentially, right? And even the jolt accentuation maneuver. This would push you to go ahead and get like something like a what maybe like a lumbar puncture. And then the other one is the cortical signs. And the cortical signs, what that means is maybe if this is in the temporal lobe, which is common with otitis media, you can get things like aphasia, seizures, contrlateral hemoparesis. So these are things to definitely consider as well. So watch out for any kind of cortical signs like aphasia, like weakness, uh like seizures, like cognitive or behavioral changes, which are also something to consider as well. But this really makes me concerned about a CNS infection. Woo! We talked a lot about ear infections and really how they they occur, what they can present like, what the most common pathogen is, and what could happen if you don't treat these properly or recognize how severely they can spread and cause a ton and plethora of complications. So, it's really critical to be able to identify these. And so, let's now take the time to say, how can I systematically in a way without going through all of this because I'm a clinician. I I can't I ain't got time for all this all the time. How can I systematically evaluate a patient to come up with the diagnosis, the associated complications, and treat it? Zach, get me to the I need I need a little bit quicker. Let's get there. Let's talk about that now. All right, my friends. Let's now move on to the diagnostic approach to ear infection. So, what's the most common kind of chief complaint probably with across the board with the Titus media and anditis concern? It's probably going to just be ear pain. So, it's probably going to begia, right? So, that's the first thing. But, I think that what comes along with otalgia is before you start really kind of like, you know, thinking about like, all right, is it malignantitis externa or I'm sorry, is it otitis externa? isotitis media is there complications the first thing that I like to always kind of look through in the vignette or when I'm doing a history is are there any red flag signs that are associated with this because what this would tell me is it would tell me about things like malignantitis extern what would that look like well their rotalgia would be like really really bad and on top of that they probably have somewhere in their history that they're uncontrolled diabetic maybe they have an imunocmpromised condition of some sort or they're on an imunocmpromised regimen that would make me think about malignant dyter externa potentially another one is they got cranial nerve deficit so if I have latalgia with cranial nerve deficit, especially since the cranial nerve seven, facial nerve runs through the middle ear, especially within that facial canal. That's a very prominent area that if the infection is really extensive, it's spreading through the bone, it's spreading into other areas like the mastoid, it's spreading towards the skull base near where the styobasto, you can definitely get a cranial nerve 7 paly. So, watching out for kind of like a unilateral one-sided like facial weakness, right? Including the forehead. That's a really important one. um post-urricular swelling, tenderness, maybe it's a fluctuant kind of like mass. Um that would really concern me about a mastoid ititis picture and they would have a pretty bad fever as well. Um headache, fever, meningial signs, they have neck stiffness, they have that nuclear rigidity, right? They have the kernigs, basins, the jolt accentuation maneuver or cortical signs. So altered mentation, u maybe they have seizures, maybe they have some type of evasion, maybe they have a hemiperis, all of those things would concern me about a CNS infection potentially. And then if they had the acute onset vertigo with nestagmas and maybe hearing loss, it would concern me more instead of acute vestibular nuritis, it would concern me more particularly for a bacterial len a bacterial labyrinthitis. And so these are things that makes me kind of like say, ooh, this is a patient who probably does have one of these things that I was talking about, but my worry is that it got complicated. So they had an acutoitis media and otitis externa that then aggressively got worse. And then my decision from there is going to say, "Okay, I'll still go through my steps that I'll probably go over here on the left, but I'm probably going to need some imaging of some sort." So that's what I want you guys to think about. All right? So it may push you for imaging because acutitis media, acutitis externa, those are usually clinical diagnoses. So let's kind of say that in this patient that you don't have any red flag signs. You got time then to say, okay, let me really start thinking about okay, is this aitis media or itis external? So what I want you to do is inspect the ear. Inspect the external ear, inspect the ear canal, look at the tempanic membrane via otoscopy. When you do that, what you're going to find is a lot of genuine helpful information. One is if I pull on the PA or I push on the tragus and it's extremely painful, that really makes me think about an otitis external. And on top of that, if I also see some swelling there, and on top of that, their external acoustic miatus is really swollen. Maybe it's red, maybe there's some odor there. Um, but the big thing is the TM either if I can I want to see it. That's really, really important. We want it to be intact. Now, sometimes there's so much swelling that you won't even be able to see the tempanic membrane. But the biggest thing is that when you look at the ear and you see that there's a lot of swelling and irritation and when you look in the ear, you see how the external acoustic matus has a lot of this perent material. It's a lot of swelling. It's red and it kind of can see the tempanic membrane, but not completely. We just want to make sure it's not perfed. The reason why is it kind of helps us in making decisions about treatment and also helps us to make sure that this patient doesn't also potentially have an acutoitis media that is the source of their odor. Okay, that's one thing to think about. Now from here the next thing is what if I don't have pain with pulling of the pen? What if I don't have pain with pushing of the tragus? In this patient when I inspect there I really want to look at this. When I look if I see a normal tempanic membrane what you're looking at is your your basic landmarks right so you have this whole area here called the pars tensa you have this one up here called the pars flaccida you have the handle of the malas you have the short process of the malas and then you have this basic thing down here called the umbbo and you'll see this little area here called the cone of light right what's really really important is you want to try to be able to visualize these things but the biggest thing here is you want to say is there bulging of the tempanic membrane Is there redness of the tempanic membrane? Can I see fluid behind the tempanic membrane? But the most important is bulging. All right, so you want to be able to see that. So you see how this person has both bulging and it's pretty red. And over here we can see bulging and definitely a lot of redness. This is really characteristic of an acutitis media. So if they have the clinical symptoms and the otoscopic findings, boom, you have auditis media. Now what about the patient who does have pain with pulling of the pen? No pain with pulling the pen, no pain with pushing the tragus. You do an autoscopy and it's just red. But it's not bulging. Can I make the diagnosis? No. So when this is not common, but especially I'd say more in the pediatric population, we would definitely go this next step. You want to see is there fluid behind the middle ear. You want to know if there's an eusion essentially. So what we would do is we have an alternative to go to the next step. We want to see is the tempanic membrane moving. And that's really the key thing because if it's not moving that means that there's a really significant risk of an an eusion there and that's causing pressure to build up and it's not allowing the tempanic membrane to move and that would help me with the diagnosis. But how do I do that? That's when we do something called pneumaticoscopy or tempenometry. Pneumaticoscopy is an easy one. It's a bedside one but it involves a lot of objective kind of evidence and and a lot of skill and also a proper um patient who's going to work with you, right? which is harden the peds. But essentially what you're going to do is you're going to kind of use your otoscope. You're going to then push in some air. And when you push that air in, it should then push the tempanic membrane in. And then when you kind of release it, it should create a negative pressure. And that tempanic membrane should kind of move back to its normal position. So you're looking for mobility. If there is no movement, that means that that's a concerning feature. That means that this is possibly an eusion behind the tempanic membrane in the middle ear. If there's normal mobility, all right, you're good. But again, this is more of an objective thing in patients who are moving a lot. It's hard to see. You can't really tell. We go with tempenometry. This is definitely utilized, but I'd say it's more often utilized as a follow-up measure and especially in eusions and acutitis media. Um, so what we would do is essentially it's kind of like oluding and it's sending a particular kind of like wave and it's giving you all kinds of information that basically it measures like the compliance essentially of the tempanic membrane and it's going to give you kind of this graphical representation and tell you if there's normal mobility or not. So it's definitely a little bit more objective and easier in the patient who's kind of really really moving a lot and you can't visualize while you're doing this. Either way, what I'm looking for is no mobility or normal mobility. All right. In this situation here, if we got a reduced mobility or no mobility, that's auditis media because you have the clinical symptoms, but you don't have all of the actual otoscopic findings. All right? So, we want to know that they don't have um we want to know if they have any kind of reduced mobility. Essentially, we need to know if they have an eusion. All right? So, if they have decreased or no mobility, there's an eusion present combined with the actual clinical symptoms, we make the diagnosis. If the mobility is completely normal, that's when we started thinking about could this be something else? Right? So we don't have an eusion present. What else could it be? All right. So that's really really really important to think about that. So bulging tempanic membrane clinical symptoms that really seals the diagnosis. If you have the clinical symptoms and redness, it's not enough. Confirm that there is decreased mobility with pneumatic autotoscopy or tempenometry. All right. What if I have another patient that I look and I notice that there's a lot of drainage. And when I look on the otoscopic exam, I see this. There's a tempanic membrane PF. That's usually a complication of in this scenario, maybe it could be of acutitis media. It could be barot trauma. There's a lot of different reasons, but in this scenario here, that could be a potential complication of acuteitis media. All right? That's something I want you guys to think about here. especially if it was accompanied by odoria because all you did was open up the opportunity for all that fluid and pus to leak out of the middle ear if there was a middle ear infection. Now the other thing is if a patient has odora right and it's maybe really foul smelling and mal odorous and then you look into the actual odoscop otoscope and when you see it you see a retraction kind of pocket filled with like this brown yellow debris right that could be a cholest. So you guys see how there is kind of like this area here. This is a nasty cholest. There's actually kind of a tempanic membrane perf here because it does erode through the tempanic membrane. But this right here is very very characteristic of a cholestatoma. We see this in patients with very again consistent um you know acutitis media or eusions where you generate that negative pressure inside of the middle ear that kind of sucks the tempanic membrane creates that little kind of retraction pocket. So it's pretty persistent and recurrent acutitis media or fusions. All right, especially with chronic ustation tube dysfunction. Now when you see this you you should get imaging because again it helps you to determine at least in this scenario the extent. So has it kind of extended into the mastoid sinus? Has it extended and caused a lot of destruction of the oicles. And so here you can kind of compare and what you'll notice is you'll see that there's kind of a pretty significant area here. That's a cholestatoma there. you can appreciate. Um, we can kind of zoom in on and again you can compare here to this one. You'll see that there's kind of like this hypo dense collection there. That's another cholest. And then here we can actually see how much that this thing is really eroded to. So there's actually a bone here. There's supposed to be um the incis. And it looks like that thing just pretty much like eroded away. Um, and so that's that's really important. And again, this is malas just so you can kind of see that one. But that's what I would want you guys to think about is that when you have no red flag signs, the first thing that you want to think about is how do they respond when I pull on the penna? How do they respond when I push on the tragus? Do they have any drainage? Look in the ear. If you look in the ear, you see a normal TM but you see a lot of swelling of the external acoustitis external. You see a bulging tempanic membrane, acuteitis media. You got a red tempanic membrane, but you do pneumaticcopy, tempenometry, and it shows low mobility, you got a teotitis media. You got a odora but you look and there's a hole in the tempanic membrane. That odor is probably from a middle ear infection that probably again perf the tempanic membrane from high pressure and drained out. You got a cholesttoma could be recurring acutitis media usian tube dysfunction persistent in eusions that cause negative pressure create a retraction pocket and you get a cholestatoma. And then you want to look at the CT scan to determine the extent because that's going to guide surgical planning. All right. So if you got the red flag signs, right, and we talked about these, what would that help you with? Well, I'm thinking about complications now. I'm thinking that I had an acutitis media that spread. I think that they have an acutitis externa that in the clinical scenario that fits it became malignotitis externa. That's the thing I want you guys to think about. So, if I have these suspicions, what would it be? Just to go back and remind yourself, if I have severe and a diabetic and imunocmpromised, I'm thinking about the patient who has a malignotitis external, especially if they have a cranial nerve 7 pulsey, they have extensive amount of pain, especially around the skull base. I'm definitely thinking about that one. Um if I got cranial nerve deficits definitely makes me think about malignotitis external or mastoiditis. Um if I got some kind of like poster swelling and tenderness definitely makes me think about mastoiditis. If I have any headache, fever, meninja cortical signs, this is the worst case scenario. I'm worried that it extended into the central nervous system. And these scenarios you can probably do pretty well with saying let me get a CT scan. Let me look at the middle ear. Let me look at the sinuses. Let me look at the bones. Let me even get a part of the brain to even get a portion there. So, I'd probably be doing a CT scan, really getting a view of the temporal bones and really also looking again at the brain too, just to make sure that I'm kind of not missing if this has spread beyond the middle ear, um, or even from the external ear. So, when you do that, what you'll notice is a bunch of different things. For example, if I had this patient who I got a CT scan because they presented with some symptoms like of I see some skullbased osteomiitis, that would really be scary. So you can see over here this patient's got a lot of inflammation of their external acoustic miatus. And then over here I can see that there's some bony erosions. That's pretty concerning. They probably got some skullbased osteo. And this could be malignotitis externa. Right? So you can again you can kind of see this one here kind of like a little bit of some air coming through here. Look how much swelling there is here. And you can see there's some bony erosions there. This is pretty consistent. So that's a pretty nasty one for um a malignotitis externa. All right. The next thing here is I think once you kind of have a concern that this patient has malignotitis external, you'll notice a lot of granulation tissue also. So when you look on the otoscopic exam, you'll notice a lot of this granulation tissue. You should try and do a swab of that. I think that's a really really important one because it helps to guide your antibiotic choice. The next thing that I want you guys to think about is if we did this and a patient has an opacified mastoid sinus or they got a coalescent mastoid sinus. So for example, if I'm looking here, this is what a mastoid kind of sinus should look like. This is a really really opacified. So this isn't a cons this is a concern that the patient had maybe an acutitis media and this spread via the mastoid andrum into the mastoid air cells and it started causing some infection here. So this is all like pus material. What can happen though is that can cause consistent destruction of the actual mastoid air cells to the point where the bone starts to get pretty much ripped away and what you're left with is you're left with this big kind of like coalescent area and that's a really nasty concern. But also another really bad concern here is we can see here is the mastoid's u sinus is really really filled with perent material. Look at this. You got a vein nearby a cerebral venus sinus that's getting kind of inflamed and this can cause a thrombosis. So that's another really really big concern here. All right. So this would really be concerning for again a extension of the infection into the mastoid sinus and this would again help us to confirm the diagnosis but also again may guide some of the management. All right. The next thing that I want you guys to think about is again in this patient who has that headache, that fever, those menial, the cortical signs. If you do this and you see, okay, they have a normal CT scan, you maybe consider menitis, and you do an LP. But if you look at it and you see something like this, you're like, oh my gosh, this infection extended into the brain and they got an abscess, right? So that that's a pretty concerning one. And these usually always have to get like an MRI to really fully confirm it. And so that's something that you would probably end up getting to see. Usually these are in the temporal lobe. Usually these are in the cerebellar lobe just given the location of where they are. All right, but that's something that you would want to consider again as a possible complication. So the whole purpose of this is that you do not get CT scans routinely for patients who have acutoitis media um acutotis externa and technically you don't even have to get a CT scan of a patient with mastoiditis. I think getting a CT scan of the ma for a mastoiditis is also sometimes a little bit controversial. Um but I think it's helpful to know the extent of it and also again it can help to guide a little bit more of the management. So again that could be controversial but at least for these you're getting a CT scan to look for complications. All right. Now let's also say that I have a patient here that um I have a suspicion of labyrinthitis. What would that look like? Again, that's that acute onset of vertigo, nestagmus, maybe some hearing loss. That's really going to concern me that we've involved the vestibule, we've involved the cookia, and that's when I want to start digging into that one. What would I do with this one? Well, the first thing you need to know is when a person presents with an acute onset of vertigo and nestagmus, you want to definitely consider the possibility of a central lesion that's causing this like a stroke, a tumor, or is it a peripheral cause like labyrinthitis. So, what do you do? You do something called a hints exam. And a hint exam is basically you're going to go through and look to see if you do a head impulse. Do they whenever you do this you want to know do they look if they basically you have them you hold their head you have them look directly at you we talked about this in the whiteboard and whenever you turn their head you tell them to keep your eyes fixated on my nose when you do it what you want to know is that they can keep their eyes fixated if they look in the direction which they're moving and then they correct backwards that's a corrective sacad and that really screams more of a peripheral cause um the other thing is that you want to look for a nestagmus is it really just in the direction that they're gazing in that they have an estagmus or is it vertical? Is it torsional? Those are usually screaming more of a central cause, right? So, if it's just purely horizontal in a direction gaze, that screams more of a labyrinthitis or peripheral lesion. And the last one is skew deviation. If you take your hand over their eye and you have them kind of just look at you, you'll notice that they have a deviation upwards, that screams more of a central lesion as compared to a peripheral. So again recapping that if I do that I do the head impulse and it's abnormal because they have a corrective sacad that screams peripheral. If they have a horizontal that's usually in the gaze direction nestagmus that's going to be peripheral and if they have no skew deviation that is going to be suggesting a peripheral lesion. You're not going to need to get any imaging. And the patient who does have a head impulse test that's normal. So in other words you're turn because you're testing their vestibular ocular reflex. If they do that and it's they're actually able to keep their eyes fixated on you, that could be a sign of a central lesion, right? And if they have vertical torsional nestagmas, that could be a sign of a central lesion. And again, vertical skew deviation, a central lesion. In those patients, you want to get imaging. So, you want to actually do brain imaging to really kind of figure out what the heck is going on. All right, so any one of these are positive, you get imaging. If they're all negative, you can feel pretty good about a peripheral lesion. All right, let's then move into the next component here, which is we've diagnosed everything. How do we treat? Well, in not otitis extern, it's actually pretty straightforward. A lot of it's going to be pain control because it's extremely painful. Incaids, acetammenophen is going to be your go-to. Um, oral toileting essentially, it's just maybe you'll kind of do will kind of clean out sometimes you'll actually irrigate the ear and clean out any kind of perlline debris and material. So, that's one potential consideration. And it's also just again getting all that debris out, removing as much as you can so that you can get the medication into where it needs to go. Um, I've actually seen sometimes they're so swollen and ademous that you can't even get the ear medication to move into the area of injury because of how much swelling there is. In those scenarios, you might have to place an earwick. And the earwick is going to kind of span that space and also allow for the medications to kind of run through it and get into the area of injury proximal to that obstruction. But the key thing is going to be antibiotics and it's going to be again topical in this case. So you're going to be giving odic antibiotics. The one that you want to consider is neomy which is an amoglycosside polymix B and hydrocortisone. These are going to be for patients who have otitis external and it's going to be really good at eradicating primarily sudamonus. And we'll talk about this in a second. This can't be given if they got a if they got a ruptured tempanic membrane. All right, we'll talk about that in a second. But again, it's going to be very helpful because the steroid will reduce the edema and the polymix B and the neomyin will eradicate the pathogens. All right, the cyproloxin and the dexamethasone is going to be doing the same thing except this one is the one that you give if they do have a perforated tempanic membrane. So again, when you do your odoscopic exam, you want to note, do they have a tempanic membrane perforation? All right. Another thing is if I can't see the tempanic membrane, I'm going to consider it's perforated because again I run the risk of odotoxicity if I give them the neomy. So if it is perfed or if I can't confirm that it's actually normal and in that scenario I'm going to give them cyprloxs and dexamethasone because it's not ototoxic. All right. If they don't have a tempanic membrane perforation I've completely confirmed that then I will give them neomy and polyexum and dexamethasone. The reason why is neomy carries the amoglycosside capabilities of causing otoxicity and they can lose their hearing. So that's really important to consider. All right, avoid neomy if there is that perfed tempanic membrane or you can't actually confirm if it's perfed or not. All right, auditis media. For this one, it's still going to be pain control, right? That's going to be first thing. And sometimes we then have to decide whether or not we're going to do antibiotics for these patients. Again, it's an infection primarily in the pediatric population. So there comes with some potential things that we have to discuss. Amoxicylin is probably going to be a really really common one that you're going to see across the board here. All right, it's going to eradicate streptoccus pneumonia. It's going to eradicate H flu. It's going to eradicate your morexellic catateralis. Another one that we consider in certain scenarios in which the patients had recent like antibiotics or they have other risk factors that make me concerned that they're not going to respond well to amoxicylin. I may go to augmentin which is amoxicylin clavilonic acid. In certain scenarios where a patient has an allergy to penicillans of sort, you may go with oral sephilosporin. So that's an alternative that we'll talk about. You always are going to want to try to prefer the oral route as compared to the introvenous or IM route. And then again in certain scenarios of very very concerning penicellin allergies, you may go with the zithroyc. The big thing here is that we want to try to stay away from a zithroy because you are getting species that are becoming resistant especially strep numa especially hmophus that's becoming to a zithro so this really should be kind of a really for the case has an anaphylactic reaction to any kind of like amoxicylin or you know augmenting kind of so they had a penicellin algae that's really really severe. All right, the next thing is tempanocentesis. For acutitis media, we don't do tempanoentesis unless the patient is just really not getting better and we can't figure out why. They're not responding to antibiotics. You don't do this all the time. So tempanosynthesis is really because they're just not getting better and I want to test the fluid to find out what kind of pathogen is there to direct my antibiotics. So again, it's really just going to help to guide antibiotic choice, but often times you're going to cover it with this, but if they're not getting better, that's when you may kind of push to do that. All right. So, tempanocentesthesis essentially is what it sounds like. You're sticking a needle directly through the tempanic membrane. When you puncture through, you're doing that to access that actual fluid to test it, send it off to the lab, and figure out if there's any particular pathogen and which one is going to be the the concerning one and is there any antibiotics that are sensitive or resistant to it. All right. in acutitis media in certain clinical scenarios and we'll talk about this in a little bit as we go through this step by step miringtomy which is you're cutting the tempanic membrane and you're shoving a tube in is for patients who carry this persistent like recurrent acutitis media they have recurrent eusions and it's getting to the point where they are actually having hearing loss that is affecting their ability to advance their language they're having language uage kind of disparities in those scenarios we usually push to put in tubes. So recurrent acutoisitis media that's really starting to affect them. That's when we would do this. That's really really important and we'll talk about this. So again what you're doing is you're basically what it sounds like. You're cutting a hole there. You're going to be shoving a tube into that place and it's going to allow for the drainage of any of that fluid. Whether that's a cirrus fluid, whether that's infected fluid. And again, you're trying to make sure that you're not causing this consistent fluid buildup that's leading to hearing loss that's cons contributing to their speech um kind of like not advancing their proper speech. All right? So, that's really really really critical for us to remember. Now, a lot of the times when you do these for these patients, you don't have to do a tempanosentesis. If you ever cut in and put a tube in, you're going to culture from that and you don't need to do a tempanocentesis. That's another thing to remember for this if you got to that point. All right, cool. This is a lot of information. So, what I want to do is I want to put this together in a very systematic plan. So, because when you're when you're presented a clinical scenario, you then need you need to know which one am I going to do. Dude, you hit me with a lot of stuff. I got you. All right, let's kind of go through this because a lot of the times you probably just say, "Ah, it's antibiotics. That's oral antibiotics." And you you'd be right. That's the case for most of those scenarios. What about the scenario where the patient develops complications, right? That's when we start getting into the needing of IV antibiotics, right? Which we'll get into. But again, for the most part, you'd be safe in saying there's specific antibiotics that I'm going to give this patient and we would expect them to get better, right? These other things that we talked about really comes with only specific clinical scenarios. So, let's kind of evaluate that. Let's say that I have a patient who has acutitis media. The first thing is, do they have indications for antibiotics? That's another thing we didn't even talk about that all of them are getting supportive care, but only certain patients are getting antibiotics. What are those indications? is really particularly in the pediatric population that we ask this question. In adults, they pretty much get hit with antibiotics. For pediatrics, we really need to be careful. So, the first thing is, are they really, really young? All right, less than six months, they're going to get antibiotics. If they're 6 months to two years, right, and they got bilateral acutitis media, they're getting antibiotics, right? If they have a very high degree of pain and their fever is also pretty high, they're getting antibiotics. If they're immunosuppressed where they won't be able to fight this off on their own, they're getting antibiotics. If they have a tempanic membrane perforation, that is a severe case. We need to give them antibiotics. And then lastly, if they have a colear implant, you're like, what? The reason why is with colear implants especially since strep numo is a common pathogen it can use the klear implant as an opportunity to get to the meninges and cause menitis. And so that's a really really important one. You want to prevent that. So that's why that one comes up. If they don't have it you're just going to treat them with supportive care and they should get better on their own. Most cases will but if they have these particular clinical scenarios that's or they just don't get better. So it's not just that being an indications but they also just don't get better. So you do supportive care and they don't get better. You're going to be giving them antibiotics. But you got to then say, okay, all right, I've done this. I've gone through their, you know, less than six, they're six to two months with bilateral, they're immunosuppressed, they got a perf tempanic member, they got coclear implants, all of these things, or they just didn't get better with supportive care after two to three days. I'm going to give them antibiotics. But the antibiotic choice comes with the penicellin allergy question or not. So do they get a penicellin allergy? Because if they don't, well then what do we say? It's a moxicylin or clavilonic acid which is added on. The question that comes is which one do I choose determines if they've had recent antibiotic use. That's the probably the most common thing that they're going to present is they'll say oh you have a a patient maybe this is a seven-year-old patient they have a ketoitis media but they were treated with amoxicylin about you know 14 days ago for something okay then this isn't going to be the one they could have had an opportunity to have resistance. I'm going to go with augmented but if they haven't had that then you're going to be okay and you can just do a moxicylin. All right. So that's the decision process that I want you to think. If they do have that penicellin allergy, it comes down to is it severe? So in other words, it is a type one reaction or a type two reaction. I'm sorry, a type one reaction or not. So type one is anaphylaxis. If they do not and they just get like a rash or hives, you'd be okay going with an oral sephilisporn. Right? If they do have an anaphylactic, a type one reaction, you don't want to give them a sephilisporn because there's like a 3 to 10% chance of cross reactivity since they have that betalactum ring. And that's when you would go with something like a zithroyc. Right now, from here, this is how you would pretty much get most of your patients and you'd be good to go. You don't need to go any further. But let's say that, and again, this is just pointing to the point of why we try to avoid a zithroyin. We really only want to use it when we need to. But let's go to the point where you're trying all these antibiotics. Depending upon which allergy they have or not, you want to know, is it working? If it is not getting better, that is a concerning issue, right? And so, are they not getting better? All right. No, they're not. Then I'm worried that a couple things. The antibiotics aren't covering this or there is a a complication of sort. So, what you do is you ask the question is, do I need to adjust my antibiotics, right? And so, if you are adjusting your antibiotics, this is and then sometimes you may also ask the decision is are they getting worse and do I need to so they not getting any better? Do I need to do any imaging? Did it spread? But also we need to know which antibiotics to adjust with. Right? So you may do that. For example, you may and if they're on a you may go to augmentin, right? If they're on agentin, you may go to a sephilosporn, right? Those are things to consider, right? But if they do all of those things and they don't get any better, right? No improvement or they're on a zithro and they didn't get any better in general, then what do you do? You got to ask yourself, is the pathogen that's there resistant or do I not have any idea what the heck is going on? That's when I would do a tempanocentthesis, right? Because it's then going to help me to truly pick the proper antibiotic, right? If they are getting better, all right, and the symptoms are improving, well, then the next question I want you guys to always ask though, do they keep getting recurrent acutitis media? Do they keep getting eusions and now they're having hearing loss that's affecting their speech pro process? If the answer to that is yes, you need to refer them for a miringtomy with tube placement. All right? because you want to prevent those eusions from consistently causing the risk of them having hearing loss and then slowing their development of their language. That's really really important. All right, that covers this and we really really hammered into this one. And again, I'd say that you'd probably be safe just knowing this top part here, but we took it a little extra because we're ninja nerds, right? All right, let's move on to the next component here. Callessteomas are actually pretty straightforward unless they have really have obvious signs of infection. It's a surgical intervention, right? So, it's a tempanomastoidctomy. So basically what you're going to do is you're going to do tempanoplasty which is you're going to repair the eardrum and the oicles if they need it and then you're going to remove the cholest and any of the actual cholest that's in the mastoid sinus cut that thing out and kind of depending upon which type of like mastoidctomy you do that kind of guides that. So essentially that's really really important to remember that when we think about this this patient can have a clust that's really maybe involving this middle ear. It's eroding the bones. It's kind of extending into the mastoid. What we're going to want to do here is think about this, right? Let's say here we have a cholest and you can see how extensive this thing is. What we're going to do is is we're going to probably cut out this cholest. And then when we cut all of this out, you're probably going to also remove the mastoid kind of air cells and probably open it up into the external ear canal. That's the most common one, which is a canal wall uh down. There's a canal wall up approach, but the canal wall down has been shown to have a lower recurrence um of cholelestoomas, but we're going to open that up into the external ear canal, get rid of a lot of that mastoid air cells, and then on top of that, repair the tempanic membrane and then repair the osticles. That's what a tempanal mastoidctomy is done with. Right? And again, there's two different ways. Canal wall down, canal wall up. Canal wall down reduces the risk of the recurrence. the canal wall up preserves your general anatomy where you're this isn't opened up into the external ear canal but it does have a higher risk of cholesttoma recurrence which is again important to consider. All right, mastoidisitis. So again if a patient has mastoiditis so they start off with a cutitis media it then spreads into the mastoid sinus they get a mastoid infection they get that kind of posturricular tenderness and swelling pushes the actual ear outwards that maybe is enough to diagnose mastoid ititis sometimes you get some CT imaging if there's any kind of inconclusiveness if there's any concern you know that's a possibility to get a CT scan once you've diagnosed this the antibiotic regimen changes a lot so IV antibiotics are going to be the preferred way to go Because you have to think about this, this is involving like bone now. And so it's kind of like if you want to think about it, it's kind of like an osteomiitis. And that's why this is important to consider. So that's why sometimes CT imaging is actually going to be a go-to. But this is really going to be eradicating strepus pneumonia, hmophus influenza, morexa, cataralis, and any kind of anorobes that can also have spread to this area. All right. The only time you'll also do an alternative is like maybe I seem pipperil tasobactum. That's if they have some really resistant types of bacteria, right? And this is going to be in certain clinical scenarios that we'll discuss. All right? Especially like sudamonus that would be one to consider. IVcomy is really only if they have MRSA risk factors. And then tempanocentesis is pretty much every one of these patients it's necessary. You actually should get a tempanocentesis if they have a diagnosis of mastoiditis. And then miringtomy with tempanostomy 2 placement. This is going to be again something that you'll probably most likely do with these patients. And again, I would say this that if you're doing a miringtomy with tempenostomy 2 placement, you don't got to do a tempanicthesis. But again, this is something that you'll do to drain the infected middle ear fluid, improve the actual irration, and really help to kind of clear up that mastoid sinus. But sometimes even all of these things fail and you got to do a mastoidctomy. And that's removing all of the infected bone and drain if there is any abscess getting all of that out. It's going to become one big coalescent kind of cavity without any air cells. All right, that is generally a stepbystep kind of like what are the treatment options? But let's put it together. So if a patient comes in with mastoidisitis, the first question that you want to ask is have they had any recurrent acuteitis media? The reason why is if they have recurrontitis media, they probably been treated for it. And if they've been treated for it, they've been hit with antibiotics. antibiotics have an opportunity to cause the bacteria to develop enzymes that make them resistant to it, right? Or if they've gotten recent antibiotics in those scenarios, that's really important because that guides the decision-making process. Are we going to give things like this in the standard case? Are we going to give things like this in those resistant cases? So, if they do have this, that's when you're going to go with your piper and tasalum. If they got the risk of MRSA or they look like they are going to die, you'll add on the venkcomy. If they don't have any of these risk factors, then what will you do? You'll probably be fine with IV ampe and sacumn. Now, with all of these patients, you're probably going to have to at least ventilate the middle ear, and that's going to allow for proper drainage out of the mastoid sinus as well. You got to get that fluid out of there. And so, that's when you're going to do the miringtomy with the tempanostomy tube. So, again, that's why sometimes if you're doing this, you don't need to do the tempanoesis. That's an important thing to remember. Okay. Once you're doing that, you're draining, you're ventilating, and you're helping to kind of eradicate that infection. But the question then comes, are they getting any better with these therapies that you've instituted? And another question that you should ask is, do they have any kind of extra uh let's say spread beyond the mastoid sinus or spread beyond the middle ear? In those scenarios, for example, like a brain abscess, you can no longer allow for this patient to go with a miringtomy uh with tempenostomy tube placement and just antibiotics. Then you got to cut this thing out, right? So that's the question that you have to ask. If they are getting better with antibiotics and there is no extension beyond the actual mastoid and the sinus area and the middle ear, then you're probably okay to just say, let's go to oral antibiotics based upon the culture that I got from the miringtomy. When I did that, I collected some fluid, right? If not, then what are you doing? You're going to be cutting out that dang infected mastoid. So that's what I want you to remember. Risk factors. Yeah, go with the aggressive antibiotics. If not, go with ivy amplactum. Add on a marangottomy to drain the middle ear. Really help to ventilate it and help to drain the mastoid. Don't get better or it extends beyond the actual mastoid sinus. Okay, cut that thing out. It does improve, switch to oral antibiotics based upon whatever the culture came back with. That's what I want you guys to take away from this. One other thing to remember is that because um acutitis media it can cause mastoiditis, right? It can cause cranial nerve 7 pausy or it can even cause bacterial labyrinthitis. The treatment would be the exact same for a patient who had bacterial labyrinthitis. The only thing that you're probably not going to do is like a mastoidctomy. You're not going to do that. So that's one really important thing to remember. and the scenarios where it did extend to the central nervous system. That's a very specific antibiotic regimen that you'll put them on, which we talked about in that CNS infection lecture. So, go watch that if you guys need a real quick recap. So, we really went into a lot of detail on mastoidisitis, which again, I think it comes down to just you need to know the antibiotics. It's just IV is really the big thing. Unison is probably going to be your go-to. Know the miringtomy with temponostomy tube is pretty much required. And just know if they're getting better. If they're getting better, cool. You can advance to oral antibiotics. If they're not, you may have to cut out that mastoid sinus. Right? So that's the big thing for malignotitis externa. This one again, it's the same thing. It's just it's it's important to ask yourself the question, do they have some really severe presentation or a lot of risk factors where this thing can get worse really quickly. If they don't, you can probably be okay just giving them oral cyproloxin because it's going to cover the most common pathogen in the scenario like sudamonus. But in more often than not cases, the patient's going to need double sudamonus coverage. Oral cypro plus another pseudomonal antibiotic. So septacazidem is one, sephopime is another or pipper and tasobactum is another one. So that's where you have to ask yourself the question is there any skullbased extension? Is there seventh nerve pausy? Do they have imunompromised state or uncontrolled diabetes? If the answer to that is no, then you can probably just do oral cypro. All right. If the answer to that is yes, then you should do oral cypro and add on an anti-seudetonal antibiotic that is IVbased. whether that's sephop septazodine or pipper and tasobactum because you really want to get enough sudamonus coverage and that is what I want you guys to think about now when you're doing these get the culture first because it's going to help to guide the oral antibiotic transition eventually because just like mastoiditis they're going to be on antibiotics for a while man sometimes two four weeks same thing with this one they'll probably be on antibiotics because it's like an osteo essentially if it ext extended to the skull base in these scenarios you're going to be on antibiotics for a decent amount of time um and so that's really really important so that's why it's really really critical when you treat them with oral antibiotics or IV antibiotics. And it's important to remember you can monitor their ESR and CRP. This is based upon up-to-date evidence. Um, but again, I wouldn't always bank on this. Just go off of clinical symptoms as well. But again, if the ESR and the CRP are kind of continuously in this scenario dropping and their pain is improving, then you can just continue the cyprloxis in. Right? If their ESR is continuing to rise, their CRP is rising, their pain's not really improving, that's when you got to repeat the imaging, assess the extent of damage, and you may have to do a surgical intervention. You may have to debride a lot of the actual destructive tissue. All right. Woo! That was a monster lecture on um ear infections. And I really really hope that at the end of this you feel confident. I feel like I hope you guys understand it. You know it. And whenever the test comes, whenever you guys are asked questions on on the boards or in the wards, I feel like you guys feel confident and able to take this on. So, man, thank you guys so much for watching. I really appreciate you guys so much and I love you guys. I thank you guys. And as always, until next time.