Welcome back to the Ninja Nerd podcast. Today's episode's on ear infections. We've got four cases, four diagnosis, four treatments. Zach, what specifically are we talking about related to ears? >> Okay. I was going to say ears. I mean, I'd say any ear infection like particularly of the outer ear. So, we'll talk about otitis externa. We'll talk about the middle ear. Soitis media and then we'll talk a lot about the complications that can result of it. You know, usually if it's recurrent or if it's, you know, not it's just unfortunately it's not responding to antibiotics, you're treating it later and so complications like cholesttoomas, mastoiditis, labyrinthitis, etc. So, lots to talk about. >> If you had to give a 20 30 second approach to otalgia, which is like this whole episode, how would you approach that? What's your what's your go-to here? I think anytime you have like a patient who has ear pain, I mean a lot of the times it's easy to just grab an otocope and take a look, but I think in in any case of medicine, I think is and maybe this is more the critical care emergency kind of like a clinician in me, but I always like to look for the worst case scenario. So red flags, the things that can scream a complication. So if a patient has otalgia but they also have other things like I don't know for example they have a facial nerve paly or they're presenting with a headache and very high fevers and maybe some meningial signs or cortical signs or they had a new onset seizure with the ataga which all all these things may seem like oh Zach this is like crazy what would that have to do with this what I'm looking for is red flag signs so severe severe like nocturnal you know ear pain or deep pain sometimes like having pain around like the mastoid process like if they have any kind of like posturricular orthemma and swelling and kind of it's fluctuant that's concerning a facial nerve pausy is concerning again like I said headache fever with meningial cortical signs is very concerning so a lot of those things and then acute onset like vertigo hearing loss tonitis those are things that scream more of the complications that's the first thing I like to ask myself is is there any complications of this patient's otalgia second thing is I like to look at the otalgia is does it does it change with pulling of the penina or pushing of the tragus and so usually when pull the PA or you push on the tragus and if it precipitates this increase in amount of the ear pain or the otalgia it it makes me more concerned for more of an otitis externa as compared to an otitis media and then from there I take a look what's it look like can I even see into the ear canal is it that swollen can I see the tempanic membrane is it intact is it bulging is it ariththemmitus do I see fluid in the middle ear so all those things help me to get a better appreciation of what's going on is it an external ear problem or is it a middle ear problem and is there any complications do I see a cholest do I see a perforated tempanic membrane Do I see anything there that really really concerns me? And then again, if I have any of those red flag signs where they have severe severe ear pain and it feels like it's deep, it's near like the skull base, they have facial nerve pausy, they have features of intraraanial extension, they have mastoiditis features, those are things where I may kind of go to get things like imaging like a CT scan to kind of take a better look to see if this infection unfortunately spread deeper. So that's kind of the quick and nitty-gritty way I guess to take a look at it. >> The physical exam doesn't sound too interesting. It's press the tragus, pull the pin up. >> Yeah. >> Which is okay. I mean, you know, we've done a lot of exams. There's usually it's it's pretty thorough, but this one is, you know, you give the ear a tug and a little press. >> Yeah. I mean, that's really the key to this one is usually the the external ear is pretty innervated. There's a lot of nerves that intervate the external ear. Facial nerve, glossopherrenial nerve, trigeminal nerve. So, there's a lot of nerves that invate that area. And so, I think it's important to know that usually that's why it's very very sensitive. And so yeah, it'll it'll actually get a lot worse with pulling or pushing of the tragus. >> Well, we got four cases to discuss. Let's go into case one here. >> Okay, >> we have a 24 year old that presents with two days of ear pain and itching after a weekend of swimming. >> He says it feels full and he's been digging at it with cotton swabs. >> No major no major fever. That's what I used to do. I used to get in there and just freaking just >> Oh, it feels so good, though. >> I'm just making it worse, probably. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. That's all you're doing. >> Yep. So, it felt good. No major fever present. On exam, the ear canal looks adeus and arithmetus and it hurts a lot when you pull the pin up. What do you think the most likely diagnosis is for this classic case? >> I mean, I think even you and that's not to be mean. >> Thanks. Thanks, man. >> That came off the moment I said I got to pull that one back. >> Even this stupid idiot next to me can get this one. >> Super wrong the way I didn't mean it like that. But what I mean is is we just talked about it like pulling of the PA, two days of ear pain, itching, and when you hear the term like like when they're kind of going around and digging around there, they're kind of ripping through that skin serum and barrier. That's an opportunity for bacteria to kind of feast. And then on top of that, swimming, that's a lot of moisture. All that does is break down the skin serum and barrier. And all that's going to cause is going to cause a lot of like fluid to accumulate in a dark space where the pH is altered and bacteria can just thrive. and they're going to cause a lot of nasty infection. So, >> and of course he says it's full. The ear feels full. This is your your your classic otitis externa. >> Yeah, this is what it seems like. And so that and then I I think that's what kind of screams this most of the time. And so yeah, that's what I'm kind of going with right off the get-go. And there's no and I also will add on here. I don't hear any red flag signs. So again, I'm kind of going through this where I'm do I see any red flag signs? Nothing really pops out. Next place is they have latalia. What's it changing with? Oh, it's changing with, you know, pulling of the PA. Okay, cool. let me take a look at it would be the next kind of step to do. >> You talked about some bacteria. What are you thinking as far as organisms? What does your mind default to for this patient? >> I'd say most of the time it's it's sudamonus. So that's the that's probably the most common one especially with like moisture moist environments. But I think anytime you like your staff orius is a part of your normal flora. So if you're scratching scratching scratching that can cause kind of infection as well. It's usually more missa methasone sensitive stafloccasarius. You can definitely get that one and sudamonus I'd say is the most, you know, common bacteria that are going to cause this. >> How do you make a clinical diagnosis? >> I mean, I think for this one, we got it. I think you have the the classic history. Their pain is like reproducible with pulling of the PA and pushing of the tragus. And when you look on their ear, you can just sometimes you don't even have to get the and sometimes I'm not even going to lie, if you get autoscopy and you kind of go up, you might not even be able to push that that actually in to see anything in the actual external ear canal because it's so swollen. It's so painful. And then I'm not going to lie, a lot of the times when you're trying to come up to a small child who's got like a lot of pain and sensitivity, they're not even going to want you anywhere near their ear. So just externally kind of looking at it, you can see sometimes how swollen the external ear canal is and if it's super ademous. One of the things I think that is really important though is you really should try to do your best to examine because you want to look at the tempanic membrane. You want to see if it's intact or not because it should somewhat help to guide which type of antibiotics you give them because some are higher risk than others if the tempanic membrane is kind of perforated. So that's that's what I'd be looking for. >> So this has been done clinically. You have a pretty good idea that it is otitus externa. You don't need any labs at all? >> No. No. You don't. This one's all like pretty much straightforward. There's nothing that I really need to do for this one. There's no red flags. You're not worried about that? >> No. No. Yeah. So, I' I'd say this one's a pretty, you know, easy slam dunk, and then you're just going to treat them empirically. >> Well, then let's just say the tempanic membrane is normal. Everything's good to go. What do you then treat with? >> I mean, for for these, you have two options. You can go with the polymixin neomycin and like it's a hydrocortisone kind of topical ear drops. And that one's pretty good. It's going to it's it's got a lot of things that will, you know, it'll destroy the most common bacteria. the ones I like to do just because if I can't see the tempanic membrane, if I can't visualize it, I prefer the floricquinolone one, which is a it's called cypex, but cyproloxisin and dexamethasone. >> So you can't actually if you can't visualize the tempanic membrane, you can't say for sure that it's not perforated. >> Yeah. And so if I if I can't see it, I'm going to put them on cypraex and stuff. And so sometimes that's why it's really really hard to even do that with these patients. And you should just be safe and put them on that because that's going to help to kind of reduce that risk of oto toxicity because if the neomy which is in that one the polyin neomy and hydrocortisone get in there the neomy is the one that if it gets access to the inner ear it can actually cause odotoxicity and so that's what we get a little bit worried about and you want to be careful with so I' I'd treat the pain you know with these ones incaids like ibuprofen alternate with Tylenol if it if you need some extra stuff there try and really clean the ear canal out if there's any debris that's kind of obstructing the ear canal and that's going to impede the medicine from getting down in there. I would clear that out. Remember when we went to Hawaii and I ended up we were snorkeling like forever. >> That was you were I've never seen you in so much pain. >> It was crazy. But it was because of snorkeling and then I was doing what you were doing. I was just, you know, in there around with it. >> And then you would go deeper underwater. You're like, "Ah, it's it's it's incredible pain." The pressure. >> Yeah. And so for me, mine was so swollen that they, you know, the medication wouldn't even be able to get to the ear canal. So ear wicks are really good for those scenarios whenever you have so much swelling and you need to improve the medication delivery. So that's what I would do is I would treat the pain with just incaids, Tylenol, clean it out the best that you can to get any debris, anything that's going to kind of clog up or block the medication from getting down there. earwick if it's super ademus and then I would go with I like cyprfluxin and dexamethasone because you're going to get the coverage for sudamonus stafforius and then the dexamethasone is going to reduce that ear canal swelling. So so far what I'm hearing for a good key exam takeaway is with neomy if there really is the eardrum is perforated that could have the risk of ototoxicity. >> Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And I think other people I I I had this I have like an allergic reaction to the to the neomy and and the polyix. And so sometimes it can cause like an actual allergic reaction and more swelling and itching of the external ear. In that scenario, you also want to switch over to the cypex. >> All right. Let's make it a little more dangerous. I'm going to kind of give you a a bit of a a detour here. >> Okay. >> So now we have it's the same complaint, but now we're talking about a 67year-old with diabetes. The pain is severe, deep, relentless. There's fever, odora, in an otoscopy, you see granulation tissue in the canal. Bonus, there is now new facial weakness present. >> Yeah, that sucks. That's not a good one. >> What complication is happening here? >> So, usually in this one, whenever you hear So, first off, I I hear red flag signs. I mean, fever is not very common in otitis externa. Very, very uncommon. So, usually anytime you hear a fever with otalgia, it tells you that it's deeper than the external ear canal. In this case, it might even be down to the bone. And so that's what I'm concerned about is I hear a red flag sign and otitis externa doesn't usually cause that unless the patient is imunocmpromised or an uncontrolled diabetic and they got the diabetes. >> Yeah. Right. >> Yep. There it is. >> And then this the pain is severe and deep and then on top of that they have ontocopy some granulation tissue. So this is telling me they may have malignant otitis external which is like a really nasty sudonal infection that spreads through the external ear canal. There's these little fissurers in there called the fissurers of Santorini and there's the fammen of hushki and and they actually can move their way through that into the soft tissue and then they can get into the bone. So they cause osteomiitis and so you're going to get like an actual bone infection out of this as well. So that's concerning and then the facial nerve. So when you think about the external ear canal, think about the nerve that runs right out through the styomastoid fammen. It's the facial nerve. So if they start eroding their way through that bone and they get near the facial nerve that's why they can get new facial weakness. So this is probably a person who ends up with malignitis externa they have uncontrolled diabetes. So they naturally have some degrees of eskeemia and some poor healing of that actual external ear canal. They get infection sudamonus digs deeper moves into the actual skull base starts causing osteomiitis erodess into the bone near the styomastoid fammen or near the facial canal. Boom. Hits the cranial nerve seven and they get some pausy there. >> Do you want to consider any imaging for this patient? >> Yeah, you should always for this one you should always because you want to see how extensive that osteomiitis is and how much it's actually gone because that that can sometimes guide debridement if you're going to if you get like a really nasty looking abscess or it's it's it's a really bad osteomiitis and you're taking a look at this one. It may guide some surgical intervention. But oftent times I think it's just a way of being able to at least get a baseline and say how bad is the osteomiitis? what is the extent? Is there any abscesses that are formed within the actual bone? And that's the way that I would say going about this first. >> Okay. How about treatment? So for this one, for this patient, they're getting two antibiotics. So it's weird. I I don't know why they kind of re reach for the cyprloxin. It kind of seems odd, but cyprfluxin does cover sudamonus, but it's not a great coverage. So what we do is we give sudamonal coverage in two forms. One is we'll give cyperloxin and then the other one is we'll add on an IV antibiotic and usually that's something like like sephop or pipperasobactum and those are going to cover sudamonus as well. So you're getting like a dual anti-seudonal antibiotic coverage which is pretty aggressive but that's going to be something that you want to consider for these patients is something like sephop or a pipperactum and add-on cyprlloxin. You're going to cover that for a decent amount of time until you actually, you know, in generally sometimes you can kind of swab and you can get cultures of the granulation tissue and stuff like that and narrow your antibiotics down. But oftent times because this is osteo, you're going to put them on antibiotics for a decent amount of time. So they might be on antibiotics for like four weeks or so. >> But initially you had treated with IV. >> Yeah. Yeah. You're starting with IV and then as you as you can you try to step down Yeah. >> to oral antibiotics and then you continue that for a decent amount of time. five, four weeks, sometimes maybe a little bit longer. And you just obviously monitor their symptoms, see if they're getting any better, see if the pain is improving. They can monitor the ESR and CRP. I don't know how much the evidence really supports that, but that's something that you can consider. And then I think also, you know, if it if there is a desire, you can also repeat scans to see if anything's changing with the osteo there. But I think a lot of the times just following them clinically is the best way to go about that. So overall high yield takeaway here. Otitis externa is usually outpatient topical drops. >> Unless of course we have a patient like this where it's diabetes, immuno compromised, severe pain, granulation tissue, fever, cranial nerve deficits. >> Then you're hearing a lot of red flag signs and things need to be escalated. So you need imaging, you need you need more >> Exactly. >> antibiotic regimen changes. >> Yeah. For this one, it's it's it's very aggressive. Very aggressive. And you just don't want it to continue to become like a extensive osteomiitis for this one. >> Okay. Case two, we have here a 19-month-old with two days of fever, irritability, and ear tugging after a viral URI. No pain when you manipulate the PA. Otoscopy shows an irriatus bulging tempanic membrane. What's the likely diagnosis here? >> I mean, I think you know, anybody who's listening to this that you pick up the the concept that it's probably auditis media. And the reason why is there's a couple things. One is you look at the the history. the history is going to be telling me that you know pediatric patients have a higher risk of acutitis media or eusions in general of the the middle ear cavity just because of their anatomy. So when you look at a a a child's ustaceian tube, so ustian tubes should be more vertical, they should be long and they should be relatively rigid in adults. But in children, it's more horizontal and it's also shorter and it's less rigid. And so what happens is it's more it's more prone to being obstructed and it's also less able to drain or equalize the middle ear pressure in the nasal cavity. And so because of that, they're more susceptible. And so when you get a viral URI, it inflames it and it's already less rigid. And on top of that, it's already horizontal. So it's less drainage there. Now the middle ear can't drain properly. Any kind of secretions, any air can't get out of there. So a negative pressure starts to generate there. Bacteria start to grow there. Pressure starts to increase in there. And that's when you start getting these increased risk of infections. And so that's usually what happens is these children get ustian tube dysfunction. And then because of that they get impaired ventilation and drainage from the middle ear cavity. They get an eusion. That infusion gets that eusion gets infected and then unfortunately that's when they get otitis media. >> We're seeing here bacterial stasis. So bacteria is obviously building up in the middle ear. Yeah. >> What pathogens are you are you is your mind thinking here? >> Usually there's three. Strepcus pneumonia is a pretty common one. And then the another one would be like hmophilus influenza usually non-typable and then maroxella cataralis. the three kind of like most common pathogens that you would probably want to suspect in acutitis media. You can see anorobes as well though. So I would add that. But I think most of the time as you can see here the patient had a viral upper respiratory tract infection that triggered this and then they had bacteria that became you know the fluid became infected. So there was a super infection and so oftentimes it's mixed. Probably 70% of the time you probably have a combination of viral and bacterial you know acutitis media. for the exam confirmation m maybe just a red inflamed tempanic membrane is not enough. >> Yeah. >> What's the best sign on autoscopy to say oh hey this is definitely most likely acute otitis media? >> Yeah. So the baby has otalgia and if you notice if we go back to the kind of the algorithm do they have any kind of like concerning features? Nothing that really like concerns me. fever is actually common in acutitis media, but nothing here that's like a red flag sign that I'm seeing right off the get-go. But the next thing is the otalgia. It does actually like they're they're tugging on their own ear. And sometimes that's actually a way of them trying to kind of equalize the pressure. It's what it kind of it it I don't know if it relieves it just doesn't irritate it. So if they're kind of tugging on their their penna or their ear, that would actually replicate an increase in pain if it was otitis externa. This isn't actually doing that. that may actually kind of relieve it a little bit because they're trying to equalize that pressure is what they're kind of trying to do. Right. Right. >> So that kind of kind of helps me to say there's less likely that it's otitis external. And then I do autoscopy and it doesn't show an inflamed and ademus orus external acoustic miatus. It shows it's impanic membrane is red and it's bulging. That's how you make the diagnosis is so you need two things for clinically to diagnose it. You need like some kind of symptoms that s support it. So in this case, ear pain, fever. And then the next one is you need an actual otoscopy finding. So you need to have bulging. If you have bulging and redness, that's great. That's even more helpful, but you need bulging. So you need the presence of an eusion and you need the presence of symptoms. And so this patient has both of it. But that's what you have to have is you have to have that kind of bulging presentation and then you also have to have symptoms. The problem that kind of comes up is that let's say that you're looking and you can't tell if it's bulging. So a lot of that is kind of like you know just clinical you know experience just you know just overall kind of like becoming more zen in your overall you know clinical knowledge. So sometimes you can look and you'll be like oh it looks red but I can't tell if it's bulging or maybe you don't see it bulging at all. So sometimes in kids you can do something called pneumatic. So, it's same thing. You're actually looking in their ear, but there's like a little balloon connected to it that you can actually inflate and it pushes air into the external ear canal and then it hits the tempanic membrane and it should cause it to like move. That's normally what should happen whenever air conduction or sound waves moves through there. But in this case, if you're good and you're looking, you'll see that it won't move. So, that less movement tells me that there's so much fluid building up behind the tempanic membrane that it's not allowing it to move. And that supports an eusion. So you have to have like if you can't see the bulging prove it with pneumatic autoscopy. There is another test that we use in kids because if you're trying to do that and you're trying to do that while a kid is screaming and moving and doing it's really hard to see. >> So sometimes they do something called tempenometry. It's better for kind of tracking progress of how their eusion is mo is doing but you can use it if it's difficult to do the pneumatic. It's it's more it's more objective rather than subjective as compared to the pneumatic. So that's what I would say is you have to have the combination of symptoms plus a otoscopic evidence of bulging whether that's you just looking in and seeing it or pneumatic or tempanometry to prove it. >> Would we then just go ahead and treat them with an antibiotic? >> Not all cases. >> Okay. So if an adult gets this, yes, if an adult gets this, you treat them accordingly with antibiotics. But if it's a pediatric patient there's certain types of scenarios because and on all of these like again a lot of the times you can't 80% of the time they can get better without putting them on antibiotics >> really even when these these pathogens are present. >> Yeah. Yeah. So I think a lot of the times it really is just supportive care and they can get better. It just you have to be kind of patient and you have to kind of like you know not pull the trigger which is scary with a child. Yeah. But I'd say the easiest one is let's say that you try and just treat the pain and then you have them come back or you kind of check in on them and after like two to three days if it's not getting any better you should definitely put them on antibiotics. >> Okay. >> Another reason is if it's a if it's any any child less than like six months of age they're a little bit more high risk I'd probably would start them. If it's like a child let's say six to two years of age. Six months to two years of age that one you actually want to have both ears. So, right off if you're going to start antibiotics right off the get-go, it's either going to be a child who's less than six months or they're six months to two years of age, but both ear canal, both the actual middle ears are inflamed. So, they have bilateral cutitis media. Another one is if their pain is so severe or their fever is really high. And I I think the definition for like a true like high fever for them is greater than 39 degrees Celsius. I'm not sure what that is in like Fahrenheit, but either way, it's a little it's a little bit higher. So if they have a decent fever and their pain is really bad, you should start them off on antibiotics right off the get-go. >> Another reason is if they have any evidence of a perforated tempanic membrane that makes it complicated. So the most common is if you can look in the ear canal and you say, "Oh, yep, it's perforated." But another one is if they have new onset odora. So they have drainage. So imagine the pressure built up so high in the middle ear that create a little hole and that started draining out through that hole. So if they have odorhea and then you end up confirming, oh yeah, look at that. They have a perfect tempmpanic membrane, that could also be another indication to start antibiotics right away. Don't delay it. And the last one is super random, but colear implants. And it's it it actually makes sense if you guys watch the CNS infection video or the podcast, we said that streptocus pneumonia loves to pass into the meninges via coclear implants. And so if you have colear implants, you have a really, you know, nasty infection of that middle ear, it's an opportunity for that to get in the meningis and they can get menitis. So you should treat them right off the get-go. So I think those are the primary reasons that I would kind of treat someone or unless if they are immunosuppressed. That's probably the only other indication I'd say. But that would be the things that I would say start antibiotics. Otherwise, if they don't fit any of those features, like it's they don't have oaria, they don't have a peranic membrane, they're not immunosuppressed, they're not having any colear implants, their pain is mild to moderate, their fever isn't greater than 39 degrees Celsius, you can trial 2 to 3 days to see how they do without any antibiotics, and then if they don't get any better, start them on antibiotics. For our patient, it sounds like that's what we'll be doing because we're not less than 6 months old. We have none none of those other findings. Bulging tempanic membrane, >> right? Am I am I >> for this one? I would say >> you scared me there. >> I was like, "Oh, I'm wrong." >> No, no. For this one, I would say like we could definitely give it a shot. I could say we could wait cuz what you'd want is is let's Okay, six. So, 19 months old, you'd want somewhere between that 6 month to two year range. They'd have to have bilateral cutitis media, >> which I don't think they do. >> They're having pain and they're having a fever. It doesn't actually list their again their degree of their fever. So that's kind of a little bit more we would want to dig into that. True. >> However, I'd say off the get-go, I'd say if we could maybe get away with triing a little bit of time to see how they do and then if they're not getting any better, we could definitely start antibiotics. >> I would be the worst doctor. I'd be like, "Here's your antibiotics immediately." Like, I'm not playing around. We're we're going for it. I think in this one I I would I would definitely consider antibiotics if it was a bilateral cutitis media. The pain was extremely severe, which they're crying, they're irritable. So there is one of those scenarios where it just takes more kind of like an experience reading the room, knowing what's truly best. Yeah. I think you probably couldn't go wrong starting antibiotics, but you probably couldn't go wrong just waiting two days and seeing how it all turns out. So that's kind of the >> it's really patient dependent. >> Yeah. Yeah. For this one, I'd say if I would say if they were bilateral and the pain was really really bad where they were non-stop crying, they weren't eating. They were having some issues like that. I probably would definitely start antibiotics right off the getgo. >> Let's just say our patient does have bilateral. They're they're within that that 6 month to two year range. They have bilateral and now you're like, "Okay, I do have to choose an antibiotic." How would you choose that? >> All right. So in this patient if there was severe enough pain where they were really struggling to eat or doing anything they weren't sleeping if the fever was greater than 39 degrees or if they were bilateral oitis media I would start off with amoxicylin so usually a higher dose of moxicylin is probably going to be the go-to and then I think that's usually like 90 migs per kig is what we kind of start off with on these but that's what I would start off with assuming that they didn't have any recent antibiotics in the past 30 days or this isn't like another episode of acutite media. The reason why I say that is let's say that a patient came in and they had this event like within the past 30 days they were on a moxicylin recently or something else something equivalent of a betalactum then theoretically that gave the bacteria an opportunity to become resistant and so that's one scenario or if this is like this is not their first episode of acutitis media this is their third this year in that scenario okay they may not be the best candidate the bacteria could have become resistant I probably should switch it up and so that's when switch over to something called augmentin or a moxicylan clavulonic acid. And so it's a basically just a moxicylin, but you give it with a betalacttoase kind of like inhibitor. And so that's usually what we would go with is if they had recent antibiotic use, probably some type of betalactum in the past 30 days or they've had recurrent episodes of ketoitis media, I wouldn't reach for a moxicylan. I'd reach for a moxicylin clavolonic acid. >> Let's pretend that I'm the patient. I am very much allergic to moxicylin. >> Oh, really? What? like okay that's a good question then to ask is because when you when you determine the allergic reaction that's what determines the next step so if for somebody if they said oh I I get like a rash or I get like itchy then that's kind of I would say more of like a mild case and depending upon it can sometimes even be moderate >> that's me so I get a really bad rash >> but if you had anaphylactic reaction >> I don't have that >> then that's when you would kind of want to define that so you want to know what's the degree of their allergy >> so in your case, I'd say it couldn't be more of like a mild to moderate kind of like allergic reaction. That doesn't push me away from giving something that the theoretical risk is about 3 to 10% that if you have a betalactum allergy or penicellin allergy, you may have a 3 to 10% cross reactivity of having a reaction to a sephilisporn, but it's really low. And so if you do, all right, I'm willing to to take the gamble on that because I don't want them to become resistant to the next antibiotic that I give them. and the worst case scenario. So if it was a mild to moderate reaction, I would go with an oral sephilisporn for these kids. So sephidoxim, septanir, I never have really used any of these because I never worked in pediatrics, but sephoroxim those are going to be the sephilosporins that we would go to because they're going to cover all those same pathogens that amoxicil and amoxicil clavonic acid are going to cover. If you said, "Oh, I my airway swells up, you know, then okay, I'm not even going to take even though it's a three to 10% chance, I'm not taking that chance, so I switch it over to something." And that's where we give like a macrolyte, usually a zithroy. So you hear a Zpack, right? >> So that's something that we would give. The reason why we try not to give Zpacks is because of the high crazy degree of resistance that homophilus influenza has developed against zithramycin. streptococcus pneumonia has developed a lot of resistance to it moracella and so because of that you're giving an antibiotic that you're just going to either increase resistance or also you're not going to treat it appropriately so we try to reserve these scenarios for these antibiotics in the scenarios like this which is if I give them this there's a chance that they'll go into anaphylactic shock I don't have another option this is what I'm going with there is another one we can do clintomy too clintomy is good it covers more of it doesn't cover I think the hmophilus as well and that's the only downside I think it's amophilus is not as well but you can go with clinomy as an alternative to zithramyin but either way that's what I would say I would give is amoxicylin off the get-go augmentinant if they've had recent amoxicillin use or they have recurrent episodes if they have a mild or moderate sensitivity or allergy to penicellin then I'll go with the sephilosporins an oral one and if they're full-blown anaphylactic shock when they get it I'm going to zithramy or clintomy how about a quick complication mini pearl here I'm wondering ing what's the classic story for a tempanic membrane perforation? >> Oh, so this would be if like they like you like okay you have a ton of pain like ton of pain in the middle ear and all of a sudden you have this sudden relief of pain that probably means that the pressure has actually been kind of relieved in some way shape or form. >> So that thing popped >> that thing popped right and when it popped the stuff came right on out. So odorhea and combin odorhea which is ear drainage after a sudden relief of ear pain is usually kind of a telltale sign and then you follow it up and you take a look oh yeah there it is there's a hole in the tempanic membrane. So that that's what I would say is kind of a maybe one complication that you'd watch out for. >> Can these patients have any type of vertigo related symptoms because of where it's located? So it can happen sometimes it can be mild but whenever it's like pretty severe like I'd say acute onset of vertigo nestagmus and then if it combines so there's a difference between there's something called vestibular neuritis and then there's another condition called labyrinthitis. So vestibular nuritis is very common after a person having like a viral upper respiratory tract infection. Very it can actually happen a lot in acutitis media too especially if it's viral related. But the difference between vestibular nuritis and then bacterial labyrinthitis is you're infecting the actual labyrinth the inner membranous portion. So the cookia and the vestibule both get hit. The vestibule controls more of your balance right and your sense of equilibrium. The cookia controls your hearing. So if you have an infection of the middle ear and it spreads via the round window, gets into the actual cookia, it can infect that, gets up to the vestibial, infects that, then what you end up getting is you get damage of those hair cells. And so you can have hearing loss because you're damaging the cookia and you can have equilibrium problems because you're damaging the actual vestibule. And so what they get from damaging the vestibule is they get vertigo and they also get a nestagmus. it it's usually a direction gazing nestagmas. So they get an extreme nestagmas towards the gaze that they're they're going towards. It's not usually vertical or or torsional. >> So toward toward the affected side. >> Yeah. Yeah. And so that's usually that that tells me if I have both hearing loss and and maybe even some tonitis and I have a vertigo or nestagmus and it's more of a horizontal nestagmus that tells me I have a labyrinthitis and that can happen in in severe acuteitis media. Now, I know we talked about this before with patient one, but this was our our extreme patient one with diabetes, 67 years old. >> We talked about him having one complication which was facial weakness. >> Oh, yeah. >> You briefly mentioned that. >> Yeah. Well, I think you can it can happen here too. >> Oh, good. Okay. >> Yeah. I think you know it's not as common as a malignotitis externa. It's it's it it can happen in acutitis media because if you think back to anatomy, you have the facial nerves, you have what's called the geniculate gangleion and then it runs into the actual middle ear. It runs against the like right kind of near this promontory, swoops backwards and then down via this facial canal near the mastoid. So near the posterior wall of the middle ear and it kind of runs down between the posterior wall and the mastoid sinus which is behind it and it runs out via this styomtoid framan. So if you get enough infection that it can cause kind of maybe I'd say you see this more particularly with malignotitis externa and I'd say you probably see it with mastoiditis but you can see it with acutitis media sometimes but yeah with this one I'd watch out for like an ipssilateral. So if they have ear pain on the right side and all of a sudden they develop right-sided facial weakness their entire hemisphere or the entire kind of like side. Yeah. Then yeah, I would definitely be concerned for facial nerve palsy and I'd probably want to go get an image because my guess is that it eroded in it kind of extended into the mastoid sinus is my guess. >> What about a presentation of intraraanial extension? >> Oh yeah. So this that's unfortunate because that can happen a lot of the times when you think about the middle ear cavity. There's a tiny little thin bone called the tegment tempani and all you got to do is have that infection spread right up through the tegment tempani and you're in the meningis >> and then from there you can spread into the brain. So middle ear infections easily can cause menitis. They easily can cause brain abscesses. They can cause sometimes even abscesses in the duramatter spaces. So you can get epidural impaimeas, subdural impaemas. So those are definitely things to watch out for. So I'd watch out for really bad headaches, pretty good fevers too. You get fevers with otitis media. But if you all of a sudden have a headache, a fever, and then menitis, it's the it's the classic, you know, that's what you'll look for in the exam, the neck stiffness, the nuclear rigidity, the Brazinskis, the, you know, Kernig's positive signs. And then for like a brain abscess, you'd probably be more concerned with like cortical signs. So maybe they'll have a fasia onset seizures. Well, first onset seizures or maybe they have weakness to the contrlateral side. that that would make me concerned that something now is actually spread deeper into the actual the brain rather than staying in the middle ear. Let's move on to case three. >> Okay, case three, Zach, is where the you'll get the your attending will get called at two 2 in the morning. So, this one could be a little scary here. We have a seven-year-old treated for acute otitis media a week ago now returns with persistent fever and ear pain. Parents say the ear looks like it's sticking out. the exam we have post-urricular swelling, irrima and tenderness and the oracle is pushed forward and laterally. What is that all about? >> Yeah. So that's the common complication with acutitis media is there's a little hole in the posterior wall of the middle ear cavity and it's kind of like a little tunnel where you can kind of go in via the antrum you can get into the mastoid air cells. So you you naturally want air flow into those mastoid sinuses. So it it occurs naturally. There's like little air bone air cells that are in there that can help to humidify that air and stuff like that. But what happens is is if you get a bunch of pus in the middle ear and it gets into that little hole where air is supposed to be flowing through and it clogs it off. Now you get no air flow, you get no equalization of pressure in those areas and also that fluid that that infected fluid can start moving into the mastoid sinuses and it can start infecting it. It can actually start breaking down the bone. You can get abscesses in the mastoid sinus as well. pretty nasty ones. But if you get enough swelling, it starts pushing. And so whenever that gets swollen, it actually I'm not even kidding here. I'll try to like show it. You would start having so much swelling back here on that little bump that it would actually start pushing the oracle kind of like outwards. So that's what it would look like if you were looking at somebody that one of their ears would be kind of flopped out more. >> Yeah. >> And that's what would make you concerned about potentially like a mastoid itis. So yeah, that's that's right there. It's a pretty common complication that you you definitely got to think about because it can become pretty nasty. can really break down those mastoid air cells, really break down the bone, and you can get a pretty nasty like infected pus cavity in that mastoid sinus, which it's not easy to get that stuff out then. Yeah, >> that's the problem. >> I'm sure this is not a watch and wait. This is we need to act quickly. >> Yeah. So, I think the the big thing with this one is you're going to treat them no matter what with and you but I think the hard thing is sometimes you may be like, I'm not sure. Usually, if a patient has a cutitis media, right? If they have a cutitis media and they have that post-urricular kind of swelling and tenderness and maybe if it's even a little bit fluctuant that's really concerning you could make the diagnosis clinically. What I think a CT would be beneficial for here is to make sure that it's not really extensive. If I have any question where I'm like I'm not completely sure that this is mastoiditis or it's something else or if I think there's an abscess. Those are the times when I would probably go get a CT scan of the temporal bone and get a good look there. And that's the benefit of that is it's really going to help you to see how extensive the damage is. It's going to help you to see is there an abscess and it's going to help to rule out maybe anything else that could be going on in that scenario. But often times mastoiditis can be diagnosed clinically because what you're going to do is you're going to treat them with IV antibiotics and then you're going to have to drain the middle ear cavity usually. So that's going to help out. But sometimes it's still helpful to get a good look and see what's going on in that actual kind of like temporal bone. >> And then worst case scenario, the patient is having neuro symptoms. What then? >> Oh, so that's yeah. So that's when you're scared that it actually did in extendranally. So if I have neuro symptoms immediately you start being concerned did is it menitis? Is it an empa? Is it an abscess? Things like that. And then sometimes even mastoiditis because it can cause a lot of destruction of the bony septa. the facial canal runs right kind of between like the middle ear and the mastoid sinus. So it can also cause facial nerve pausy pretty commonly too. So that's another reason I'd probably reach to get a CT of the temporal bone too is if I had like an acute onset like facial nerve pulsey something like that. >> Yeah. What's the management sequence for this patient? >> So for this one IV antibiotics. So you're going to have to put them on IV antibiotics. So for these ones it kind of just depends. Had they had antibiotics is is the same kind of question you asked before when they have acutitis media. Have they is is there a recurrent history of acutitis media? Do they have that? And have they had recent antibiotics within the past like not actually 30 days, sometimes even a couple months? So the reason why is that guides your decision- making. What kind of antibiotic are you going to give them? If it's no recurrent acutitis media, if they don't have any recent antibiotics that are kind of like within their recent, you know, past, I can just go with the same IV drug as I would autitis media in the more aggressive form which is augmentin amox clavalonic acid. There's another one which is the IV form of it. It's called ampean sulbactum. And so you can give IV ampeo sulactum also known as unison. That's one option. if they've had recurrent otitis media, if they've had even episodes of where they've had antibiotics recently in the past, I may have to upgrade and I got to be a little bit more aggressive. And so that's when we kind of reach for more like your pseudomonal coverage and anorob coverage and a lot of gram negative coverage. So you go to IV sephopem or IV pipcel and tasobactum and then sometimes I wouldn't say it's all that common if a patient has history of MRSA in their in their history or you did a MRSA PCR and they were colonized with MRSA or they have any risk factors for MRSA you should add on venkcomy but oftent times you'll probably get away with just the sephop or the pepperilent tasalactum. IV unison for most cases IV piper tasobactum or sephopem is going to be more for the elevated cases the ones who are a little bit more high risk sometimes people even do sept trioxone instead of ampicone so that's another one too septrain will cover a lot of those too but I think up to date as of recent they suggested amp will back them >> let's just say for our patient we do IV antibiotics they're refractory it's not working things are getting worse then what >> okay well if they're if they're not getting any bet. So, here's the thing I would say. When you get IV antibiotics to these patients, it's not going to be enough usually. >> Oh, okay. >> So, the IV antibiotics will help to kind of clear up some of the infection, but the problem is is that in some of these patients, you may have to drain the middle ear fluid. >> Okay? >> Because because you still have a little bit of a roadblock in that kind of like the antrum, the portion where the middle ear connects to the mastoid air cells. You may have to kind of drain that out a little bit. And so, sometimes you may do a miring. So, there's two options here. Let's say that you do the IV antibiotics and you can cons you should always do a tempanocentesthesis. A tempanocentesthesis you stick a needle into the middle ear you pull off some fluid you send it off to culture to figure out what kind of bacteria you have. Right. Gotcha. >> That's I think always a general good idea. But for the most part what's usually these patients need is a miringtomy with tempanostomy tubes. So they need little ear tubes. And so you'll actually cut a small hole in the middle ear cap in the tempanic membrane. And then what you'll do is you'll shove these little tempanostomy tubes in and guess what comes out of them? Fluid. So then you could just kind of like collect that fluid and send it off. So it's if you're going to do a tempanocentesis, you're not really doing a miringtomy with a tempenostomy tube. If you're doing the mingangottomy with the tempos tempenostomy tubes, you don't really need the tempanocentesis because all it's going to do is help you to determine what kind of bacteria you have and it may guide your decision there. But oftentimes you're hitting these patients with IV antibiotics. Like I said, Unison's probably going to be the first go-to. You escalate if it's a little bit more aggressive risks. And then you should always refer ENT to get involved. And they're probably going to want to do one of the two things. Maybe they're like, "Ah, we don't need to do mirangotomy with a TT placement. We just need to kind of sample it." They may do tempanosynthesis, but most of the time they're going to do a miringtomy and they're going to put in some some tubes. >> What about the actual mastoid sinus? What are you doing with that one? Well, if they do that, let's say that they do the antibiotics, they do the miringtomy, they get the tempenostomy tubes, they start draining the middle ear, but like it's not getting any better. >> Yeah. >> In that situation, then you got to cut the whole mastoid sinus out. >> Wow. >> So, you got you pretty much you just kind of like you do a pretty aggressive mastoid ectomy. So, that's another option, but that's usually if it's just like they're not getting better with >> that's like your last resort kind of thing. >> Yeah. Yeah. So I I wouldn't say that those are super common, but it is something I would think about if they're just not getting any better with the antibiotics, the tempenostomy tubes, but or if they're developing other complications, if they're developing, so the infection essentially, again, the infection isn't getting better. If you're not getting any better, you should probably say, okay, well, you got to cut the mastoid sinus out because I'm not able to drain it effectively. So that's what usually is the the problematic issue. >> How are you monitoring these types of patients? What are you what are you trending here? >> Usually symptoms. So symptoms is going to be the best thing if if they're getting better obviously that's important. So is their pain getting better? Is their fever getting better? Is overall are they having any kind of change in like maybe I could even turn their white blood cell count because usually luccoytosis is also pretty common with these as well. So I trend their fever trying to see if they're getting improvement in their symptoms. I would trend the white blood cell count. I would make sure that they're not developing any new deficits whether that be neurological or facial nerve pauses, anything to that effect. And I think that would really be it. I mean, again, your your goal is to keep them on IV antibiotics until you get the cultures maybe to tell you what kind of pathogen you have and then you narrow that down to an oral antibiotic that you're probably going to keep them on for about four weeks because this is involving bone. Yeah. >> So, because of that, you're going to need to keep on an antibiotic for a decent amount of time. So, sometimes those cultures help to guide that decision- making. But, yeah, that's really it. Okay, let's move on to our final case. Case four. Okay, we have a 33-year-old reports months to years of intermittent painless ear drainage. The drainage is foul smelling. They also notice gradual hearing loss. History includes recurrent ear infections as a child. Otoscopy reveals a retraction pocket with keratin debris described as a brownish mass behind the tempanic membrane. >> What's the diagnosis here? I mean this is usually the sign of cholesttoma and I and again I'll tell you the reason why obviously I'm I'm looking at the screen so I I know but but the key thing here is that it's intermittent so they've been they've been having this kind of issue with ear drainage for a while. >> Yeah. >> So this is more of a chronic issue right and so the reason why I say that is cholesttoomas is whenever you hear history includes recurrent ear infections as a child. So whenever you have patients who have recurrent acutitis media, what happens is they constantly develop this buildup in pressure in the middle ear. But but even before that usually there creates like even a little bit of a negative pressure. So that's one of the reasons why fluid starts to accumulate is they have a negative pressure because the ustation tubes close so air can't move. And so what happens is you get a negative pressure inside of the middle ear and what that does is that sucks on the tempanic membrane. So it kind of pulls the tempanic membrane tight and then eventually what happens is fluid builds up and then the pressure starts to build up and it pushes on the tempanic membrane. So people who get these recurrent episodes of acutitis media or they get like eusions they constantly are sucking that tempanic membrane back and what it does is eventually it creates on the top part. So you have the pars tensa which is the bottom part of the tempanic membrane and the pars flaccida which is the top part of the tempanic membrane. That one's a little bit easier and looser. And so what happens is whenever you get that that negative pressure, it can kind of create like this little pocket in the pars fac. And that's where like any kind of debris any kind because you know your ear canal is stratified squeamus epithelial tissue. >> Oh yes, of course. So because of that it that that debris the squamus debris can get into that retraction pocket and it can continue to build and build and build and eventually it kind of breaks its way into the middle ear cavity >> and that can then start to kind of build and kind of push into the mass. It can actually move into that little hole into the mastoid sinuses. It can go around the oicles and start kind of breaking down and destroying the oicles. And so now listen to this. Now you have a person who has recurrent episodes where they'll have the right sucking back episodes create the retraction pocket. They'll get all that debris and then because of that they have gradual hearing loss. So that gradual hearing loss probably is because it's caused so much debris that occurred in the middle ear that it's starting to kind of cause a destruction of the oicles. So you're probably getting destruction of the oicles is my bet here. And then the other thing is the foul smelling kind of like odorhea. That's usually just because of all that keratin debris that's constantly kind of extruding out. That's a big one for this one. So yeah, I would say a lot of this really screams a cholestatoma based upon these kinds of presentations. We learned in PT school, we learned the Weber and Renee tests. >> Yeah. >> And I'm just wondering throughout this episode, we haven't talked about them yet. >> Yeah. >> Is this where we can start getting into that? >> You can do a Weber Renee anytime a person complains of like hearing loss. And let's say that you don't you don't know like the cause of their hearing loss. In a lot of these scenarios, you will. So, for example, if I have a person who oh my gosh, they're I can't even see their tempanic membrane. I wonder why they can't hear. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> It's because their external acoustic miatus is just like, you know, that that's where air is getting through. Or if they have like a bunch of fluid in their middle ear. I don't really understand why they can't hear. Oh, maybe it's because their tempanic membrane is bulging and it's it's filled with fluid back there and it's not moving. If they have a cholest, same thing. If oh, I wonder why they can't hear. Maybe it's that big like brown goo that's in their kind of like tempanic membrane and in their middle ear that's causing this and it's destroying their oicles. Either way, I think a lot of it kind of comes with clinical context. >> But yes, a Weber and Renee test is always good, especially for your exams when it helps you to differentiate between a conductive and a sensory neural hearing loss. So for example, in probably almost every single patient that we've talked about except for one. Yeah. Which is like labyrinthitis, a bacterial labyrinthitis, all of them will probably more likely present with a conductive deafness. >> Which means if you take and you smack the tuning fork, you put it on top of their head. What you're looking for is bone conduction. You're looking for lateralization of the the actual bone conduction. And people have conductive deafness, what happens is all of that kind of bone conduction. You have two different ways that sound waves get to or at least this kind of transmission gets to your actual inner ear. One is air, right? And the other one is bone conduction, which is the vibrations from you putting that tuning fork on their skull. If you got a swollen ear canal, if you have a tempanic membrane that doesn't move, if you got fluid in the middle ear, or if you got destruction of the oicles, all of the air is going to be impeded in some way, shape, or form from getting there. So you're going to depend upon bone conduction, >> right? >> That's going to be the primary way. So if you have any conductive process, the bone conduction will actually cause you to hear better from that tuning fork and the affected ear. So let's say that my right ear a super swollen ear canal, my tempanic membrane is like not moving on the right side. I got a cholestatoma in my right middle ear. I got destruction of my oicles. I have fluid in my right middle ear. In all of these situations, when I tap it, put it on top of my head, that sound, that bone conduction, I'm going to hear that that I'm going to actually feel and hear that bone conduction better on the affected ear, the right ear, just because now in this scenario, all I have going in that direction is just my bone conduction >> because air conduction is blocked. Yeah. Physically. >> Exactly. Exactly. >> All right. All right. So, that's where Weber would lateralize to the affected ear. And then what about Renee? >> So Renee is good. So Renee, in a normal person, so let's say that you took a tuning fork, you put on their mastoid process that determines the bone conduction. >> Yep. >> Then after a certain amount of time, you kind of put it next to their ear and you ask them to kind of listen and tell me when it goes away, right? And that's going to test the air conduction. In normal people, air conduction should always be greater than bone conduction. That's just the way it is. Our air our hair cells are going to respond better normally to air conduction. If you have a conductive process, what that's going to do is it's going to affect the air conduction. So, if normal people respond better to air conduction and you just take away their air conduction because you're inflaming their ear ear canal, you're making their tempanic membrane not move, whatever it may be, then all they're going to be depending upon is that bone conduction. So, in these patients, their bone conduction, they would hear better or they would actually hear more of that from the bone conduction on the mastoid process than they would over the air conduction. And so that's what you would say it would be different. It pretty much be the opposite for those who have sensory deafness. So in the case of bacterial labyrinthitis, they would have it lateralized to the good ear. And then the Renee test, which seems odd, the air conduction would be better than the bone conduction. But the only reason why is because they have nothing obstructing or affecting the flow of air. >> It's sensory neural. >> Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. >> All right. For this patient, do you want to get any type of imaging? >> You don't have to. So I think it doesn't doesn't completely need to get done. I think if you're going to be doing surgery, >> okay, >> which most patients usually do. So I guess in a way, yeah, if you're going to be getting surgery, often times you may want to kind of get a good look and say, okay, let me kind of look and see is there involvement of the mastoid sinuses? Is this causing a lot of involvement of the oicles and things like that? So yeah, I think that kind of guides your surgical plan somewhat because a lot of these patients, they may get what's called a tempano mastoidctomy and there's two different approaches. as one is a canal wall up and a canal wall down. All that essentially means is is when you kind of like kind of cut the mastoid sinus down, you can kind of have it drain into the external ear or you can not have it drain into the external ear. The canal wall down, you have things drain into the external ear. So that kind of reduces the recurrence of cholestas. And then tempanoplasty is another thing that you do. So you cut out the mastoid sinus because you don't want the cholesttoma to grow into the mastoid. That's that's why you get mastoiditis. And then also you do tempanoplasty because it kind of like destroys the eard drum. It also can destroy your oicles and so you may have to fix the tempanic membrane create an artificial tempanic membrane and sometimes you have to do like little new bones. So you have to do like an I think they call an oiculoplasty. So you literally you you reconstruct the little oicles in the middle ear. So because of cholestito they'll kind of destroy and erode those. So you may have to fix them the tempanic membrane, fix the little bones in the middle ear so that way they can actually have their hearing back because your goal really in doing a cholestitoma is to prevent progressive hearing loss and it's also to prevent mastoid itisitis. That's why you do a tempanoplasty and a mastoidctomy. That's the the true goal of it. >> And then antibiotics alone won't help with this. But can they be used in conjunction? >> You don't have to do antibiotics for these. Generally cholestone they can become infected. They can become infected, but oftentimes cholesttoomas are more of just a keratin debris, a squamus epithelial keratin-l like debris that they can become infected, but often times it's not. They don't have to be. Okay. >> Yeah. So, usually for this one, it's just surgical removal of it and then kind of repairing the areas that it caused damage to and preventing it from spreading to the mastoid or at least if it did spread to the mastoid, all right, then I got to go ahead and cut out the mastoid anyway. So, that's really the biggest thing. What are you monitoring for after the surgery? Anything in particular? >> I would watch for recurrence especially if you like the canal wall up therapy which you don't connect the the ear ear canal the external acoustic miatus to the kind of new cavity that you form in the mastoid sinus that's you have a higher incidence I think of cholesttoomas and also you're kind of like you're drilling down bone near the facial canal so the facial nerve is right there. So I' I'd obviously, you know, watch out. Did they get any facial nerve pausy because he got hit during the surgery? >> Cool. That's all I had for those four cases. All right. >> Now, let's do a quick final rapid review. >> We had a lot of information here. I think it's just great when you kind of summarize everything. >> Yeah. >> You want to summarize it? >> No, I'm okay. >> You you do better at this part. >> All right. All right. Well, I mean, I guess with with everything we talked about, otitis externa is probably the easiest one to pick up, you're going to see it in a kid who's like out there swimming at the pool. They're at the beach like me, snorkeling for a couple days, and they're picking around in their ear. They come in with the ear pain gets worse of pulling the peanut, pushing the tragus. You look in the ear, it's super swollen. Tempanic membrane can be normal, but sometimes you can't even see the dang thing. How do you treat it? Often it's just topical antibiotics with a steroid. just avoid the neomy if you can't see the tempanic membrane or if it is perfed and that's usually the key for that one the patient who usually is an uncontrolled diabetic they got HIV and all of a sudden not all of a sudden but over time it gets worse the ear pain so it they it's it's deeper it's it's often times keeps them up at night and then they also have maybe a cranial nerve deficit like a seventh nerve pausy you look in their ear and you see a lot of granulation tissue from destruction of that ear canal That's signifies more of a malignant otitis externally. You got to escalate from a topical to sometimes sometimes you can get away with oral cyprlloxin. It's not common. Sometime if they're immuno competent if they don't have a lot of skullbased extension you can get away with oral cyprloxin but if they have skullbased extension if they are amunosuppressed if they have a facial nerve pausy a lot of the times you got to go with cyprfluxin and an IV antisetamonal agent and that that's the key thing there acutitis media you got to watch out for children they just they got the unfortunate anatomy that creates ustation tube dysfunction builds up the middle earusions which can cause infections and with this one it's going to cause ear pain it's going to cause fever and their tempanic membrane is going to bulge that you need that you need the bulging not just redness if you can't see the bulging you can test it with the pneumatic autooscopy you can do tempanometry to confirm that they have an eusion but you need the presence of an eusion and ear symptoms a lot of the times most of the patients you can get away with not giving them any antibiotics if they're an adult you give them antibiotics if they're less than six months you give them antibiotics if they're six months to 20 to two years of age and they got bilateral cutitis media, you give them antibiotics. If it's severe pain, if they got a fever greater than 39 degrees, you give them antibiotics. If they have odorhea because they they perfanic membrane, you give them antibiotics. If they're imunosuppressed, you give them antibiotics. And if they have a colear implant, you give them antibiotics. Which ones? Amoxicylin. They got recent like antibiotic use, they got recurrent episodes of acutitis media, augmenting. They got a little rash that they got from taking the amoxicylin, switch them over to oral sephilosporn. they go full-blown anaphilaxis, give them a macroy like aiththery and that's how I would treat that one. But mastoiditis on the other hand, that's the one that you got to watch out for. If it gets worse, it can spread and it can cause like a nasty abscess and kind of osteo of that area. So because of that, watch out for the pain in the mastoid sinus, that poster tenderness and swelling and sometimes even fluctuants can. So you push it, it's like a little jelly. Yeah. >> That would potentially support an abscess. And if it pushes the oracle like laterally and forward, that's kind of the tellt tell sign. I always like to get the CT scan to take a look at the extent, but you're putting them on IV antibiotics. You're draining the middle ear. You're watching to see if they get better. You may do tempanosentesis to guide your antibiotics, but if they're not getting better regardless of this, you're probably going to do a mastoidctomy for these patients. And that's how I would treat them. Cholelestoomas, you see these a lot in patients with recurrent acutitis media. they have lots of issues with that or recurrent eusions or ustian tube dysfunction of any sort chronically they're going to be at high risk of cholestito because it creates a retraction pocket. The keratin debris gets in there kind of erodess erodess erodess gets into the mastoid sometimes cause mastoidisitis gets to the bones can erode the bones they can get a lot of destruction of the oicles and they can get hearing loss and mastoiditis. Because of that, we got to cut that thing out, cut out the mastoid sinus, and then redo the nympanic membrane and redo the osticles so that they can not have permanent hearing loss. But yeah, I think that's it. Okay. Well, that's our episode then on ear infections. It was not too long. I felt like that was really pretty helpful. >> Yeah. I mean, I I I feel like with this a lot of you guys are like, "Oh my gosh, dude. It's just ears, right? Can't be that bad." I mean it can be obviously in the scenarios of acutitis media and I think it's always important to be thorough. I think it's important to remember that this is an infection a lot of times in the pediatric population. So that can't be taken lightly and so you really want to be able to know this. Run the algorithm consistently. Ask yourself the questions. Is this is there red flags or not? What's the ear pain suggesting more of? Is it more external? Is it more middle ear? Okay. And then kind of go there. What's the actual ear look like if I look at it on otoscopy? And then if they do have some red flag signs, what could be the complications? Think about those complications clinically and know when it's important to say, "Hey, I got to reach out to ENT. I got to get some scans. I got to escalate my antibiotics from oral or topical to IV agents." And I got to know when they may need a surgical intervention, etc. So, I think those are the big things to consider along the way. And man, I I hope that you guys like this podcast. I hope that you learned a lot. I hope that you felt comfortable with it. And yeah, I just I thank you guys so much for sticking around, for always listening to the podcast, for supporting us in the many ways that you guys do. We thank you guys. We love you guys. And my engineers as always, until next time.