All right, ninjaers. So, we talked in great detail about the adrenal gland, right? We went over in a lot a lot of specific details. What I want to do now is I just want to get a quick overview of the adrenal gland. What stimulates it? What's its target organs and some of the negative feedback mechanisms? Okay. All right. So, where do we have to start? We have to start in the hypothalamus. Now there's a specific nucleus located in the hypothalamus and again uh it's the the nucleus that's actually going to be in this area. If I were to draw here's the actual neuron here. It secretes what hormone? This hormone that it secretes is called corticotropen releasing hormone. What's the nucleus that actually secretes? This is the par ventricular nucleus. What does the corticotropen releasing hormone do? It circulates down through the hypoicial portal system and stimulates specific cells located in the anterior pituitary. Those are called corticotropes. And when the corticotropin releasing hormone circulates down through the hypoasoportal system and stimulates this corticotrope, the corticotrope secretes two different chemicals. One we're going to focus on and one we're not going to talk about. One is alpha MSH because we talked about that in the large detailed video. And then the important one which is adreninocorticotropic hormone. All right. So now what's the function of adreninocorticotropic hormone. Okay. Adreninocorticotropic hormone can go to this adrenal gland here. Right? So the adrenal gland has two components that we talked about. If you look at these blue cells, these red cells and these green cells. All of these three layers make up what's called the adrenal cortex. And in the middle of the adrenal gland is going to be the adrenal medulla. So what does adrenalcorticotropic hormone do? Let's follow it to the adrenal cortex. So it comes over here, circulates through the blood and it acts on a bunch of different receptors on these cells, right? So let's go ahead and remember these basic cells here. What was this blue cell layer here called? This blue cell layer here was called the zona glomemeilosa. This red cell layer here is called the zona faciculada. And this green cell layer here is going to be the zona reticularis. What the adreninocorticotropic hormone does is is it can act on all of these three cells. So let's show that here. Look, it's coming in here and it bifurcates and it can act on these three cells. So it can stimulate the zona reticularis. It can stimulate the zonop facicula and it can stimulate the zona glmeilosa. Now there is other stimuli here. We'll talk about that in just a second. What is the zonog glomemeillosa responsible for secretreting? It secretes chemicals and these chemicals are controlling your mineral balance. So they're called mineral corticoids, right? What was the main one that we talked about? Aldoststerone, right? And we'll talk about him in just a second and his effects. Then what else? Acetal I'm sorry adrenalcorticotropic hormone can act on the zonop faciciculata and it can stimulate the zonopiculata to control certain types of metabolic activities with respect to glucose right and these are called gluccocorticoids. Now the specific one that we talked about is cortisol. Okay. And then it can also the adrenal corticotropic hormone can stimulate the zona reticularis to produce things that are risk going to affect your gonads of the ovaries and the testes and these are called gonadoc corticoids. Now we talked about these already. We're just going to call them androgens, right? But the specific ones were androone dione and DHEA dehydroepiendostrone. Okay, now that we've done that, what is some other stimuli here for the zona glomemeillosa? Because I want to talk about him too. It's not just the adrenal corticotropic hormone because he was one of the big ones, right? So again, what hormone is stimulating this process here? We were to follow it out here. It's the adrenal corticoot tropic hormone, right? What is it doing? It's acting on these zonos, zona facicula and zon reticularis. There's other signals here. What is these other signals here? Other things could be for the zona glomemeilosa could be angio tensin 2. What is another signal here? It could be low plasma sodium ions and high potassium ions in the plasma. Right? And this is stimulatory. This is stimulatory. But they can also receive another signal here. It's not significant. It's from atrial nectaratic peptide and it's inhibitory. Now angotensin 2, we talked about him already. He's important for being able to increase your blood pressure. These sodium ions are helping to stimulate the production of aldoststerone and atriatriotic peptide is trying to inhibit the production of eldoststerone and adreninocorticotropic hormone can have an effect on the zonoglossa to produce aldoststerone. All right. So, we've made all of these different types of sex hormones, uh, gluccocorticoids and mineral corticoids. One more thing is the adrenal medulla. So, if you look here in the adrenal medulla, we already talked about him. He's actually made up of nervous tissue, right? So, neural tissue. So, he has the post gangleionic motor neurons in here. And when it's stimulated stimulated by the sympathetic nervous system, right, through the thoracco lumbar output, it can secrete what? What are the chemicals it secretes? Epinephrine and norepinephrine. And we talked about these in great detail, right? They help to be able to stimulate gluconneogenesis, glycogenolyis, and lipolysis, right? And increase your blood pressure. Okay? So, what are these guys' effects in whole? increase BP increase uh glyco genois and they increase what's called gluco neoenesis and they increase what's called lipolysis. Okay, now we've done these guys. What's the effect of mineral corticoids? Let's look at it over here. So what was that hormone that we talked about? Aldoststerone. He affects the kidney specifically in the distal convoluted tubule, right? And what's his overall function? He helps to be able to create sodium reabsorption. So pull sodium from the kidney tubules into the blood, right? And then he excretes out potassium. But as a result of the sodium moving in, who else follows? Water. So what's the overall result here? you increase blood volume and you increase blood pressure. Okay? And you also increase the sodium content. All right? So you end up what's called hyper nitreia. Okay? But this could you know not necessarily pathological. Okay. What was the other thing over here? It was with respect to cortisol. So here's our cortisol over here. Right? So cortisol did a lot of things. What did it do? It act on the white blood cells, your immune system. What does it do to the immune system? It suppresses the immune system, right? By inhibiting the release of a lot of different cytoines. So, it suppresses the immune system. What does it do to the muscles? You remember it's actually a very very chronic stress hormone, right? So, it can assist in what's called protein catabolism. So, it can break down proteins into amino acids. What can it do here to the fat tissue? It can cause the fat tissue to undergo lipolysis, right? So, it breaks down triglycerides into fatty acids and glycerol. And it can stimulate the liver to do what's called a very very important process and that process is called gluco neoenesis. Okay? Okay, so it can take amino acids and convert amino acids into glucose. It can take glycerol and convert it into glucose. Tons of different things here, right? And it can also enhance the sympathetic nervous systems effects, right? By increasing the adinuric receptors. All right, so that's cortisol. All right, so we talked about cortisol, we talked about asterostrone, we talked about epinephrine and nor epinephrine. Let's finish up with these gonatorticoids. They're nothing that we're going to spend a lot of time on. And the reason why is they're so insignificant. They're very very weak. I should actually put here very weak. But what they do is they can these androgens can act as precursors. So if for example, if I wanted to go to the female, it could be used to make estrogen. If I take it to the male, the male can use that to make it into testosterone. But their overall functions of the gonatocorticoids primarily if we were to just kind of overly their entire function is to control libido. So sex drive. Okay. All right. So now now that we know that we understand what cortisol does, eldoststerone does and gonadocorticoid does. Now real quickly here with the cortisol, this is the one I really want to talk about. If you're making because what happens adreninocorticotropic hormone stimulates your zonopiculata to make cortisol. What happens if your cortisol levels rise really really high? They exert a negative feedback mechanism. So let's say here's our cortisol. It exhibits a negative feedback mechanism. What do you do? You make less corticotropen releasing hormone. You make less adreninocorticotropic hormone and then that triggers the the zonopiculata to not make as much cortisol. That's that negative feedback mechanism. Now, if it was the exact opposite, if there's less cortisol, there's going to be less inhibitory input, right? So, there's going to be less of that negative feedback mechanism there. It's going to cause them to make what? More corticotropen releasing hormone. More corticotropin releasing hormone will actually stimulate the antipituitary gland to make more act. And more ACT will stimulate the zonal physiculata to make more cortisol. All right guys, so I hope that made sense. In this video, we covered a general overview of all the adrenal gland hormones.