All right, engineers. So, what we're going to do in this video is we're going to talk about the parathyroid gland. All right. So, where would you find the parathyroid gland? So, you would find it actually located in the posterior aspect of the thyroid gland. Okay. Where's the thyroid gland found? The thyroid gland is actually found kind of like in the um it's it's inferior to the larynx. So, it's in the anterior neck inferior to the larynx, right? It's a butterflyshaped gland. And on the posterior aspect of that gland, you're going to have these little parathyroid glands. Extremely important glands. Actually, in the past when they used to do thyroidctomies, they didn't really know that there was the parathyroid glands. And they would remove the entire thyroid gland and the parathyroid glands. So now whenever they do thyroidctomies, you have to be very very careful to make sure that you keep these little parathyroid glands. So there's actually four of them. So you have like two here on this lobe and then two here on this lobe here. Right? So, there's four parathyroid glands. What I'm doing right now is I'm zooming in on these actual thyroid gland, right? I'm sorry, parathyroid gland. Now, here's what I got to make sure I explain to you real quick. The parathyroid gland, right, has two different types of cells that are extremely important. One they're still trying to research what's actually the responsibility of this cell. That one cell that they're still looking into is called the oxifill cells. So, these oxifill cells, they're still not sure quite yet what they do. They do play believe that they play a role in stimulating these other cells to produce parathyroid hormone and they believe that they have some type of role what's called parathyroid hormone related protein and even vitamin D. So, but they're still trying to isolate out what exactly these cells do. The other cells that we're going to zoom in on is called the chief cells. And the chief cells are going to be the ones that are primarily responsible for secretreting parathyroid hormone. And we're going to take a look at parathyroid hormone. But before we do that, we need to know what exactly gets these cells going. What what stimulates them to want to release that parathyroid hormone. So you know that they make parathyroid hormone. Well, what stimulates that? What causes these chief cells to want to be able to produce parathyroid hormone? So now let's zoom in and let's look. So I zoom in on one chief cell right here. So before we actually see what the stimulus is, we have to make our parathyroid hormone, right? So how do we make parathyroid hormone? You know that there's going to be specific genes that are expressed and whenever those genes are transcribed by maybe a specific type of RNA polymerase like type two it'll make what? It'll make mRNA and then what will happen that mRNA will actually come out here into the cytoplasm and then in the cytoplasm what do you have? You have ribosomes and what will those ribosomes do? Those ribosomes will act on the mRNA to translate that actual what to translate this mRNA into protein. So translate this mRNA into protein molecule. So this is going to be our protein here. And let's say that this protein is the preform of parathyroid hormone. He'll undergo some specific modifications and cleavage processes within the rough ER and the GG. But in general afterwards so again what is this step right here called when you go from DNA to mRNA this is called transcription and what is this process called whenever you take the mRNA and you translate it into proteins this is called translation okay and then it'll undergo some modification so it'll actually go to the GI so if we were to show here let's say here's the GGI let's say there's the Golgi what happens the you know it'll go to the rougher and then it'll go to the Golgi where it gets modified and packaged. Right? So now is look what look what happens afterwards. We got all these vesicles like packaging this hormone. And what is that hormone in there called? This little dots that I'm drawing in here is all the parathyroid hormone, right? So it's all the parathyroid hormone. It's sitting in these vesicles. It's ready to be released. Well, what's going to get it to go? Calcium. Calcium is the primary stimulus here. But here's what we got to make sure we explain here. Is it high calcium levels or is it low blood calcium levels? It's actually going to be low blood calcium levels. You know what they call uh below the normal value of uh calcium? They actually call it hypocalcemia, right? So hypo hypocalcemia is a very strong stimulus of parathyroid hormone. How you see this receptor here? It's a seven pass receptor, seven pass transmembrane receptor. It's very very sensitive to calcium. So this is a calcium sensitive receptor. So again, what is this receptor called here? It's a calcium sensitive receptor. Very very interesting because usually only hormones bind to these receptors, right? But guess what? Calcium also binds here. So calcium binds onto this calcium sensitive receptor and it triggers these different intracellular processes, right? When calcium levels are high, look what it does, though. It sends these signals through all these different types of intracellular signals that we're not really concerned with here. And guess what the overall effect of it is? Whenever there's high calcium levels, it inhibits this process. So you see how whenever there's really high calcium levels, it inhibits this actual PTH from getting released. Okay. So then what happens if there's very low calcium levels? If there's very very low calcium levels, this process right here is actually going to be less. So there's less inhibitory input coming in, right? So there's less inhibitory pathways or intracellular pathways here. So now what's going to happen? If there's less intracellular pathways going in here, this low blood calcium levels will actually be a stimulus for PTH secretion. So now look, when there's low blood calcium levels, it'll actually cause the stimulus to do what? To cause these vesicles to merge with the actual plasma membrane. And look what happens here. Look what we start releasing out into the blood plasma. We start releasing out all of this parathyroid hormone. Okay? Okay, so parathyroid hormone stimulus is going to be low blood calcium levels. So let's represent this little black dot there as calcium. So it's low calcium levels. Okay. And again, why is it being stim Why is this low calcium level stimulating it? Because when there was high calcium, it was inhibiting the release of PTH through these intracellular pathways. When there's low calcium, there's not going to be as many of these intracellular pathways occurring, right? So it's going to release this actual PTH secretion from inhibition. And then what's going to happen? and PTH will start getting released. All right, so now that we know that's that mechanism, what about this other cell? I drew another cell in here. What's this cell about? Okay, you know the thyroid gland? We talked about this in the thyroid hormone video that we said that it's made up of thyroid follicles, right? And the thyroid follicles are the ones that are basically responding to TSH and making thyroid hormone. Well, in between the thyroid follicles, sometimes you'll see squeezed in between them, mashed between them, is this little green cell here. What's that green cell there called? That green cell is actually called a paraphalicular cell. So it's actually called a parapalicular cell. Sometimes they even call it C cells, right? So they're C cells or paraffilicular cells. These guys are important with being able to regulate the the uh opposite action of calcium. So this one, this one actually low calcium stimulates PTH secretion. This cell right here, this paraphalicular cell is actually going to be stimulated by high blood calcium levels. Okay? Now, it could work through a calcium sensing receptor or it could even work through calcium channels, the mechanism we're not really that concerned with here, but it's just understanding what is the stimulus here. So, there could be calcium channels that this actual calcium is going to work through, or it could actually work through a calcium sensitive receptor. So, let's show again here. What's the stimulus here? What's the overall stimulus? High blood calcium levels. So, it's high blood calcium levels. What do you call that? Whenever you have higher than normal calcium levels, it's called hypercalcemia, right? Hypercalcemia. And then what's the overall result? It could either cause more calcium to come in or it could actually cause these different types of intracellular pathways to occur. Now, before we do that and we show this, we have to do the same thing. We have to make our calceton. So, how do we do that? We take this what we take this actual DNA right here. We'll say this is the gene to make calcetonin and we actually transcribe it into mRNA. So here's our mRNA strand. Then what it comes out into the cytoplasm and what does it actually interact with? It interacts with a ribosome. What does the ribosome do? It translates this actual mRNA. When it translates translates it, what does it do? It converts it into a protein. And then this protein can go and get modified in the rough ER and then after that it can go to the GI right so it can go to the GI and then what is the Golgi going to do? It's going to package it into these vesicles. Right? So it's going to package it maybe modify it a little bit and then do what? Put it into these vesicles and then have it ready for excretion. So let's show this one right here in red. So this is our calcetonin. And again, what did we say was the stimulus to cause these guys to get released? it was high calcium levels. So whether it be through direct movement of the calcium or whether it be through these actual intracellular pathways, what's happening? It's actually going to be designed to stimulate what? These vesicles to fuse with the cell membrane. And if the vesicles fuse with the cell membrane, what's the overall result? You're going to be releasing out into the plasma, the blood plasma calcotonin. Okay? Okay, so now we have that. So real quick, hypocalcemia is the stimulus for PTH. Hypercalcemia is the stimulus for calcetonin. All right, so now that we know that, let's go ahead and zoom in and see how these hormones are going to regulate these actual levels. Oh, real quick, what do you call whenever a hormone is actually stimulated to be released or secreted, but whenever it's due to some type of ionic stimuli or or nutrient stimulus, right? Okay. So, it's usually due to like chemicals or ions or nutrients. What is that called? That's called hummeral stimuli. So, this right here is an example of what's called hummeral stimuli. I just wanted to mention that because hormones can be secreted in three ways. Hummeral, which is due to ions and nutrients and different types of chemicals. Hormonal, which is one hormone can stimulate another endocrine gland to make hormones. Or it could be neural. So there could be a neural tissue that actually stimulates an endocrine gland to make hormones. So there's three different types, but this is an example of hummeral. All right. Now let's go ahead and zoom in now on the effects first of parathyroid hormone because calcetonin he is important in being able to regulate calcium levels. But the primary regulator of calcium is parathyroid hormone. He's he's essential. Okay, calcetonin has a little bit of a role, but it's not going to be anything as crazy and as drastic as PTH. So, let's focus on PTH first. So, we're going to denote P PTH in this is actually going to be he's going to be this black dot right here. So, let's say here, let's actually look look here's this guy right here. This is our parathyroid hormone and he's ready to freick things up. Okay, so he's ready to start doing some damage. So, what's he going to do? Let's focus on the first uh organ here, which is the bone. Okay, so he can act on bone tissue. What does he do to the bone tissue? Well, there's two different types of cells that are very, very important in being able to regulate and maintain our bone uh remodeling processes. This one right here, this blue cell, is actually called an osteoclast. So, let's call this one an osteo class. And this one over here in red, we're going to call this one an osteo blast. Now, a little bit into the bone physiology here is osteoclast. you know that these are actually going to be cells that are doing bone resorption. What does that mean by bone resorption? It means it's trying to break down the bone and resorb out or pull out or leech out any of the calciums and the phosphates and some of the breakdown products of the collagen out of the bone and put it where into the plasma to the blood plasma. Right? So he's doing that function. Osteoblasts are responsible for what's called bone deposition. What does that mean by bone deposition? It means that they're responsible for being able to take calcium, take certain types of phosphates, take certain types of amino acids to make collagen, right? And do what? Deposit it into the bone tissue. That's his responsibility. So PTH he's his stimulus was what? What was the overall stimulus here? Let's actually put this right here. low calcium levels, right? This was the primary stimulus. So, what's his goal going to be? His goal is going to be to try to increase the blood calcium levels. How's he going to do that? He's going to want to stimulate this guy. But how he does it is a little weird, right? Because this guy's they love to talk to each other. So, he's going to talk to him first and he's going to talk to him. How? On this osteoclast, I'm sorry, osteoblast is a receptor for the PTH. So look, PTH comes in and binds onto this receptor. When he binds onto this receptor here, it stimulates the osteoblast to start secretreting a specific chemical. And what is that chemical called? It's called rank liand. What does that rank lian do? Well, you know this has rank receptors. So over here on the osteoclast is actually going to be rank receptor. So this is actually going to be a rank receptor. When rank lian binds onto the rank receptor, guess what it does? It triggers this osteoclast to become very very active. So when it becomes very very active, it starts actually having its vitroin and integrine interacting, right? There's going to be a lot of interaction with the bone. Then it's going to start secretreting a lot of chemicals. What are those chemicals called that it's going to start secretreting? It's going to start secretreting chemicals like ceps and K. So, it's going to start secretreting chemicals like cathin K, which is a nice protein digesting enzyme. It's also going to secrete acid phosphatases, tartar resistant acid phosphotases, a lot of different types of chemicals. And then what is that going to do? Look what it's going to do to the bone. It's going to start breaking down some of the chemicals within the bone like the collagen type one. It's going to start breaking down some of the hydroxyapatites, the calcium phosphates. And look what it does. It starts actually resorbing and breaking away the bone. And but what does it pull? What's actually accumulating in out of this now? Now you're going to have a lot of calcium and a lot of phosphate. Look at that. A lot of calcium and a lot of phosphate are accumulated from this breakdown. Where is that calcium and phosphate going to go? We're going to take that and put it into the blood. So that's what we're going to do with that. We're going to take this calcium and this phosphate right here and we're going to put it into the blood. What is that going to do to the blood now? So now if we look here, what was the overall result? Now if I bring this calcium and this phosphate into the bloodstream, I increase my blood calcium levels and I increase the phosphate levels. Beautiful. So that's one way that the PTH helps to regulate the actual calcium levels in the blood. One is by causing osteoclastic activity to occur and inhibiting the osteoblastic activity. All right. Now let's look at the kidneys effect. Let's look at all the direct effects of PTH and then the indirect effect. So what I did right here is I'm taking a piece of the kidney and I'm taking out if you know uh the kidney has what's called the nephron, right? So it has the you know you have your Bowman's capsule then you got your proximal convoluted tubule, descending limb, ascending limb and then you got your collecting duct, right? What I'm doing is I'm zooming in on two cells in what's called the distal convoluted tubule. So I'm zooming in on two of these cells in the distal convoluted tubule because that's where PTH really is working. Okay. So PTH is a protein hormone, right? So just like we talked about in the receptor video, we know that he has to have what? Extracellular membrane receptors. What type? Okay, now this type right here, let's actually put it right here. This is actually going to be kind of a G stimulatory pathway right here. So it could actually be through the G stimulatory pathway. And how does this actually work? So let's say here we have the actual parathyroid hormone. And he was actually going to be in black here, right? So what does the parathyroid hormone do? He comes in and he binds onto this receptor. When he binds onto this receptor, it activates an intracellular pathway, right? It activates G stimulatory which activates adenolate cylace which converts ATP into cyclic AMP. Cyclic AMP activates protein kynise A. And then what's the overall result? It phosphorolates specific types of transcription factors. What could those transcription factors be? They could be transcription factors to make specific types of protein molecules. So let's say right here is our transcription factor. And what did the protein kynise A do? What do protein kinases do? We put phosphates on them and it activates them, right? And once this becomes active, it starts stimulating this gene sequence. And look what it makes out of it. It makes a specific type of protein. So look at look what it made right here. Look at this. It makes this really really specific special type of protein right here. And this protein will get packaged in the Golgi and all that stuff like that. But then look where it's going to go. It's going to get packaged in the Golgi. So it'll get packaged in the GI and then it'll actually get sent out and get embedded into the membrane. So a whole bunch of these proteins. Now look what we're going to have in the membrane. Now look what we have into the membrane right here. Look at this protein right here. This one right here. This one right here. Just a couple of them right there. Right. We'll put one more. One more right there. What's the whole purpose of this? Normally in the distal convoluted tubule, it is very impermeable to ions like sodium and chlorine and water and calcium and all different types of substances. So, usually by the time things get to this point, you usually need hormones present in order to open up specific channels to get those ions in or they'll be lost in the urine. So, right now it's getting ready to make urine. So, right here, what could be flowing through right here? Look who is beautifully flowing through in here. It's actually going to be calcium. So, we could have calcium just chilling out in the lumen of this actual filtrate. It's getting ready to go into the urine. But what happens this who who did this right here? Who who is this hormone right here? This is actually parathyroid hormone, right? What does he do? He binds on, activates this pathway to make these specific types of calcium channel proteins and they get embedded into the membrane, right? So, this gets embedded all into the membrane. What's the overall result then? Calcium is going to start flowing in from the actual filtrate that's going to go to make the urine into these kidney cells. And then where they're going to go straight from here. Look where look where they go now. They come in here, but guess what? There's nothing really here on this membrane. Look, they had they had this little protein right here. There's another uh protein right here. Let's actually draw that protein. Look what it has right here on the membrane. It has another protein here on the membrane that's extremely important, but it can't get out. Let's draw this one right here. Here's this protein right here. And it's trying to be able to get out of this protein, but it can't. And the reason why is it's moving against its concentration gradient. So it's trying to go from areas of low inside the cell to areas of high, right? So that's going to be really hard to do. So what we need is we need someone to assist on that process. So you know in every single cell in our entire body, we have these special types of channels, special types of proteins. Let's say here's one. Let's say here's another one. You know what this one's called? It's called a sodium potassium ATPAS pumps. So what are they doing? They're pumping three sodium. They're putting three sodiums out of the cell and two potassium ions into the cell. So again, three sodium ions out of the cell, two potassium ions into the cell. So what's happening? What's getting really, really concentrated out here? We're getting a lot of sodium ions concentrated out here. Right? When the sodium ions get really, really concentrated out here in the extracellular space, look what they can do. They can actually move like let's actually actually follow all these guys now. Look at this. They can move. So they're really really high out here, very very low in here. They're going to move from areas of high to low. So they're moving by passive diffusion. When they move by passive diffusion, because this process is active, right? So this process in general, if you're pumping potassium against this concentration gradient and sodium against this concentration gradient, this requires ATP. So it's active transport, primary active. But then look, sodium is really, really concentrated out here. He can move down his concentration gradient without any energy there. But calcium can't. But when sodium moves down, guess what? It helps calcium out. And then look what happens. Calcium can get into the blood. So this is an example of a sodium calcium exchanger. But this is called secondary active transport. So this is called secondary active transport. So that's how you help to be able to get these guys in, right? Is by bringing the sodium down its concentration gradient, it helps the calcium go against its concentration gradient. So what do we do here? What was the overall result here then? Look at this. What a beautiful thing. What do we do? We increase the calcium concentration there. Another thing, you know, because calcium has has to is coming in, right? So it's coming into the blood. Guess what this actual PTH does? It actually excretes out the phosphates. So also at the same time that it's actually pushing this calcium in, guess what else it's excreting out? It's pushing out phosphates because it's important within the buffer system, right? So it's excreting out phosphates in the form of P43 negative or you actually might even see it in the form of HP42 negative because it's actually going to be a part of the phosphate buffer system, right? All right. So again, what is it doing here in the kidneys? it's actually causing calcium reabsorption and then excreting phosphates. Okay, now that we've done that, we know how it increases calciums in the kidney. Now, we're going to focus on the last one which is kind of an indirect function of PTH. Okay, you know in your skin you have a very specific chemical. What's that chemical called in your skin? In your skin, you have a chemical which is called seven dehydro cholesterol. Okay, 70 dehydro cholesterol. So, it's just a a form of a cholesterol molecule. Right? Now, what happens is is if you're exposed to sunlight, right? So, let's say that you're exposing yourself to sunlight. So, let's say here's some UV light here. We'll draw that in green. Here's some UV light, some ultraviolet light, right? It's hitting you, hitting that skin right there. And what does it do? It actually acts as a stimulus to cause 7G hydro cholesterol to get pulled into the blood and it turns it into another type of molecule. So what happens as a result of this? When it gets hit by the UV light, it actually gets converted into a specific molecule and that molecule is called koliciferol. I'm not going to try to spell that. I'll definitely butcher it, guys. So I'm just going to put kolic calciferol. What does kolalciferol do? Well, choliferol once it's in the blood, it goes to the liver. So, it goes to the liver and in the liver there's a specific enzyme and that enzyme loves to put O groups, hydroxal groups onto things. You know what this enzyme is called? This enzyme is called 25 hydroxilase. hydroxilase. So, what do you think it's going to do? It's going to put a hydroxal group on the 25th carbon of choleiciferol. So look what happens here. It's going to come into this and it's going to react with this enzyme here. And look what it does when it comes out. Look what it is now. Now it's actually called 25 hydroxychaliferol. That's what it is now. Now it's 25 hydroxy koliciferol. And who performed that function? That was the 25 hydroxilase enzyme. Okay. Okay. Well, you're I'm still you're probably still wondering where the heck is PTH come into this play. PTH acts on this kidney cells, right? So, it can act on specific uh tubular cells within the kidney. So, it can act on specific tubular cells within the kidney to express a very very specific enzyme. What is that specific enzyme that it expresses? That specific enzyme that it can express is actually called one alpha hydroxilase. So it can express something called one alpha hydroxilase. Let me actually write that up here. So it's called one alpha. We should actually have a hyphen there. One alpha hydroxilase. So who who does this? Who actually increases the expression of this molecule? This is actually going to be parathyroid hormone. So the parathyroid hormone increases the expression of one alpha hydroxilate. So he stimulates this pathway. Now this 25 hydroxycholiferol is actually going to go to the kidney then and then when it goes to the kidney the kidney is actually going to allow look it's going to interact with that and look look what happens as a result. So what happens this 25 hydroxycolic comes in to the kidney and when it's in the kidney it interacts with this one alpha hydroxilase and who increases his expression or the amount of him pth then look what you get out of this one alpha hydroxilase it puts an O group on the first carbon now we call it one comma 25 dihydroxy koliciferol holy frick Right? That's a lot, right? But like that that and there's another name that you can actually call it in instead of that which makes it a lot easier. This is actually called calca triol. Calcatriol. This is the active form of vitamin D. So what is this guy right here? This is the active form of vitamin D. Why am I mentioning all this? Because PTH is going to help us to get more calcium into the body. He just can't do it directly. He's going to do it indirectly. How? By turning this inactive precursor of vitamin D into the active prec active molecule of vitamin D. Now, what is vitamin D going to do? Let's follow him over here. Now, what we're going to do is we're going to zoom in zoom in onto a specific part of the gastrointestinal tract. We're going to zoom in onto the small intestine, the dadum, right? The first part of the small intestine, the dadum. And we're looking at one cell in the deadum. This is an interasite or an intestinal epithelial cell, right? Vitamin D is going to come over here. So, let's actually follow this vitamin D over here. It's going to come all the way over here. And you know, vitamin D is actually a steroid hormone. He acts like a steroid hormone. So, in other words, he doesn't have extracellular membrane receptors. He has receptors that are present inside of the cell. So, let's draw that. So, look, here's his receptor which is present inside of the cell. And vitamin D will actually pass right through the cell's membrane and bind onto this intracellular receptor. When it binds onto this intracellular receptor, what will it do? It'll activate a specific gene sequence. And that specific gene sequence that it will activate will produce specific types of proteins. These proteins will then again get trans you'll actually get they'll get translated, go to the rough ER, go to the GI, get packaged, and then get put up onto the cell membrane. Look at these beautiful proteins here. These proteins are amazing because they help us to get the calcium from the gut into the blood. So what are these proteins here called? These are calcium channel proteins. So what are they going to do? This could actually be look, you could actually have calcium flowing through your actual GI tract, right? Maybe you had a nice old piece of Cooper cheese. That's my favorite cheese. I love Cooper cheese. But it could be flowing through the gut, right? Or you had like a lot of milk. I love milk, too. But that's not the point. But again, calcium is actually flowing through the GI tract here, right? And look, we need to get a lot of that calcium where we need to get a lot of that calcium into the bloodstream. So what did this this actual vitamin D do? It activated specific genes to make these. What did it make? It made these calcium channel proteins. Look, it made this protein, that one, it made that one. And what's the overall result? It opens up these channel proteins for calcium, an increased amount of calcium to actually come in because there's normally calcium channel proteins on the membrane. What did vitamin D do? It made more calcium channel proteins. So then what do we do? We absorb more calcium. So where is this going to go now? Look where all this calcium is going to go to. All the calcium is going to come into the blood right now, right? And then what's the overall result? There's an increase in blood calcium levels. So what was the overall result then? What did the vitamin D do? It increased blood calcium levels. How did PTH affect that? It increased the expression of the one alpha hydroxilase enzyme. So if PTH didn't do that, we would never have gotten the active form of vitamin D and we would have never been able to absorb the calcium. So that's why PTH is important in the activation of vitamin D. And the overall result is everything is look here increases blood calcium levels there increases the blood calcium levels here. And then that's how he would deal with that. Okay. Now let's go ahead and take a look at the calcetonin now and see how calcetonin does this. All right. So calceton.in. What does calcetonin do? Well again we said that calcetonin was stimulated by high blood calcium levels. So he would be stimulated by high blood calcium levels. So what do you think he's going to want to do if we were to put calceton right here? So let's actually have him at the opposite pole now. So let's actually say we have calcetonin right here. Calcetonin is stimulated by high blood calcium levels, right? So let's draw a calceton.in. So here's calcetonin. Here's our calcetonin dude. Right? So this is our calconin. What is calcetonin going to do to try to be able to do what? to bring these calcium levels down because that's his entire goal. He only really has one target organ. What he wants to do is he wants to change the balance of the osteoclass and osteoblast activity. How? He has receptors directly on the osteoclass. Let's draw this one right here. Let's draw this red receptor right here. Here's this red receptor. You see that red receptor there? That's for calcetonin. So calcetonin is going to come in here and he's going to bind. So who's this molecule right here? This is called calca tonin and calcetonin will bind onto this receptor. Guess what it'll do to this receptor? It'll cause this receptors to send signals to the osteoclast to inhibit the osteoclast. So it won't make cath the K. It won't make these acid phosphotases and other enzymes that are designed to break down the bone. Right? So if this is inhibited, what's going to happen? Let's imagine I have like a seesaw here. All right, here we go. And over here on this side is osteoclast. So OC and on this side of the seesaw is osteoclast. What is calcetonin going to do? It's going to inhibit the osteoclastic activity. If the osteoclastic activity decreases, what happens to this now? Well, now we can actually redraw it like this. Right? If we change the scale, if osteoplastic activity is decreasing, it would look like this. Now look at this. So now osteoblastic activity is going up and osteoclastic activity is going down. As a result, look what happens then. It's kind of like an indirect weird effect, right? If he's inhibiting osteoclastic activity, osteoclass can't resorb as much bone away. So who's going to be primarily functioning right now? Osteoblasts. And what are the osteoblasts going to be doing? They're going to be taking calcium from the blood. So they could be taking calcium from the blood and some of those calcium phosphates out of the blood and then they can deposit that into the bone. So what would these osteoblasts be doing? They could be taking, let's say that we draw here, we pull calcium out of the bone, right? I mean out of the blood. So we pull a lot of this calcium out of the blood and what is this osteoblast going to do? It's going to take that calcium and it's going to start incorporating it into the bone tissue. Right? And this osteoblast will also start secretreting what's called uh you know not just the oxal this will be a component of the osteoid it also starts secretreting proteoglycans and collagen type one a lot of different proteins in this area right to be able to cause the bone to get thicker right or you know or to cause bone deposition. So osteo osteoblast will their their activity will be increased due to the decreasing activity of osteoclass. So it'll alter the normal balance of these two cells. And now who does that? Calcetonin. So again who does this activity right here? This is the job of calcetonin. Calcetonin. And calcetonin will do what? Decrease osteoclastic activity which as a result will increase osteoplastic activity. When osteoblastic activity occurs, it'll pull more calcium out of the blood, which decreases the blood calcium levels, and it'll take that calcium and phosphates and other types of amino acids and deposit that into the bone, right? So, he'll make collagen type one. He'll make hydroxyapatites. He'll make the different types of proteoglycans, right? To cause the bone thickening, right? Or increase in bone deposits. All right, ninja nerds. So, in this video, we talked about parathyroid hormone and calcetonin in great detail. I hope it made sense. All right, engineers.