All right, Ninja Nerds. In this video, we're going to talk about the pancreas, but specifically we're going to focus on the hormone insulin. So, let's take a look here at the pancreas. If you look at the pancreas, the pancreas is actually referred to as a heterocrine gland. Okay? So, what is it referred to as? It's referred to as a heterocrine gland. So what it means to be heterocrine is it's made up of two different types of tissues, right? One is it's going to have this endocrine producing tissue and the other one is it's going to consist of a exacrine producing tissue. Now the indocrine producing tissue is actually made up of two things. It's actually made up of alpha cells. Okay, alpha cells and beta cells. These are the two more significant ones. There is more than just alpha cells and beta cells. There's even delta cells and F cells and PP cells. There's a whole bunch of different types of cells. Okay, so this endocrine portion is the alpha cells and the beta cells. Now, the alpha cells are responsible for secretreting a hormone referred to as glucagon. Okay, you can remember that because there's an A in glucagon and there's an A in alpha. The beta cells are responsible for secretreting insulin. Okay? And insulin in general, if I were to just categorize insulin as what type of hormone he is, he is responsible for trying to be able to bring our blood glucose levels down. So he responds, so in other words, his stimulus, what's his stimulus? His stimulus is hyper glycemia. And as a response to that hypoglycemia, his job is to be able to bring the blood glucose levels back down. Okay? So his responsibility is to be able to bring the blood glucose levels back down. Now glucagon, his is the exact opposite. You can remember that by it's released whenever glucose is gone. All right? It's easy way to think about it. I I think about there being a gone there, right? So glucagon is released whenever your glucose is gone or whenever you have low blood glucose levels. So they refer to it as hypo glycemia. Okay, low blood glucose levels. Now what's normally uh to kind of get an idea here, what's a normal blood glucose range? Normally a blood glucose range ranges from about 80 to 120 mg per dl. This is an average blood glucose level. Okay? So an average blood glucose levels is just going to range from about 80 to 120 milligrams per dl. All right? So if you're below 80 milligrams per dl that's referred to as hypoglycemia. Whereas if you're above 120 milligrams per dl that's referred to as hypoglycemia. Okay. So again below 80 hypoglycemia above 120 hypoglycemia. And kind of an idea here is you do have a little bit of buffer here. You can maybe even consider about 70 milligrams can still still to be within the normal range, but generally I'm just going to go with about 80 to 120. Okay? But it can go about to about 70. All right. Now, the exocrine portion, we're going to talk about that in the digestive system. But just to highlight it, the exacrine portion is actually made up of what's called the asini. And this is the one that's releasing pancreatic juice rich in digestive enzymes and bicarbonate. Now the endocrine portion that we talked about with the alpha cells and the beta cells, if you look here, we have alpha cells and beta cells. And like I told you, there is other cells like delta cells and PP cells and F cells. They're actually aligned in like a cluster. So imagine this cluster of cells in that area. Okay? And it only makes up about 1% of the entire pancreas. Right? So 99% of it is a SI. So again, how much percent of it is a SI? About 99% is a sini and about 1% of it is this structure which we call the eyelets of Langangerhan. This right here is going to be the endocrine portion of the pancreas. Okay, it's these little clusters called the eyelets of Langangerhan. Now, the eyelet of Langangerhan, which I told you, has the alpha cells and the beta cells, but we're primarily in this video going to focus on insulin. So, which cells are we going to really be looking at? We're going to be looking at the beta cells. Okay? So, now we're going to zoom in here into a beta cell. So, this right here, I'm zooming in on a beta cell. So, this is specifically a beta cell. Now, beta cells, like I told you, are responsible for being able to release insulin, right? They're responsible for releasing insulin. Now, with the beta cells, they're actually going to use their DNA. So, inside of the DNA, there's a specific gene. Let's say here's the gene right here. You know, genes, they actually undergo transcription. And when they undergo transcription, they get converted into mRNA. And then mRNA comes out here into the cytoplasm. And what does it do? It meets with a ribosome. So let's say here's a ribosome right here. And here's a ribosome on the other side of it, right? Small and large ribosomeal subunit. That mRNA will come in here, right? And it'll get read by the ribosomes. And then what? You'll synthesize a protein. So out of this will be a protein synthesize. Now generally what has to happen is he has to go to the rough ER. So generally he'll go to the rough ER. So let's say I just draw a generic rough ER here. So it has to go to what is this structure here called the rough endopplasmic reticulum and it underos certain types of modifications. Then after that it has to go to another structure. Let's say it goes to another structure and this next structure is called the Golgi apparatus. So then it goes to the Golgi and in the Golgi he gets packaged right and whenever he comes out of this look what he comes out as. So out of the Golgi I'm now going to have this fully packaged insulin. Okay. So now what would I have in here? I will have insulin. Now insulin is actually made up of now generally what happens is whenever you have a hormone you start with what's called pro-inssulin and then under go specific types of cleaving processes in the rough ER modifications packaged and stored in these vesicles. Now, so now I have insulin in here, but I also have another important peptide which I should mention here. This other peptide is called C peptide. And I'll explain that in a second. So we've synthesized our insulin. Our insulin is sitting in these vesicles. So not only there's just one vesicle, there's many many different types of vesicles here consisting of this insulin. So let's say I just draw here for the sake of it. Three vesicles with insulin and cpeptide. So here's insulin. Here's insulin and I'm just going to represent C peptide with just a C here. So C C peptide. Okay, they're in these vesicles. They're packaged in there and they even have zinc in there too. Now look what happens. What did I tell you? These beta cells are responding to what's their stimulus. Their stimulus was hyperglycemia. So whenever your blood glucose levels are elevated above this normal range of about 120 milligrams per dl, right? So the blood glucose levels are high. Let's represent that then. Let's show here the blood glucose levels are really high. I'm going to represent glucose as this G here. Okay. On the pancreatic beta cell, it has these specific types of transporters. You see this blue transporter right here? This blue transporter is actually called a glut 2 transporter. What the heck is glut 2? Glut 2 means it's a glucose transporter type two. And I know type two might be like ah who cares about that. It's very significant because that means that if it's a glut 2, it's insulin independent. So any type of glut 2 receptor is insulin independent. It doesn't need insulin. So in other words, this glucose is going to move in here into this pancreatic beta cell. And if you have a lot of glucose, what does glucose undergo when it gets into the side of the cell? You know, under goes glycolysis. So let's say here's glucose. He'll eventually get converted into glucose 6 phosphate and then eventually he'll get converted into pyuvate if we just keep going down here and then eventually goes to acetal coa and then from acceto what happens it goes through the kreb cycle and out of the kreb cycle you produce NADH's and FADH2s and all that freaking good stuff right where do these guys go look where they go now the NADH's and the FADH2s that you produce they go to the mitochondria and When they're at the mitochondria, what happens? They actually go through that electron transport chain, right? And out of the electron transport chain, what do they produce? By oxidative phosphorilation, ATP, right? Because that's generally what happens. Glucose under goes glycolysis. Then under it goes the transition step, under goes KB cycle and makes these NADHs, these FADH2s, and then it gets taken to these transporters because all of this right here, pyuvate, acetto, KB cycle, and even these formations of these guys, it's all occurring here in the mitochondria. And then it's producing ATP. Why is that significant? You see this like a channel right here? This channel right here is specifically for potassium. So this is a potassium channel. So potassium loves to be able to move through this channel. So let's say here's your potassium. But guess what? There's a little pocket here for the ATP. So the ATP literally comes in here and binds. When ATP binds onto this channel, it closes the channel. So it inhibits the channel and closes it. So now this channel is closed. So let's represent this channel as being closed. Now okay, potassium can't get out. If potassium can't get out, he tries to be able to escape, but he can't escape. What happens to these positively charged ions? You start accumulating a lot of potassium ions, which are positively charged. When you accumulate a lot of positively charged ions, what happens to the cell membrane potential? It becomes very, very positive. And whenever this actually occurs, it increases and tries to bring up the the membrane potential. So your positive membrane potential, right? Whenever this positive membrane potential occurs, that stimulates these pink channels right there. What are these pink channels for? These pink channels are for calcium. And calcium is going to start flooding in to this beta cell. Why is that important? Let me show you. You know, on top of the insulin, there's a specific protein. On top of the cell membrane, there's a specific protein. Guess what that calcium ion does? The calcium ions, I'm going to represent that in red here, are linking together these synaptoroteins. It's linking together the synaptorotein on the vesicle containing insulin and the synaptorotein here on the membrane. When that happens, what happens to this actual vesicle in the cell membrane? They fuse. And whenever this fuses, it opens up into the actual blood. And what does it release out? It releases out the insulin. So now what do we release out here? We released out here insulin. You'll also release out ceptide. Remember I told you I'll release ceptide. And for the heck of it, you also release another molecule called amyelin. Okay? Okay. And this is significant in type two diabetes. I'll talk about it whenever we get there. But now these molecules are going to get moved into the blood. Okay. So now in your bloodstream you have insulin which is the one that we're going to focus on. Now I told you I give you a little brief little thing about cpeptides. So let me talk real briefly about ceptide. C peptide is important because he's a good way to be able to monitor insulin levels, right? So, because you can monitor ceptide, it kind of gives you a decent idea of someone's insulin levels. So, that's what they can use ceptide for is being a way to monitor someone's insulin levels. Why would that be a good monitor of insulin levels? Because whenever you release insulin, guess what else you release? Cepttide. And amelin is actually if you produce too much insulin these amin proteins can cause amaloid deposits and actually cause destruction of the beta cells and that can lead to that's a usually a cause of type two diabetes malitis. All right so this insulin what is he going to go and do now? That's what we want to know. We want to know what the freak is insulin going to do over here. Okay. So let's see what he's going to do. Let's go ahead and first see what he does on the liver. Okay. So let's show this insulin. This insulin is going to come over here and it's going to bind onto a receptor. Now, we didn't really talk too much about this receptor. You probably haven't seen it too much yet, but it's called a tyrroscen kinase receptor. We're not going to talk about it. We're not going to go over the pathway. It's not necessary, but it's a tyrroscen kinace receptor. Okay? In other words, whenever insulin binds here, so let's say that I represent insulin with an I. Whenever insulin binds there, it stimulates specific phosphorilation of tyrrosine residues. And the overall result is you activate this intracellular messenger called PI3K and AKT. So PI3K and AKT and AKT is just protein kynise B. Really, why am I telling you this? When insulin does this, this enzyme is very, very important within the liver. Okay, what did I tell you was wrong with the blood? what was really really high in the blood that we showed before. You have really really high blood glucose levels. The whole goal of insulin is to bring those glucose levels down. So what this actual insulin does is now remember I told you about the liver, right? Okay, the liver, you see these these blue proteins? It's the same ones that were on the pancreatic beta cells, but I was very particular about the type of glut receptor it was. It's glut 2. What does that mean? That means that this insulin, I'm sorry, that glut receptor is independent of insulin. So in other words, insulin doesn't control that glut receptor. Glucose can move in at its own constant rate. Once glucose is brought into the liver cell, that's where insulin can be of use. Okay. What insulin is going to do is is it's going to convert this glucose into a specific molecule. It's going to take glucose and it's going to polymerize the glucose into glycogen. Okay, so that's one thing it's going to do. One thing it's going to do right away is it's going to help to stimulate these uh PI3K and AKT, the protein kynise B. It's going to stimulate glycogen synthesis. That's one mechanism. You know what else it can do? it can take this glucose and help to be able to convert it into pyuvate. So it can actually work through specific types of glycolytic enzymes and takes and converts those glycolytic enzymes and it makes them active to help to be able to form pyuvate through specific types of phosphatase activity. Okay, so again one more time insulin's binding onto the liver activating tyrroscen kynise receptors forming these intracellular messengers like AKT protein kynise B he's called who helps to be able to convert glucose into glycogen and helps to be able to convert glucose into pyuvate by activating glycolysis that's one way and what is that doing that's yanking the glucose out of the blood and converting it into different stoages because what's the end product if you keep following pyuvate he goes to acetal COA, right? And then we know acetto COA goes to the KB cycle and then eventually that goes to electron transport chain and produces ATP. So we're going to use this to get some energy too. Okay. All right. So that's the two mechanisms. One mechanism, let's actually outline that. One mechanism is forming glue glucose into glycogen. What is that called when you take glucose and convert it into glycogen? That is called glycogenesis. Okay, that's one mechanism. We also said the other mechanism was taking glucose and converting it into pyuvate which will then go through its other steps. What is this step here called? This is called glycolysis. Okay, so that's what it's doing. It's stimulating glycolysis and glycogenesis. All right, that's what it's doing in the liver. Let's see what it's doing over here in the muscles. So, let's take this insulin and let's follow this insulin out here. Okay. So, this insulin is going to come out to this area and it's going to come and act on this receptor again a tyrroscen kinase receptor. Now, when it activates the tyrroscen kinace receptor, right, this is a tyrroscen kynise receptor. Again, it'll activate PI3K and AKT, which is basically your protein kynise B. What this does is, you see this type of transporter right there? I'm probably going to get on you guys' nerves. This is called a glut transporter. Why am I telling you it's glut? Because glut is dependent upon insulin. So, normally this is bringing glucose in. But what this insulin is going to do is it's going to activate these protein kynise B. This protein kynise B is going to come over here and activate this glut 4. It's going to stimulate it maybe by phosphorilation reactions. If it stimulates glut 4, what is that glut 4 going to do? It's going to become hyperactive. And what was really high out here in the blood again? Glucose. So what's glucose going to do? It's going to start funneling into this muscle cell. If it starts funneling into this muscle cell, what can the actual insulin do within that muscle cell with that glucose? Remember I told you it can take the glucose and eventually convert it into pyuvate, right? And then from pyuvate, where can pyuvate go? It can go to acetal coa who goes into the KB cycle, right? who goes to the electron transport chain and produces ATP right what is this protein kynise B this whole complex from insulin doing it's stimulating that glycolysis pathway so over here what is it doing one thing is it's enhancing this glut 4 activity to bring glucose into the cell so it's enhancing this step right here is called it's increasing glucose uptake which is a fancy word for just being able to say bringing glucose into the cell. It's increasing the rate at which glucose is being brought into the cell and it's stimulating the conversion of glucose into pyuvate. What's that called? That is called glycolysis. Okay, you know it's not done at that too. It loves to be able to do other things. He loves to help out. That's what insulin does. insulin is a great helper. So what insulin does is since we already know that it does this, I'm going to get this out of the way because we're only really concerned with the pyuvate pathway, but it can that just understand that that pyuvate can go to acceto and be utilized for ATP. Look what else it does. There's other transporters over here on the cell membrane. So let's say here's another transporter. And this transporter is specific to specific types of amino acids. So you know amino acids are really really important for making proteins, right? especially within the muscle cells. So you know what this actual guy does? He comes over here and he stimulates this red protein channel. What's that red protein channel? So this is called a amino acid channel. Now you know whenever you're eating, so right when you eat, they call it the fed state, right? So or the absorptive state, right? When you're eating, that's when your glucose levels and your amino acid levels in the blood are really, really high. So, what is going to be really, really high out here? If I were to represent it in a different color, let's say I do it in brown. Okay? So, let's say out here in the blood, you're going to have high amino acid levels. Why is it high? Because you just got done eating, right? So, right when you're eating, so when you're in the fed state or the absorptive state, your amino acid levels within the blood are very, very high. insulin takes that to his advantage and he stimulates these amino acid channels and helps to be able to pull these amino acids into the muscle cell. So it stimulates that. So what's that called? Whenever you're increasing the activity of these amino acid channels, it's stimulating amino acid uptake. Okay, that's one thing. Then look what else it's doing. He's not done. You know amino acids are the building blocks. So let's say I represent these dots as amino acids. If I take these amino acids and I string them together by making peptide bonds. So now I'm going to represent those little dots as a whole component of this large large molecule which is called a protein, right? So proteins are basically the the bu they're actually the polymers, right? Because these are the monomers. Amino acids is the monomers. So they're the building blocks of proteins. What this actual insulin does through these protein kinases is it stimulates this process. What is this called? Whenever you're taking amino acids and converting it into proteins, this is called protein synthesis. Man, this hormone is is really really getting around, huh? So, he's stimulating protein synthesis. He's stimulating amino acid uptake. He's stimulating glycolysis. He's stimulating glucose uptake only through the glut 4 transporters. He's stimulating glycogenesis within the liver. He's also stimulating glycolysis within the liver. You know what else he can do inside of the muscle? He's not done. He can take that glucose and he can convert that glucose into glycogen. So he can also stimulate this reaction here. And what is that called? That's called glycogenesis. So again, whenever this glucose is being brought into the cell, what things can happen to it? If we were to outline it, what things can happen in the muscle cell? One is glucose uptake. The second thing is amino acid uptake. The third thing is glycolysis. The fourth thing is glycogenesis. And the fifth thing is protein synthesis. Man, he does a lot of stuff there. All right, so he's causing all of these effects. Who's doing this again, guys? insulin. insulin is doing this. So, here's our insulin, right? We represented this as insulin here. He is stimulating all of these reactions. Wow. It's beautiful. That's amazing. I really think that's amazing. Okay, so that's what he's doing on the muscles. Let's see what he's doing over here on the atapost tissue. So now insulin is going to come over here and work on the atapost tissue, our fat tissue, right? So he's going to bind on to this receptor, right? Stimulate this receptor. And again, what were those intracellular messengers? There is other things that insulin can do. It can stimulate a map kynise pathway which can cause proliferation of the cell, but we're not really caring about that right here. But it goes and stimulates again that PI3K and AKT, which is your protein kynise B. And look what this does. Guess what type of transporter is there? I know you guys are probably fed up with it, but it's called glut for transporter. What did I tell you a glut transporter was? It was insulin dependent, meaning that insulin can alter the activity of this protein. So look what he does. He stimulates this actual glucose transporter. Makes him more hyperactive. And again, what was really rich in the blood? If I pull out of here, there was a lot of glucose. What happens to that glucose? we take that glucose into the cell. Okay. So, what's the first thing that it did here? If we were to map out the first function it did on the atapost tissue, it caused glucose uptake. Now, here's the next part that's kind of funky. Now, you know glucose, he actually has a lot of carbons in him. He's about six carbons long, right? Eventually, what happens is that glucose, he gets to py actually he gets to about this point where glucose splits. one is into what's called glyceraldahhide 3 phosphate and the other one is called DHAP right and then that glyceraldide 3 phosphate can eventually go to form a pyuvate and then acetal coa look what insulin does insulin is going to help to take this DHAP and convert that look what he converts it into you see that head right there that head right there. That head right there is called glycerol. So that's one mechanism that he stimulates. He comes over here and he stimulates. So let's actually show that now. He comes over here and stimulates this pathway, the conversion of DHAP, dihydroxy acetone phosphate into glycerol, which is a building block of triglycerides. Guess what else he does? He also comes over here and stimulates this next step here. Watch what watch happens here. This is crazy. You see these tails here? Look what happens. He stimulates that pathway. He stimulates the conversion of acetto coa into fatty acid chains. What does that call whenever you're converting acceto into these fatty acid chains? You're you're helping in this process of lipogenesis. Right? So now what happens is this glycerol and these fatty acids here. So these are fatty acids are combined and if they're combined what do they form? They form this which is called a triglyceride. I'm going to represent it AST A which is called triglycerol. It's the same thing as a triglyceride. Isn't that beautiful? So what is he doing here? He's assisting in a process called lipo genesis. Man, unbelievable. Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful. Okay, so let's go ahead and recap everything and see what's going on here. insulin's released, comes over here to the liver, acts on these tyroscen kinus receptors, activates this intracellular sibling molecules to do what? Trigger glucose into glycogen conversion, which is called glycogenesis. He also takes and converts the gly uh glucose into pyuvate, which can be used to form ATP, right? So oxidation of the glucose but again he's mainly stimulating glycolysis and remember I told you that there's gl two receptors on the liver two receptors are insulin independent. So insulin has no effect on these receptors. They're bringing glucose in at their own rate. All right that was its effect on the liver and the liver it can do a little bit of lipogenesis within the liver but we're not going to talk about that. We're going to keep that specifically to the actual atapose. Then if we look at the muscle when it came over here to the muscle was activating this intracellular PI3K and protein kynise B your AKT who is stimulating this glut 4 transporter which is insulin dependent which helps to bring a lot of glucose into the muscle cell. It's also helping to stimulate glycolysis or the conversion of pyuvate. It's also stimulating its conversion into glycogen which is called glycogenesis. And what else is it doing? It's also helping to activate these specific types of amino acid channels to bring a lot of amino acids into the muscle cell and make proteins. So it's stimulating protein synthesis and amino acid uptake. And then the atapost tissue was stimulating again that PI3K and that protein kin B that AKT who was doing what? Activating glut transporters which are insulin dependent. So they're bring glucose in now at depending upon insulin's presence. Whenever that happens they bring more glucose in and they what happens is that glucose due to the effect of insulin insulin helps to convert that glucose into a lot of DHAP. So dihydroxy acetone phosphate but he what he tries to do he tries to shift this DHAP into forming glycerol. He also shifts some of this G3P to go down to pyuvate into acettoa. And then he tries to stimulate the shift of acettoa into fatty acids. And then he activates enzymes that will help in combining the fatty acids and the glycerol together to make triglycerides. And again, what is this whole process called? Lipogenesis. Okay. Now, if you can think about it, there was high glucose levels in the blood. And I told you that there was also high amino acid levels in the blood. And if you really want to think about it, it also has high fatty acids levels in the blood. Now technically some of these fatty acids can also get taken up by the actual atapose tissue and utilized. So if I were to represent that too, technically these fatty acids, they can actually be brought into the cell and insulin can actually help to stimulate some of these fatty acids to be converted into triglycerides. Okay. So again, because you just remember insulin is secreted whenever you're eating, okay, during the absorptive state. So these fatty acid levels in the blood will go down. The amino acid levels in the blood will go down. Why? Because insulin is stimulating the amino acid uptake. The glucose levels in the blood will go down. That's his whole effect. So it's beautiful to understand that. And you can see now that whenever insulin is actually deficient or whenever it's produced in large amounts, it can cause drastic effects on the body. Okay? And we'll cover that in diabetes and we'll also talk about when we talk about insulinomas. All right, engineers, we covered a lot of information in this video. I hope it all made sense. I hope you guys enjoyed it. If you did, hit that like button, hit that subscribe button, leave some comments down in the comment section. We'd love to be able to hear from you