 and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, trying to be able to afford these massive subscriptions just to learn something. But if you guys have the opportunity, we do offer some premium resources at an affordable price. If you guys go down the description box below, we have a link to our website. On there, we offer things like notes, illustrations, quiz questions, flashcards. Go check it out. I think you'll learn a lot. Without further ado, done with my little elevator pitch. Let's get into talking about esophageal and gastric cancer. All right, so let's talk a little bit about esophageal and gastric cancer here. When we talk about these, the unfortunate thing about these is that usually when they're diagnosed, they're oftentimes late stages because they don't usually present with symptoms most of the time because usually they're smaller tumors than as they kind of grow and grow and grow, they become obstructive and then that obstructive kind of nature of them precipitates symptoms. Sometimes dysphagia and esophageal cancer or dyspepsia, usually that's just the general abdominal, epigastric discomfort. You feel bloated, you feel full, and you just kind of have some discomfort there. Those don't usually come to the later stage. So when you see that, unfortunately, they're already kind of like almost stage three, stage four, etc. So that's the unfortunate thing about these. But the next thing that we have to talk about is that when it comes to these, they have different subtypes. So it's not just like esophageal cancer. Well, there's actually esophageal cancer that can be two subtypes of esophageal cancer. So squamous cell and adenocarcinoma. What I really, all I really need you to know about this is just location-wise. So we can break the esophagus up. So here's the upper esophageal sphincter and then here's just the entire esophagus tube and then we get down here to the lower esophageal sphincter. When we think about this, we can kind of break this up into two points here and into two points here. Squamous cell carcinoma oftentimes tends to involve the upper two-thirds of the esophagus. So here we're going to have like a nasty looking tumor and it's involving the upper two-thirds. Which one do you think that's more likely going to be? It's going to be the squamous cell carcinoma. So it's usually going to be the upper two-thirds of the esophagus. So that's the first thing I want you guys to know right here is that squamous cell carcinoma oftentimes upper two-thirds. Adenocarcinoma, you probably already guessed it, it's the lower one-third of the esophagus. So this is going to be near like the gaseous esophageal sphincter. So that gets into a point here when you start thinking about these things, what really causes these tissues to become abnormal? What causes the squamous cells to undergo dysplasia? What causes the squamous cells to turn into columnar cells? Because here's the thing, when we talk about esophageal tissue, you know what the inner the mucosa is made up of? It's stratified squamous. Non-charitonized stratified squamous epithelial tissue because it's designed to have you know resistance to friction and abrasion because we can swallow some pretty warm liquids. We can eat some really rough potato chips that could scratch that thing up right? So we needed to have that you know that resistance to abrasion and friction. Well unfortunately some of these tissues can change when they're put in a different type of environment. So what I want to do is okay I want to now say okay squamous cell carcinoma, I can kind of have that on location, adenocarcinoma, I can have that also off of kind of like location of where you can get this tumor. What I want to now talk about is the tissues, like the changes, the genetic changes for this some part. So let's say here I take a piece here, I just want to take and I want to look in and I want to say how does this thing really grow? How does this happen? So what I'm going to do is I'm going to kind of zoom in here. So as I zoom in I'm going to have a piece of the esophagus that I'm looking at. When we look at the tissue again I already told you like imagine there's no mass here. When you look at the cell types again I told you it's squamous cells. So it's going to be squamous cells and it's going to be layered and all that means is that it's stratified right? So when we look at this it's stratified squamous epithelial tissue. All of a sudden the patient starts to experience some dysplasia and that dysplasia is a change. It becomes abnormal, it becomes atypical types of squamous cells and that atypical squamous cell unfortunately develops more and more mutations and that mutation then brings about an opportunity for this cancer to be self surviving. It can evade death apoptosis because it's shut down the tumor suppressor genes or it can proliferate because it amped up the protanco genes and now this thing becomes a cancer. The question is is what in the heck led to this dysplasia? So squamous cell carcinoma you got to think about it. This thing is usually going to cause this change where it goes from a squamous cell and it's still squamous cells. It's just now it's abnormal squamous cells. So imagine here for just an example let's say here we represent these as brown that's normal. You may have a couple of these that remain abnormal but maybe some of these will represent it here in like this black color. They become mutated. These ones have the ability to grow and divide and survive like weird vampire cells. These ones maybe they kind of they stay the same but these ones they gain the ability to be independent. They start gaining vascular supply. That's what we start to see here. Question is why? So the real reasons usually behind this dysplasia or what triggers it is we could say what are these risk factors if you will? So what are the risk factors for squamous cell carcinoma? And I'd say the biggest thing is smoking. So it's anything that causes chronic irritation. Chronic irritation to that mucosa. Smoking is a really really big one. I'd say alcohol consumption is another really really big one. And the other unfortunate one and I'm not even trying to be like weird about it but it's HPV. Usually this is going to be 16 and 18. The human papillomavirus. I'm not trying to be weird but usually any kind of oral sex. Usually on a woman who has HPV that increases the susceptibility for the male to potentially get squamous cell carcinoma. I'd say the biggest risk factor is smoking. So these risk factors definitely increase the chance of these squamous cells becoming dysplastic that changes these normal squamous cells to becoming abnormal. Having the ability to become vampire cells to survive and grow and grow and grow. And then you get this nasty kind of mass present. All right. The next concept here is adenocarcinoma. Adenocarcinoma again what kind of cells will we be starting off with and we're really actually zooming in on is you're taking what kind of look right here and we're going to kind of zoom in on this. You're starting off with the same thing. So you're going to start off with some squamous cells. All right. So here's your stratified squamous layer. Your stratified squamous cells. And you can see here that we got a normal esophagus. What we start to notice is a little bit of a change. What we start to see is that the esophagus may start becoming a little bit more thick over time. Maybe it's a little bit thicker. And one of the concepts behind this is that maybe there was some kind of inflammation. Some kind of inflammation that was happening. And the squamous cells when they're exposed to like chronic acid. Think about it. Look at where the lower third of the esophagus is right next to the stomach. If for some terrible reason hydrochloric acid is kind of spilling back from the stomach into the esophagus. This thing is spilling up. It's going to cause chronic inflammation. And then what happens is these stratified squamous cells, they're saying, oh dude, I'm not equipped for this kind of exposure. I'm good with resisting friction and abrasion, but I ain't trying to bathe in hydrochloric acid, bro. So what does it do? It changes the tissue type to accommodate for that kind of scenario. So watch this. Usually there is, I'd say acid reflux. Lots and lots of acid reflux. This is the primary trigger here. And that's going to kind of cause it to change its tissue type. What do I mean? Now the squamous cells say, hi, bro, I'm going to start becoming columnar. And so then these cells start becoming columnar cells. And they also start expressing some goblet cells too. So they have lots of goblet cells as well, which we'll represent here in this greenish color. We're going to have some goblet cells that are going to be present here as well. So now look at this, dude. I got started off with some squamous cells and I turned it into a different tissue type. What is that called? This here is called metaplasia. So going from here to here is called metaplasia. And the thing that caused that metaplasia is the consistent acid reflux. It had to change its tissue type to change to the environment. So at this point, now what do we call this? We call this Barrett's esophagus. Now this is a very, I'd say a pre-malignant condition. It's where the patient is definitely at risk of this tissue becoming dysplastic and then turning into adenocarcinoma. So we took a squamous tissue, turned it into a columnar tissue, which is kind of like called intestinal metaplasia, if you will, as this process. Now it's Barrett's esophagus. We really got to be careful because all it takes is some of these cells to just get hit abnormally, decide to mutate, decide to turn off their tumor suppressor genes or turn on their proto-oncogenes. Boom, this thing becomes adenocarcinoma. So then all it takes is for this to happen and that dysplasia will then turn these cells. So maybe if you think about it, you got a couple, maybe we'll give a couple of these stragglers and then you can have maybe, let's just keep like one of these goblet cells, we'll keep one of these, but then all it took was just a little bit of dysplasia to turn some of these abnormal. And now these are going to start replicating and dividing and growing because they become vampire cells. And then you get this nasty mass that's easily able to breed. It's usually fungating and it can really, really bleed sometimes. So the question is, is what in the heck is causing all of this acid reflux? Gird, bro! So oftentimes I'm not kidding. When we think about this, we usually just say risk factors, if you will, I'm going to put it here. Risk factors for adenocarcinoma is just really, it's pretty, pretty simple. It's going to be chronic gastroesophageal reflux disease because that is going to cause that consistent, that consistent acid reflux that's going to change the tissue type to change to the environment. Now chronic Gird can definitely lead to barit's esophagus. That's why oftentimes when patients have repeated Gird, sometimes if we're doing lots of proton pump inhibitor trials, they're not going any better, we'll do an EGD. Oh crap, they got barit's. Now they're pre-religionate, super high risk of turning into adenocarcinoma. We should be very, very careful. Sometimes we can do ablations at that point. All right. So really, really important. So in Gird, we see this in patients with obesity. We see this in patients who have hiatal hernias. We see the patients who smoke. There's a lot of different reasons why. If you guys want to know, go watch that video. All right. But at this point, we've talked about esophageal cancer. We've discussed the two types. We've discussed the lowest common locations. We also discussed the potential precipitating factors with the underlying mechanism. Now, let's talk about gastric cancer. So with gastric cancer, there's again two types. There's intestinal type and there's diffuse type. With intestinal type, this is definitely the more common one. Just like if you were to ask which one of these are more common, squamous or adeno, you would say adeno. But if I were to say which one's more common for gastric cancer, you'd say intestinal or diffuse, you would say intestinal type. Now, location is kind of important here to think about for intestinal type. Oftentimes, it likes to go near the lesser curvature, probably even close to the pyloric. So I'd say like near the antrum and usually on the lesser curvature. So here, I'm going to represent, here's a intestinal type gastric ad, and these are both adenocarcinomas. All right. So that means that they have kind of like a glandular look to them. They consist of columnar apathilia tissue. They have lots of these goblet cells that are really accumulating. And that's usually the problem. All right. So we think about location wise, this intestinal type is usually going to be near the lesser curvature. All right. And usually, it's more of like a exophytic kind of mass. It can ulcerate, it can bleed, but that's going to be one big thing here for the intestinal type. The diffuse type is weird, dude, because with this one, I'm going to represent it here as like black right now, but it usually starts proximal. So here we'll have like this kind of like mass here. And then what it does is, is it starts to spread throughout the layers. So it actually spreads through the layers and moves kind of like distally throughout the wall of the GI tract. And so oftentimes this one, it usually involves an entire wall of the actual stomach. And so this can usually start proximally and then it spreads anywhere. It really can involve anywhere. And that's what the key thing here is. This can occur anywhere in the stomach. All right. But it's key that it's too important to remember that it's usually going to involve a lot of the stomach wall. All right. So diffuse type, it's within the name. It can be anywhere. What is important to remember is when you talk about these, intestinal type, definitely the most common, but let's say that we actually kind of examine and kind of look at this. So I take this area here. All right. I want to kind of examine how this can actually happen. I'll zoom in here for a second. So when we look at the stomach's mucosa, obviously we've talked about this in our basic physiology. I'm not going to go through a lot of that, but you have the mucosa, you have the submucosa, you have the muscularis external, and then you have the serosa, the adventitia, depending upon if it's intraparithenial or retroparithenial. Well, the mucosa is really consisting of like three layers. It's an epithelial tissue, a laminopropria, and a muscularis mucosa. I just want to focus on the epithelial tissue. Usually it's a columnar cell. So you can kind of see here you got a bunch of columnar cells. And then what happens is usually in the stomach, we get these things called these gastric pits. And these gastric pits, they lead down into areas called gastric glands. And there's a bunch of different cells here. I'm not going to go through all of them. You've got like parietal cells, you've got your chief cells, you've got your foveolar cells, you've got your enteroendocrine G cells. And these are really the ones that are making a lot of that gastric juice. So here that's the big thing is you're going to have these nice plump gastric glands, very, very nice plump gastric glands that are going to be present. But then what happens is a patient unfortunately gets exposed to things. And these things cause inflammation. And so what I'm going to say is the primary trigger here is there's going to be chronic inflammation. And that's going to cause a lot of stress to the epithelial tissue. So there's going to be a lot of chronic inflammation. And what that's going to do is it's going to take the gastric glands from being these plump, beautiful little glands that can produce parietal cells, produce hydrochloric acid, enteroendocrine G cells, produce gastrin, your chief cells produce pepsinogen, which can make pepsin, your foveolar cells produce like a mucus that lines nicely the stomach wall. But you're going to have chronic inflammation, which is going to cause gastric gland atrophy. These things are going to shrivel up like a prune. And so now look at this, look at this thing. You're going to get this little, it's definitely shriveled up, right? That's definitely some gastric gland atrophy. All right. And that's usually what can happen. You also can get just inflammation of the intestinal, I mean, I'm sorry, the gastric epithelium as well. But what you're going to see here is you'll be able to appreciate the gastric gland atrophy. And then what happens here, unfortunately, is that you get other cells that start to kind of like take the place. And usually what happens is you start to get some infiltration or involvement of goblet cells. All right. So now I'm going to get some goblet cells that are going to get in here. So my gastric glands are going to atrophy. And then what I'm going to get is I'm going to get an uptick in goblet cells. And this starts to give me a similar look to that intestinal tissue. Funny enough, we call this intestinal metoplasia to a degree, but there's going to be an uptick in the goblet cells. And there's going to be atrophy of the gastric glands. What this point, this tissue is very susceptible, super susceptible to mutations, super susceptible to where it can say, let me shut down my tumor suppressor genes, crank up my protalonco genes. One of the two, dysplasia comes into the mix. And if that happens, that's all it takes to turn these columnar cells and say, hey, let me go ahead and become malignant. And then you get this nasty mass that we see here. All right. So that's really a key thing. But the question is, what in the heck is causing the chronic inflammation? So usually we would say the biggest thing, the risk factors for intestinal type is two things. One is chronic H. pylori infections. So usually H. pylori causes what? It causes a peptic ulcer disease. So it causes gastric ulcers, a very, very common cause by the helical bactria, pylori bacteria. And so usually with that one, you see this in patients who have recurrent gastric ulcers or peptic ulcers. And we'll have to usually do this. We do things like urea breath test. We also can do the GM sustain. We can do the urease test. There's so many different ways that we can diagnose this. But usually that's the most common causes chronic H. pylori infections. Believe it or not, H. pylori not only can it lead to gastric adenocarcinoma, which usually the most common is intestinal type, but it can also lead to this super rare one called a gastric malt lymphoma. And so that's another one that we can see because it can involve the malt tissue, the mucosa, associated lymphatic tissue in the stomach. The other one is autoimmune gastritis. Autoimmune gastritis. So this is basically where you have autoantibodies that are attacking the parietal cells or usually attacking the parietal cells. And that is definitely a very, very common cause of gastric cancer as well. So when we think about this, chronic H. pylori infections, autoimmune gastritis are what's really amping up the chronic inflammation. And that's what's leading to this process here, the gastric gland atrophy, getting more goblet cells, making this a susceptible host to become dysplastic. All right. All right. Diffuse type is also interesting. It's not as common, but again, what you'll notice here is you have these columnar cells, right? So these are called columnar cells. Now what you'll notice is that these columnar cells, they're tight. They're tight, bro. And when columnar cells are tight, I'm going to represent it kind of like right here. I'll create just a little space, a theoretical space. This theoretical space is designed to represent proteins that are allowing these cells to adhere with one another. And these are called e-cadherins. So these are called e-cadherins. These are basically like the velcro that exists between these cells, right? So between these columnar cells, you got some e-cadherins. What happens if I lose the e-cadherins? Oh, shoot, man. That's really what starts to happen is that you start to lose the e-cadherins. So there is a loss of that function. When there's a loss of e-cadherins, now the cells, what actually happens is, let's say here, I got these cells, they're tight in it. They're two peas in a pot. But then you lose the e-cadherins between this cell and this other cell. Now this cell is floating around everywhere. And then you lose e-cadherins from this cell and this other cell. And this one's floating around everywhere. Maybe these two are connected, but you start noticing these cells just starting to kind of like separate and starting to not stick with one another anymore. All right? And this is because you lose the e-cadherins. So now these are sticking these nice together. These are sticking these together, but do you have any way of these sticking together? No. And so what happens is these kind of start floating off. But realistically, they don't actually float into the lumen. They actually float deeper into the tissue wall. So here's actually what happens is that these cells say, all right, let me move down here into the submucosa. Let me move down here into the muscularis layer. And it's really weird. They take on a super odd shape. So when you look at them, they have like this like signet ring look. And that's one of the key terms. If you ever hear that is a signet ring cell that's kind of appearing here, that's usually suggestive of the diffuse type. So what we say is you have these signet rings. And this is indicative of the break in the e-cadherins, right? And they start to infiltrate into the deeper layers of the stomach wall. As they start to infiltrate, all right, so these you get infiltration into the stomach wall. So it goes deeper down into the submucosa, the muscularis external. Look at the wall here. Thing is thick. You're going to get a super thick and rigid stomach wall. They actually call this linitis plastica. And this is basically, I'm not kidding, it's just a super thick and it's like a very thick rigid plastic bottle. That's how we're kind of calling this. So a very thick and rigid stomach wall is indicative of losing the e-cadherins. So because now these cells aren't sticking to one another. These aren't sticking to one another. These aren't sticking to one other. They're free to meander. Where do they meander? Deeper into the tissue wall. They take on a weird consortium of a shape called signet rings. They get deeper and deeper into the actual stomach wall layers and thicken it and make it super rigid. That is diffuse type, all right? Question is, what in the heck causes this e-cadherin loss? It's usually genetic. And so we don't really have a great reason, but what we suspect is that there's a gene. There's a gene called CDH1. And that CDH1 is designed to control the catherins, right? So if you lose the CDH1, then guess what? You then lead to the e-cadherin loss. And that's the key thing here. So that's going to lead to the e-cadherin loss. So the, let's say the risk factors, if you will, the risk factors for the diffuse type is what is this? It's called a CDH1 mutation. It's some type of familial condition. So it's a CDH1 mutation. And I wouldn't take it further than that. Oftentimes when you get tested, it's usually something regarding e-cadherins, the signet rings, or the identification of Linitis Plastica. All right? All right. That's gastric cancer. Now what I want to do is, is I want to take and say, okay, if a patient has esophageal cancer, I do get it that when they present, it's usually unfortunate at late stage, but I should still be able to identify it. What is the most common clinical appearance? When a patient presents with gastric cancer, what is the most common clinical appearance? And then also, what's the worst case presentation that if they could present, they could present to me in. And so I'm going to look through the complications with you together. Next thing here is when we talk about esophageal cancer and how it presents, again, dysphagia is definitely going to be the most common presentation. So with this, when you think about dysphagia, let's pretend here you got an esophageal mass, right? If you have an esophageal mass, one of the things is that first, these patients have dysphagia that's usually progressive. And so what I mean is, is that usually it starts off where maybe here they're their tumor, as I say in this case, I'm just using these as locations. I'm not saying, oh, they got a squamous and then an ad known they have different presentations. No, I'm saying, here's a tumor at one point in time in life, and here's a tumor at another point in time in life. The first thing is usually it starts off for solids. So solids are going to be the most affected. So let's say that the tumor is a little bit smaller, it's still going to be harder for solid, like a solid food bowl is to make it past this. And so that's one thing is it's going to make it difficulty. There's going to be bring about difficulty in being able to swallow food. And so usually the dysphagia, it starts off with solids first, and then over time, as maybe the mass gets bigger, or it gets more fibrous, or you lose some of the peristalsis because the mass starts to infiltrate, then what happens is, let's represent to here with just like a little little represented as a symbol, liquids. Now it's harder as the tumor gets more encroaching and obstructive, it's harder for liquids to get by. And so that brings about the difficulty in swallowing liquids. So it's solids first, and then it progresses over time, and then liquids come later. That is usually something that brings about a concern for a structural esophageal dysphagia. Now you can have a pretty wide differential diagnosis for this, right? You could have like things like esophagitis. That could definitely be a one that you got to think about. Usually it's associated with a dynophasia though. You could have a stricture. You could have an esophageal web. You could have an esophageal ring. There could be a lot of different things that can cause this type of presentation. The key thing here is that if this dysphagia continues to go on, you should evaluate it. And you should actually consider first, I'd say like a barium swallow. But if they have really bad alarm symptoms, and we'll talk about what some of those things are, like bleeding, if they have that, or if they have significant weight loss, if they have anemia, if they have persistent nausea and vomiting, I would say you're going to go to an EGD. But if they're presenting with dysphagia, you should consider saying, let me get a barium swallow. See if I see any structural abnormalities and then go from there. So usually something like this would persuade you to say, let me get a barium swallow. Now this is another one. I would say when you think about reasons for GI bleeds, especially upper GI bleed, the esophageal cancer would not be at the top. It would actually be pretty low. You're going to think more about esophageal varices. You're going to think more about gastric or duodenal ulcers. You're going to think more about like a delafoi lesion. You're going to think more about like things like that, then you would over something like esophageal cancer. Probably even a gastric cancer would likely more cause upper GI bleeds than esophageal cancer. But it's still something that you have to consider because I would consider an alarm symptom. Scary, got to go evaluate this kind of thing. So when a patient has a tumor, I'd say it's more often adenome and that's just probably because of adenocarcinoma being more common than squamous cell carcinoma. But if this thing bleeds, where could it move? Where could the blood move? That's what I want you guys to think about. It could move here and if it moves here, it's going to have to go through the GIT. And when it goes through the GIT, it gets oxidized and it's not going to be bright red. It's going to be dark tarry stools. What's that called? That's called malena. So if they got some dark tarry stools, that's one thing. If by some chance,  they got a pretty good bleed, and that's not gonna become with a softening of cancer, but if they did, they got a pretty brisk bleeding here, and they actually end up vomiting some of that blood out. What's that called? What's that? That's called hematemesis. These are definitely ways that they could present. The other thing is that they could just lose blood. What happens with chronic blood loss? If it is very slow chronic blood loss, they can cause some malena, they can, cause some hematemesis, I'd say this is more likely. But another thing is that sometimes you don't see them a little, and you don't see the hematemesis, and it's a slow trickle of blood that they keep losing. So we'll represent it like this one over here. Here's a slow trickle of this bleeding over time. That chronic blood loss, if you don't keep up with your iron intake and the amount of loss of iron is greater than the amount of iron that you take in, what can that lead to? Anemia, and the most common type of anemia. This situation is called iron deficiency anemia. So that's the things that you can potentially present. So for example, the reason why I tell you about alarm symptoms is that if a patient came in, they had dysphagia and they have hematemesis, iron deficiency anemia, and malena, you should be concerned. I would say that would be a reasonable scenario to say go get an EGD. Cause they're either like, they have a frank bleed that's coming, that's going down, or they have cancer. And so that's definitely an indication for me to say go get an EGD with a biopsy. All right? The next thing I would say that is possible, but it's really whenever the esophageal cancer gets pretty advanced. Like I'm not kidding, this thing's gotta be like a beast. Here you got the tumor, it starts to create a tunnel. And so now, anything that you decide that you're gonna go ahead and eat, that thing's just like, wee! Right down in here into the lungs. And so now, every time you eat, you got food just dropping down into the trachea. And whenever that happens, that's going to immediately trigger a cough reflex. So one of the most common presentations is when this happens, it's gonna irritate the trachea, and that's gonna cause a cough reflex. And so the most common presentation is coughing after eating. All right? That doesn't mean that you go and you eat a burger and a little bit went down my airway. I'm, you know, I got a tracheo esophageal fistula. No, it's persistent coughing after eating, persistently. That is really the big thing that I want you to remember. Now the other problem here is if this happens a lot, which it can in this scenario, this can get down into the lungs. And, you know, anything from your esophagus, there's an opportunity for bacteria to get in. And if that bacteria gets in there, one of the things that can happen is you can get an infection of the lung tissue. And so let's represent that kind of like this greenish color here. So now this gets in here and it starts to lead to infection. And now I got this raging pneumonia, but it's pretty recurrent, right? So you maybe get treated, you get some antibiotics, and it keeps happening. That's one of the ways that we could also see this is recurrent aspiration pneumonia. And it's kind of well known that the patient is an aspiration risk, but having that aspiration definitely is kind of nasty, and that can lead to pneumonia, all right? Not every time do you aspirate, do you get pneumonia, you can get pneumonitis, but if it happens consistently, or you have enough of this kind of bacterial source, it can cause pneumonia, all right? So tracheo esophageal fistula is usually, you have to have a pretty nasty advanced esophageal tumor to get something like that, and it actually creates a little tube tunnel, a little tissue tunnel between the esophagus and between the trachea. Now, metastasis of esophageal cancer. Again, unfortunately, when you do find this, it's usually either involving a significant chunk of the actual esophageal wall, so it's probably down to like the muscularis externa, or it's kind of gotten further into the lymph nodes, or it's kind of spread a little bit further out to other organs. This is unfortunate. So you have esophageal veins, and you have some gastric veins that kind of are supplying or draining the esophagus, and so this tumor can definitely kind of seed into these circulatory areas, and these oftentimes lead to going to the liver via like the portal system, and then that can kind of get into the inferior vena cava and go to the lungs. And so very common areas where these tumors do tend to kind of let go and seed is to the liver and to the lungs. Less common one is gonna be to the bones. And so if I get these tumors, and they're really kind of occurring here in the liver, what am I gonna get? Well, I may get like a bump in the LFTs. I may get some swelling of the liver if I got some good honkers that spread there. Definitely possible for me to get some kind of a patomegaly, but you may just notice like a very small bump in the LFTs. And so it's not often that you're gonna find this. You may end up getting like an ultrasound or a CT for another reason, and you find these. The liver unfortunately is a very common source of mets, a very common area where mets like to go. The lung, same thing. You can usually you're gonna get scattered ones. And that's usually often an identifier of potentially metastasis, but this can present with things like cough. Homoptasis is a kind of one potentially in dyspnea. And so it's all like, you know, very nonspecific symptoms. Sometimes recurrent pleural effusions too, is something to think about. But yeah, cough, homoptasis, dyspnea, very, very nonspecific symptoms unfortunately. And then so the bone, this one, you may get some mets here. And this can potentially precipitate things like bone pain. And again, I would watch out, consider the alkaline phosphatase if it's elevated. That could mean that there's a heavy amount of bone turnover. And that definitely may ring a bell to think about, could there be some bone metastasis there as well? All right, so that's some things to think about. Another one is it can go to the regional lymph nodes. So watch out for that as well. All right, when you think about it, it looks like they're vomiting up their actual tumor cells, but not trying to be funny. But a big thing here is watch out for these things. This really gives us the overall look at esophageal cancer, understanding that dysphagia is really going to be the most common symptom, but it's going to be advanced. You can get it up or GI bleed, not too common. You can get T.E. fishelus, really have to be advanced. And metastasis can occur if it does, it's usually liver and lungs. All right, let's move on to the gastric. All right, so we move on now to gastric cancer. So when we talk about gastric cancer again, it could be asymptomatic, you may not see any kind of presentation. The other thing is that oftentimes, we experience some of these like weird symptoms where you just think, I just got a little bit of belly pain, all the best hour belly, kind of things like that. But oftentimes it could be something more, and it's usually just you miss it because general abdominal discomfort, a sense of like bloating and feeling full, that's not always going to make you think, oh dude, I got cancer. No, you don't go that route. And so oftentimes that's why it's missed. But I'd say the more common presentations are probably related to somewhat to like obstruction or narrowing near the antrim or the pylor. So if you get a tumor, what happens is that generally this may cause a little bit of pain, right? But more discomfort, I'd say. So whenever food is coming down here, you can kind of block the flow of chym, right? Which is basically all of this kind of mixture of broken down food into like more of a fluid form, pushing it out into the duodenum. If you have something that's kind of like, really minimizing that nice flow or emptying of the stomach, guess what's gonna happen? Well then, this stuff is gonna kind of back up. And it's gonna build up and it's gonna start stretching out the stomach. And as the stomach starts kind of stretching outwards, it's gonna activate some specific nerves. What kind of nerves? Let's use this color, let's use this maroonish color. Woo, that was loud. This is gonna be usually like your Vegas. And so this can get activated, it can send signals all the way upwards, usually to your brainstem. And then what this may do is this may activate some signals to activate some unfortunate, I'd say discomfort, like sensations. And so this is definitely what we would see. As you would see, distension. So you would see maybe some distension. That distension would then lead to some discomfort from that area, from the brain. So this may precipitate some sensations of, let's say abdominal. Usually this is like epigastric area. Discomfort, usually it can precipitate things like nausea. It may even precipitate like early satiety where you feel full and you feel kind of bloated. So these are really like generic symptoms. And oftentimes we kind of put this all under the conglomerate of a description of what we would maybe call dyspapsia. Where you kind of just feel a general abdominal discomfort, you feel full and you just don't feel good at the moment. So this is usually due to maybe the tumor kind of obstructing the chym outflow leading to it building up, extending the stomach, sending signals via like the vagus nerve, activating things like nausea and discomfort and feelings of satiety, feeling full, feeling bloated. That's something I definitely want you guys to think about here. Now dyspapsia on its own does not necessarily mean gastric cancer. There's a lot of different things that it can be presenting with. Usually whenever you have things like dyspapsia and a patient who has chronic H. pylori, or they have a diagnosis of autoimmune gastritis or dyspapsia that never gets better with PPIs, or they have other complications like bleeds or perineoplastic syndromes that we'll talk about. Then I'm a little bit more concerned and I may go down that route to say, hey, let me evaluate this patient, especially if it's associated with weight loss. Because think about it, if a patient does nauseous, they don't feel like they want to eat anymore, what's the common manifestation from that? Weight loss, especially unintentionally. So weight loss is common in both of these and we usually think about that in patients who have cancer. Now upper GI bleeds, I say this is a little bit more common to occur in gastric cancer than I would say a soft Agile cancer, but whenever these bleed, it's the same kind of concept. Where's the blood gonna go? And so if you think about these, we already kind of hit it, so we'll be kind of quick. If it goes up this way, which I wouldn't say is super common, that's hematemesis. If it goes down this way and it gets black, that's malena. Hematemesis. And then again, if you have a slow dripper, you get like just a slow drip of blood that's consistently being lost. Over time, that chronic blood loss is gonna potentially lead to iron loss. If you don't keep up with your iron loss, what's that going to lead to? It's going to lead to iron deficiency anemia. So definitely something I would think about, especially in a person who presents with dyspepsia and they have iron deficiency anemia, I'd probably go the route of getting an EGD. So another big thing here, just to add on, is that whenever a patient who has dyspepsia, if they're less than 60 years of age, I'd say you should probably be looking for other kinds of associated symptoms, or bleeding, anemia, weight loss. Because if you have a new patient who's like greater than 60 years of age, and all of a sudden they present with just nuance and dyspepsia, that's pretty concerning. That could be an indication of gastric cancer. So something to think about there. All right, so the next thing that I wanna think about with gastric cancers, especially for the exam, they like to talk about this one. Definitely dyspepsia, that's a big one. And we'll talk a little bit about the metastasis to specific nodes, like lymph nodes. That's a really big one that they're gonna present on the exam, no matter what. Usually like esophageal cancer, you got a patient who's like a smoker, a chronic girth. They're coming in now with dysphagia. It's getting progressive from solids to liquids. And usually you can start to make an assumption of what the heck is going on. And you would get, usually a barium swalcy and something abnormal, get an EGD with the biopsy. Oh, there we go, we got esophageal cancer. Gastric cancer is usually gonna be someone who comes in, maybe some generalized dyspepsia. And then on top of that, they may have some weird skin manifestations and then some weird nodes that they find on their physical exam say, hey, something's weird here. You get an EGD with a biopsy, you find the cancer, you probably stage them just to make sure it's not somewhere else. And then boom, gastric cancer's done. So it's not too hard to really think about that once you have an idea of what you're looking for, the test that you order will give you the answer. So the thing here with this scenario is that you can have a tumor and it can produce growth factors. So it may produce things like epidermal growth factors, so epidermal growth factors. These will go to your epidermis, right? And you usually make a little bit of these, a little bit more than normal. Sometimes like transforming growth factor beta is another one that can make as well. So I'd say the primary one is just gonna be the epidermal growth factors. And so this will go to your skin, especially the keratinocytes, right? And so if we kind of like zoom in, if you kind of like zoom in on the tissue here and you say, all right, let me kind of just zoom in and see what the heck is happening here. The epidermal growth factors will bind on to these receptors that are present on the epithelial tissue. And then all that will happen is this epithelial tissue will literally go crazy and it'll start kind of replicating and you get these kind of abnormal skin lesions. And so you may just kind of get this increased cell replication, all right? And this can manifest in a couple of different ways. Once these epidermal growth factors like stimulate these cells, they start going into this replicative phase, then you can get two types of perineoplastic presentations. One is called lesser trilat. This is basically, and I'm not even kidding, they get hundreds of like suborhaic keratosis all over their back. So literally all over their back or on their trunk. It's really, that's the key thing is their trunk is you're gonna notice a ton of these suborhaic keratosis. It looks a little bit like this. So you can see how they can have that kind of look there. It's relatively itchy. It kind of is like a, like more of like a brownish, purplish kind of raised lesion that's very itchy. That could be suborhaic keratosis. And we see that kind of scenario like lesser trilat. With acanthosis nigra cans, you get a thickening of velvety tissue. It's very thick, hyperpigmented is the key terminology. Thicker, hyperpigmented, velvety tissue that usually affects the neck, usually in the back of the neck. So that's one thing is you'll get in the back of the neck. The armpits is another one and the groin is another one. So acanthosis nigra cans is a hyperpigmentation, thickening, velvety change in the skin tissue of the neck or of the axilla of the groin. All right, so as you see those things like acanthosis nigra cans or you see things like lesser trilat, you should consider gastric adenocarcinoma if they fit the bill. In other words, they present maybe with some dyspepsic symptoms. All right. Now, when we talk about again, gastric cancer, we said that H. pylori is the biggest one. Autoimmune gastritis is another really important one. There is other causes. They sometimes test them on the exam. Usually people who drink like eat a lot of salty foods or they have like cured meats, like deli meats that are rich in nitrates. Those are also considered. So you can add those into the list to think about them. But I really want you to think about H. pylori and really want you to think about autoimmune gastritis because they test that a little bit more. All right, but that's your perineoplastic. The last component here is metastasis. And this is actually, I'd say one of the higher yield portions to think about for gastric cancer and really for this lecture, believe it or not. When you talk about this thing spreading, it does spread and it can spread lymphatically. It can spread hematogenously or it can spread directly into the peritoneum. Like it can literally invade the peritoneum. So if it spreads via lymphatics, it can obviously get into the lymphatic circulation. And if this thing gets into the lymphatic circulation, we gotta represent this as kind of like a brown dot here. These can get into nodes and they can get your nodes to get all kinds of big. And if the nodes get big, there's a couple different nodes that we wanna know. One is the superclavicular node. It has to be the left one. What happens is you get drainage from the esophagus and usually that gets eventually into the thoracic duct. And the thoracic duct is a large lymphatic vessel that when it empties, it empties into the junction of the internal jugular and the subclavian vein where you make the brachiosophallic. So it likes to go right there. And that's where these tumor cells like to go. And they form something called, I'm gonna do this in red just to highlight it. It's called Virgo's node. And it looks a little bit like this. All right, so that's one thing that I want you to know. So that's one area of the lymph nodes. Another one is it actually can get near the periumbilical area. So it can get into the lymphatics and it can move along that to some of the areas around the umbilicus. And you can get a really like wonky looking area here. So it can actually form something where it looks, I'm not even kidding. It looks like you have a little cherry tomato hanging onto your belly button. And this one is called a sister Mary Joseph nodule. So it's called a sister Mary Joseph nodule. And this one's a little rough, but again, it's usually due to lymphatic spread where it gets near these areas, near the actual umbilicus. And it looks a little bit like this. Another area that these things can spread is if they do have the ability they can spread to the ovaries. And when they do that, they often occur bilaterally. That's why oftentimes with metastatic disease, it usually is scattered and it's usually bilateral. But when you have bilateral ovarian tumors, definitely that screams metastatic disease, but we actually have a special name for it. So bilateral ovarian cancer, it's called a Krockenberg tumor. So Krockenberg tumor is bilateral ovarian tumors and it could indicate that it came from a gastric cancer. Usually it's from the diffuse type because you see a lot of signet ring cells in there. But that's something else I just want you to know. Gastric cancer, if you see bilateral ovarian tumors, you have a patient with dyspepsia, maybe they have some perineoplastic, peri-presentations, maybe they have vercos node, maybe they have a sister Mary Joseph nodule. You may think that these ovarian tumors, they probably came from gastric adenocarcinoma. All right, so these are big things. They're really, really big ones. The next one is if it spreads via hematogenously. So if it spreads hematogenously, that means it's going through the blood, the areas it likes to go is the liver, the lungs and the bone. And for this one, it's pretty straightforward. You get into the liver, you can get a pad of megaline, maybe a bump in the LFTs. All right, that's one potential consideration. If you get into the lungs, it can cause cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea, you get into the bone, it can cause bone pain, elevated alfalfa. Let's write all that out so I can save you guys a little bit of time. That is the basic consensus there of how we would get for this metastatic disease, where it's spread to distant organs. All right, so for the last one, which this is really, really important as well, because they definitely want to test this one sometimes, is you can have that tumor directly kind of invade, if it gets past the wall, it can break its way into the peritoneum. So imagine, again, you got to go back to layers. When you look at the mucosa, submucosa, muscularis externa, adventitia, or serosa. So in this case, if you have a serosa lining, if that thing, if the tumor grows from the mucosa, submucosa, muscularis externa, gets to the serosa, it can break its way through and get into the peritoneum. And if that happens, where this tumor starts here, here's the stomach, I'm just doing like a sagittal section. Here's this portion of the stomach. Let's say that it breaks through the wall, and now these tumor cells are here. Where they like to flow and drop down to is this little area right here. It's this pouch, which I'm doing here in like this black dotted line, which can be between the rectum and the uterus, called the rectouterine space, or between the rectum and the bladder, called the rectovesicle space. This is called the pouch of Douglas. And this is a common area where these tumors can go and kind of reside inside of the peritoneum. And if you get a tumor like that, where it kind of gets in here and it kind of conglomerates and coalesces, and here you got like this little thing right here, this little tumor mass, whenever a patient gets a DRE, you can then palpate and feel, oh man, I feel this mass between the actual rectum and the vesicle, the bladder, or the space between the rectum and the uterus. And sometimes it'll feel very, very odd where you call this what's called a blummers shelf. It's basically there is a palpable mass in the pouch of Douglas. And that could be indicative of like a peritoneum metastasis. So what would this kind of give us a sign of? Blummers shelf. The big things I kept here in red for you guys is really, really important to remember. When a patient comes in with dyspapseum, right? So general abdominal discomfort, using the epigastric region, some associated nausea, some early satiety, so maybe some bloatedness, maybe they have associated weight loss. They come in, they got a left supracorbicular node that's as big as a golf ball, they got a little cantaloupe there. They got a cherry tomato hanging off the umbilicus with the systemary Joseph nodule. And then on top of that, when you do a digital rectal exam, and you can palpate a mass in that recto uterine, recto vesicle space, which is the pouch of Douglas, this is called a blummer shelf. These are things that may queue you up on the exam to think about gastric cancer. All right, dude, this is a lot of stuff. But what I wanna do is I wanna say that we can make this relatively easy to understand when we're clinicians. So now let's move on to talking about how to approach esophageal cancer and a diagnostic approach. How to think clinically when it comes to gastric cancer and having a good approach. Let's move on to that. So let's put all of this together. What is the most common classic presentation for esophageal cancer? Oftentimes it's usually asymptomatic, but that's in the earlier stages. Once they unfortunately get to the advanced stages and the tumor does protrude into the lumen enough, they start to experience dysphagia. So that's oftentimes gonna be one of the most common clinical presentations. Now dysphagia is a common symptom that doesn't have to be due to just esophageal cancer. It could be from a benign stricture. It could be due to, for example, like a reflux esophagitis. It could be due to a neuromuscular disorder, things like acolysia or things like potentially diffuse esophageal spasm. It could be due to things like scleroderma, so esophageal scleroderma. It could be due to Schatzky's rings. It could be due to esophageal webs. There could be a lot of different things that are potentially explaining this dysphagia. And so that's really important to consider. So what we wanna do oftentimes is to get a good image. And so barium swallows are kind of like your lit newspaper test. I wouldn't say that they're the best thing, but they at least give you an idea if there is a structural etiology. And so when I do a barium swallow, I do this because I wanna see, is there kind of any mass that's present? Is there any irregularity that's showing within the esophagus? But more specifically, is there a stricture? And where is it? Is it the upper two thirds? Is it the lower third? That kind of gives me a little bit more information. Acolysia, you see the bird speak. Diffuses esophageal spasm. You see that corkscrewing. Shotski's rings, esophageal webs. You see those based upon if it's complete circumferential, if it's kind of just only one-sided and also location. So there's a lot of things that this can give me. So what I'm looking for first is, is there any kind of irregularities in the lumen that suggests a mass? And is there a stricture where there's decreased movement of contrast through the esophagus? Now that being the case and also alarm symptoms would trigger me to get an EGD. So for example, if a patient had dysphagia and they also had things, for example, weight loss. Weight loss is obviously most likely secondary to the dysphagia. So if a person's having difficulty with swallowing and maybe even pain with swallowing, it can lead to aversion from eating. And so unfortunately they don't eat, they lose weight. So that's one thing. The other thing is that these masses can bleed. I say that that's less common with esophageal cancer, more common with gastric cancers and colorectal cancer. But you can get this bleeding aspect. And so I would watch out for symptoms of an upper GI bleed. That could be things like hematemesis or potentially melanin. Another way that bleeds can present is they can present a cult. So you don't have symptoms where you see visible blood this way or down from the poop chute. And so in those scenarios, you may see things like iron deficiency, anemia from just basic fatigue or pallor and dyspnea. And then lastly, nausea and vomiting. Particularly vomiting. And I'd say that if there is potentially a pretty good size tumor and it's obstructing that flow, this can lead to potentially aspiration, especially if they do not feel well or if they do vomit, that puts them at pretty high risk of aspiration. So these are all concerning features. And I would say that we would go to an EGD. If the barium swallow showed navnormality, I would get an EGD. So the EGD is gonna be probably the best test that you could do because what it's gonna tell you is, is there an esophageal mass? If it is, you can biopsy it and tell you is this adenocarcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, or something else like it's benign in general. So this is what you would see, for example, on an EGD. This is a pretty nasty fungating esophageal mass and it's also friable. So it's pretty nasty, one that's bleeding. It could suggest something like a squamous cell carcinoma if it's in the upper two thirds, or it could be adenocarcinoma if it's in that lower third. But either way, the biopsy will tell me that and tell me, oh, this is primarily squamous cell predominant or adeno, which is usually gonna be more of that mucin glandular type of tissue that you would see, the columnar tissue. Either way, we've determined that the patient has esophageal cancer from the EGD with the biopsy. The next question is, has it spread? That's usually what we wanna know. We wanna know if it's spread locally. So in other words, it usually starts in the mucosa with the epithelium and then it kinda moves into the submucosa, then to the muscular cisterna, then to the aventicia. There's also lymph nodes around the esophagus. Did it spread there? Did it get into the bloodstream and spread to the lungs, the liver, the bone? These are all common sites of local regional and distant metastasis. Distant metastasis is easier to be able to kind of like first thing we wanna think about here is you can assess for that by using a CT chest to add pelvis with IV contrast. That's gonna look at the lesions potentially in the liver, the lung, and you may even see some bone lesions as well. Either way, I wanna see if there is any. If there's no distant metastasis, then you have to assess as it leaked locally or regionally spread. That's where endoscopic ultrasounds are pretty great. And you can actually do these during the EGD. You already have potential access to their GIT. You just change out that probe and then run that down there to get a better look at where the mass is and see how far it's actually invaded. Is it invaded pretty deep? Has it gone to any lymph nodes? So for example, I got an esophageal mass here. I find that on EGD, I swap it with an ultrasound, endoscopic ultrasound probe, run that down. And what that's gonna do is that's gonna allow for me to either biopsy a parisophageal lymph node that's enlarged, or it's also gonna help to show an overall image circumferentially of the mass and then show how far it's actually kind of spread. So that's what I think is really beneficial about this. How deep has it gone into the actual alimentary canal and then on top of that, has it gone to any nearby nodes? So for example, this is a mucosal tumor. You can see, this is the circumferential kind of like section here. And you can see this inner lining here closest to the black portion or the anechoic portion, all this black, this is kind of the lumen. This right here would be the mucosa, this inner lining. Let's move our way around and we see something abnormal right here within that mucosa. That right there would be a mucosal esophageal tumor. And this is actually not bad because we could possibly resect this. We wouldn't have to do like an esophagectomy. But if you found something like this where the tumor, we can see you kind of look around, seem somewhat consistent, and then all of a sudden, wow, you see this deeper tumor. And so unfortunately, that one's gone a little bit deeper and this one has caused definitely a potential problem where that could be down to the muscular saccidermal. So that's what we get concerned about. Now, if we did dystomatastasis, in other words, we could pick up the CT chest at pelvis, we pick up lesions. In other words, we find like some liver mets. So you find here, we can see the liver here and that right quadrant. You can see, look, look, all these like hypodensities, all of those are suggestive of liver mets. Lungs, you can see that there's all of these hyperdensities all over the lungs, very scattered, pretty consistent with pulmonary mets. Bones, if we did get a bone scan, you can sometimes pick up lesions on CT chest at pelvis, especially if it's within the vertebrae. You'd be able to pick it up and see it here on the CT scans. It's pretty good at picking up bone. But if you got a bone scan, you could see here that there's a lot of different lesions that are potentially present. So these are the potential areas that would suggest hematogenist spread and usually.  and the esophagus and parasophageal tissues. At this point, we potentially would have metastatic esophageal cancer. Metastatic esophageal cancer, you can actually, let's say that you did a CT chest at Pelva, and you didn't find anything, a PET CT scan is something I like to go to as an alternative, because it's going to pick up any of the increased FDG uptake in other areas of the body that it may have spread to. For example, maybe some in the lung, maybe some in the liver. This is a benefit of why I would do a PET scan if the CT chest at Pelva came back negative. At this point, we've diagnosed metastatic esophageal cancer. It really comes down to what's the primary symptom? Do a workup for general dysphagia, but if they have something abnormal off of that, or they present with alarm symptoms, I need to go down and take a look. Biopsy, it tells me which kind it is. From there, has it spread distantly? Okay. I picked it up on the CT chest at Pelva. Has it not? Endoscopic ultrasound. Use that to tell me how deep it's invaded, and if there's other nodes that are involved. That really is going to help to guide treatment decisions. If it's metastatic, that's really going to guide treatment decisions as well, because oftentimes there's nothing surgical that I can do, and it often comes down to more palliative care and usually chemotherapy with some targeted therapy options. All right. Gastric cancer. Similar concept. Patient comes in. What would be more of their primary symptom? It's usually dyspepsia. That is that general abdominal discomfort. They feel bloated. They feel just unwell. They feel like they just don't want to eat as well. Usually they have food aversion and satiety and weight loss. These are all common symptoms. Dyspepsia is a general epigastric or abdominal discomfort associated with nausea, associated with maybe some vomiting, associated with anorexia or weight loss and things of that nature. Alarm symptoms again come back to this patient with gastric cancer. What are those? If a patient came in and they presented with epigastric abdominal discomfort, that doesn't mean that they get an EGD. I don't just do that for all of these people. Dysphagia is a little bit more concerning. Dyspepsia is just a generalized abdominal discomfort. Not super specific to tell me, oh, they got peptic ulcer disease. They got gastric cancer, bro. No. There could be a lot of things. Maybe they just ate too much food and they don't feel well. There's a lot of different things that come into play here. What I want is more dyspepsia plus concerning features that would trigger me to say, let's get an EGD. What are those alarm symptoms? Remind yourself. Weight loss is a big one. GI Bleeds is pretty common with gastric cancer. They really are friable. They really can bleed nasty. You want to watch out for upper GI Bleeds, Melana, hematemicis, and also that occult presentation, if they're not pulling out blood, watch for things like iron deficiency and anemia as well. Lastly, nausea and vomiting. This sometimes can be due to the tumor gets pretty large enough that it obstructs the gastric outlet. They literally can't get food and fluids out and have pretty nasty, like nausea and pretty good vomiting as well. That would be enough for me to say, get the EGD and do a biopsy if I see anything irregular. We'll thread the EGD down. That's basically just a scope. It's going to run down the esophagus. Obviously, we could pick up any esophageal masses, but also it's going to get down to the stomach and take a good look there. What we want to do is we want to take a good look here at the stomach, usually around the fundus, the body, and then where you're probably going to see most of the cancers is here in that antrumpiloric region. That's where you're going to see more of the intestinal type, as we talked about on the whiteboard, gastric adenocarcinomas. Here we can see that we have a pretty nasty looking tumor here. It looks really irregular. It looks nodular. It's fungating. It's not friable, so that's at least positive, but these things can bleed. This definitely looks irregular. I would 100% biopsy this. Then based upon the biopsy, that will tell me, hey, which type of cancer is it? Is it the intestinal type? You would see a lot of the simple columnar cells with lots of the gastric glands that have atrophied and they've been replaced with lots of your columnar cells. I'm sorry, they get replaced with a lot of the goblet cells. That usually would be a trigger. Or do I see that thick linitis plastica, the thickened layers of the actual stomach wall with the signet ring cells, which would suggest more of the rare diffuse type, which is usually due to a CHD1 mutation where that can really lose those e-cadherins and they can spread pretty nasty. That's what I'd be looking for off of the EGD to a CM mass. If I biopsy it, which kind is it? Intestinal or diffuse? That's really what I'm going to get from that. The other benefit here is once we've determined the patient has gastric cancer based upon the representation of a fungating mass that's been sent off to pathology and confirmed to be an adenocarcinoma, diffuse or intestinal, then you have to ask the same question. Has it spread? It can spread to a lot of the same areas. It can spread to the liver. It can spread to the lungs. It can spread to the bone. There's a lot of different areas that this thing can go to. I would do again a good pan scan and look to see if there's any metastasis. If you don't see any, it's the same work up. Throw the new probe down when you do the EGD and say, hey, has this gone and invaded beyond the mucosa to the muscularis externa. Then from there, I have already gained an understanding of can I do an endoscopic resection or do I have to do a gastrectomy? That's really what I want to know. When I do this, I'm really just trying to see how deep has it gone. When I look here, again, I can see that there's going to be the lumen. What you'll notice here is that you'll see there's a tumor here that's pretty decent size and it's going pretty deep. This is a pretty nasty gastric mass that's spread deep down way into the muscularis externa. That's pretty concerning for me. This is a patient that probably wouldn't be able to get an endoscopic resection. They would likely need a gastrectomy, maybe some kind of subtotal or partial gastrectomy. That's something that's really important because if it was more mucosal, I may get away with an endoscopic resection. The other thing is you could see potentially if there's any nodes and if there was, you could do the same thing. You could biopsy those and see if they've gone to the nodes because obviously you may need some further chemotherapy afterwards to really help out with that. If they do have distant metastasis, again, that changes how we treat these patients. We won't do any surgeries for them, unfortunately, unless it's just palliative to put a stent in if it's causing gastric outlet obstruction. A lot of it's just chemotherapy, really trying to reduce the recurrence, I'm sorry, reduce the progression of the disease. Also, you may have some targeted therapies that we could talk about. Again, you're looking to see, has it spread to the liver? Has it spread to the lungs? Has it potentially spread to the bones? That's going to tell you if you have metastatic gastric cancer. A lot of the times, unfortunately, these cancers are usually found a little bit later in stage. Either they've invaded deep into the gastric layers or the esophageal layers or they have spread and metastasize, unfortunately. Once we've diagnosed that a patient has a esophageal or gastric cancer, how do we treat it? Well, I think it comes down to, is it localized? In other words, what I mean is, has it not distantly metastasized? There is options. We can do something called an endoscopic resection, but when do you do that? It's only if it's in the mucosa. If that endoscopic ultrasound really helped to show you that this is only confined to the mucosa, we could do an endoscopic resection. You're essentially going in endoscopically and you're identifying this lesion. It hasn't gone beyond the mucosa into the sub-mucosa. What can we do? We can go in. We can actually help to physically remove this tumor and you could potentially have curative control. That's the benefit of this. Unfortunately, if it's gone beyond the mucosa, we can't do an endoscopic resection. There's going to be a lot more to it. That's when, unfortunately, we have to do things like esophagectomies. This is when it's gone beyond the mucosa. For example, if I had a tumor, it's definitely beyond the mucosa here. I'm going to have to cut out the portion of where that tumor is. I'm going to have to cut out that portion where the tumor is and a little bit beyond that. Then I'm going to have to enastomose this into the esophagus and I'm going to have to pull the stomach up here. I'm going to have to pull the stomach up and I'm going to have to enastomose that little portion there between the stomach and that remaining piece of the proximal portion of the esophagus after I ripped out this disease portion. Then from there, we have an esophagectomy. The other thing that's really important is chemo-radiation oftentimes is going to be followed up to kill any kind of residual microscopic metastatic disease that's present. Maybe if you didn't get a clean enough margin or there is some residual cells there, you're trying to basically do that to prevent recurrence. I'd say that's going to be something that you would oftentimes do. You can give it neo-adjuvantly, in other words, before you do the surgical procedure and you can give it up after. In other words, after the patient has had potentially esophagectomy done. Metastatic. Once it's spread to the liver, the lung, the bones, there isn't really any kind of surgical options unless it's more palliative. It's for symptom control. In other words, if they have significant enough dysphagia, they have severe weight loss, they have severe nausea, they have a lot of problems associated with that, then maybe because of that we could put a stent in to help to allow for that food and fluids to get passed. That's really going to be more if it's just an obstructive process that's causing this. Otherwise, it's pretty much you're stuck with systemic chemotherapy. That's going to be the way that these patients oftentimes are treated and you can consider treating them with Tristuzumab if they have potentially a HER2 positive disease. You'd have to test for that. If you go back to Tristuzumab, it's really great because what it does is it works against the HER2 receptor, which when activated by growth factors, which these tumor cells unfortunately can produce a lot of growth factors to allow for that cells, these zombie cells to replicate, replicate, replicate, you're essentially giving a drug that binds on to Tristuzumab and shuts down these signaling processes. On top of that, because it shuts down the signaling process, it also helps to down-regulate the HER2 receptors. You have less of them to bind to these ligands and these growth factors. If you bring them in, you don't have the ligand stimulating it. Another thing is actually triggers apoptotic pathways, trigger these actual cells to die and again shuts down that cell replication process to prevent them from continuing to make more tumor cells. These are options and it's interesting because when we talk about esophageal cancer here, we've really hit home and guess what we're going to do? We're going to go into gastric cancer and it's going to be pretty much the same exact thing. If the tumor is confined to the mucosa, it's an endoscopic resection. If you have a tumor in the stomach, all we're going to do is we're going to remove that lesion from the actual mucosal area only. There, we have potentially a curative treatment. If it's gone beyond the mucosa, we have to do a gastrectomy. With gastrectomies, they're pretty aggressive. Let's say that you had a tumor here. It's most often here in the antrim or the pyloric region. You'll have to cut. Sometimes you can do subtotal, you can do complete total ones, but you're going to cut out a good portion of the stomach which contains this cancer. You're going to remove that portion. Then what you're going to do is you're going to make an incision here a little bit further down, maybe into the duodenum or potentially into the jeuginum, potentially you might not have to go to. What you're going to do is you're going to suture this end where we have the remaining portions of the stomach. You're going to suture this down here so that way contents that are in the stomach can still get into the small intestine because we need to have absorption. Absorption occurs in the small intestine. I still need things to go from the stomach to the small intestine. I'll basically take a piece of the duodenum, maybe the jeuginum, and I'll make a slit, bring it up, and have it fused and actually anastomose that with the stomach. We have an area where that chyme from the stomach can dump into the small intestines. I still need bile to get into the small intestine. What I would do is I would take this residual portion right here from where I cut, and I would fuse it with the biliary duct system so that bile can still dump into the actual small intestine so I can actually emulsify fats, break down fats, and allow for fat absorption. This is what it would look like afterwards. That's a gastrectomy. It's usually when the tumor is again beyond the mucosa. When we have these patients who have gotten a gastrectomy, they get an endoscopic resection, you may need to hit them with some chemo radiation beforehand and potentially after. That's something to consider as well. If it's metastatic, you guessed it. Oftentimes, there's not a lot of surgical procedures we can do unless they have significant gastric outlet obstruction. We could put a stent in to help to move some of that chyme forward so that they're not having lots of nausea, vomiting, and weight loss. That's definitely an option. Again, oftentimes, they're stuck with systemic chemotherapy plus or minus your stuzumab if they come up positive for that HER2 metastatic disease. Again, it's just going back and showing you how does it work. HER2, when hit by a ligand, a growth factor of sorts, triggers a lot of cell replication inside of these tumor cells. All you're doing is giving a drug to bind to it. That's going to lead to downregulation of these HER2 receptors. You have less of them available to bind with the ligand, trigger apoptotic pathways to cause these cells to die, and then lastly, shut down a lot of the cell replication processes. These are the ways that we're going to go about treating gastric cancer. My friends, we covered a decent amount here with esophageal and gastric cancer. I really hope that it made sense. I hope that when you walk away from this, you feel confident, you feel comfortable, you feel that you're able to take on the task at hand. I really hope that you guys like this. I hope that you learned a lot. I just thank you guys for being such awesome followers, such amazing Ninjners. I pray that you're just really doing well with all of your studies. Thank you guys so much. Love you guys, dude. As always, until next time. Bye.