 packageddashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdash It's including almost multiple systems. And so you're kind of like going through multiple different systems. And unfortunately the cancers that plague those, you know, those organs. So yeah, it's a lot. There's a lot to talk about. But today I think we'll do a good job in talking about the esophageal and gastric cancer, which is, it's really sad because these are oftentimes, they're asymptomatic until the patient usually is getting towards like later stage or advanced stage. And that's usually when we catch it. So it's really important to be able to aware of the risk factors and any kind of like just subtle symptoms. Yeah. All right. Well, let's get into it here. We have our first case and we're gonna be starting with a, well, you're gonna have to guess. I'm not gonna give it away. Don't give it away. I'm not gonna give it away. You guys are ninjeners though. You'll crack this case immediately. Yeah. All right, Zach. We have a 56 year old man, 25 year GERD history. For three months he's had progressive dysphagia. His boy's been popping tums. Yeah. Oh, meppers all his whole life. Yeah. Half of his life. Half of his life, yeah. So with his dysphagia, it started with solids first. Having difficulty with solids. Now it's gone to some liquids and it's, he's had an unintentional eight pound weight loss. There is no oedinophagia, no bleeding. All right. I mean, that definitely is concerning. I mean, obviously we're talking about cancer. So the big things that really think about when you think about esophageal cancer, there is two types. There is esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and esophageal adenocarcinoma. It's important to know location and also the risk factors associated with each. This one seems more like esophageal adenocarcinoma which occurs in the lower third of the esophagus. Esophageal squamous cell is more upper two thirds. And so that one is usually associated with things like smoking, HPV, obesity. Those are usually really alcohol. Those are usually very common. So if you think about squamous cell carcinomas, a lot of the time smoking is very heavily associated with it because a lot of the head and neck cancers are common with that one. HPV is big with it as well. And again, alcohol. With esophageal adenocarcinoma, that's lower third. That's very, very commonly associated with any person who has GERD, chronic GERD. So if you have obesity, if you have Iatlehirnia, if you have some type of, I'd say, you know, anything that can cause incompetency of the lower esophageal sphincter. So usually it's obesity. Usually it's just poor eating habits that are things that are gonna trigger a lot of hydrochloric acid production and on top of that, Iatlehirnias. So those are really, really important things to think about. So that right there is making me think esophageal adenocarcinoma. And it's because of the GERD history. The dysphagia is really important. So whenever a patient's described dysphagia, it's a difficulty in swallowing, right? And there's two different types of oral pharyngeal. And the oral pharyngeal is usually like, you can imagine this, if you swallow and you ever have a lot of coughing or you have nasal regurgitation, like you ever had milk go up your nose or something like that. Yeah, things like that are usually associated more with oral pharyngeal. That's things like ALS. That's things like Parkinson's. That's things like multiple sclerosis strokes. Things like, that are more neurological in nature that controls the upper part of the deglutition pathway. For this kind of dysphagia, it's more esophageal. And it tells me that it could be structural, more so than functional. So functional dysphagia is like neuromuscular. Acolysis is a big one. Scleroderma, diffusosophageal spasm. Those usually are gonna be dysphagia that is not as progressive. And I think that's the big thing here. This one is a progressive dysphagia and it's going from solids first and then it's going to liquids. You can think about that structurally because let's say you have a tumor. Here's your lumen here, right? And then it starts off, well, I gotta be careful with the finger. Yeah, I was gonna say, I wasn't sure what you were talking about. But we gotta be careful with that. For a second there. Keep your minds clear, but just imagine here's the lumen. Imagine it only is occupying, the tumor's occupying like a quarter of the lumen, right? So it's earlier stage. Well, solids are gonna be harder to get through that point. If the tumor gets bigger, and now it's occupying, let's say, half or three quarters, now it's harder for liquids to get through. So that's why it makes me think structural. So I would say the first thing is, I always think barium swallows are just a quick way to go. They're probably not gonna be the best, cause they're not gonna tell me if this is cancer. But it's at least gonna give me an idea if I have a physical obstruction, and then I can go to an EGD. So that's probably what I'd start with first, is a barium swallow, just to give me an idea. And then the unintentional weight loss just seems like an ominous finding, where it's just a little scary where- Always bad. Your mind just goes to cancer, unfortunately. Yeah, I think that's the big one. And I think oftentimes when people develop cancer, as usually weight loss, there's a couple exceptions. I think the biggest one is ovarian cancer, where they actually bulk up. They get like a side-ease. So they really, really blow it up, and their waist size goes up. But yeah, usually this is probably a combination of just the tumor always releases cytokines, and causes like what's called cancer catechia. So they just have cytokines that shut down their hypothalamus and their desire to eat. But also, if you're having difficulty swallowing, that also may have caused some food aversion as well. Yeah, that makes sense. So yeah, there's definitely a lot of things that scream cancer to this. I just think when you think about the type, and this scenario, chronic gird is a really, really bad thing. That's gonna be more associated with lower one third, yeah, lower one third of the esophagus. And then again, I think that the way that this dysphagia is described seems structural, and esophageal like, and then the intentional weight loss is like you said, is ominous. So I'd start, see if we can find a structural cause of the barium swallow, and then go up with that. All right, with the barium swallow, we do have a barium swallow test result here. It shows a long irregular narrowing in the distal six centimeters of the esophagus. So your suspicions are confirmed. Yeah, so definitely there's something going on with the lower third, and again, I'm still concerned about esophageal adenocarcinoma. I think there could be other things, like strictures. You can even have things like, sometimes esophageal rings and webs and stuff like that. You could have just a regular peptic structure as well. So I think the best thing to do now is to get an EGD, because the EGD is gonna give me visualization to see if I see like a friable, like fungating esophageal mass, and then also I can biopsy it. And I'll show me if it's like normal tissue, if it's what's called pre-malignant condition, pre-malignant tissue, like barrett's esophagus. Or how is it actually said? Is it barrett or barrett's? I don't know. You like to add? Yeah, I like to add S's on things. Yeah, so for no reason, you just makes things plural, I don't know. Yeah, but that would be the best way to go, because it's gonna tell you if it's truly like metoplastic, or if it's like towards the end of displastic, or really it's a carcinoma at this point. So that's what I would do, I'd do an EGD, take a look, see if you can find it, and then biopsy it. All right, so we have EGD with pathology here. We, it shows a friable, ulcerated mass at the gastroesophageal junction. Biopsy result is invasive adenocarcinoma. Yeah. My next question though, Zach, is now that you know this, where do you go next? Are you able to stage this now? Yeah, you can. So I think the most important thing is the esophageal cancer can spread distantly, but it's more local and regional that you gotta worry about. So it can spread actually kind of to the bone, but mainly it's to the nint lymph nodes, and then what you have to really, really know is how deep in the esophagus it is. So it definitely can get into the blood, and get into the lungs, right, and go to the bones. I think you can go to the liver as well, but I think the big one is usually the lungs, and then the bones are a pretty common one, but what I would wanna know is, is how deep is it in the wall of the esophagus? And an EGD with biopsy doesn't really give you that answer as well, because we don't punch through all the way when we think of biopsy. So I would probably do an endoscopic ultrasound, and these are really fucking cool because they come down, and then when they go down the esophagus, they go to the mass, and then you get a probe, it turns the ultrasound on, and it shows you kind of imagine you're in the lumen, it shows you the layers. Like you can see the mucosa, you can see the submucosa, you can see the muscularous externa, you can see the adventitia, and so the cool thing about that is that it can tell you how deep the tumor is actually extended. Is it just mucosal, so like what we call T1, or is it past the mucosa into the muscularous externa? As, you can even see lymph nodes, has it spread to a parasophage or lymph node? The reason why that's important is it tells you if it's kind of like locally or regionally spread, and then from there you can get a CT, like if you have any concerns that they do have, especially if I see that it's invasive, like it's really going deep, I would probably get a CT, I'd probably do like a chest, that's a big one. I probably, you could probably add an abdomen and pelvis on as well, just because you can't roll out that it hasn't metastasized. Yeah, yeah, so that's probably what I'd start with first and see if it really has spread to anywhere else. I think the liver, the lungs, the bones, those are the pretty common ones, but yeah, the endoscopic ultrasound would probably be the way to go, biopsy a node if I have them, if I see one, and then from there I'd probably get a CT, chest, abdomen, pelvis to reflectively offer that. All right, well let's start off first with the endoscopic ultrasound, and quick question, if we're doing this another, in very invasive procedure, can we not combine this with the EGD? You can. Yeah, yeah. I'm like, why do you gotta do this twice to this core? Yeah, it's actually pretty cool. It's core guy, you're doing it twice. So obviously after you do an EGD with biopsy, if you have a high suspicion, you could just chuck and just throw a different probe down, because if they're already kind of intubated for the procedure. They're already there. Yep, you can definitely do that all in one fell swoop. Yep, just change it out to an ultrasound probe and then you can take a biopsy if you need to. You can get both while you're there, absolutely. Well the endoscopic ultrasound, it does show that the tumor invades the muscularis propria. Okay. There are two parahesophageal nodes, and then fine needle aspirate is positive. For our CT, we note that there is no liver or lung lesions. So at least it seems that it is local. For the most part. Yeah, it's definitely a little bit more, it's deep. So we're probably getting a little bit more, like if you're getting to the muscularis propria, that's unfortunate, but you're definitely deep, you're getting some nodes. So we're not far to the point of distimatastis, but we have some local regional spread here. So I don't want you guys to go crazy worrying about like staging and stuff like that. It's not super commonly tested. I think it's just important to know, has it gone beyond the mucosa, or is it not beyond the mucosa? That's really the reason why I say that is because it guides your decision-making of how you're gonna treat these patients. If it's like not beyond the mucosa, we can sometimes just do like little endoscopic resections of that area, because you can just take that piece of disease tissue out with an endoscopic resection. If it's only like mucosal involvement, if it's a little bit deeper, where it's gone beyond the mucosa, then sometimes you have to go a little bit further. That's when you start talking about like, do I need to do chemo radiation to shrink the tumor down enough that when I do a esophagectomy, I'm not removing too much. Because esophagectomy is they're not, I mean, you have to do what you have to do, but they don't always have the best outcomes. They're the thing that you unfortunately sometimes have to do, but the best way of being able to make sure that you have the best possible success with those is definitely shrinking it down. So if it's mucosa only, you can just resect it. If it's beyond that, you probably should shrink it down with like some chemo radiation prior and then refer them to a surgeon for like an esophagectomy. So had our patient been only mucosa, mucosa only, it's fairly curative, correct? Yeah, yeah, I think, and that's the hard part is that, I mean, usually you don't catch these early. Like this person was lucky that they weren't caught at like a distant stage. I mean, having symptoms, they probably had to have a pretty big mass to have symptoms and that's usually the problem. They start off really small and usually these symptoms are kind of like not thought of too often. You kind of just like brush it off, like, whatever. And sometimes I feel like I have difficulties with, I probably cause I eat food like way too fast. I was gonna say, you're taking down like four hot dogs. Yeah, just glizzy after glizzy. Yeah, yeah. But no, it does make sense when you think about it and the fact that if it is small enough, you're right. You kind of just are like, ah, no big deal, whatever. And then it gets to the point where you're like, wait a minute, I can't even drink my soda right now. Yeah, that's usually the problem is it's caught a little bit later. It's generally a lot of these cancers are pretty much asymptomatic until a little bit later, but this one was caught not too bad. I think that they're probably gonna need some chemo radiation and refer for an esophagectomy would probably be the best way to go. So systemic chemo, like you said, try and shrink it as much as you can. Yeah. And then go for the procedure. Yeah, I hit some radiation to the tumor, give them some chemo and then go from there. Usually if it's distant meds, which thank the Lord it isn't for this one, usually it's just like chemo. And if they really are having symptoms, you can always pallidively put in like a stent and stuff like that, but there's not much you can do once it's to metastasize. All right, case two. All right. We have another patient here. This one now we have a 63 year old woman, long standing H. pylori gastritis. Now she is six week history of epi-yastric discomfort, early satiety and a 12 pound unintentional weight loss. She notes dark stools twice now. So what are you thinking here? So I- Nothing good. No. The thing with this one is, again, we know that whenever we're talking about these cancers, it's really trying to think about what would make me be concerned for gastric cancer, right? Obviously you can have a differential off of this one. Like they could just have peptic ulcer disease. It's definitely possible. The 12 pound weight loss kind of unlikely. But they're presenting with symptoms of dyspepsia. And so dyspepsia is kind of like just imagine, it's not really pain. It can be pain, but it's more of like a discomfort kind of feeling, usually in the epigastric region. And it's associated with symptoms like nausea, maybe some vomiting sometimes. And just food aversion. You have satiety that's very quick. A lot of that could be due to a couple different things. Imagine usually these tumors, there's diffuse, which is not too common. And it usually starts like proximate. I'm not kidding. It just spreads throughout the stomach wall. That's less common. Intestinal type is the more common one. That usually forms near like the lesser, so you have the greater curvature and you have the lesser curvature. So we go usually body and then you kind of get down here as you get towards the end. I'm trying to draw this in the air. But you get to the pylorus. Usually where that lesser curvature and pylorus is where you can get a mass. You can get like a fungating mass there. And so that can kind of obstruct that outflow out of the stomach. So if you obstruct it a little bit, you can think about food staying in the stomach a little bit longer, distending the stomach a little bit longer. And that's gonna be kind of like, imagine eating a bunch of food. You just take down like four hot dogs, you know, a bucket of pierogies and, you know, you put down a two liter Coke. Sounds like a good picnic or something. After that, you feel very uncomfortable, right? You feel nauseous. Probably you feel a lot of discomfort in that area. And you don't feel like eating anymore. It's kind of similar to that with these potential tumors, but also just the tumor itself, it may cause just near local irritation of like tissue and nerves. So now it says here, longstanding history of H. pylori gastritis. Now, can't you have this be treated with a PPI and an antibiotic? You can, yeah. So sometimes with H. pylori, it's difficult to eradicate. It kind of, sometimes people can be on these and it just doesn't actually eradicate completely. And that's usually an unfortunate thing. So obviously you try to put them on things like a PPI. Usually they used to just do like clarithromycin, amoxicillin, you know, PPI. They're kind of going to quadruple therapy now. Like metronitazol is a big one. Usually you can combine that with like potentially like amoxicillin. Is that because it is so hard to eradicate? Yeah, there's probably degrees of resistance and stuff with this one, but metronitazol is a pretty big one that we kind of add on to this one now. You can do like bismuth, sub-sout, it's like peptopysmal. PPI's, sometimes amoxicillin added on to that as well. But yeah, those are usually the kind of things that we kind of treat this with, but sometimes it just unfortunately, it can be hard to completely eradicate. And so you have different ways of being able to test and see if they have eradicated it, like the stool testing, stool antigen testing, the urea breath test and stuff like that. But unfortunately this patient has had that. And with chronic inflammation comes risk of chronic dysplasia. So anytime you have inflammation of a tissue, that tissue can under fortunately go undergone mutations. When those mutations arise, dysplasia can occur, dysplasia can then over time lead to carcinoma. So that's what makes me concerned about this is the H-pylori. Any kind of H-pylori, chronically, autoimmune gastritis, which is kind of rare, but you definitely can see it. And you know what, they see this a lot in people who eat like foods that are, I mean, not good, salty foods. And that's where I am, baby. Living in the salty range, which is not great, but. You sure are. Salty foods and rich in nitrates. So like uncured meats, like hot dogs, glizzies and stuff. We're talking a lot about hot dogs today. But really high nitrate foods are really a high risk factor. Smoking is always a risk factor, but I think the big ones is H-pylori. Second one would be autoimmune gastritis, which they don't have that, and they usually are associated with things like thyroid disorders like Hashimoto's, and sometimes even diabetes or Vitaligo, but that'd be something you think about. And then if they're having high salty and high nitrate, like rich diets. But this one seems like it's H-pylori related. They have dyspepsia, and then they have the ominous weight loss. The weight loss is probably cancer catechia from the tumor releasing those cytokines, but it also is probably just because they feel discomfort and they don't have the desire to eat, they're satiated. And that's probably an unfortunate thing here. Now I have to ask about the dark stools. Is that because there's some potential bleeding in the stomach? And it's really the upper GI bleed? Yeah, so if esophageal cancer doesn't bleed too much, gastric cancers will bleed. So it's kind of rare for esophageal cancers to bleed. So if it does, it's not good. But gastric cancers will definitely bleed. So they're pretty fungating, they're exophytic, so they're pretty susceptible to bleeding. So the dark stools or malena wouldn't definitely make me be concerned about that. I'd probably order a CBC just to see if they have any chronic blood loss in this scenario. If they only notice it twice, OK. But you can still have unfortunately chronic anemia without having visible bloody stools or melanous stools. So yeah, I'd definitely be concerned with this one. They got anemia probably from having this blood loss. If not, either way, they have a GI bleed. That's super concerning. They have dyspepsia, they have weight loss. These are super, super scary. I'm going straight to an EGD. Like any kind of a patient has dyspepsia, that's not an indication enough to just go to an EGD. We don't just do that on people that, oh, my belly. Sour belly. You know? Throw a tube down a spro. Yeah, we don't do that. So if it's like they have dyspepsia and they have alarm symptoms, so weight loss is a big one. I'd say the early satiety, maybe even if they have nausea or vomiting, that'd be concerning. The GI bleed is super scary. I was going to say, her black stools are not good. Yeah, yeah, and some tar stools is not great. So yeah, from there, I'd say we just go straight to an EGD. I have a high degree of suspicion of this being gastric cancer. So EGD with biopsy, same question I asked before. Can we opt for that ultrasound during this procedure? Yeah. If you think it warrants it. Yeah, I'd say if I see a mass and it's like, all right, this is definitely in a regular appearing mass. Because sometimes they can be flat. So they can be like sessile. Yeah. But this one, I have a very strong suspicion that it's going to be a pretty nasty fungating exophitic mass that's bleeding. So that's what I would do. And if I see that, I biopsy it. And then I'd do an endoscopic ultrasound if you want to see if it's invaded. Because you again, you want to know if it's beyond mucosa. Yeah. Or if it's not. Well, here's some information for you. Hit me. We have on EGD, we have our fungating ulcerative mass on the lesser curvature. Kind of like what you were talking about. Biopsies show intestinal type adenocarcinoma. While we're there, we talked about this. We switch out the probe for the ultrasound. We also note there is a tumor into the sub mucosa. And there are no suspicious local nodes. All right, well, they got that going. Beyond the mucosa, it's into the sub mucosa. So it's a little bit of distance spread. It's not into the world. But I don't think we can endoscopically resect it. So I think it's going to be a little bit more involved. But the other thing I would do is, after we've kind of done this procedure, is just make sure it didn't spread anywhere else. I don't think it has given it's only in the sub mucosa. That was my next part is we do that. Yeah, we're very thorough practitioners. We order a CT, the chest abdomen and pelvis, for our metastatic survey. Nothing. CT's good. Liver's clear. And we know only focal thickening. And there really are no nodes greater than 1 centimeter. All right, yeah. I mean, that's definitely a positive thing. I think that this is something that we could probably, you could always talk with the surgeons and stuff like that. But I think an endoscopic resection, I don't know if it's going to be enough. I don't think that you'll get a good enough margin with that one, especially if it's into the sub mucosa. Because you just can probably get a lot of bleeding with that. So I'd probably say at this point, you probably need to talk to a surgeon and see if they're up for doing maybe a gastrectomy. You don't have to do a full wing. You don't have to fully remove the stomach. But I'd say maybe a partial gastrectomy would definitely be the way to go. And do they have any lymph nodes? You said no? No. So you can do lymph node dissection just in case you don't get all the margins clear. You can definitely remove some of those as well just in case you have any residual disease and you don't want it to spread to some nodes. So you could definitely do that. I would say at this point, just refer to a surgery, see if they would consider a partial gastrectomy is what I would say. And then maybe removing a couple of nodes while they're there. But that's what I would say. For this one, I think we have a pretty good overall prognosis. I'd say if it was pretty far down and a little bit deeper, and maybe they had some nodes, I probably would reach for some prior to that, some chemo radiation, some neo-adjuvant stuff. But I think we're pretty good here that we don't need to do that. I think we've caught it a little bit early. And I think it's definitely possible you can get away with just a gastrectomy. If it was a little bit deeper, it spread to unfortunately other organs. Then I think you got to go to the route of just systemic chemotherapy. But we're not there. So I think that this one's definitely doable with a subtotal gastrectomy, and maybe some lymph nodes cut out. All right. That is all I had for both case one and case two. I do want to just bother you real quick for a rapid recap. What I want to do for this rapid recap is as you're talking, I'm going to have a table pop up on screen so you can follow along as that goes through this whole thing. All right. I'd say a soft joke, carcinoma, especially adenos, since that was in the case here. You have to say, what's the two we're talking about? Yeah. So a soft joke, adenocarcinoma, for that one, I'd say you really want to think about this one with chronic GERD. That's really the biggest thing. Obviously, if you have a patient who has chronic GERD, you've had an EGD in the past, and they have Barrett or Barrett's, then that's another really big risk factor. There is a very high chance of Barrett's metaplasia turning into dysplasia and then cancer. A lot of these times, the patients can be completely asymptomatic until they are not. Then that's usually when they present with dysphagia. And again, the classic way is progressive, solids, then liquids, usually. The things to get concerned about is alarm symptoms. It's not common for these to bleed. But if they get bad enough that they're causing things like weight loss, nausea, vomiting, or they do happen to bleed, you don't want to wait for an EGD. You don't want to go, oh, let's do a barium swallow. And then we'll say, no, no, no. Go straight to an EGD. Otherwise, I'd say a barium swallow is fine if they just have some progressive dysphagia. Just see if they have anything structural. If they do, get the EGD, biopsy it while you're there. You see something. You're concerned doing the US, biopsy if you need to, any of the nodes. If you have concerns that it's distantly spreading, get some pan imaging. CT chest, abdomen, pelvis, we'll probably do well for that one. And then based upon the results of these things, if it's mucosal only, you can probably just resect it. If it's beyond that, you probably have to start discussing esophagectomies. Depending upon the depth of that, especially if you get into the muscle layer, you're probably going to have to shrink it down with some neodermic chemo radiation. But that's something that can all be worked apart and to disciplinaryly with your surgical team and your radiation oncology team. That's something I would do for that one. For the gastric one, again, we're talking about the intestinal in this one. Diffuse one is very uncommon. The big thing to know for diffuse, just so you guys are listening, is if you hear the word signet ring sign on their biopsy, boom, it's diffuse. That's like the key terminology. It's a signet ring cells. It's because they lose their e-cat herons. But we won't go down that rabbit hole. Alarm symptoms for this one are just in general symptoms is dyspepsia. Just because someone is dyspepsia doesn't mean they need to give an EGD. If they have dyspepsia, that general epigastric discomfort, they have some associated satiety, maybe some nausea. But they got weight loss. They got nausea, vomiting, GI bleeds. Pretty common with these ones. You've got to go get the EGD. While you're there, your biopsy, you can get pathology results. You can say, OK, let's do an EUS while we're there. See if we've got some local regional spread. Maybe some nodes, biopsy, those if needed. And if you see some concerns that it is spreading, like if that just got mucosal, I probably don't need to get imaging. I probably don't need to get a CT, like a pan scan. But if I got, hey, this is definitely into the musculareous layer, all right, there's possibility. Could have spread. Then you can go to CT, chest apel. But for these patients depending upon how deep it is, if it's like near the mucosa, resect it, just endoscopically. But if it's beyond that, you can't really safely do that. So then you have to start reaching out to surgery, interdisciplinary with radiation oncology, and say, hey, can we do a gastrectomy? Maybe it's a partial, depending upon the depth. Maybe you have to do a total. And then from there, neo-adjuvant chemo-radiation is kind of just dependent upon how deep it is. Usually if you get to that musculare, you probably got to hit it with that. But that's kind of the things I would say for these patients, a lot of the times if it gets too bad, whether it is metastatic, a lot of it is just systemic chemotherapy. Impalative surgeries, if it's really, really bad, like they got consistent gastric outlet obstruction, put an ascent. If they have consistent difficulty with dysphagia, put an ascent. Otherwise, you don't really do anything except just trying to give palliative care. But that's what I would say is a kind of hopefully a quick recap for a soft, gentle gastric cancer. Yeah, definitely a unfortunate cancer due to the asymptomatic presentation. Just sort of all of a sudden, boom, it kind of hits. And that's a tough one to talk about, but it's great to have an idea of what to do, how to diagnose, how to treat. So good episode. Yeah, man. So I think it's just important to always know that a lot of cancers, unfortunately, do present asymptomatically. But if you can find these ones early, cut them out. That's the big thing. If they're a little bit deeper, there's still possible operations like esophagectomies and gastrectomies and things like that. But I really hope that this made sense. And I hope that you can take away from this something that can maybe spread awareness. Maybe if you get hit with some questions like this on your exam, maybe you get pimped on this while you're walking through the hospital from your attending or your resident, you're going to be able to answer these questions effectively because an engineer done hooked you up. All right? I hope that we did. Yeah, big time. I hope that you had fun. I know I did. I know Rob did. And man, I just love you guys. I thank you guys. I hope you're having a great day. And as always, until next time.!