Alright. So now what wer're going to do is if you remember here when we talked about the skull where the ethmoid bone. So, I'm going to take the ethmoid bone, here, imagine it being in this position right here. I'm going to yank it out and we're going to look at that. That little shark fin structure that coming off right there is actually called the crista galli. Okay, that's the crista galli of the ethmoid bone. Then if you remember before I said there is a plate here, that's running right here. And there's little holes in it, you might be able to notice some of the little holes, those little holes are called the olfactory foramina, but that plate that has all those holes in it is actually going to be called the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Inside this, just like what we talked about with the sphenoid, it has these little ehtmoidal air cells which again, is the hollow cavity there that can contain some mucus and that is going to be called the ethmoid sinus. And again that would be called a para nasal sinus, meaning that it drains into the nasal cavity. Alright, next thing, if you look here, we have a little thing moving right down the middle, this little piece moving down the middle, you can see a little bit of it there too. That is called the perpendicular plate of That is actually a part that helps form a part of nasal septum with the vomer. Then if you look, you have the little chunks of things right up here and a chunk right there. These are called your superior nasal conchae. Now if I come down more, this is actually going to be called the middle nasal conchae. And this is going to be a middle nasal conachae. Alright so we have superior nasal conchae up here, middle nasal conchae and we got the perpendicular plate. Alright, next thing, and here is where it gets a little funky sometimes people will kinda get a little confused, but if I take that chunk, from that side of the perpendicular plate and all that chunk right there that I'm holding in my right hand, on this right side here. That is actually going to be called the right lateral mass. And if I hold this chunk over here, that's going to be the left lateral mass. So all this chunk here, from the perpendicular plate to out here is the right lateral mass. And all this chunk over here form the left side of the perpendicular plate is the left Next thing, if you look here on the sides, these are actually going to be called the orbital plates of the ethmoid bone. So this is the orbital plate of the ethmoid bone and again, you would have one on this side also. So you would see these within the orbit. Okay, for example, if I were to come in here and show you the little chunk of it, you might be able to see a piece of it right there, that's actually going to be the orbital plate of the ethmoid bone.