What's up, ninja nerds? In this video today, we're going to be talking about eye infections. Again, this is not like a super high yield topic, but it is one of those that I want you guys to really be able to understand in case you guys experience something like on the wards, especially things like conjunctivitis. That's going to be kind of tested, especially even on this. It's the USML step two. Something that I really want you to know. If you guys really are enjoying these videos, they're helping you, they're making sense, maybe they're helping you to pass an exam, they're helping you on the wards, please support us. So, a simple way that you can do that is you can hit the like button, comment down the comment section. Subscribe. Did you do it yet? Did you do it? Please subscribe if you haven't. Also, things that I really think that will take you to the next level is we do have notes, we have illustrations, we have quiz questions, we're developing flashcards. We're trying to do a lot more to really and help learners experience and really enjoy this process together. So, go down the description box below. There's a link that goes to our website and you'll be able to access all of those if you can become a member. All right, without further ado, let's dig into eye infections. With these, it is not super super critical that we go deep into the pathophysiology depths. It's not something that you're probably going to be tested on a lot. There's a couple aspects along this process where I will kind of take a little bit of time, but it's more about just identifying a basic more more likely a definition and another important thing that you'll see as a common theme along infectious disease topics is knowing the most likely pathogen is what's the most likely bacteria, what's the most likely virus, what's the most likely fungus, etc. So, let's kind of go through these. I like to break the eye infections up into a couple different groups. So, we'll start first with the lid and lacrimal infections. And that's why it's kind of nice about these. These are more identification, more clinical diagnoses, more identifying the historical and physical exam findings that you should really be considering. So let's go through the lid and lacrimal infections. First thing is I want you to know is a couple different conditions. One, is there something going on with this lacrial system? Now we we have glands. We have lacrial glands and these lacrial glands are important because they produce a lacrial fluid. They help to kind of lubricate the eye and that's that's very very essential. Right? So these glands are constantly producing a lacrial fluid. That lacrial fluid when it's produced it moves across the cornea even parts the of the conjunctiva where it's going to move across here. Let's say it's moving across and then it should drain into these things called the lacermal punta right and then from here it should move via the lacrimal puna into the lacrimal sack and then down into the nasol lacrimal dunk which then kind of empties into the nasal cavity usually around like the inferior conjection somewhere within this nasol lacrimal duct. So here I have an obstruction of that nasol lacrimal duct. If I have an obstruction then what happens is all of this flow going this way or coming this way becomes halted. You get an abrupt stop. And if there is a stoppage of this flow everything proximal to that obstruction is going to build up in pressure. And as that pressure continues to rise and rise and rise, this lacrimal sack be gets bigger and bigger and bigger and it causes some potential manifestations. So the first condition that I want you guys to be able to consider which is an obstruction here is called dacrocyitis. Dacrocyitis. Now what is this again due to if I had if I just had you give me a simple definition a pathophysiological process? All I want you to know is that it is an obstruction of the nasol lacrial duct. That's all I just want you to be able to say that. So if they say hey what is it due to? You are going to say it is due to an obstruction of the nasal lacrial duct. All that does is it leads to a back pressure, a buildup of the lacrimal fluid. Now here's the other thing. Bacteria are present here. They're supposed to be flushed in this direction. Anytime there's a stasis of bacteria, they can colonize. They can really increase the risk of infection. And that's where we start to see this issue is that whenever there's an obstruction, it can cause stasis of bacteria. That's when you get an infection. All right. Another one, pretty simple one actually. You know how here's these little eyelashes? Right at the base of the eyelash, there's a obviously there's a hair follicle. Let's imagine for a second that I have a blockage of the hair follicle right at that lid margin right there and it starts to get blocked. some of the actual, you know, sebaceous glands get blocked, the hair follicle gets blocked. And because of that, I accumulate a lot of bacteria, especially in the hair follicle. That's going to cause almost like a feliculitis, this little pus pocket essentially in that eyelash follicle. And you know what that's called? That's called a stye. Well, we don't like to call them sty. You know what we like to call them? We call them a hordiolum because we like to make things complicated, right? Hordiololisms or a sty is essentially in the most simplistic term here is a blockage of an eyelash follicle. That's really all it is. Now there is two different types if you really want to think about it. But if again it's a blockage of an eyelash follicle. And so when I say this one, this is an anterior hordiolum. Sometimes we even call them exterior horols. But all that means is that that that's occurring on the outside, the most visible portion of the eyelid. Sometimes they can occur posteriorly or internally. That means I'd have to roll the eyelid back and you would see a bump. But that's due to a blockage of what's called a mobian gland, not a hair follicle. In this case, the eyelash. But the more common one that you're going to see is going to be a blockage of that eyelash follicle. And so I'll be really really particular when I say this horolum it's most often anterior all right and this is usually an infection it's usually staflacus dacrocyitis usually staflacus it could be group a strep sometimes but usually staflacccus for both of these posterior horols those are in inflammation or blockage of the moian glands and that you see more often with like other conditions not usually associated with things like infection ctions. It's often times a little bit more like allergy or autoimmune related. So, we're not going to worry about that one. All right. So, here's a horolum. All right. And I'll show you what these look like a little bit later. The next one is imagine here is the eyelids. Here's the inferior eyelid. Here's the superior eyelid. Imagine I get some inflammation of these eyelids, especially right around that lid margin. So, these things are just red. They're angry. Super red, angry. A little scaly sometimes is another way to describe them. and they look maybe even flaky at times, but your whole eyelid upper and lower pretty red, pretty angry, little a little tender, but nothing crazy, but they're definitely a little inflamed, a little red. That's called bllepheritis, right? Blephritis. I want you guys to remember that one. So, this is called bllepheritis. And all bllepheritis is is simplistically it is the inflammation of the skin along the eyelids. usually more often than not the margins right on the edge. But again, all it is is it's usually just most often inflammation of eyelids, but I'm going to be really really specific. It's most often at the margin. And they get red, they get a little inflamed, but they also get really flaky and kind of scaly. And that's something again we'll be able to see this when we get to the clinical aspects. Big thing to remember is most often the pathogen that we see with I'd say across the board with these the pathogen most often associated with these infections is staflacus arius probably more often than not. So when you think about that if it is staflacccus arius you know you would treat this with the appropriate antibiotics that we'll talk about later you could probably get away with saying almost all of these are due to stafloccus maybe with the dacrocyitis you could extend it a little bit to a group a beta hemol hemolyticus streptococcus if you really wanted to I'll add that in so the group a beta hemolyticus strepcus that's another one as well we can see that with the dacrocyitis but you'd probably be good with this. All right. Often times what you'll find a little bit later is that we don't usually have to use antibiotics for these. These get away you can get away with these not treating these at all. This one you do have to treat with antibiotics and we have to account for things like group A strep. We got to account for things like staff orius and we'll talk about those antibiotics a little bit later. All right let's move over here to the conjunctival infection. So I said okay a patient has some problems with the lid or the lacerma. look at the medial canthus, look at the eyelids, and then look at the eyelash like the follicle portion to see do I see any diseases that are present. Then if I don't see any kind of redness of the eyelids with a scaliness, if I don't see any kind of like bump, a tender like nodule right on the eyelash at the follicle portion. All right, I don't see any big bump here, I can then move my next step to is the conjunctiva, the white of the eye, is it red? All right, that's what I want to know. So conjunctival infections. Well, you got another conjunctival. Let's say we take this blue. This is a good marker here. You have a it's kind of like an epithelia with a little bit of loose connective tissue. It's a tissue that lines the inner portion. So this is an eyelid. So this is the superior eyelid, infraid. This thing is going to roll and line the inner portion of this eyelid. And then what it's going to do is it's going to fold on to like the scara. And it's going to end right there at the cornea. So there's again lining here of the eyelid or the palpra and then it rolls over onto this bulb of the eye and that is going to be the conjunctiva all in blue. So let's actually annotate that there's two portions here. This portion here lining the eyelid this is called the palpibbral conjunctiva. All right. This is called the palpibbral conjunctiva. The reason why I tell you that is that if you were to take the patient's eyelid and fold it and it was really red and inflamed, that's the portion of the conjunctive bud that's inflamed. All right? That's this portion, right? The one that's lining the eyelid. The other part that's over here that's lining the actual scara coming right up to the edge of the cornea. This portion that is called the bullbar. That is called the bullbar conjunctiva. The reason why I tell you this is that what you often see when these patients who have conjunctivitis is you see a red eye. You see this portion that's all red, right? Which is on the side of the cornea where the iris here's your cornea, right? And then again the cornea is like the little clear portion that overlies this area. And then behind this and you know behind like the what the area of the anterior chamber is which we can see from this view. Here's your cornea. Here's the iris. Here's the anterior chamber. This area here is the posterior chamber. When we look at the eye, this portion here of the conjunctiva, that's what we see. We see that redness. But if you were to fold the eyelid back, you would see a lot of redness and kind of swelling there too. So this is what we see with conjunctival infections. And what I want you to associate it with is we associated it classically with what we would say as the red eye. But if you fold the eyelid back again, there's two parts of the conjunctiva. You'll see the inner portion of the eyelid is going to be inflamed as well in red. All right, cool. With this being the case, we know kind of the the concept behind this is usually direct inoculation. There's a pathogen that you are probably having somewhere and you're poking it or touching it to your eyeball of some sort. Here's what I want you to think about. There's a couple different types of pathogens, if you will. So the pathogens are what we would say is the subtypes of conjunctivitis is there is bacterial, there's bacterial conjunctivitis and there is viral conjunctivitis. When I talk about bacterial, I can technically break this up a little bit. So I'm going to break this up and I'm going to say the first one is your typical bacteria. So we'll call this the uncomplicated. So this is your uncomplicated version. All right. So the uncomplicated ones, there's a couple different pathogens that we can see with this one. And I'd say more often than not, we think about this one being due to staflacus arius, but it's more often in adults. Funny enough, with children, there's another group. All right, so there's three different groups I want you to guys to consider. One is are they an adult? Would you be tested on this? I don't think so. And I don't know if it's super relevant. I'm that's why I'm going to go through it really quick. adult it's stafylocus arius for children it's more likely to see strep pneumonia or H flu all right so hmophilus influenza these are the ones that you'll probably see all right for these but here's what I think you're more likely to be tested on what they may add somewhere in the vignette is that you have a person regardless of it's an adult um a child of some sort are they wearing contact lenses. So the contact lens is a very important Q and the reason why that's an important Q and I'm going to do this in red so it's very very specific is it's associated with sudamonus origigosa that's what I want you to associate this with one sudamonus origigosa and that's why I I kind of stress on this one because usually what we would treat patients who have kind of some type of bacterial conjunctivitis is we will use a cyproloxis I'm sorry a floricquinolone of some sort like ofoxysin, moxify foxin because this is going to cover that pseudamonus but it'll also cover the stafforius the strep numo the hmophilus influenza so that's why we kind of like do I need to know all of these n not really the big thing is do I have pseudamonus and that's going to be those contact lens wares all right the next type of bacterial conjunctivitis would be if it's sexually transmitted in a way is what we kind of get concerned about but I'm going to break these into two subgroups one is called ganocal conjunctivitis. And with gonoccal conjunctivitis, the thing that we get worried about with this one is this is usually seen in some person who has a sexually transmitted infection. So there's kind of two scenarios could be a person who has a STI. All right. Another one is if they have an STI, the problem with that is is if they're touching their genitals, they have any kind of contaminated secretions of any kind of sort and they touch those areas and then they touch their eye. at the direct inoculation of niceria gorrhea which is the primary cause here. Another way that you can get this is kind of the same concept where the mother of the child has an STI and during the vaginal delivery as the baby's kind of flying through what's happening they have the vaginal secretions that touch the eye that's another way that you're directly inoculating that in. So another one would be some type of neonate, right? But the key thing here is it's during the vaginal delivery of a person who has an STI. So vaginal delivery and that mother has the STI with mother who has STI. That's a really important thing to be able to consider. All right. So that's the primary pathogen here for ganoccoal is we worry about niceria. All right. So you worry about niceria. All right. So niceria ganorrhea. The reason why I tell you this is that there's a very specific p there's a very specific antibiotic that we have to know. That's why this is really important is this is one is probably the one that we have a a really important one to remember. This one's really important to remember for gyneakle. And I'm going to talk about some slight differences between these that really help. The last one that helps with this bacterial kind of classification is chlamyia. Chlamidial. All right. So, chlamyial conjunctivitis. Now, chlamydial is due to the pathogen that you guys should know chlamydial trachomatus. So, chlamyia trachomatus. Now, the problem with the trachomatus is this comes in different stereotypes. All right. The stereotypes are what's going to kind of guide you to the underlying history that kind of tells you that. So for example, if I have chlamydia trachcomatus, man, this marker is tight. Sorry guys, this thing is on there tight. Uh tighter than a toga. All right, this one here, chidotia tracommatus, the serereotype that I want you guys to remember is there is serereotypes D to K. And then there's another one that I'll write down right here is serotype A to C. The reason why I mention this is that this kind of guides an important distinction for the exam. All right. So with serereotype D to K, this is associated with the same thing as the gonocal kind of conjunctivitis. So, you see this with a person who has an STI who directly inoculated themsel or they had sexually transmitted infections from someone else that they were doing some weird sexual activities near the eyeballs. You get where I'm going with this? Or the same thing, the neonate, and I'm going to kind of just go on that same concept that I talked about here. Vaginal delivery with a mother who had an STI. If they had gorrhea, they'll get this one. If they had chlamydia, they'll get this one. That's the two big things to really, really associate this with. stereotype A to C. This one is more associated with endemic populations, Africa, right? Um, South America. And usually with these, it's not due to an STI. It's just due to probably more often than not poor hygiene. So, it's usually spread kind of by direct like transfer. Um, direct inoculation of some sort. for example, you're going eye to eyeball with somebody and you're, you know, you're doing like the little I forget what they call that, butterfly kisses, you know, you're doing stuff like that or you're sharing a the same hand towel or towel, whatever it is, and you just keep passing that on. That's why it's usually like a poorly hygiene or socioeconomic status is kind of the big thing there. So, I want you to just think more indemic. Um, and this one I just think more like Africa. So they're probably going to mention somewhere in there about the poor socioeconomic status Africans who are experiencing some type of conjunctivitis. Now we got to add a little bit to this for uncomplicated types. All right, again sudamonus origiginosa is the big one to remember. What I want you guys to associate with these is that these are more often associated with like the perulent discharge. So bacteria I want you to think a little bit more of the perilent. All right? So more of that perilent discharge. Now, this isn't a perfect thing. So, what I want you to add on to this to be just a tiny bit more specific because all of these can be perent. This one here uncomplicated. It's usually perilent and especially in the morning when they wake up their eyelids are like almost glued shut. They got to manually open these puppies, right? The other thing here is gynecakal is excessive perilance and I'm talking like explosive copious perilence there with chlamydia trachomatus they have that mucoperulent kind of discharge as well they even get some like bumps on their conjunctiva they got some little bumpies there but I think the biggest thing here is that most of these are associated with the perilence to add on to this fact is when the pergulence appears for these two can be helpful. So what I want you to remember is with these add on to this that you'll probably more likely see that perlling conjunctivitis more at different times. And this is why the chlamydia one's kind of nasty because it can stay especially in the A to see. This can stay around for a long time. It can become chronic. They can get fibrous eyelids and their eyelid can literally turn inwards. Their hair can start scratching up against their cornea. They get what's called a trachoma. And that's one of the big things about this one. So I actually I do want to write that down here. The biggest risk with these is something called a traoma. But we'll talk about that a little bit later. But I just want you to associate this with neonates. Yes, these two this can be explosive copious perent discharge. This one you can get in the mucoperland discharge. But especially for neonates, it's important to remember the timeline. And that timeline is usually in a neonate if they present with that copious discharge around like days 2 to five, right? in a neonate that screams more of the gynecal. If it's around days five to 14 that in the neonate that screams more of the chlamydia. This isn't perfect, but just think about these on the exam. All right, so we got the red eye, we got the perent discharge for the bacteria, we got the most common pathogens, we had a couple little kind of critiques to think about which one screams more of the gyneakal, the chlamydial, etc. What screams viral? A viral is going to say more about a watery discharge. All right? Kind of it's going to be a watery discharge. This one's usually more like neutrfil related. This one's a little bit more lymphocy migration. So, uh watery is going to be an important thing to associate with that red eye. They all can have the red eye, right? But the viral, there's really a couple different viruses, but I'd say the most common one is going to be adn no virus. All right? So, that's what I would want you guys to remember. So we'll just say let's actually just write here the most common. Here we go again with this puppy titus doyga. The most common virus is going to be the adno virus. All right. So that's what I want you to associate this with. Now I'm going to do this in red but guess what? It don't matter. It don't matter because you're not going to give them any antivirals for a viral conjunctivitis. You're going to let it go. What also can add to this supportive fact that this is actually a viral conjunctivitis besides it being a watery eye or so a watery discharge with a red eye. The other thing that's really helpful is did they have a preceding upper respiratory tract infection that really adds to this because think about the close proximity of things like the sinuses, right, and the uh nasop ferinx to the eye. It's easy for that spread. And so again, recent upper respiratory tract infection really screams kind of a viral case. And guess what? Doesn't matter if I know the virus or not. It just helps you. It's a little bit of knowledge. But again, doesn't matter because I'm not going to give an antibi antiviral for that. I am going to give a specific antibiotic for this one and this one. And most often I'm going to give one to cover the worst case scenario, but it can cover all of these. A lot of these it don't really matter except for probably the dacroscyitis. Let's move on. Let's talk about the patient who got to go to a corial infection. All right. So, if they got the conjunctival infection, we call that conjunctivitis. And we sometimes just label it as the red eye. But again, conjunctivitis is the common thing. With corneal infections, this is an infection of the cornea. And we refer to these often as keratitis. So, where's the inflammation going to occur? Well, here, think about your anatomy. What is this big structure right here? That's the cornea. And this thing gonna be inflamed like a mug. Right? So here we have inflammation of the cornea. So this is called keratitis. Keratitis. So what is the keratitis again? It is an inflammation of the cornea. Now that may not sound terrible, but it really can be pretty bad. It can actually cause potentially if it doesn't get treated properly, it can cause you lose your vision. So inflammation of the cornea. Now when we talk about this, the reason why I think it's important to know this is that with keratitis, yes, it's inflammation of the cornea, but sometimes that inflammation can cause little ulcers. So sometimes keratitis can just be Yeah, it can be some inflammation. Problem is is that that's hard to always distinguish from conjunctivitis because in keratitis you can also have a lot of conjunctival red conjunctival hypermia is how we really term it, the red eye. You can get that. It also can occur right around the iris which we call siliary flush too. Again, doesn't really help to distinguish between these two. But what you can get with keratitis that makes it kind of scary is you can get ulcers and that's pretty nasty. And the worst case scenario is sometimes if these ulcers I got to stop putting this cap on here. Uh this ulcers continue, you can actually progress to a perforation. And so sometimes you can even get a perforation. And again I you know these are like the worst case scenarios. Worst case scenarios you can get an ulcer or you can get a perforation. Sometimes it just causes some inflammation and you just occur on that cornea. The cornea gets kind of like inflamed. It can get hazy. Uh you can get some kind of stroal which is like inside of this the destruction of it. But over time the worst case scenario you can get ulcer perforation and that's when you can start having some scary scary issues. All right. With keratitis we can again we know dacroscyitis blockage of the nasal lacrimal ductolum blockage of a hair follicle anterior blephritis inflammation of the eyelid particular on the margin conjunctivitis inflammation of the palra and bulbar conjunctiva can be bacterial we know the three spec specific scenarios and viral with corial infection same thing this can be bacterial it's inflammation of the cornea what will they present like well they're probably going to present with a good nasty red eye But it's also going to cause some pretty nasty pain. You have you actually have, you know, the trigeminal nerve. The trigeminal nerve does supply the cornea. And so it's important to remember that that sometimes you can actually have some pretty nasty pain with this one. And also phototohobia because you know light has to pass through the cornea, through the anterior chamber into the posterior chamber, through the po pupil, hit the actual lens, and then boom, move off to the retina. And so you can cause vision changes as well as more sensitivity to bright lights which is called phototohobia. But either way that can be a similar presentation between bacterial and viral. So how the heck am I supposed to know the difference between the two? Some historical factors may be helpful. And you're kind of like, "Oh, Zach, didn't you just say this already?" Yeah, I probably did. I swear to goodness with this marker, you know what? We're going to pop this thing this way. All right. With bacterial, I want you to think about contact lens. The contact lens. You're like, "Wait, Zach, you told me to remember that for conjunctivitis, with the uncomplicated one." Absolutely. Yes. Believe it or not, sometimes if a patient gets a conjunctivitis due to sudamonis and it doesn't get treated and it gets worse and worse and worse, it can actually cause inflammation and infection of the cornea and they can have both. What's that called? Corto conjunctivitis. You can get both. It can happen. So, what I want you to remember is contact lens wares. Which one? Which one of those pathogens is most often associated? I kind of just gave you the hint already. This is called I'm going to write pseudomonus. Pseudonus. All right. With this contact lens wearers is going to be probably the biggest historical factor. But when we think about back bacterial keratitis, it can cause like a little corial. I'd like to say the best way of describing is like a little opacity. They get like this little white like mark that appears on the cornea. And I'll show you what that looks like a little bit later. But this one is kind of going to be associated with a corial opacity. But the big thing is this is the one that can really increase the risk of perforations and ulcers. All right? So you can get a corial opacity, but you carry a very very high risk. So I'm going to put um also high risk. It has the highest risk out between these two of ulcers and the pfs, the perforation. So that's why it's really important to remember this one. And again, if I have pseudomonis, guess what? I can treat this one with the same thing that I would treat if I had the conjunctivitis with a topical agent. It's just the only thing that's different here is that in keratitis, they carry vision loss as a potential complication. They carry phototohobia. They carry severe eye pain. You probably don't have blurred vision, phototohobia, and severe eye pain with conjunctivitis. That's a really important difference here. But I'm going to treat them almost with the same antibiotic, just a different degree of like monitoring. With viral, it's not adno this time. With this one, what I want you to associate this with is two particular viruses. One is called HSV. And you're probably like, "Oh, HSV1 or HSV 2, bro." HSV1. All right. So, here's what I want you to think about. If you hear the word cold sores may be somehow mentioned, doesn't have to be. It doesn't have to be. I want you to think about HSV1. If you hear maybe chickenpox mentioned somehow, I want you to think of VZV. So what are those two? Cold sores HSV1 and chickenpox is VZV vericella zostaster virus. So this is the herpes simplex virus type one and the vicela zostaster virus. What's really important with both of these is how that actually happens. So with bacterial it's usually the contact lens sits on the cornea and if it sits on there you have a person who's not doing what they're supposed to do which is all right before I'm going to go to bed I'm take my contact lens out I'm going to put in the cleaning solution and then you know tomorrow I'll put it back on. Nah, they don't do that. They leave the thing sit on there for two weeks and they're like, "Hey man, why is my why can't I I can't see." You know, there's a potential reason that contact lens creates a bofilm for bacteria to colonize it. And if it sits there, sits there sits there. That can cause inflammation. That's more of a direct kind of inoculation. With viruses, you're not like, "Oh, I'm going to touch a cold sore and touch my eye." No, that's not how it works. This is a weird mechanism and it's kind of cool. This is due to the reason why I mentioned the cold sores in the chickenpox. If you guys think about this for a second, I'll have a small little diagram here. Here I'm going to have the midbrain, the pawns, medulla spinal cord. We'll have the fourth ventricle. We'll have the cerebellum. And you guys know that there's some nuclei for the trigeminal nerve, right? There's some nuclei here, right? And they all kind of connect to a structure called the trigeminal ganglion. And the trigeminal ganglion gives off three divisions. V1, V2, V3. So this is V1, V2, V3. And again this is going to connect backwards to all of these nuclei. So this is your this is really that trigeminal gang gland is really really important because from here it gives different divisions. The first division is really the one that I care about because V2 it goes to parts of the face. V3 is the mandibular division. So we have again the opthalmic. We have parts of the maxillary and the mandibular division. But what's that first one? That's the athalmic division. This one here is what I care about because guess what? This supplies the cornea. So what happens is a person gets uh cold sore or they get chickenpox that infects the skin. They hop onto one of the branches of the trigeminal nerve. They move down the branches of that. They move up the branches of the trigeminal nerve to where? To the ganglion. What is this one called? This is called the trigeminal ganglion. And they live there. So whenever a person gets an infection with a cold sore they get chickenpox the virus infects the nerves moves on the axons of these divisions and goes and lives in the trigeminal ganglion dormant for a while then all of a sudden they get a trigger amunosuppression infection stress state and what happens the virus reactivates when the virus reactivates it then travels down one of these that's the most important I'm going to give you a guess as to which one it would travel down the opthalmic so once it reactivates it's going to move down this division and guess what that nerve I I bet you can't guess again one of these structures. If I were to kind of imagine there is a nerve running through here, I bet you can't guess which part of the branch that comes from that V1. And all it has to do is move down this hop onto the cornea and start causing its problems. So that's what I want you to think about. Another thing with these is that they can cause I'd say okay here's what I want you to think about. HSV1, yes. Can it cause other things like a corial opacity? Ah, maybe. But it causes like we'll talk about this later very small like superficial like ulcers like you can't really see them. Same thing with VZV. It can it can theoretically cause some superficial ulcers but you can't really see them. You probably be able to see them a little bit better with a patient who had a bacterial keratitis. These ones probably not that much. And so we have to do something. The reason why I tell you this is that because you can't see it, you have to do special tests to be able to find those little ulcers. And that's what we'll talk about later called a florosine staining. We'll put we'll actually do a slit lamp, get really really close, and I'll put like the special dye. And that dye is going to maybe go in and fill some of these areas where the superficial ulcers and lesions are from the viruses. And they have pathonmonic types of forms and shapes that they kind of lie in that are critical. I will write this down but it'll come up more in the diagnostic section. This gives off a dendritic a dendritic shape or a dendritic lesion type of shape. All right. And that is actually pretty important. Why I want you guys to think about this. All right. So dendritic. Let me fix this up here a little bit. Oh, I also spelled dendritic wrong. Dendritic. Of course I did. a lesion with terminal bulbs is the best way. You guys can thank Rob for that one. He definitely caught that one. I did not. But again, superficial ulcers can give off this dendritic lesion type of presentation, which I I do want you guys to remember, but it's going to come up. I'm just kind of like helping you guys to understand why this is prevalent and why we do the florosine staining is we need to be able to see these. And the only way we can see it um is to we actually do the florosine staining. This one probably not as critical, but we I'll talk about something else that can happen with this one. You know what? I actually will. One other thing about this is with the V1 division, you got to think about this. This virus, the VZV, it does go down the opthalmic nerve. And that that has a very dermatal type of process. So you can get something called shingles, right? And that usually can occur in kind of dermatal pattern. They're like vesicles, really nasty vesicle rash. If it kind of moves on the abdomic division, it can involve things like the forehead. It can maybe get the nose. It can maybe get parts of like the medial portion of the cheek. But one one big thing is when you really see that they have keratitis, red eye pain, phototohobia, maybe blurred vision and you do the florine stain and you see this like vicicular region near the tip of the nose. That's a really really important thing. And so I do want to kind of urge you guys to think about something else but we'll talk about it with the classic findings is think about something called a Hutchinson sign or a dermatal rash. because when this virus moves on the V1 division, that area is the division that it supplies. So, I just wanted to add that in there. Okay, we got the corial infections. Big thing to remember here is they definitely got a lot of other symptoms like when I talk about red eye, keratitis, and conjunctivitis. Difference is is that this one has a lot of pain. They can have vision problems and they can have phototohobia. All right, let's come on to the next one. The next one that I want to add on is perorbital and orbital infections. The reason why I there is technically one of these I like to more likely include in the lid and lacrimal infection group, but I only include it here because of the way that we like to distinguish these in sense of if it being an urgency and emergency. And we also use anatomy here. So let's say here I have this pink kind of structure here. And this is going to be called your toarsel plate. All the tarsel plate is and it's in the eyelid. Eyelids are pretty like when you think about it, you you kind of grab the eyelid. It's kind of like elastic, right? It's kind of really stretchy, but it has to have some kind of rigidity to it. In general, you definitely need that. And the toarsel plate is kind of like a it's kind like a little bit of a fibrous tissue that gives a little bit of rigidity to the eyelid, but that needs to be anchored to a bone. And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to represent this this this fibrous connective tissue that anchors this toarsel plate to the bone in orange. And what we're going to do is we're going to say that this is called the orbital septum. It be this would be the superior orbital septum. This would be the inferior orbital septum because that's the superior palpra or eyelid and that's the inferior palpra or eyelid. So again two particular structures here. The one in pink is called the tarsel plate gives just generally like anatomy wise it gives a little bit of rigidity to the eyelid. And then this here and this orange color is called the orbital septum. And if you really want to think about it, there is two different parts of the orbital septum there. This would be for example in this scenario, this would be the superior orbital septum and this would be the inferior orbital septum. Why is this relevant? Is we say that if you have inflammation and infection of the structures that are anterior to the orbital septum, we call that preceptal cellulitis. That's usually like the eyelid and maybe the conjunctiva. If you have an infection that is posterior to the orbital septum, that's more orbital cellulitis. All right, another view. So, this is looking at kind of I'm taking and slicing a a sagittal section, right? And I'm looking at this from the side view, right? Because here's the orbital cavity. And so, again, I can say we can kind of develop a respectful kind of relationship here is I have two different types of cellulitis. I'll write them down. preceptal cellulitis and then we have another one called orbital and the reason why I like to combine these together rather than making this just an lacrial infection is you add on this relationship of the orbital septum if I say that the infection and the inflammation and we're going to use this diagram to give a little bit more kind of like emphasis there if it's anterior to the orbital septum so infection anterior to the orbital septum, then we're going to be talking primarily about precepulitis. What does that really just involve? If you if you think about it, if it's just anterior orbital septum, I'm not going to lie, dude, it's probably just primarily like your eyelids and maybe a little bit of your conjunctiv, but it's primarily the eyelids. And so, the primary thing that you're going to have here is inflammation. of the eyelids. And you're like, "Dude, wouldn't that be in the lid and lacrimal infection group?" Yeah. It's just there's another thing I want to add on. Inflammation of the eyelids. And it's it's not like a little bit. It's not like blufferitis. This this thing is like they're swollen. Looks like they got punched in the eye a million times by Mike Tyson. All right. Really really nasty. So significant. And just to add on to that Mike Tyson component here, I'll put in like a two big arrows to say that there's a lot of inflammation of those eyelids. Super swollen, super red, super painful. When we talk about orbital cellulitis though, this is an infection posterior to the orbital septum. So then you got to think, okay, what the heck is posterior to the orbital septum? Well, it's anything inside of that dang cavity, dude. It's anything back here. What's all back there, bro? A bunch of stuff. So I want you to think about this. What could this involve? There's fat tissue. There's muscle tissue. Those are really two big things. So, one, I'm going to do this in like a, you know, I'll do like this orange color is you're going to have inflammation of what's called actually I'll write this out here. You're going to have um perorbital I'll just keep it like this. Perorbital fat inflammation. These things going to be swollen up in there. That fat tissue going to be swollen. So, there's going to be a lot of swelling there. The other thing here is that when we have this, I'm going to make a little bit of room for a specific reason here. But the other thing is that you have what else? In this cavity. So here, I'll draw this for right now. And again, we'll kind of appreciate it a little bit more to kind of reinforce it here in a second. But there's going to be a lot of fat tissue in here. And this is a lot of fat tissue here. All right? A lot of fat tissue. And this stuff is going to be swollen. All right? So there's one thing. Periodal fat is really, really inflamed. The next thing is there's going to be a significant amount of inflammation of the extraocular muscles. This could be due to the muscle themselves being inflamed or it could be due to a lot of inflammation from the perorbital fat that's entrapping the muscles that run here because you know there's muscles that run in this direct like for example you would have a muscle running up here called the superior like rectus. You'd have another one over here called the inferior rectus and you obviously have the obliques and the medial and the lateral rectus. all of those things. If they're inflamed because of the infection in this area or the fat is super inflamed and it's pressing on the muscles, that's going to cause some problems. What kind of problems, you ask? I am so glad that you asked. With the perorbital fat inflammation, that's going to push the eyeball forward. Dude, imagine this. This thing's inflamed. It's going to start pushing on the eye. Where's it going to go? Well, it's not going to go back into a small little hole. It's going to go out through the front of the socket. That thing's going to be bulging out. And that's called proptosis. So I want you to remember this one. I'm going to do it in red just so you remember it. Proptosis. That thing is bulging. The other thing is those extraocular muscles are inflamed or they're entrapped. So they can be inflamed or they can be entrapped by a lot of the swelling in the orbital cavity. It's a tiny little cavity. It's going to press on them. If that happens, you have pain and restricted extraocular movements. If my superior rectus can't shorten and elongate, it's not going to be able to elevate the eye. It's not going to be able to do adduction, abduction, in uh rotation, uh um looking upwards, looking downwards, etc. And so what happens is you get pain, painful, and we'll even add in restricted EOM. And that I think is what you have to think about with these. Do you still get like inflammation like you would like of the eyelid a lot of edema arythemma 100% you still get that but the difference is here is that this one there is inflammation of the eyelids there is no proptosis and I think that's why it's important there is no proptosis or painful restricted EOM so we'll put here no proptosis or painful we'll just put painful right EOM. So the fact that they do have proptosis and the fact that they do have restricted or painful EOM is what clinically separates orbital cellulitis from preceptor. So we we differentiated them anatomically and we differentiated them clinically. Another thing just to kind of again add on here is you're getting another view. I'm taking a w slicing this thing. All right. Taking a sit and right there head cap off. With that being said, you're looking now at the top version here. Here's my anterior cranial fossa, middle cranial fossa, posterior cranial fawsa. Here's the eyeball in this case. Eyeball in this case. Again, if I were to annotate here, let's say here's the structure. Here's my orbital septum. Orbital septum here. Orbital septum. Orbital septum. Anything anterior to this part. So if I were to do this part in red, this is going to be preceptal cellulitis. That's inflamed. If I did everything behind it, that is orbital cellulitis. So you get the point here, right? Anything anterior to the orbital septum is going to be preceptal cellulitis. Anything posterior to the orbital septum is orbital cellulitis. Another thing that kind of gives you a little appreciation with this picture is what causes orbital cellitis versus what causes preceptal cellulitis. Because there's a there's an important thing to think about with this, you know, um we have a sinus here. I'm going to kind of test you guys. Here we have a mastoid sinus right here. Here we even have the sppheninoid sinuses. What's right here? The ethmoid sinuses. So I'm going to add here that you have the ethmoid sinuses. If a person gets inflammation or infection of the ethmoid sinus, all that thing has to do is move right here into the orbital cavity. So the reason why I tell you this is orbital cellulitis is more often we see this in kids who have a really nasty or you can see it in adults but we see this a lot in kids sometimes where they get a really nasty ethmoid sinusitis that doesn't get better and it's not getting treated appropriately with antibiotics. So that's what I want you to remember is a very common trigger for orbitalitis is I want you to think about a patient who has ethmoid sinocitis. This is the most common inciting trigger. And because of that, all it has to do, if you really really think about this, is travel through a thin little bone to get into the orbital cavity. I'm not going to write down because I'll probably butcher it. It's called lamina papriier. It's a thin little bone and it moves right into the orbital cavity. But if we think about that, that can lead to orbital cellulitis because once it moves past the laminina, boom, we're going to have it. You know what? I'm going to give it a shot. What does it pass through? moves past the lamina paparati. All right, that's how you get orbital cellulitis. All right, here's what I want you to remember. When we think about pathogens, it is relatively important to think about does it matter? Yes, with preceptal cellulitis. I'd say more often than not, it's staflloccusorius. with orbital cellitis because it comes with this risk of ethmoid sinusitis being a common trigger. You got to think about bugs that we see with ethmoid sinocitis whereas with precept cellulitis it usually comes from like I don't know you're you're messing around with your cat or your dog and they give you a little whip in the eye with their nails and that bacteria that's on their nails kind of scratches that skin creates an opportunity for infection. That's more likely mo most often than not it's staflacccusarius. Now some people may have a higher risk of MRSA. Some people it's probably more often missa. We'll talk about that later. But at least you know staflloccas is the big one. With orbital cellulitis however you have a bunch of different bugs that you have to account for because of the ethmoid. They're usually polyicrobial. And that's why it's kind of sucky for this one because you have to account for things like well actually we'll write these all out. You have to account for things like staflloccus arius. That's one. Really a lot of streptococcus. So streptococcus species and that's a really common one. H you know track it. We'll write it. Uh this one could be things like for example uh streptoccus pneumonia. That's one. Uh strepcous angginosis which is a type of um it's a type of subtype of veridance. So streptococcus veriridance. The other thing we can see gram negatives. We can see some gram negatives but I wouldn't say that they're super super common but you can see some gram negatives like maybe things like hlflu potentially maybe moracella but there is another one that we like to add on and that's your anorobes. So anorobes are another one that we have to consider and I would say you probably should consider this more often than not especially if it comes from a dental infection. It can hap happen with ethoid sinusitis sometimes even sppheninoid and I would definitely consider it if they had like a really nasty dental infection of the of the maxillary portion of their bones the teeth but I would think about bactaroides fragillis. So what the point of what I'm trying to tell you is this is polyicrobial. I could probably use one antibiotic to cover staff orius and maybe if there's some other ones out there, but with this one I got to cover things like staff orius, streptocockus species, anrobes, maybe even some gram neg. I'm probably going to have to have a pretty broadspectctrum antibiotic here. All right, so you get the point with these. Let's move on to the last one. The last one that I want to hit you with is probably the most scary. It's the one that's life-threatening. So, so far we talked about the eyelid, blufferitis, horolum, technically preepsylitis. We talked about the nasol lacrimal duct droitis. We talked about the conjunctiva conjunctivitis. We talked about the cornea keratitis. We talked about the um tissue in the orbital cavity posterior to the orbital septum orbitalitis. talked about the tissue technically it's the eyelid but we're going to be going to go off of this anterior to the orbital septum preepsylitis for this one I'm talking about an infection primarily of the globe so we call it intraocular but here let's um let's use this maroon color here you guys remember your anatomy I know you do right we have cornea what's this space anterior chamber of the anterior segment what's this hole the the pupil then we go into the posterior chamber of the posterior segment then we have the lens with the suspensary ligaments or the silary zonials. What's behind the lens? Because right here, this is all anterior segment. This right here is your posterior segment. And the posterior segment is primarily consisting of what thing? The vitrus humor. So what is this structure right here called? This is called your vitrus humor. And it's really that primary component of that posterior segment when you think about it. So the vitrus humor is really an important thing. All right. Oh, by the way, again, shout out to Rob. He he noticed the tea that I got there. I didn't get there. All right. Vitus humor is the other potential trigger here that I want you guys to think about when we think about infection in this area. So, let's say that I have some kind of infectious material. There's inflammation here that is occurring of the vitrus humor. We'll kind of just show that with this red here. There is some inflammation of the vitrus humor. When we think about inflam and that's actually what is this called? I didn't even define this. I apologize. If I have inflammation, infection of the vitrus humor, what is that terminology called? That is called endopthalmitis. So I'll write that down. End opthalmis. Endopthalmititis is essentially inflammation an infection of the vitrus humor. So it's an infection primarily in this scenario of the vitrus humor. Now you got to then start thinking, dude, right? A lot of the times at some of these it's probably like it makes sense, right? This one I think it does make sense, but you want to think about this about how can I get things to get to the vitrus humor because this thing's kind of enclosed, right? So here's one way. This one I'm not going to spend a lot of time on, but I want you to think about this. There's a vessels that run here, right? Your retinal vessels, and then they're going to go ahead and they're going to supply parts of your retina. They even give some blood supply to the parts of what we call the koid. But if you have some type of pathogen that's moving endogenously through your systemic vascular system and then boom it can get out there into that vitrus humor that could be a potential problem. That's one. All right. So let's write this down. Two eologies when we think when we think about pathogens it's really important to differentiate between the two types. So there's two types. One is called endogenous. Endogenous is rare. So you're probably like all right I'm going to shut down right now but not pay attention. I don't blame you. I don't blame you. Endogenous is is moving through your vascular system. And so if you have pathogens that are moving through your vascular system, it's usually in the form of septic emblei. What does that make you think? What is that screaming in your ear? That is infective endocarditis. So infective endocarditis is going to throw off some septic emblei and those septic emblei are going to float through your systemic circulation. So they're going to get into the systemic circulation and when they do that they're then going to spread to the eye. That's kind of the the mechanism if you will is in fact initis they have vegetations on their heart valve. They throw them off in the form of septic emblei. They get into the systemic circulation and then here they deposit into the vitrus humor. Right? So they're going to deposit and I'm just going to for right now I'm going to put deposit into the globe of the eye and that's endogenous. That's rare but you then have to account for that which is usually due to things like staf orius or streptococcus and so you got to treat a little bit differently. Exogenous is much more common in this kind of scenario. Indoitis isn't one something that you often see a ton but exogenous is going to be the more common trigger thing that you're going to think about. So this is going to be the more common one if you will. When you think about exogenous, the most common thing that where you have to think about this is is there had to be something that penetrated through the cornea through the anterior chamber through the pupil and they had to create a defect of some sort. So here there is a penetration there moving through the anterior chamber into the posterior chamber moving through the lens in that scenario. So the thing was either spreading from the blood here or this thing is moving this way to get in. You see that? That's the difference there. What in the heck would create a hole in that direction? I tell you what, if you and your family are not agreeing at, you know, dinner time and, you know, little one doesn't like the mashed potatoes and he takes a fork and he just says, "You know, obviously that's ridiculous, but you get the point of penetrating eye trauma. You take a fork to the globe, that's going to do it. You got a bacteria, all that stuff that can go right in there. So, I'd say one is penetrating eye trauma. But the thing that they're going to probably do, more likely than giving you a vignette of a child stabbing his father at dinner, uh, is going to be more likely often than not is a surgery of some sort. Usually cataract surgery. That's the thing. And the reason why I like this one is you could have a perforation. So here's the thing. Theoretically, if I had a perforated cornea, could I get endopthylitis? Not necessarily. I could, if there was a break in both the cornea and the lens. When a patient gets a cataract surgery, they have to go through the cornea. They then have to make their way to the lens. And if there's a break or some barrier is broken at the lens because you're literally you're you're switching them, right? You're trying to get you're trying to actually fix that whole problem of why they have cataracts versus the lens. When you break through those two points, that's the barrier and that's where you get these problems. Now, pathogen wise, what kind of pathogens we speaking about, bro? What kind of pathogens would you be concerned with? Well, let's focus primarily on the pathogens that we see with the most common condition, which is exogenous. What would that be? I'd say more often than not we worry about you know your your communal bacteria that usually reside on that area which is anything you know the cornea is epidermis and so staflacus epidermis or quagulus negative staff is a pretty common one so I'd say staflacus epidermis that's one name for it a lot of the times don't ever um rule out the one we call coagulase negative staff sometimes they write it like this coagulase negative stafylocus orius I'm quagulase negative staflloccus which is staflacccus epidermis. But the thing that I want you to also consider cuz if you ever have a chance where this pathogen was there, especially if you have an immuno deficiency of some sort, um I think that's a big one is or a penetrating eye trauma, you know, so the little child doesn't like his mashed potatoes and goes and takes a fork. Pseudamonus. Sudamonus is not always going to be the most common one, but if you don't account for that one, this one is lethal. So although it is not common, it is lethal. So in other words, what I'm saying is whenever you have a patient who has endoplmititis and you're going to get ready to treat them, yes, treat them for stafloccus epidermis, but then just to be on the safe side, consider sudamonus. All right? So that's what I want you to remember. Most often you can probably get away with staflacccus epidermis coverage, which we'll talk about is going to be something like venkcomy. But if you are wrong and it is pseudamonus and you waited too long, they could lose their vision. They lose their vision, you're in big trouble. All right, so that's what I want you guys to think about in the scenario. Okay, we went pretty dang ham on this path of physiology. I guess I was wrong when I said we're going to go quick. Obviously with engineer, we know these kind of things, but let's move on now to talk about how do we clinically identify these. Again, I I don't want to go too crazy uh with with kind of like repeating myself with this in the sense that like I don't want to just rewrite everything, but I what I wanted you to do is I want you to appreciate what something clinically looks like. And that's really really important here because a lot of these eye infections are really they are more clinical diagnoses. And so other words, if you get a picture on the exam, that's great. But oftent times you may get like more of a written description, if you will, of what it looks like. And so we're going to do both. So let's start off with the lid and lacrimal infections. The big way of describing this this dacroyitis is is really there's going to be medial canthus swelling. And what that means is as you guys see in this picture here is they're going to have a big red goober kind of just on that medial portion, right? Big red goober, a lot of swelling. And sometimes there can be a lot of excess tearing because you're affecting the drainage. Hordiolum is essentially it's just like a focal like red tender nodule is the best way of describing it. And it's usually where um on the lid margin. So right there in that lid margin where the kind of hair follicle or the eyelash follicle sits and again that's going to be more often anterior. Blufferitis is going to be again it's going to be the eyelids and it can be both. It could be superior and inferior eyelids, but it's going to be more of like a red and I would say flaky, maybe scaly um eyelids. That's all it is. Red, flaky, scaly, slightly inflamed eyelids is going to be how I would describe bllepheritis. And again, we know that all of these can be seen with staflaccoasarius. A lot of the times you don't do nothing about this. This one you actually do have to do something about because you have an obstruction. So there's going to be two things you have to You have to treat the infection and then you got to try to eliminate or alleviate the obstruction which we'll talk about later. All right, conjunctival infections with this one. I think there is a common theme and what is that common theme among these? Well, common is it's going to be a red eye, right? That's pretty common across the board. So, you're going to have what we would call the red eye. But again, I want you guys to think about this that this is that conjunctival um hypermia or conjunctival injection, if you will, where it's going to be very rare, very red where it's supposed to be white. And then the other way that we describe this is with viral conjunctivitis. Again, all of them can have a red eye, but with viral conjunctivitis, this is associated with what kind of discharge? Watery discharge. So, we said watery discharge. Now, if you peeled that muffin cat back, blue gnome, if you peeled that eyelid back, what would you see? You'll see these little bumps and that they can have what's called follicles on the the the conjunctiva, the tarscel or pavaro conjunctiva. That's something you can see. I don't want you to get too crazy on that. Uh but the other thing is they could they could have some swelling of their their lymph nodes in front of the ear. We call that pre-uricular lympodinopathy. So, that's another thing that you can see, but I really want you to focus on on this concept here. All right? Kind of a gritty uh sensation. And again it can have a little bit of a burning of the eyes and it's again a red eye with watery discharge with bacterial and your uncomplicated ones right not the gonocal or chlamidial is this is going to be more perulent so it's going to be more of that perulent discharge and I think that's important to definitely consider they all have that glued eyes in the early morning to definitely consider with gonakal they'll have that red eye but the difference between the perilent discharge when we think about this one is that this thing is like I don't even know how you can say explosive, copious. This thing is just you know oozing some nasty nasty stuff. The other thing um that's really really important with this is that they have so much swelling of their conjunctiva that sometimes you can't even see something called chemosis which is like imagine it's like a blister of the conjunctiva. That's the best way I can describe it. It honestly looks like a blister of the conjunctiva. It's a lot of swelling and fluid accumulation there that can make you think about this one. Chlamidial again, you got the red eye, you got that red eye, you got that conjunctival hyperemia, if you will, and they can have that perulent discharge. Usually, it's a little bit more mucoperulent discharge. But the thing here again that's important to know is this can get some follicles on the toarsal conjunctiva just like the viral. it can get the pre-uricular lympodinopathy like viral. One thing that's important to remember is that with these you definitely have to associate these either with the STI or the neonate. All right, but here's the really important one is if it's that stereotype um A to C, it can be chronic and it can keep happening where it walk you get this red eye mucopilian discharge and what happens it maybe fizzles away. You don't treat it and it's the the African South American kind of version and then it kind of goes away and then it recurs and goes away and recurs and it's very very chronic and cyclical. to the point that if this doesn't actually get addressed in that chronic case, the worrisome feature here is that you carry this high risk. All right, so we'll add this on. We'll say the biggest clinical thing that we get worried about is what's called a traoma. And this is again which one? Which one? It was a reminder for you guys. A stereotype come on come on A to C. So stereotype A to C was the big kind of thing that I want you guys to think about here. What happens with trachomomas because it's chronic that's the cyclical repeated infection inflammation they get a lot of um hardening and kind of a fibrous connective tissue on the eyelid that it starts to kind of get really really nasty and bulgy and they can cause a trachoma. The other thing is it can cause the eyelid to kind of turn inwards which is called an intropion. And then on top of that it can cause the eyelash to curl inwards where it's itching and scratching against the cornea. That is called tririciasis. So those are a couple different things that you can see with this one. And it's really really important to denote that for the exam. All right. All right. Coral infections. With corial infections again you get the bacterial keratitis bruh. Right. What's the big thing with this one? Again you're going to get the red eye. All of these can have a degree of a red eye. That could be conjunctival hyperemia. They can even have it. What's that called? Where it's just around the iris on the cornea. That is called siliary flush. They can get both. Either way, they all can have red eye. All can have the red eye. But what's maybe a little bit different is that they also can all have a good amount of pain. They all can have a good amount of pain. They also can have a good amount of phototohobia which is a sensitivity to light. Sensitivity to light and in worst case scenarios they may even have some decreased vision and that's another really bad concern right is decreased vision but I think this is the big stuff to remember. The other thing clinically to remember is that with bacterial keratitis it may present with what's called a corial opacity. It's just like a little white spot that can appear on the cornea. With the HSV keratitis, you don't have a lot of stuff, but here's one like weird thing. I don't want you to, oh, this is definitely HSV. That's not what this tells you is that they may have a decreased corial sensation. With HSV, it can actually kind of destroy the sensory nerves on the cornea. And then what happens is they start to have a reduction in their coral sensation, which is kind of crazy, right? For VZV keratitis, I want you to associate this one. And I talked to you about it before with this one. I want you to associate this with a V1 dermatal rash. And it's that vicicular rash, dude. Right? But on that V1 dermatome, we can add in that Hutchinson sign. So it's called the Hutchinson sign which is essentially as you can see from this image it is kind of that vicicular lesion towards the tip of the nose but you can even see it kind of extends up a little bit right so these are a couple different things that may help you but often times this clinical entity is kind of good more for the bacterial keratitis because they can also have associated conjunctivitis but the big thing that you may need here is you may have to go to that slit lamp with the florosine stain, right? And that's really going to seal that diagnosis, especially for HSV. All right. For perorbital orbital infections, this one is actually just kind of a simple one where preceptal is they have eyelid edema. So, I'm just going to put right now eyelid swelling and it's also red. But here's the difference here. They have eyelid edema uh like a lot of swelling and they also have aryththema. But here's the other thing which is redness. What happens to the do they have painful and this is the really important one guys come on I I did that in the past for a reason painful EOM and do they have um proptosis which is that bulging of the eye forward do they have this no they do not have it in preceptal cellulitis none of this none of this for the orbital cellulitis they will have eyelid swelling they're still going to have that even though the infection and inflammation is occurring posterior the orbital septum it can extend outwards to the uh the eyelids and so they'll still have that same presentation of eyelid swelling. The differences is that it's going to be involving a lot of that portion posterior to the oral septum. Same thing preeptalitis it can start at the eyelid but if it continues to venture its way backwards and starts to involve what portion everything all the tissue posterior to the orbital septum precept can easily become orbital cellulitis. That's why you have to watch out for it. But really important here is that with this one, since it's involving all of that tissue, the periodal fat in the muscles, they will have painful and restricted EOM and they will have proptosis and that is really really important. Okay, that is really really important. It's going to distinguish between the two. So you can really kind of see these differences in that orbital cellulitis, they can have when I talk about eyelid swelling, dude, not only can they have that, they can have things like chemosis and that's a pretty nasty one. They can have a lot of redness of the eye, too. And that's usually just because there's so much swelling in the orbital cavity. It's it's infecting the drainage of a lot of the venus system around the eye. So they can end up with a lot of conjunctal hyperemia. They can end up with a lot of chemosis. They can end up with a lot of swelling. Intracular infections, indopthylitis. Dude, this is scary. But I This one is the probably the one that carries the highest risk, right? The the pain is unreal. Usually it's very very deep though. So it's it's usually very very deep. It's not as like localized to like the superficial areas. Very very severe pain. Another one with this one is that they start to experience, and this is why this one's probably the most worrisome, is a pretty abrupt decrease in vision. And I think those are probably the two biggest concerns is the vision really starts to kind of go off. Now, if you really wanted to kind of take it the extra mile with endopthalitis is that these are probably the two biggest chief complaints with this one is the high degree of pain and the reduction in vision. But sometimes you have to think about how this actually occurs. Indopthalitis is usually most often which one I'm testing you exogenous or indogenous? It's exogenous most often. So because it's exogenous, because it's more often exogenous, it's associated with anterior chamber flare is the best way of describing this. You're probably, "Oh, dude, what does this mean?" It's the hazy cornea, the hypopion. That's what we see because you've infiltrated, you perforated through the cornea. You created inflammation in the anterior chamber and that causes that corial edema and that haziness of the cornea which is pretty scary and it can create that hypopion which is that basically kind of like layering of pus material that's in the anterior chamber which is also pretty nasty that you guys can see here. The last thing I will say withinitis is regardless if it's exogenous or endogenous, you're going to get vitrus humor infiltrates. When you get vitrus humor infiltrates, it affects your normal like way that you see things, you these infiltrates kind of move across the visual field and you can get these things called floaters. That's not always perfect. What I do think is something to consider is a absent red reflex. Now there's a lot of things that can cause an absent red reflex. Just because you don't have one doesn't mean that you in automatically have indothylitis but in this clinical scenario it really makes that considerable. The reason why is the vitrus humor light is going to pass through the corneium. It's going to pass through the anterior chamber posterior chamber. It's going to pass through the lens. It's going to go through the vitrus humor and hit the retina. And what happens is you get this kind of like reflection of light that you'll see. Uh you can see in this child they have a present right red reflex but they don't have the left one and that's what's really kind of helpful here again this child it's probably due to like something like retinitis pigmentotosa but if you see something like that and they also have associated pain reduction in vision they have anterior chamber flares then you start thinking about endopelitis a lot of classic findings a lot of symptoms a lot of you know signs and symptoms that can present with patients who have like some kind of eye infection and I think a lot of these are going to help you to diagnose it it's just the important thing to remember is is is the patient going to lose their their sight. So that's one thing. That's one really really scary complication which is vision loss, right? You don't want to lose that sight. But the other thing that's really important is could they lose their life? Right? You can't. It's it's not you can it definitely can happen. Cavernous sinus thrombosis is a pretty scary one. So here's the things I want you to start asking yourself to start thinking about a patient. Do they have decreased vision like visual acuity? Do they have phototohobia? Is their pain like really like out of proportion of what their eye looks like? very severe pain. Do they have proptosis? Is their eyeball bulging out? Do they have pain or with their EOM or restricted EOM? Um, do they have I'd say more specifically, is it a baby who has a very perilent conjunctivitis because that screams gynecal and all of those you carry a pretty high risk of something like vision loss. But I think the important thing is also patients who have painful EOM and proptosis and maybe reduced visual acuity carry a risk of cavernousinus thrombosis. So let's actually talk about this a little bit. So in patients who have let's say you get something like orbital cellulitis and let's do that with we'll do it like this you have some inflammation in here in this orbital cavity right here's some inflammation it's all in this orbital cavity what is it posterior to guys come on scream it up the orbital septum so there's inflammation here right a lot of inflammation so what is this called again this is orbital cellulitis with orbital cellulitis usually this is unilateral findings I I I pre I I presented it in the same way, but again, remember it's usually Actually, let's do that. Let's be careful. Let's get rid of this one. Let's say that this patient has unilateral orbital cellulitis, right? So, they only have one side. And we're just going to use this as an example for right now that it's just the right side. All right? So, they have some orbital cellulitis. With this orbital cellulitis, you got some veins that are kind of in this area. You know what these veins are here? There's going to be a vein here, and then we can have one kind of like right here. Technically, it's superior and inferior, but we're kind of and unfortunately I'm representing this functionally, not anatomically. Technically, there's a superior abdomic vein and an inferior methodic vein, even though it looks like that. It's like medial lateral. Just for right now, trust me, that there's a superior and inferior abdomic vein. And what happens is these move their way through the orbital cavity and they empty into this structure here, this blue structure here, right in this area on the sides of the celotica. So again here I would have just just trust me for right now that there's a superior and inferior abdomic vein even though the diagram doesn't like support that and then again it dumps into what the cavernous sinus. So here a patient has orbital cellulitis which is all this inflammation post here to the orbital septum and then also they have these structures here which are called opthalmic veins. And in this scenario guess what they drain respective for us the orbital cavity. And so if a patient has a really nasty infection of their orbital cavity where could that infection spread? It's going to move down this opdomic vein and it's going to get in here to this good old cavernous sinus and then you're going to end up with inflammation of what's that structure here called? The cavernous sinus. Now another important thing to remember is that there is this cavernous sinus on both sides. So here's one, here's the other one. It's also important to remember that they are kind of like intermittently connected. So they're very not intermittently, they're beautifully connected as well. So there's kind of a bridging connection between the two which is actually helpful diagnostically. So here a patient has orbital cellulitis. They have optodomic veins which help to drain the orbital cavity in this scenario. If there's an infection of the orbital cavity, they can hop on to these opdomic veins and move their way to the cavernous sinus. When they get to the cavernous sinus because there's an interconnection between these two, what can happen? You can get an infection of both of these cavernous sinuses, dude. And when you get an infection of both of the cavernous sinuses, what's a problem with that? Here's what happens. So, let's say you have a cavernous sinus and this thing gets infected or inflamed. When you get an infected or inflamed infected cavernous sinus, what happens? And a cavernous sinus is essentially just a vein inside of the the actual cavity of the brain. So you have what's called dural venous sinuses. That's essentially what the cavernous sinus is. So you have an infected cavernous sinus. It can lead to what's called septic thrombbo I'm going to write this out here flabbitis which is essentially inflammation and a clot inside of this blood vessel. So that's really what happens is when you get an infected cavernous sinus which is what you can have here. If you think about this patient, if they have an infected cavernous sinus, that infection can lead to inflammation of the vessel, the cavernous sinus, and a thrombus, a clot that can occur in the cavernous sinus. I want you to think for a second. Here's my cavernous. All I'm going to do is I'm going to zoom in on this area right here. All right. Here's my pituitary gland. These are not testicles. Here's the pituitary gland. Here is the the little hole that it sits in, which is called the celotica. Celotica. This is the pituitary gland, not testicles. Cellotica. This is the sppheninoid sinus, which is going to be right here on the sides. This is your cavernous sinus. This is your cavernous sinus here. And this is your cavernous sinus here. And again, we know that they're kind of intimately connected with one another, which we can kind of just represent for right now. We'll show a space here where they're kind of like connecting. All right, here's what I want you to remember about this. If this whole thing, and we're going to kind of represent like this. If this thing is inflamed and it has some clots that are forming in it, the clots is actually pretty easy to explain, and I'll do that one here in just a second. But the inflammation is going to cause some compression of anything that runs through this thing. So, let's kind of talk for a second. If there's a clot, imagine here I have a clot that forms. You get an infection and because of that infection you get the septic thrombophilitis. Here's a clot here. And then maybe the clot spreads over here. Maybe maybe the clot even kind of like spreads over here. If I have a clot, I want you guys to think about the normal drainage. It's going to come from the orbital cavity via the athalmic veins. It's then going to go into the cavernous sinus. The cavernous sinus then has like things called petroal veins. And usually what they're going to do is they'll eventually they'll eventually dump into the internal jugular vein. So what is this structure here? These two little holes here that run through the jugular framan. This is called your internal jugular vein. This is called your internal jugular vein. Obviously this is going to be a part of your brain stem. This is the cerebellum. But these are supposed to drain. If you have a clot here, the normal flow is going to be impeded. So what's going to happen is if you're trying to move things in this direction like this and you have a clot along that path right here, what happens to the flow? It starts building up anywhere proximal to that obstruction. And so all of this opthalmic veins are going to get super engorged. And if they get engorged, this is going to cause some swelling to start to occur. But here's the thing. Since these two are interconnected, what will you notice as a difference where orbital cellulitis is usually unilateral? It's usually starting with one side that they'll have eyelid edema, arythemma, maybe some conjunctival injection and maybe some proptosis and things like that. You're going to notice it becomes bilateral. So that's really really important to think about here. So orbital cellulitis will start off as just one side and then whenever a patient gets cavernousinus thrombosis it can cause bilateral presentation. That's what I want you to remember is the septic thrombophobitis can just make the bilateral presentation of orbital cellulitis where both eye become inflamed. The other thing is when you have an enlargement of the cavernous sinus it's going to start compressing on things that run within it. I want you guys to remember what runs in it here on the lateral walls. There is cranial nerves. Here's a cranial nerve. Here's another one. Here's another one. Here's another one. I sound like DJ Khaled. Another one. And then we have um over here and it's kind of like a medial portion of the cavernous sinus. There's this little cavity here or this little divot. There's an artery that runs through here. This is called the internal corateed artery. This is called the internal corateed artery. And then there's another nerve. I'm just going to put it here for now, but it actually kind of runs still within this little divot, but I'm going to put it right here for right now. And this is another cranial nerve. Let's kind of go through these. This first one is cranial nerve three. That runs within a lateral wall. The next one below it is called cranial nerve four. So, ocular motor trolear. What's this one? This is the V1 division of cranial nerve 5. What's this one? The V2 division of cranial nerve five. And again, what did I call this one? This is the internal corateed artery. And what is this one? This is cranial nerve six. So this is what I want you to think about here guys. Here we have cranial nerve three, cranial nerve four, V1 of the trigeminal nerve, V2 division of the trigeminal nerve, internal corateed artery, and cranial nerve 5. If I have inflammation, what am I going to be doing? I'm sorry, cranial nerve six. If I have inflammation, I'm going to be compressing this lateral wall. And if I'm compressing the lateral wall, I can lead to compression of these nerves and I can lead to cranial nerve pauses. Same thing, I can cause compression of the internal corateed artery and what's nearby cranial nerve six, the abducence nerve. So because of this, you can get a lot of nasty stuff that happens. Believe it or not, why this is pretty nasty is that sometimes if it can actually affect the um ICA, this can actually get like inflamed. You can get arteritis. You can even maybe even maybe get a stroke sometimes. Sometimes it can even cause the artery to form a tunnel with the cavernous sinus. You know what they call that? A curado cavernous fistula. Those are terrible, nasty, nasty things. That's why it's really important to identify this. But let's think for a second. Had a patient come in maybe right side was having the eyelid edema orthemma some findings. All of a sudden it became bilateral. That's one important thing. So what happened here and changed is that it led to I didn't write that down. Apologize is bilateral findings. Let's write that down. bilateral findings. That's one thing that can happen because of the obstruction process, right? But with the cranial nerves, if those things are getting compressed, what's going to happen? Well, granular 3, four, and six control your extra ocular movements. If I'm causing compression of the nerve, I can get pauses or paralysis of them. What is that called? This is called opthalmmo. Opthalmo plasia. Opthalmo plasia. It's essentially they have the same thing, restricted eye movements, except it's not due to the muscles, it's due to the nerves. The other thing is they can get some double vision, some dipopia when they're kind of looking around here, right? So those are the two things I really want you guys to be concerned with. They can gettosis because a cranial nerve 3 supplies a part of the ledor paparus. So I would also consider something like uhtosis. Another thing is cranial nerve five. This is the trigeminal the V1 and V2. So you're going to have the opdomic division and the maxillary division that's going to be supplied by that a good portion of the face. So they can have some pretty degree um like facial pain or paristhesas some numbness, some tingling that you definitely want to account for. You c you can you can get if it's really bad and you really jack up that V1 branch that supplies the cornea. If I go and I try to tap the cornea, you're supposed to have a reflex to blink your eye. the corial reflex could be lost. So I will add that one on there. In this scenario, yes, you can get a absent or decreased corial reflex, but we're going to go with an absent for the worst case, the most dramatic scenario, the absent corial reflex. The last thing here is um the simp I didn't talk about this one actually. Let's say here when I talk about the internal corateed arteries, your internal corateed arteries actually run up like this, right? So here you'll have you have your uh external corateed arteries and then you have your internal corateed artery. And what happens is you have a nerve a sympathetic nerve. It comes from the the the post chang the post gangleionic neurons here. It's going to run up around this nerve and this is called your sympathetic plexus. Right? So this is actually if you really want to think about it there is a plexus a nerve plexus a sympathetic plexus that's wrapping around this nerve I wrapping around this artery. So this is called what is it again? This is called the sympathetic sympathetic plexus. Now the reason why this is important, we're not going to go too crazy into like the physiology, but the sympathetic plexus goes and supplies what structures? Well, it can actually run in, it eventually goes to a gangleion. And then what happens is that runs and it can actually supply parts of the um the iris that controls dilation of the pupil. It also can go and supply some fa some sweat glands on the forehead and it also can control some of the movements of the upper eyelid, right? And so what happens is if you have damage to the sympathetic plexus, you lose all of those functions. And so they can develop a syndrome which is called Hers syndrome. Her syndrome. Now obviously we talk about this things like dissections and pancos tumors and things like that. But yeah, you could theoretically see this in cavernous sinus syndrome. What is the triad if you will of her syndrome? I want you guys to always kind of think about this one. What is it? Well, if it's supposed to supply the pupil and make it dilate and you damage it, now it loses that supply of the sympathetic plexus, what's going to happen? Well, you're not going to be able to dilate it. So, what's it going to do? It's going to constrict. What's that called? Miosis. So, it's called miosis. It's also supposed to make you sweat from your forehead, but you're not going to be doing that. So, you're going to get anhydrosis. And then lastly, it's supposed to help with the u the upper eyelid, the superior levator to palp the pal superior. It's supposed to help with that process. But if I lose that, guess what? That thing starts kind of dragging down. What's that called? Tossis. So you can gettosis of that upper eyelid. So that's what I want you guys to think about with her syndrome. This could theoretically become life-threatening. One of the reasons why is that you're supposed to drain this into the internal jug of the vein. And that blockage there, dude, if it gets bad, you could actually bleed into the brain. So, one of the reasons why this can be like profoundly destructive is it does carry a risk of bleeds into the brain, intraraanial hemorrhage and venus infarks. All right, we'll we'll put this to bed, but this is why orbital cellulitis is a must know because it can create this kind of environment. The next thing is the the life uh not the life-threatening scenario but the sight threatening. Vision loss is the highest degree of complication with eye infections. I want you to think about this. The way that light passes is it passes through the cornea. Then it moves to the anterior chamber. Then it goes to the posterior chamber. Then it hits the lens. And then from here it gets sent through the vitrus humor to the retina. from the retina, the neurons, um, all of those rods and cones are going to pick up that kind of signal and it's going to carry it down the optic nerve. It's going to go to the optic heasma. And this obviously there's different fibers. I'm not going to go through that here, but these are going to go to your lateral geniculate nucleus on the phalamus. And then from here, that's going to go radiate out and eventually it's going to go to your occipital lobe. Any part along this process that if you have some damage, yes, you can potentially experience vision loss. But here's what I want you to think about. If it happens along certain points such as the cornea, if it happens along certain points such as you have damage here to the vitrus humor which can cause damage and affect the way that the light is moving to the retina and it can actually cause direct damage. Sometimes the toxins in the bacteria can cause retinal damage. If the optic nerve is being compressed, then you're losing all that signal that's going through the optic nerve to the optic to the lateral geniculate nucleus and you're losing that signal that's going to go to the occipital lobe. So you see why if you have something like a severe corial damage like a perforation or significant inflammation which is in what kind of condition? Keratitis. This can lead to vision loss dude. optic nerve compression. If there's a significant amount of compression because there's a lot of inflammation in the orbital cavity, what could that be due to? Orbital cellulitis. And then I will add on one more thing here. What's the other condition that you can see corial damage not just from keratitis like bacteria and viral? It was gone cocoal conjunctivitis. You can actually get that one too. So I'll put gono cockal conjunctivitis. Oh boy. Let's see if I can squeeze this puppy in here. That's what she said. Um, the next thing is the vitrus damage. Vitrous damage is going to be some kind of inflammation in here. What's that going to be due to? Endopalitis. So, the ones who carry the highest risk of vision loss is which ones? Endopthalitis, orbital cellulitis, keratitis, and gynecal conjunctivitis. That's why you always ask is the patient experiencing vision loss? If they are, these have to be at the top of the list. And then you have to kind of start kind of thinking through these. If a patient came in with proptosis, restricted EOM, all of a sudden, and some swelling of their eye, it became bilateral. And then both eyes started losing some movements of their eyes. They started having facial pain, paristhesis, absent corial reflex, they started having maybe some Horner syndrome, they also developed some other kind of neurological symptoms because they developed a bleed or stroke. Then you're going to start thinking about cavernous sinus syndrome or cavernous sinus thrombosis. The vision loss is also important to remember. Out of all of these, which one is the most abrupt and severe like you you don't have a lot of time? It's going to be the vitrus one. This is going to be the most abrupt, most abrupt and severe. The other ones are probably going to be a little bit more progressive and they're going to slowly kind of get worse and worse and worse and worse. This one very very aggressive, very severe, very sudden vision loss and that's why you have to identify this one. This is an intraoccular emergency if you don't take care of it. My dudes, we talked a lot about this topic, but we're not done. What I want to do is I want to take everything that we talked about and d uh generate a a nice mind map, a nice clinical algorithm to really think about these as a clinician quickly quickly and then from there come up with a treatment process. Let's talk about that now. All right, my friends. Let's dig right into the diagnostic approach. So, let's put everything together and think about kind of eye presentations, you know, especially if they're infectious eye diseases in a very clinical way. So, a lot of the times the questions that you have to ask when it comes to eye infections is is it concerning? Is it sight threatening or life-threatening? And that comes with the discussion of red flag science. And this helps you to stratify those who are a little bit more scary. They could lose their sight. They could lose their life. Um and the ones that are urgent, we can get to them. There's no kind of immediate concern. And so what are those things? The first one is obviously a reduction in vision. Um so a reduction in visual acuity uh or even vision loss. Those are very very concerning features. So that reduction in visual acuity can come in a variable different ways. It may be blurred vision. It may be that they have potential partial vision loss. Um maybe it's of a potential visual field. Maybe it's their central visual field. Maybe it's their entire eye. Um, sometimes it could even be identifying particularly when you're reading the eye chart is maybe their overall vision is not that 2020 it's like 2100 or whatever it may be. Um, and then also you know identity of um can they see visual objects uh or can they all they have is now being able to see kind of like light and darkness and that's it. So that's I think really important questions to ask. The next one is phototohobia. So very strong sensitivity to light. That tells me that there is a heavy degree of problems with things like the cornea, things like the anterior chamber, posterior chamber, or even the vitrus humor or the retina. And so it tells me something really concerning is going on. Severe eye pain, like pain out of control. That's very concerning, especially for intraocular infections and orbital cellulitis. So those are things I'm thinking about. And then pain with extraocular movements. It tells me there's a lot of inflammation in the orbital cavity. And that inflammation is kind of entrapping or pushing down on muscles or inflaming them directly that's impeding them from being able to contract, shorten, relax and cause the eyes to move in the appropriate directions from that muscle. So obviously looking up, looking down, looking medial, looking laterally etc. All right. The next one is proptosis. So is the eye bulging out of the orbital cavity? That tells me there's a significant amount of inflammation in the orbital cavity and that perorbital fat is getting super inflamed that it's pushing the actual globe of the eye out of the orbital cavity. Very very concerning. And the last one I like to add is is there neonates who have perulent eye discharge. And that scenario that concerns me for a gonoccal conjunctivitis which is the one that can actually lead to blindness if not treated appropriately. And chlamydial conjunctivitis it does carry a risk as well but it's usually more concerning for very specific serereotypes that we talked about like A to C especially in the African population over time it can cause corial scarring which can lead to again concerns of vision loss but it's usually progressive it's not something acute all right if they don't have any of these red flag signs we got time and that starts to kind of redirect our focus to things that are less severe the first thing I like to do is I like to look at the patient and assess the lids and the lacrimal areas So I assess the lacrimal glands. I'll assess the nasal lacrimal duct. And I look to see if I appreciate any abnormalities along the way. If I look and I see something like medial canthus swelling, look at this child here. You see how there's a very large swelling here along that medial canthus. A lot of swelling, a lot of redness. That tells me that there's potentially an obstruction of the nasol lacriminal duct and it's causing that backup of fluid unfortunately stasis of bacteria leading to an infection called dacrocyitis. All right. The next one is if I look here and I see a patient and I look at the left, I look in this case the left and the right eye and I appreciate the upper eyelid and the lower eyelid are very very swollen and arithmetus and it's also pretty painful to these areas to touch that concerns me for preceptal cellulitis. One of the things that you then have to differentiate and again they shouldn't have pain with extraocular movements. they shouldn't have proptosis which then puts them into that non-red flag categories which helps to differentiate between preceptal cellulitis and orbital cellulitis. All right, the next one do I see a focal kind of red tender nodule that points to more to a a sty or a hordiolum and there's nothing really particular here that makes it kind of complicated. Now sometimes you may not see these visibly anterly. Sometimes they can actually be internal or posterior and you have to fold the eyelid back and you'll see the same kind of thing. A little kind of focal nodule. It may be red but it's going to be tender and it actually is very very irritating because every time they blink that thing is scratching up against the conjunctiva and and that can be kind of you know very very agitating. Another one is bllepheritis. So blephritis you may be like oh isn't this kind of the same thing as preceptal cellulitis? Not necessarily. They will be a little bit red. They can be a teensy bit inflamed, but one of the big differences is you can appreciate how flaky it is. And often this inflammation is typically more towards the margin of the actual eyelid rather than all of the eyelid. It usually is a little bit more kind of focal towards that eyelid margin. And it can be kind of flaky. It can kind of be crusty and again it will be red and it's not going to be anywhere near as painful as the preceptal cellulitis. That's the ways that we can differentiate these. Now, let's say that you actually look at the the lacrimal nasol lacrimal duct areas. You don't appreciate anything abnormal, but when you look at their eye, you're like, "Oh my gosh, their eye is super red. What the heck is going on?" Well, most of the white of the eye when it turns red, that's the conjunctiva being inflamed. And so, you want to take a look and say, "Okay, the conjunctiva definitely is irritated and agitated. Is there anything else that could suggest a type of conjunctivitis?" Well, that's where you ask the question of what does their discharge look like coming from the eye. You know, don't ask for discharge anywhere else. Ask about the eye. If it's watery and if you peel their muffin cat back, no, I'm just kidding. You peel their eyelid back, you'll see, oh man, there's like these little bumps on the conjunctiva. That's usually a little felicular reaction that do a lot of lymphocytes coming to the area. And if you tend to palpate along their anterior to their ear, they may have some lymph nodes that are a little shoddy and inflamed. And that's called pre-uricular lymphatinopathy. Those things really scream that viral conjunctivitis picture. And again, you can appreciate, look at the redness here in this patient's eye. You don't see a lot of like gluing or kind of, you know, mucousy debris along it. It looks like it's just really irritated and any of the discharge that is there is more cirrus and watery. And again, if you peeled these follic, if you peeled the the actual eyelids back, you'd see some bumps called the follicles. And if you palpated anterior to the air, you may have some pre-uricular lympadinopathy. All right. Usually, this is most of the time some type of virus like an adno virus. It's pretty contagious. So, you want to be careful. But again, there's not anything that you're going to do specific like any type of medication uh particularly to target that. It's just going to be letting it ride its course out. All right. With the next one, it's a little bit different. So, they have redness, a lot of it, and it looks pretty rough. But what's different here? Look at the perilent discharge. All of this kind of gookie material that's there. And oftentimes, it's so that whenever you try to have them open up their eyes in the morning, it's almost like stuck shut their lids, and you have to open it up physically for them. That's something you may read in the vignette that screams bacterial conjunctivitis. Now, you might be like, "Okay, which one is it?" Well, oftentimes bacterial conjunctivitis, you treat them with a particular topical antibiotic that's going to cover the most common pathogens. The one that you want to worry about is are they wearing contact lenses? Because that may lead you to think more about pseudamonus. Right now, the next one is if I see an excessive amount of perulent discharge. And there's something in the history that talks about sexually transmitted infections. Whether it's a person who's sexually active, you know, participating in in unprotected sex or sex sexual activity, or this was a neonate who was just born a couple days ago, uh maybe two, five days ago, and all of a sudden they have an excessive copious perent discharge. And on top of that, their conjunctival looks like it's got a blister on it. It's a little swollen. That's called chemosis. And so you can appreciate here, this is likely a very young child um who has a significant amount of pergolent discharge. You see how it's very copious? It's really really hyperaccute. And then on top of that, you see like this little bump or blister of their conjunctiva. That's called chemosis. This is pretty consistent with a gonocal conjunctivitis, which screams like niceria. Um, and that's that's a concerning one. We see that very early in the in the neonates. The next one is if I had a person who again it's a little bit more challenging but they mention things of you know inappropriate sexual activity not having you know protected sex or a neonate that was born sometime within like days probably 5 to 14 that's one I would consider something like chlamyia and there is different stereotypes you're not going to be testing for those but there's D and that's oftentimes the ones who we think about with the unprotected sexual activity and then there's a to which we see more in the African population and those ones present with trachomomas, but chronic mucopirillin discharge would be one. Seeing those follicles on the conjunctiva and having a pre-uricular lympodinopathy and so again, it's not going to be anything that you'd be like, "Oh man, this is obviously chlamydial conjunctivitis. You're looking for the particular clinical cues and that's that sexual activity or a neonate who's presenting with conjunctivitis maybe days 5 to 14." All right. All right. That covers the conjunctivitis. The next thing I want you guys to do is ask yourself the question, I can treat these patients based upon these factors here. I don't need to go and get a swab. I don't need to scrape the areas of the conjunctiva and send that off to figure out what kind of pathogen it is. It's only in certain scenarios. So often times with viral conjunctivitis, you diagnose it and you treat them supportively. Bacterial conjunctivitis, you diagnose it and you treat them accordingly with the proper topical antibiotics that we'll talk about. If you have any degree of suspicion that it's gonoccal or chamidial, I think it is worthwhile, especially in a neonate, to test them. But either way, you're probably going to start them on the appropriate antibiotics. You'll cover them for the chlamyia with some type of antibiotic like doxycyc or maybe a zithro or ariththroyc. And then for the gyneakco, you'll cover them with septrixone. But for the most part, we're not going to go doing those. the things in which you would do that. If it is severe bacterial conjunctivitis, I'm talking it is copious amounts and they're probably not getting any better with the proper topical antibiotics. Then you should actually figure out what kind of pathogen you got. But the biggest one is neonatal conjunctivitis. You want to do that because again you can't miss gonocakal. If you do it carries the risk of corial perforation and vision loss and that is something that you don't want for the patient. So I would do a conjunctival swab or scrapings and send that out for cultures to see if it comes back positive for the one that you're concerned about and that is if it comes back gram negative diplo that's nice all right if it comes back with the intracellular inclusions and the nucleic acid amplification test is positive for chlamyia then you have chlamydia trachcomus all right we've assessed the conjunctivival we figured out again I think that it's not concerning okay what's the lid and lacrimma tell me okay I figured those out nothing going on with the lid and lacrimal areas but man is that I red what's the discharge look like? What's the history tell me? And then from there treat accordingly. Only time I go and actually swab or scrape and send it off for cultures or nucleic acid amplification test is if they're a neonate that I I can't miss the necessaria. And then the other one is if it's just very severe copious amounts and they are not getting better. I got to figure out is there a pathogen that I'm not addressing. All right. The next thing is okay we go back to our our algorithm. We say okay they do have some of these red flag signs. Well, then let's kind of talk about that. Which are the ones that are the most kind of obvious to you when you look at this patient? One of the questions I like to ask is, do they have pain with extracular movements and proptosis? So, in other words, are there is their eyeball poking out of their head? And do they have difficulty in moving their eye in specific directions? If the answer to that is yes, you want to be concerned with orbital cellulitis. orbital cellulitis you can for the most part just diagnose it on the presence of swelling of the eyelid and pain of the eyelid and redness of the eyelid proptosis and restricted extracular movements but I think it's always beneficial to maybe have some radiographic evidence to see is there any associated complications like an abscess did it spread to the brain on top of that as it spread to the cavernous sinuses and so sometimes getting like a CT of the orbits or an MRI of the orbits and sometimes doing a ven inagram with that can be helpful. For example, if you did do that, but you don't have to do this is the key thing. You may see something called preceptal fat stranding. You may see some inflammation of the extraocular muscles and sometimes you can even see an abscess. You can kind of take a look here. Here's our CT scan. And we're going to start looking here at the right side. What you'll notice is, and this is oftentimes due to ethmoid sinusitis, is the ethmoid is pretty nasty. and it probably led to it spreading over here into the orbital cavity. And what you're going to notice here is we're getting some eyelid edema and aryththema. We're appreciating that this right eye is a little bit more bulgy outwards than the left eye. So you got some proptosis here. But as we really start to see, it really becomes very obvious, but you're starting to see some fat stranding here. You see a lot of this fat stranding. There's a lot of inflammation in that right orbital cavity, dude. A lot. This really screams an orbital cellulitis. And what you just don't want to miss is is there any kind of abscesses. All right? And so that I think is the key thing that I want you guys to be able to identify from this CT scan. A lot of fat stranding, a lot of proptosis, a lot of inflammation of that orbital cavity, but I didn't appreciate any abscess in the process. So that's helpful. Now the next thing is I want to take a look especially in certain scenarios where I add on venagrams and I take a good look at the cavernous sinus. Cavernous sinus is a very very common area for the orbital cellulitis to spread to because you got those opthdic veins. It can get into those opthdic veins and then go right to the cavernous sinus cause septic thrombophilitis a lot of inflammation and you can end up with some really nasty stuff. For example, we may see filling defects in especially the corateed arteries because they run through the cavernous sinus and you may get some enlargement of that cavernous sinus and if you get lucky and you get uh due to the back pressure from clots in the cavernous sinus you may get some enlargement of those opthalmic veins and that's when you get concerned about cavernous sinus thrombosis. So we can kind of see here that we have some scans and we can appreciate that this is more of a contrasted scan and what you'll see here is you'll appreciate the cavernous sinus. It's pretty, believe it or not, it may be hard unless you're really experienced at looking at these, but the cavernous sinus here is actually a little bit more uh kind of expanded bilaterally, and that's kind of a concerning feature. The other thing is this is off of the same patient. We're kind of getting this contrasted MRI. Look at the arteries here. If we kind of zoom in here, this is your corateed there. If you see the white around them, there's a lot of arteritis and that's probably due to the cavernous sinus being inflamed and causing some localized arteritis of the internal corateed artery wall. And then on top of that if you look at the angios of these due to the cavernous sinus there's probably a lot of inflammation of the right cavernous look what it's doing to the internal corateed. So if we look over here you can see this one's really really narrow and you can appreciate this one's flowing beautifully. And then over here on this other side you can appreciate look at this one. This is a a right ICA coming up and this is your left ICA. Oo there's something definitely abnormal there. probably because the cavernous sinus in this area is causing a lot of inflammation and compressing or causing some arteritis that's narrowing that that ICA. So these are some of the ways that we look at cavernousinus thrombosis looking for them to be enlarged looking to see if you appreciate maybe a filling defect in the associated arteries and then sometimes if you can even get the venagram you may even see some filling defects of that those cavernous sinuses as well and then again if you get lucky and you can appreciate some engorgment of those opthalmic veins that also supports it diagnosis. All right. So, let's say that you don't have proptosis and you don't have any restricted extracular movements. Well, then I'm maybe I have some reduction in vision. Maybe I have a lot of eye pain. In those scenarios or phototohobia, that's when I start thinking could this be a corial infection or an intraocular infection. All right? because severe eye pain, really bad redness of the eye, reduction in vision and phototohobia really concern me for keratitis or indothalmititis. So what do I do with that? Well, the first thing I think that's important is to get maybe a slit lamp exam and then to do some florosine staining if I don't see anything on that. And the reason why is let's say I did that. I took a really good look and I appreciated this like white opacity on the cornea and you can see the redness. This is probably a patient who has a lot of eye pain, maybe some reduction in vision, some phototohobia, and I see this corial opacity that can kind of concern me for like a bacterial keratitis, especially in their history. It mentions something about them being a contact lens wear that supports that, especially for your exams. If I did this one, it's a slam dunk on the exam. You're going to see this kind of dendritic bulb pattern. That's pretty consistent of HSV keratitis. And they can definitely get some ulcers sometimes in this as well. And then again, the last one is the pseudodendrites. And so sometimes this isn't always going to be on the exam, but this doesn't have that perfect dendritic bulb pattern, but what I would look for you to really really keep your ears keen to is do you hear anything that talks of the Hutchinson sign? And do you guys remember the Hutchinson sign? That was when you had a patient who had a V1 dermatal rash, but a lot of that vicular rash was kind of creeping in here around that tip of the nose. That's going to concern you for again that VZV keratitis or VZ oh you know ver vicelazer abdomicus. So that's what I want you guys to consider. Now if I also take a look here and I I'm really kind of examining the eye and I appreciate that it's really a demus maybe I even see in these particular scenarios a hypoapon um that's and and they usually will have a pretty significant amount of redness around the eye. I start wondering did something get into the anterior chamber. Now it's not always the case but sometimes bacterial keratitis can perforate the cornea and it can cause bacteria to jump into the anterior chamber. You'll start getting a lot of inflammation. They can also get hypopianons and coral edema as well. Uh but what I want you to start associating this with is someone who already poked through the cornea and they really caused a lot of damage along the way. So, what I would think about here is look how hazy and inflamed the cornea is. And look, there's a little pus uh just kind of like layering here in the anterior chamber. This can signal potentially a perforation from bacterial keratitis. But in the appropriate clinical context, which they mentioned that the person had penetrating eye trauma, but the most likely one is their postcaract surgery. I want you to think about endopalitis. So, what do we do from here? If I see that, I want to do a fundoscopy. The reason why is if you have indopthylitis you have so much vitrus humor infiltrates and inflammation that when light is passing from you know using your fundoscope and actually taking a look into the eye the light will move through the cornea which is going to be kind of restricted from all that edema and the hypopion it'll go through the pupil it'll then move into the posterior segment go through the lens get refracted there and then what happens is the vitrus humor is so thick and infiltrated it's not going to have its normal way of scattering that light and so the reflex that comes back that you see is lost. That is pretty common. Sometimes you may pick up other things as well, like difficulty even visualizing the retina because of so much inflammation. And that's what I want you to think about is something concerning going on with either the cornea, something concerning going on with the lens or something potentially concerning going on with the vitrus humor. Given the clinical context of a postcaract surgery, a penetrating trauma, they have corial edema, hypopion, and you have an absent red reflex. I'm starting to think, could this be something a little bit deeper intraocular-wise? Now, here's a person. This child doesn't have indothylitis. They probably have something like retinitis pigmentotosa, but you can appreciate here that there's a red reflex present and there's an absent red reflex. Something's going on with the left eye that I got to go ahead and examine a little bit more. So, how would I do that? Well, in these scenarios, often the clinical context would be enough. But let's say that you really have difficulty being able to truly see what's going on in the vitrus humor, which is where a lot of the indoitis is actually occurring. I think an ocular ultrasound is really the way to go. Ocular ultrasounds just add an extra bit of utility. For example, if I got an ocular ultrasound and I see all of this hyperaccoic kind of like tbvicula and septations that are present, that kind of concerns me that there's some kind of infectious process going on or something very abnormal going on in the actual uh posterior segment where the vitrus humor is. I'm sorry, the po in the sorry posterior segment where the vitrus humor is. Now the other thing I think that's beneficial is if you have the proper clinical context like a postc cataract surgery you have also um maybe a penetrating eye trauma they have eye pain vision loss or vision reduction phototohobia they have evidence that there's infiltration past the cornea so corial edema hypopion lot of inflammation there and then on top of that you got the loss of the red reflex and ocular ultrasound shows some abnormalities in the vitrus humor you're pretty good you got you probably have exogenous epop and opthalitis so what you want to is it is critical to figure out what's going on. So you need to stick a needle into their vitrus humor, pull off that actual fluid and figure out what kind of pathogen is in. And but no matter what, once you do that, you also want to shoot some medication right into the vitrus humor. We call an intravitrial antibiotics. So I want to then tap in and get a humor culture, send it off to figure out what the pathogen is, which is what this patient is unfortunately experiencing. Look at all of the redness. Look at the haziness. They probably have an iPon. This is probably a scenario of endopalitis that you would see. They're going to complain of vision loss. They're going to complain of phototohobia. They're going to complain of severe eye pain. And this is the one that you would think endopthylitis. Stick a needle in, pull the aspirate, send it off, culture it, figure out what the pathogen is, but treat them in the interum with enough broadspectrum intravitrial antibiotics. All right, that's going to be the way to determine if they have endopelmitis. Wow. Again, don't forget endothelmititis is always should be considered in a patient who had penetrating eye trauma, but most importantly an intraocular surgery probably cataracts because it broke through that barrier which allowed the pathogen to get into the posterior segment. All right. Now, with this being said, we can appreciate how we should truly think about eye infections. What I want you to do now is think about how do we treat them? And it's not that bad. I promise it's really easy. Hordiolum, you don't really have to do anything for blepheritis. you don't really got to do anything for. There's nothing specific that you have to initiate except just supportive care. Tell them to clean their eyelids, to use compresses if it's sore. Uh I think that's the basic thing. There's nothing else. Usually you shouldn't even have to reach for topical antibiotics for these patients. Dacrocyitis on the other hand is a pretty serious one. We often have to get we have to relieve the obstruction or figure out a way to bypass the obstruction. Until there there is an infection going on. you need to give them antibiotics. Oral or IV depends upon the patient scenario. Oral is always going to be the best way to go in these situations. Clintomy is one to consider because it'll cover the risk of staflloccasarius that could be MRSA and a moxicylan clavalonic acid will cover a lot of different species as well. It's not going to give you that MRSA coverage, but it'll cover things like MSA. It'll cover a lot of streptoakal species, any kind of like other things that you're concerned about. All right, so that's one that I would definitely initiate. That's going to be first line. You're going to start those and then you're going to wait for the infection to kind of resolve, but you're going to have an obstruction. So, it'll just keep recurring and it can end up becoming a chronic issue. So, what you have to do is you have to go and relieve that obstruction afterwards. That's where a dacrocysto rhinostomy is going to come into play. There's a lot of different ways to do that. In this particular depiction, all I want you to appreciate is that we're going to create a alternate channel for that fluid, that lacrimal fluid to move. So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to make a cut. I'm going to access that nasal lacrimal duct. And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and figure out a way to get past this where it's trying to dump into the, you know, below the inferior turbineate. I'm just going to create an alternative pathway. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a new passage. The way I do that is I have some type of, you know, device that goes up through the actual nose and I'm going to poke through and I'm going to create that new passage where then I can divert a lot of that lacrial fluid away so that you're not having this buildup and having stasis of that fluid that can cause persistent and chronic infections. All right, conjunctable infections, virus, you don't do nothing. You let it just kind of take its course. It will go away. Treat their symptoms. If their eye feels like it's itchy and it kind of feels dry, artificial tears. If it feels like it's really, really sore and sensitive, cold compresses. Nothing else that you really need to do. Let it take its course. In this case, for bacterial conjunctivitis, you actually probably will have to intervene because it's also extremely contagious, too. So, with this being said, we have a bunch of different antibiotics. I just want you to remember in these particular scenarios, topical is the way to go because you can reduce the risk of systemic side effects and you're going to get the best penetration with that topical agent. The ones that we can go with, you're probably your first line is going to be trimethoprime and polymixb. These are just targeting the cell wall. That's all they're going to do. Moxylifoxin oroxisonin, those are your floricquinones. These are going to give you the best chance in any kind of pseudamonus, but they'll give you the general coverage of what you're going to need to cover things like streptoccus to cover staflacccus orius and especially with these to cover your pseudonus. And again, just a reminder again if you guys want to go back to your overall mechanism because I know we always love that trimethopram is going to work really well to inhibit folic acid synthesis. Polymixum really targets the cell membrane and the moxyus and they target the the DNA topoases and cause the DNA destruction. All right. Gonoccoal conjunctivitis. This isn't again a concerning condition. You need to get them on sept trioxone. Usually it's IM pop them with it. All right. Usually you got to get this into these patients and they will do better. All right. Again seph trioxone is a betalacttomy. So it likes to target the cell wall and inhibit that cell wall synthesis in bacteria. Chlamydia. These are going to be really important to treat with a particular agent like a doxycycline or an aithroyc or even ariththramy. And this can be oral as well. Sometimes you can even consider these topical but again these are going to be truly one of those that you want to get into the patient as soon as you can. The other concept here is trachomomas. Now what can happen with chlidial conjunctivitis especially with um stereotypes A to C which is the African populations the South American populations where they're exposed to that due to sharing towels or some type of direct contact with that pathogen. Sometimes what can happen is it can cause a traoma. can cause inflammation and fibrous development of the conjunctiva especially on the inside the palpable portion and the bulbar portion and they can cause the eyelid to kind of form inward. We talked about that. It's called an entropion, right? And so that's what we get worried about is causing an entropion. The other thing is it can cause trachasis which is where the eyelash kind of folds inwards and it starts touching the cornea. If this does this repeatedly it can actually cause corial abrasions. Worst case scenario it can cause like scarring of the cornea and that can lead to potential blindness. And so this should be addressed. And usually what we do is we actually just flip it. We peel that muff bag blue. We're going to then rotate the eyelid upwards, right? So we're going to pull it away from the eyelid margin. That's going to help the eyelash to get rotated away from the corner and that's going to be sutured down tightly so that it's not constantly irritating and scratching up against the cornea. All right. Something to consider especially again with those populations that have that risk of traoma and having these potential coral abrasions and irritations. All right. Cool. What about the corial infection? So coral infections especially bacterial keratitis is very concerning and again what's the most common pathogen sudamonus. And so which is going to be a particular antibiotic of choice it's going to be your moxyfluxin or ofloxin. They're going to target thosetopisomees and rip them apart and lead to the actual destruction of these particular bacteria. HSV keratitis on the other hand is one that we really it's one of the viral infections that we cannot let go. You can do this with topical agents and you can also do with oral agents. Topical is probably going to be the most preferred because of adverse reactions that can come from an oral agent. But again antivirals or cyclloe or valley cyclloe but topical against cycllover gel is actually going to be another one that we can utilize and that's going to be first line. You have to give it to these patients. You cannot give them steroids monotherapy. You need because that can actually lead to worse kind of outcomes. It can allow for the pathogen to continue to cause destruction. It can lead to a cornal perforation and they could lose their vision. So always give the antivirals in these scenarios. The way that these work is if you guys remember a virus always binds to a receptor on a surface. This could be in this case a corial cell gets endoccytosed then from there it releases its kind of nuclear material gets utilized to make more nuclear material make a new virus destroys that cell and then passes to go on to destroy another cell. We want to prevent it from creating more viruses that can go and destroy more corial cells. So what do we do? We target the ability for them to make new nucleic acids to make new viral particles. And we use this in the form of a cycllovere or ve valley valycllovere or gansycycllovere. They're going to be acting as guanosine analog. So they act like kind of like a almost like a nucleotide mimic. They try to get incorporated into making new nucleic acid. But whenever they do that they terminate the continual u formation of new nucleic acid material. So they kind of just kind of get stuck in and then you can't click another nucleotide on. So they terminate that nucleotide incorporation into DNA, RNA, etc. Now VCV keratitis this one it's not topical it's oral you need to give them orally or valicycllover because these are going to be ones that you really want to get on top of all right definitely has to be one for this one all right what about perorbital and orbital infections these ones preepolitis is a cellulitis it's a skin soft tissue infection so you're going to treat this one as you would any kind of antibi any kind of cellulitis with oral antibiotics generally you look to see if they have any MRSA risk factors a lot of the times these patients don't. So you can get away with like sometimes augmentin also known as a moxicyl or clavalonic acid. If they do have particular MRSA risk factors then sometimes you add on bactrum for these patients. Okay. The next thing here that I want you to remember is again amoxicil clavonic. How does it really work? It inhibits cell wall synthesis. And then how do we actually consider trimethopramuloxol? This one actually targets the entire folic acid pathway inhibiting that. And again this is going to cause that bacteria to get destroyed. orbital cellulitis. With this one, the thing I want you guys to remember is that we cover these empirically. So, we have to cover for things like staflacccus arius, right? We got to cover for things like different types of streptocous species and cover even the risk of um sometimes and you get worried about anorobes as well. Uh because of the sinuses and potential dental infections that can cause this area. Um they can spread from that area, the dental abscesses, the sinuses infections, they can carry anorobes and so we want to have a pretty good coverage. So the ones that we do for this one because of the risk of losing your sight and also increasing the risk of things like you can get menitis if you don't treat this you can get a brain abscess you can get cavernous sinus thrombosis if you don't treat this appropriately so we want to give them venkcomy to cover any kind of risk of things like MRSA amplan silactum or sept trioxone is going to be general coverage for a lot of different gram negatives and strepcockus species and metroniditool is going to give you that coverage uh particularly for any kind of anorobes all All right. So when we do these, it's either venkcomy plus ampeoin sulbactum or sept trioxone and metroniditool. This is going to give you the gram negative coverage and it's going to cover anorobes. Ampecylin will give you some gram negative coverage, strep species coverage, but it also does have some coverage for anobes. And that's why the option is this plus this or this plus this and this. So just remember that. All right. All of these venkcomy amplactone target cell walls. Metroniditool creates like these reactive oxygen species that destroys DNA within particular bacteria. One important note to actually kind of consider is that when we're treating a patient with orbital cellulitis with IV antibiotics, if they start to develop signs of cavern and sinus thrombosis, so a lot of things change to bilateral orbital swelling on top of that they start having cranial nerve pauses of three, four, six and five. Um and on top of that maybe they even present with a Horner syndrome. In those scenarios I would start thinking about a cavernous sinus thrombosis and I would add on an anti-coagulant something like low molecular weight hepin is something to remember. All right cool what about intraocular infections? Indopthalitis is one of those that I want you guys to think about you have to get intra vitrial antibiotics into these patients. You need to inject the medication into the actual vitrus humor. That's what I need and that's usually going to cover your staflloccus species whether it's stafylocus epidermis staflloccus arius which is the venkcomy and septazzidm is going to cover any potential risk if you miss it and you you you actually have sudamonus that can really cause vision loss pretty aggressively. So septazidm is going to give you that coverage for any kind of sudamonus species. All right, the last thing is in patients with endapalmititis, they can potentially lose their vision and it is it is paramount to know when to act. If a patient is on intraviteral antibiotics and all that they have left of their of their vision is light perception. They can differentiate dark and light and they can't make out objects, they have almost very little to no visual acuity at that point. you need to reach out to the opthalmology team about considering a vitrectomy and you need to go in and actually remove a lot of that kind of infectious vitrus material as soon as you possibly can. And so that means sticking in these particular probes and really doing as much as you can to remove a lot of that that that infected and tbiculated and then all this perent vitrus material so that you can restore at least some degree of vision in these patients. All right, that covers endopaththemititis and that then finishes off our lecture on eye infections. Again, I want you guys to remember when we talk about eye infections, it really comes down to when we treat these identifying what kind of antibiotic I need, what kind of antiviral I need. A lot of the times you can get away with a lot of these being topical, especially for those that are not having those red flag signs. When you have red flag signs, topical is not going to cut it. oftent times you're going to have to go to the lengths of using things like oral antibiotics, oral antivirals, and just knowing when to act on surgical interventions is super crucial. But man, I hope that you guys like this video on eye infections. I hope you learned a lot. And uh yeah, love you guys. I thank you guys. And as always, until next time.