Welcome back to the Ninja Nerd podcast. Today we're talking all about eye infections. We're in infectious diseases as the topic of the the category and we're talking all about those ooey gooey eyes. The ooey gooey ooey gooey. Yeah, this is a really important one. I think this is one of those like you could get called like, you know, if you're an opthalmologist, if you're working in some area of that or even infectious disease, you get that call at like 3:00 a.m. and like, hey, the patient's eye looks really angry and, you know, I don't I don't know what's going on. It's it's red. They can't their vision's affected. You know, hopefully those red flag ones is the big thing that I want you guys to take away from this podcast is being able to identify those patients that present with the red flag symptoms where there's actually sight that could be threatened and some in worst case scenarios, even life. And so I think eye infections, it's not a big big big topic, but there is some important things in there to talk about when you need to identify when a person is emergent versus like, you know, more urgent. >> Well, here's how we're going to do it. I want to be able to walk through a systematic approach using cases just like we always do. >> And I want everyone listening to be able to answer three big questions by the end. Number one, is this safe to manage outpatient or is it sight or life-threatening like Zach said? >> Yeah. two, what is the most likely diagnosis based on exam patterns? And then three, what is the correct treatment and what complications do I absolutely cannot miss? >> Yeah, that's a good way to think about it. >> We're going to hit conjunctivitis, lid, lacrial infections, keratitis, preceptal versus orbital cellulitis, and endopthalitis, all the good stuff. >> Yeah. And I think the goal out of this is that hopefully towards the end we can be good clinicians in the sense that we can establish a working algorithm, a mental map if you will, of how to kind of go through and take, all right, these are the most common symptoms. Once we kind of identify, are they a red flag or not? I think we'll start to create a mental map of how to analyze these patients, how to make clinical diagnoses, when do you kind of up your game to imaging, when do you add on specific labs, all of these things are going to help you to figure out that red, painful, ooey, gooey eye, hopefully. You know what I mean? >> Awesome. Let's get right into it. Case one, >> you're in urgent care. >> Okay. >> You have a 23-year-old woman comes in saying, "Doc, my right eye is red. It's crusted shut in the morning." >> She woke up with her eyelids stuck together. There was a note of yellow gunk present. >> Ooey gooey. >> She has ooey gooey. It's stuck together. It's crusty. >> All right. >> Vision's normal. No phototohobia. No pain with eye movement. No trauma. She wears no contact lens. Mild foreign body sensation but no deep pain. Her vitals are normal. On exam we have conjunctival injection. Pulent discharge pulling in the fornex. The cornea looks clear. No pre-oricular lympodinopathy. Extra ocular movements are full and painless. No proptosis. Where do you start from here? >> I mean this sounds like I mean it's really good. So, first off, there's like really no red flag signs for kind of like a light sight threatening kind of emergency. So, the fact that they have no pain with extracular movements, there's no trauma, there's no phototohobia, vision is normal, these are really really good signs. It's also that there's not a neonate who's presenting with the ooey gooey or the red eye kind of thing like that. That would be kind of a red flag sign. That'd be really really concerning. But this seems like kind of a classic case of conjunctivitis. Now, the kind of conjunctivitis I think we could kind of dig into here a little bit more, but I think this is pretty much a breadand butter kind of case, and I don't really I'm not seeing anything that's red flagging me to be concerned to think about things like orbital cellulitis or think about endopalitis or keratitis. This really seems like it's more concerning for like a conjunctivitis possibly. >> Well, at least now I think we know she's where she needs to be, right? She's in she's in urgent care. It's definitely urgent. It's not something that's emergent. Exactly. >> So she's where she needs to be. But still, I think it's important, Zach, if you walk us through like your mental triage. Yeah. >> What do you look for first in any red eye? >> Yeah. So, the first thing I would want to know is is you have to ask those questions like the then they did a really good job here doing the actual history and physical and kind of going through and and assessing the ROS, like the review of systems and stuff. And so, I want to know, do they have any associated like loss of visual acuity? So, doing my simple visual acuity test, having them read that, you know, your classic like sign where it kind of as you go through and identify all the letters. That's first. Being able to make sure that they have no field cuts, being able to make sure they can identify like how many fingers I'm pointing up, all of those things. Kind of defining a little bit more of like if they have any visual acuity changes, what is it that they're actually having problems with? Is it their central? Is it the peripheral fields? Is it blurry? Things of that nature. Is it painful if I take and I shine a light in their eyes? Like really, really painful. That's really concerning for something that could be involving the light pathway. So not just visual acuity that that's obviously involved with the light pathway but phototohobia usually that can tell you that there's something going on with the cornea maybe the anterior posterior chamber vitrus humor retina. So that would be kind of scary. I want to know if their pain is like very very severe like and if it feels deep like a really really deep type of eye pain something like orbital cellulitis would scare me with that. Something like endopelitis is extremely painful. Keratitis is extremely painful. Do they have any pain with extracular movements? The reason why you asked that is orbital cellulitis really really affects that. So them being able to look left, right, up, down. Is there any pain or restriction in those eye movements? That screams orbital cellulitis and that's more of an emergency. Proptosis where their eyeball I'm not kidding. It looks like it's popping out of their their orbital skull out of the out of their socket. That's concerning because maybe there's a lot of inflammation behind in that perorbital fat tissue like an orbital cellulitis that it's actually pushing on the eyeball and it's pushing it out. So that would scare me for something like that. And the reason why I said neonates with a perilent conjunctivitis is it makes you think about ganachal. So neria ganorrhea can really cause a excessive sometimes they call it like a hyperacute or explosive perilent discharge and it's within like the first couple days of life probably the first week of life. So probably the first week after a baby is born if they present with a perllent conjunctivitis that's concerning and the second like let's say after two weeks then or at least in like the second so I'd say the days like two to five is the most common for niceria gorrhea and then probably like days five to 14 is the concern for chlamydial trochamotus and there's different serereotypes and that also can cause neonatal conjunctivitis those ones are bad gyneakal can actually cause you to lose your sight chlamyial not as much but it can cause some problems and That's why we get really worried about neonatal ones especially gonocakal. So if any of those are present I definitely start thinking about the big big issues which is for infection wise orbital cellulitis endopalmititis and keratitis which can be bacterial or viral especially HSV and VCV. So those are the things I get worried about and if I don't see those I start getting to the like the less concerning ones and that's when I start thinking about could it be conjunctivitis right? Could it be like a litter or lacrial infection? Could it be like a a preceptal cellulitis rather than an orbital cellulitis? And so those are the things I start thinking about. >> I think the history here really painted a very good picture. >> Overall, we're talking most likely here classic bacterial conjunctivitis. >> Yeah, that's what >> but can you go through why it would be bacterial conjunct like how do you know that? Okay, this isn't something a little bit worse and you're feeling this is this is pretty classic for a bacterial conjunctivitis. >> Yeah. All right. So I think first thing is I have no red flags, right? Nothing really screams to me to go down the mental algorithm of thinking could it be orbital cellulitis and opthalmitis or keratitis ha having an absence of red flags but having other symptoms is what I then I have to think about. So for example this patient came in with they had a little bit of pain but it was more like it was like a foreign body sensation in their eye like it kind of like every time probably they blinked it felt like it was scratchy or itchy like there was something in there and they couldn't get it out. They also had a very significant red eye and then on top of that they had the ooey gooey the perllin discharge and so that that screams more conjunctivitis. If I was thinking for example, if I was thinking other kinds of infections like litter or lacrimal then I got to start evaluating like the lid. Do they have like a big pimple? Like it looks like a pimple. I'm not even kidding. Like if they have hordiolum is just a big pimple. It's like a blockage of one of the follicles on the lid margin. That's what I'd be looking for. Is there a big pimple? That usually doesn't cause a red eye and that doesn't cause any kind of like perent discharge. Dro dryitis. That one is is I'm not kidding. It would look like they have just a big bump right here like their medial can like right around the medial canthus. It would be just this huge bump and that screams to me that there's an obstruction in the nasol lacrial like duct or somewhere around that and it's causing a backup and it's swelling and it gets really red and angry and they usually get a lot of discharge like they can get watery discharge because your lacrial gland's producing lacrimal fluid and it's moving across the eye but it's hitting a roadblock that it can't drain. So sometimes it get kind of watery but that doesn't tell me this because they don't have anything that's noting that they have a big big lump around the media. Bllepheritis can it can cause a little bit of a red eye, but it's morely like right on the margin. So, right on the margin of where the eyelid kind of meets like the the eyelash. That's usually where blephritis tends to have most of its effect. It can kind of look like preceptal cellulitis where it's a little bit red. It's a little bit swollen, but it's not like super painful. It's not like crazy painful. So, that's more blephritis. And preceptal cellulitis, that's the one that you think about there. Like, I'm not kidding. Like, their eyelid is super inflamed. It's really red and to touch it is super tender and it's it's pretty painful. And so none of these really tell me that conjunctivitis is what I'm getting here which is the red eye and the heavy discharge. If we're talking bacterial conjunctivitis, how can you differentiate that from viral conjunctivitis? >> All right, that's what I was going to say is like if you think about that usually when you have a red eye right let's say that you got the red eye that's conjunctal hyperemia. So there's some kind of pathogen it's gotten into the conjunctiva whether it's the palpabil the bobar usually it's a combination and then it causes a lot of blood vessels to kind of dilate and so that's what causes and they get leaky y >> and so that's what causes a lot of the redness but then neutrfils depending if it's bacterial come or lymphosytes come if it's more like a viral kind of thing >> and usually that creates this inflammatory reaction which can cause discharge the discharge if it's perilent and it's it's it like they're like you I think you said it their eyelids were stuck and they have to open it in the AM >> yeah she physically had to open up her eye. >> That really kind of tells you more bacterial risk factors for conjunctivitis is any kind of you know direct inoculation. They always say like oh don't don't fart in your brother's you know your his his pillow and then him sleep on it. I mean in theory that's possible but it's usually anything where there's direct inoculation like touching something that has a pathogen of sort and then touching your eye. That's really the kind of the key thing. I think one of the most cons like probable and likely factors is those who wear contact lenses. That's a probably a big thing and I don't I don't think it said anything about this for the person. >> Our patient was no contacts. >> Yeah. And so that's good that that's helpful because contact lens wearers are really susceptible to getting bofilms and getting like sudamonus and stuff but it's a pretty common you don't need to be immuno deficient. You don't need to wear contact lenses. You don't have to have any kind of trauma. It can happen to anybody. There's no like specific risk factors that makes one person more at risk. It's just again if you have exposure to some kind of way of directly inoculating the pathogen in that's the big thing. So that's what tells me it is the red eye, the perent discharge kind of like glued shut and they don't have any red flags. That's telling me more conjunctivitis >> and that was like the also just the color right like the yellowish can be more that perilent kind of >> disent yellow. Okay, got it. >> So I mean from here you got to then kind of think about like you could probably treat them like empirically with appropriate antibiotics and that's going to cover most of them. In the exam they may kind of test you oh what what would be the most common bacteria if they were an adult which this person was and it's probably staff orius if it was like a child then they're a little bit more susceptible to like streptococcus pneumonia hmophilus influenza and things like that if they did where they probably would test you is they would say they wearing contact lenses and that's the sudamonus one and so when you think about a person who gets some kind of conjunctivitis infection you always want to consider the possibility of sudamonus and so you want to have the proper antibiotics to cover all of these but again I When you think about it, probably the most common in general is going to be things like staff orius and streptococcus pneumonia, homophus influenza and sometimes pseudamonus. And so as long as you have an antibiotic that can cover most of those, that's why it's important to know the bug. For the adults with staff orius, would we see this with MRSA? >> Probably not. Not really. I mean, if they have MRSA risk factors, maybe, but probably not that often really. I think you'd probably wouldn't have to worry too much about that one. >> Nice. Usually for for these I'd say you probably get I I prefer to do any kind of like fuoricquinolone. So fuicorquin like topical you know you don't you don't want to do like oral antibiotics for these patients unless it's like a specific one like gonocakal or like chlamyial but oftent times you can do a topical antibiotic like a floricquin alolone >> being that this patient's pretty uncomplicated it's fairly classic. >> Yeah. And you're going to get better you're going to get better effects because you're going to have it more directed on that area. the blood supply again you'd have to you have to think about I have to give them a medication to have enough blood supply to penetrate into the area of the conjunctive and stuff like that and you could do it it's just I think it's more important at this area that you can get away with less side effects and less systemic involvement with the antibiotic and you can kind of target it really more topically polymiximb with trimethopre is pretty good because that'll cover a lot of any kind of gram negatives and then it can cover a lot of the staff so your gram positive bacteria but I I prefer more to lean to the floricquinolones for these the moxy fluxison or the I think ofin is another good one and and and that those are good because they're going to cover that chance of sudamonus. So that's the one I I prefer to use especially if they have the contact lenses. But the beauty of that one it's going to cover really all of those pathogens. So that's why I prefer the the floricquinolone. >> So you really can't go wrong with that one. >> No. No. And I think that's really the key thing for this patient is I probably would just put them on a topical antibiotic probably likein or or moxifyin for for a bit and then hopefully that would resolve that over time. And then obviously, you know, good hygiene is the key thing. If their eyes are really sore, sometimes you can do cool compresses, all the supportive care. But I think the big thing is that you got to get them on antibiotics to help them to get better. >> All right. Same patient, but I want to take a different scenario. Like I want to talk about if something else happens. So a quick detour here. >> Let's say it's the same patient, but the symptoms are watery discharge. >> Yeah. >> A gritty gritty feeling. Yeah. Pre-cular lympodinopathy. and she just had a an upper respiratory infection. >> What then? >> That that's almost always viral conjunctivitis and and those are pretty contagious. Usually it's adno. But the key thing is that it's it's usually associated with the key thing is the upper respiratory tract infection. Okay. >> So the fact that they had a prior one is is pretty common because a lot of that stuff is relatively close in proximity to one another. When you think about the upper respiratory tract and the eyes, again, it's very close proximity. It's easy for that spread. Yeah. It's easy. It's very contagious, so it's easy for it to spread. And this one's okay. Hey, I mean it you can actually not do anything with this one. So if they ever got this one, it usually starts off unilateral, but because it's contagious, it can quickly spread bilaterally if you're touching your eye a lot. So, but I think the thing that tells me is the upper respiratory tract infection. I've seen people who have, you know, bacterial conjunctivitis and they they can have more of a watery discharge and they can have that gritty feeling. The pre-uricular lympadinopathy, I don't know, it's helpful for the exam, but I don't think that that's something that you're, you know, oh, it's definitely viral conjunctivitis if their lymph nodes are swollen, but the pre-uricular area, I don't know if that's the the big thing. I think the key thing to take away from this is the recent upper respiratory tract infection and yeah, more of that kind of watery discharge. They can also get follicles like you can actually peel their eyelid back and you see little bumps on the conjunctiva. That also is another thing I I would probably look for as well. But that's that's the big thing. And you don't have to do much with this one. Just let it run its course. It'll go away on its own. >> All right, let me switch it up a little bit. I'm going to try and go maybe a little more step twoish. >> Okay, >> for some people that are are preparing for step two. >> Nice. >> So, new case. We have a 25-year-old sexually active guy. He wakes up with insane copious preolent discharge pouring out of one eye. >> Lids are massively swollen and his vision is actually starting to blur. >> Yeah, >> that doesn't sound good. >> No, he got he got the gorrhea. >> Oh boy. He he had a fun night but a little too long. >> Yeah. Yeah. This guy I don't know if he was touching his junk and then touching his eye or something like that, but that this is one of those that like it's a it's a sexually transmitted infection. It's niceria gorrhea. And usually this is kind of like you see this in sexually active people whether it's again it's direct inoculation. Either he's touching something and he's touching his eye or he's partaking in some kind of sexual activity of some sort that's he's getting exposed to the the things he shouldn't be. Either way that stuff's getting there and it's inoculating into the conjunctiva. The worry with ganaal niceria gorrhea is that it can actually cause a corial perforation. So it can actually it starts to infect the conjunctiva and then it can spread to the cornea and then it can inflame and start eating away at the cornea and perforate the cornea and then you can that's why they can start to experience blurred vision. >> Wow. >> Is because it can cause a keratitis. It can literally start to spread to the cornea and the cornea is where light is supposed to move through to move into the anterior chamber and then through the posterior chamber and then go through the lens and then boom right to the retina. And so that's the pathway of light that you're interfering with. So this is urgent but it can quickly become emergent if not treated fast. >> Yeah. Yeah. That's why that's why it's important like you know you always ask about vision loss. That's a big one for this one, right? Obviously vision loss is pretty scary. So in these patients you can have I I think is is important to think you can have kind of a detour if you will where you kind of come down. Oh, they don't have any red flag signs if you think about the algorithm this way and then they end up having conjunctivitis and then maybe over time with that gonocal conjunctivitis oh crap I'm starting to develop vision loss. Well, yes, gynecal conjunctivitis can technically cause more of a keratitis picture. It can cause a corial perforation and so that's what you get worried about with this one. Yeah. >> Wow. >> All right. Well, how about in neonates? >> So, neonates is a is a pretty nasty one as well. It's the same kind of concept. >> I remember you briefly describing it where you can kind of have it in different timelines, >> dates. Yeah. And that's why I think whenever you have excessive perilent conjunctivitis in an adult and they mention anything about sexually active you definitely want to think about gonoccal or chlamydial neonates who have conjunctivitis usually again it's the perilent excessively perent same kind of thing really really nasty conjunctivitis but in a neonate you automatically assume that it's likely due to some type of sexually transmitted infection. Now, this stuff has been kind of like really reduced because we usually give right when the need right when the child is born, we give specific antibiotics to help to reduce this. And so, that's what's really really important that we we do those things. But if a baby was born and the mother unfortunately had an STI as they're passing through the vagina or they get exposed to any of those vaginal secretions that contain that pathogen like you know the nicer gonorrhea, boom, that they can get neonal conjunctivitis. And so if there's not proper care, you know, yeah, you could experience that. But that usually should be easily treated. Same thing. Both of those patients can be treated pretty quickly with we actually give sept trioxone and you give it IM or you can do IV, but that's going to cover nice area pretty darn well. A lot of the times you don't have to do coral scrapings or swabs and stuff like that, but I think it's always beneficial to do that for both of these patients. probably send off a swab and then send it out for culture to see if it comes back with a they're gram negative like diploai. So if it came back with that it might tell you and then eventually they would tell you it's niceria gorrhea and you're just going to treat them with sept trioxone and very very carefully monitor these patients because again if you if you don't you can miss on that vision loss progression and then they can end up with some cornal pfs and that's that's pretty scary. >> All right well we've talked a lot so far about our lid our lacrimal infections. I think it'd be really impact impactful if you would review that before us moving on. >> Yeah. So, I think the the big things to remember is with lid lacrimal infections, it's pretty much like it's probably the easiest of the eye infections because it's just it's a clinical thing. Like if they got like a a tender red like nodule on their around like their eyelid, especially where the hair follicle is like an eyelashes, that's most likely a hordiolum, which is just a sty. You don't really do much about those. You don't have to do anything at all. they should get away. Probably cold compresses will be fine and if it's painful, but that's nothing that you have to be concerned with. Bluffritis, same thing. It's just it's a little bit red. It's a little inflamed, but it's usually most often at the margin where your kind of eyelid meets the eyelashes and kind of moves towards the cornea. That can be a little bit more flakyish, but it can just be red and it can be a little inflamed. But that's again, it's not going to be super painful and it's not going to be super swollen. It makes you think about like a preeptocolitis. oftentimes you just having them just clean their eyes really good with like soapy water and stuff like that. You don't have to do much at all. If it gets really bad and they're just not getting better, you can do topical antibiotics, but oftentimes you don't have to do much. And then drasticitis, you that one you actually have to do some stuff with because that one's got an obstruction. They probably got an obstruction like one of the ducks and that's not going to fix it unless you do something about it. So acutely you give them antibiotics because they're going to have this big big like huge like kind of thing right on their their right right next to their medial canthus big old sucker. So what you'll have to do is give them antibiotics start kind of treating the infection and then you actually have to kind of cut into the area and what you have to do is you have to create a new path. So what happens is the nasal lacrimal duct comes down and I think it empties right into like the the inferior cone like right there's the inferior cone it kind of right in that groove. So you what happens is you have to kind of come up through the nose and then make an incision where that kind of like infection is or where there's the big swelling where the obstruction is and you have to create a new path. So you come up through the nose, you poke a hole in and you have them drain somewhere else maybe in the middle conceolved. You do a dacro systoinosttomy. So that's something that you can do as well. But I think those are the the big ones to think about if you ever think about lid or kind of lacrimal infections if you will. >> All right. Well, that was case one. Let's move into case two. And let's kind of bump this one up a little bit in severity. >> Hit me. >> All right. Case two. A 30-year-old woman hardcore contact lens wearer. She sleeps in them. Oh, nice. >> She presents with uni unilateral red eye, severe pain, phototohobia, blurry vision. >> Okay. >> You take a further history. She has no recent upper respiratory tract infection, no trauma. On her exam, we note conjunctival injection, hazy cornea with a white infiltrate, pain when you shine the light in her eye. >> Yikes. >> Vision is decreased in that eye. >> All right. What are you thinking here? >> So, it seems like keratitis. So keratitis is infection of the cornea. And whenever I hear contact lens wearer, it makes me think about bacterial. And then when I've and these are like So here's what I would say. First off, before I even kind of go that way, I'd say I got red flag signs. All right. >> Yeah. Big time. A lot of them. >> So they have red eye, but that's not really a red flag sign. Severe pain is a red flag sign. Phototophobia is a red flag sign. Vision there's that's decreased. That's a red flag sign. So that's that's where I'm kind of getting more towards, okay, could this be orbital cellulitis? Could this be keratitis? Could this be endopthalitis? It's helping me with my algorithm kind of approach. So that's what I'm thinking right off the bat is this is kind of taking me into that area. What I then do is I ask is there pain with extracular movements? Is there any croptosis? No. All right. So then it's kind of guess it's probably unlikely orbital cellulitis. So then you start thinking okay could this be like keratitis or could this be endopitis? Because endopitis can actually present like this sometimes too. Key thing is endopthalmidis usually has something in the vignette that says that they got like I'm not even trying to be weird. They got like stabbed in the eye. They got I don't know someone took a a pitchfork and >> Oh, good. Good. >> Or a pitchfork >> or or let's just say a fork. >> You got angry at you know kitchen you know Christmas dinner. Hey dad. No, but that's one thing is that's a it's it's brings an opportunity for the the penetration and the bacteria to move along that object to get all the way to the vitrus humor. But oftentimes more than not, what they'll say is that they had a cataract surgery. And that's another way you went through the cornea. You created a hole that allowed for bacteria to move through that hole in the cornea to get into the anterior chamber, posterior chamber. And if there's any defect in the capsule, which is what I'm sorry, the lens, which is what you do with cataract surgery, you can create an opportunity for to get right back into the vitrus humor. And so I I don't see anything about a cataract surgery. And so that's I'm not concerned with that. And then but again that both of them can have red eyes, they can have hazy corneas, they can have a white infiltrate and you can have vision decreased. So that's where I'm kind of like those are the things I'm thinking about. But I think what I'm what I'm most likely associating with this is keratitis because of the contact lenses and that's usually going to be sudamonus. >> Okay. >> All right. And then the other thing that I'm thinking about with this one is usually they talk about things like red reflexes and floaters and stuff like that. that screams more endopthylitis. And another thing that happens with endopthylitis is they get this pus pocket in their anterior chamber. I'm not kidding. It's just like a a big like imagine like you look at their cornea and you see what looks like just pus sitting at the bottom like you actually have like a little level that forms there >> and you could see that with a naked eye. >> Yeah, you could. I mean I slit lamp would probably be a little bit better but if you look at it you should be able to see it or even just like a little you know fundoscope and kind of kind of taking a look and stuff. >> Sure. But yeah, that's what would concern me about endothalmitis and I don't really see any of that. You could still see that with, you know, if a patient has bacterial keratitis and they perforate, they perforate through the cornea, you actually can get a hypo, that's what they call a hypopion. >> But in this case, I think that they have what looks like a hazy cornea with a white infiltrate. So they got like a little corial opacity. That also tells me that they have bacterial >> keratitis. So that's what I'm worried about. I think that that's what you're going to kind of have with this kind of scenario here. All right. So, this patient's with you right now and you're you're ready to say, "All right, I have to I have to start to act. What am I What are you going to do? What's your diagnostic approach step by step for this patient?" >> All right. Well, I mean, I'd probably get the contacts off first. >> Good start. >> Get the source control, but the slit lamp is probably the best thing. And then florosine staining is helpful because in keratitis, you can get things like HSV and VCV. They don't usually cause like corial opacities. They don't really cause hypopons. And so it's unlikely, but I think it would still be beneficial to see if I see any kind of like little small ulcers that they don't have HSV or VZV. But doing the slit lamp would probably be the best thing. And that's going to show that you're going to see the cornea. It's going to have this like weird like defect, like a little area where it's kind of getting eaten by the bacteria. >> So that's that's what I would do. I I don't think you have to do any kind of like scrapings or or or swabs to do like a culture or nucleic acid amplification test. I don't think that that's necessary unless you put them on something like antibiotics and they're not getting better like refractory cases. But oftentimes you don't have to do anything like that. So I'd probably just do a slit lamp, maybe do a florosine staining. That would probably be the first thing that I would do and look to see if if do I have any HSV? Do I have any VCV keratitis or does it really kind of support more of that bacterial keratitis picture? And if I put them on something and they didn't get better, then I'd probably maybe like let me swab this or scrape the cornea to get some of these areas and see if I have any pathogens that I'm just I'm not putting them on the right antibiotic. But that's probably what I would do. >> All right. Well, let's just say then we are ruling in bacterial keratitis. >> Okay. >> How do you treat that? >> I treat it this one. I treat the same way we did with the the girl with the ooey gooey. >> Oh, okay. >> Yeah. Yeah. So if they had conjunctivitis in that scenario, I'd put them on topical like moxifyloxin oroxisonin. I'd probably do the same thing. I'd probably just put them on a topical moxyin or ofin and I would I be keeping a pretty I probably have them watched very closely for a while just because the difference between conjunctivitis and and keratitis is that in keratitis you can lose your vision. So I'm not going to let them go home with an antibiotic. I'm actually going to have them stay and be watched closely. >> Like you want to see that getting better. >> Yeah. Yeah. So I, you know, that's a concern where I'm like, I don't feel safe if I send you home and you lose your vision or something like that, right? So I'm going to keep you, I'm going to keep you on these topical antibiotics, see if you get any better, and if they don't, I might have to do some scrapings. I may have to do like a fondoscopy. Do I need to do an ocular ultrasound? Am I missing something? So that's why it's really important because keratitis can actually sometimes it can cause endoplitis if you don't actually get things properly treated. So yeah, that's probably what I would do. One thing you don't want to do is ever patch the eye. It can actually cause like it can actually worsen it. So, I would never patch the eye. That's one thing I would do. And I would just tell them, please don't wear contacts for a while. >> Is is patching the eye really just helpful for the spread? >> I think that it can create an environment for spread and and also just I don't know. Sometimes I think certain bacteria actually thrive in that area of like I darkness, if you will. But I think the basic thing is just kind of preventing the spread, >> right? >> Yeah. >> All right. >> That's probably what I'd do for this case. >> Let's flip the script. >> Okay. >> And I have something a little new here. Okay. >> New case. We have a 35-year-old woman with a history of cold sores, aka she got the herp. >> She comes in with a red, painful eye and phototohobia. >> Her vision is a bit blurry and she has no contact lenses. On exam, conjunctival injection, mild corial haze, decreased corial sensation. We do florosine staining. >> You see a branching lesion with terminal bulbs. >> What does that scream to you? >> You got it. The herp. I'd say HSV keratitis. >> Boom. It's the herp. >> Yeah. And I think usually with this one, the reason why that tells you that is if they had like a let's say you had like a herpetic ulcer like a you know some kind of like herpes lesion usually near the lips or oral area it can get onto a nerve usually that's cranial nerve five so the trigeminal nerve and it moves along the sensory portion of those nerves whether it's you know again usually it's like the you have the opthalamic right division yeah that's the one that you definitely get concerned with. So that V1 division if it has a way of being able to access that or even if it's the V2 it doesn't really matter as long as it's hopping on the trigeminal nerve and when it moves back it goes and what it does it gets all the way to the trigeminal ganglion and that's the part just before it kind of moves into the brain stem and goes to the different types of nuclei. So like your your misinphalic your central nucleus your your your principal nuclei all for the trigeminal nerve. What happens is it lives in that ganglion for a while and it can become latent where it doesn't do anything. So it's not actively replicating. It's not actually causing lis or doing anything like that. It just lays dormant for a while. For whatever reason person has a trigger of some sort they get amunosuppressed. They get stressed. I whatever happens that virus reactivates and when it reactivates it then moves back down the trigeminal gangleion down the trigeminal nerve. And what's gonna happen is it's gonna it's gonna pick a branch V1, V2 or V3. Well, V1 is the opthalmic branch and that's the one that supplies part of the eye, actually the cornea. >> Yeah. >> And so it's going to move down that nerve and it's going to find its way to the cornea and it's going to hop off of the nerve and it's going to start infecting the cornea and that's when it starts causing lis of the corial cells. like cornea is epithelial tissue and so it's just going to cause lis and lices and lis of these cells and that's why you start getting like these lesions that form and so that's what usually happens with these kinds of process >> on a on a scale of like urgency to emergency where would you place this one >> I'd say it's it's pretty bad it's pretty emergent I'd say it's pretty good one as well because I'd say it's not as bad as something like endopalitis and it's not as not even as bad as VZV like VZV is a kind of a scary one but HSV is pretty bad I'd say bacterial keratitis is a concern But this one this one's pretty bad because I you got to definitely be careful with this one. I definitely it can cause perforation, but it's not as common as bacterial keratitis. But you you can get a a per a corial perf especially if if you like sometimes people will just like they'll throw steroids at these people >> like oh there's inflammation we should put them on steroids because you know I'm not sure what they got. Oh do they have like a you know is this an autoimmune condition? Do they have some uvitis? And you'll put them on steroids. >> Makes sense. >> And they do that you immunosuppress them more. You kind of take away their ability to fight off this virus and you can actually quickly cause them to perforate. >> Oops. Yeah. So, you got Yeah. So, you got to be careful if you ever do that. You know, make sure that you know for sure. That's why the florosine stains probably really helpful for this. And >> I'm guessing that's probably a pretty big exam trap right there. Yeah. Oh, you would think >> steroids, you know, I mean, you can put them on it, but just you better have them also on an antiviral as well. I think that's the key thing. But you really should just avoid giving steroids as that kind of scenario if in case it is a viral infection. It it could theoretically worsen. It can deepen the ulcer and if it deepens it enough, you can perf. >> So, what really is the treatment then? How would you approach this? >> Again, I think it's topical stuff. I think you can get a You can do oral. You can definitely do that. Got to be worth it. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Be careful. It's okay. You're good. You're good. You can do topical antivirals. I think they do like gels like a ganscy. Gel is a pretty good one, but I think you could get away with a topical ascycllovere or you could just do oral asycllover. It doesn't matter. I think it's kind of just provider preference. They're all good. I think with obviously with anything that you go systemic you increase the risk of side effects and so that's always the important thing to remember is asycllover can be a little bit nephrotoxic and so that's just something to consider but especially but it's more particularly if it's IV asyclloe oral not as much but I think you could probably get away with just going topical asyclloe or kind of a gycllover gel and going from there that's probably what I would do for this patient >> let's just say we're thinking step two all right we're trying to think it's it's it's important to think about this in practice But I want to think about this really as >> take it from the the perspective of a student preparing for an exam. Yeah. >> What should be the exact thought when you see HSV keratitis? >> Just floroscine stained dendritic lesions. That's the key thing. If you hear that all it's HSV keratitis and if you treat them just an antiviral whether it's topical or whether it's oral doesn't matter but the key thing is just don't start them on steroid monotherapy. I think that's a really really important thing to remember. >> You mentioned VZV keratitis. >> Yeah. Would you mind going into some detail on that? >> Yeah, I think it's the same same mechanism as HSV. Problem is is that they probably had they probably had like a maybe a chickenpox. Okay. When they were a kid or something like that and because they had that, it caused an infection maybe somewhere along that division of the trigeminal nerve, hopped on it, moved there, stayed latent, >> got a stressor of some sort, reactivated. And when it reactivated, it can move down the trigeminal nerve back down to the opthalmic division, the nasociliary division. Boom. gets the cornea causes some damage. Difference between this one is HSV is a little bit nastier. So, it's going to cause some pretty deeper lesions. VCV, same thing. You can get lesions of the cornea. So, you get keratitis, but oftent times because it travels with the nasociliary branch, it can reactivate in a way that it causes skin lesions too. You don't usually get as much of that with the HSV where they get like a reactivating like like rash or something like that. With VCV, it can cause in some cases it can reactivate on the skin and cause like vicular lesions on their forehead which is a part of the V1 division. It can do it here along like the kind of like the bridge of the nose or even at the tip of the nose. And so they can get kind of this like dermatal rash if you will along that V1 division. But if there's a key exam thing that if it occurs around the tip of the nose is called a Hutchinson sign. So if you hear Hutchinson sign or V1 dermatomaal rash and they got eye pain, they got a red eye, they got phototohobia, they got some blurring of the vision, you get the florosine stain and it doesn't show a dendritic like lesion. Sometimes they say pseudodendrites, but I don't think that helps as much. But I think the big thing is if you look for the V1 dermatal rash, florosine stain does show some stain filling in some areas. If you want to remember the pseudodendrite, cool. But the Hutchinson sign V1 dermatomaal rash maybe a history of chickenpox something like that that screams more of the the VZV kind of opthdicus or the vericellazopicus which is this one's pretty nasty pretty scary this one's actually you got to be a little bit more aggressive with funny enough but yeah that's what I would probably do for this one >> all right let's say I'm a student on wards what are the before we go on to the next case what are the big keratitis takeaways >> all right so I'd say if you no matter what with these patients usually they present with a pretty good red eye you know And they they can just because it's affecting the corona doesn't mean that you get associated conjunctival. You can get like an associated conjunctivitis like it's called caratto conjunctivitis. So you can get both. It's pretty common for that to happen. So you're going to get a full-on red eye. Sometimes if they really want to be particular you may only get what's called a siliary flush which is just around the edge of where the cornea and the conjunctiva meet. You get a red inflammatory ring right around the right around the iris. Sometimes you can see that but either way usually they got a red eye. painful because the cornea is usually if you if you get like some intervation especially to the to like the base of the cornea you can cause some pain there. So that's one thing eye pain and some vision changes. All of these really scream more of the keratitis picture. From there look at the history. Does it say oral lesions of some sort? Does it say contact lens wear? Does it say that they have like a Hutchinson sign or a V1 dermatoma rash? If you see the contact lens wear, it's probably more of the bacterial. If you see the oral lesions in the past and all right, that may be more HSV. If you see the Hutchinson sign, that that may be more VZV. If you get the florosine staining and when you do the florosine staining with the slit lamp exam and it shows the dendritic lesions with the terminal bulbs, that's HSV. All right. If you look at their eye and you see on the slit lamp exam that they got like a little white spot or a corial opacity kind of area, screams more bacterial. But I think that's the the key things I think to associate with these ones and for these ones bacterial topical antibiotics I would go because of the more likely risk of sudamonus you go 100% with a topical fuoricquinolone but for the HSV and VCV keratitis you can do oral asyclloir for both of them probably def definitely oral asycllir and higher doses for the vzv but you can do oral for both of them I'd say oral has to be present for the vzv topical ical, you could get away with that one for the HSV keratitis, but that's why I saying just do not give them monotherapy steroids because you may worsen it. >> Okay, awesome. Thank you. Case three. Let's keep it moving here. >> All right, we have a swollen eyelid. The question is going to be, is this preceptal or orbital? >> All right, good. >> We're getting into some pediatrics. Here we go. >> All right, >> we have a 7-year-old girl. She's she's brought in by her parents with a very swollen red left eyelid. >> Okay. She had a week of nasal congestion and fever. Today, mom says the eye looks terrible. >> Okay. >> On exam, we have some vitals here. Temp is 38.9 Celsius. >> Left eyelid is adeus. She can open it partially with help. >> All right. >> Her visual acuity is slightly decreased in that eye. She has pain with eye movement. Oh, this poor thing. >> I know. >> Extra ocular movements are limited. And she does have some mild proptosis. Sounds to me like there's a lot of red flags here. >> Yeah, this is Yeah, this is what you get worried about when you hear this that screams like orbital cellulitis. So, the reason why So, orbital cellulitis, you got to be careful because this kid probably had some sinusitis. Probably had some ethmoid sinusitis or it's maybe the reason why they had the nasal congestion. >> Yeah, it seems like that's a kind of a pointing to that. >> Yeah, the re the the concerning thing behind sinusitis is ethoid sinusitis. It's it's there's there's a thin it's not much space, man. It's just it's kind of like when when children get middle ear infections, there's a small like little thin bone there where it's easy like the tegment tempi, you can have an infection spread to the brain, you can get, you know, menitis or an abscess. It's the same thing. If you get ethmoid sinusitis, there's a thin little bone called the lamina paparatia and all they got to do is move right from there and you're into the orbital cavity. And so you can get orbital cellulitis pretty bad with those, especially if it kind of goes unchecked for a bit. So the fever scares me. the having the perorbital edema like the left eyelid that could be preceptal or orbital. So that doesn't help. The visual acuity slightly decreased that's more orbital. The pain with eye movement means that there's a lot of swelling behind the eye and it's actually enough inflammation that it's maybe pinching down the muscles or it's inflaming the muscles themselves. And if you're kind of imagine you kind of have a lot of inflammation and a muscle is trying to contract and trying to slide to shorten and and lengthen. If you have a lot of inflammation pushing on that, you're kind of entrapping that muscle. So, it's either inflaming the muscle or ent trapping the muscle and it's making it hard for them to be able to move their eyes in the proper directions. And then the visual acuity being decreases, there must be enough inflammation that's compressing on the optic nerve and maybe they're having some decreased, you know, action potential signals being sent down that. So, yeah, that that's what scares me for shorskis that this is more likely than not it's probably an orbital cellulitis. Now, you kind of compared back and forth between orbital and preceptal, but how can you really distinguish between the two? >> I mean, you really could go clinically and say that that's that is really the best way >> based upon exam history. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, usually precepts you get it's gets swollen and it can it can be enough where it can close the whole eye. So, that part again that that doesn't distinguish between them. So they can both have a really swollen eyelids and really painful and really red and it may even cause it enough swelling where it completely closes the eye, right? But if you did have the ability to kind of open that up and have them look left, right, up, down. The key difference in distinguishing factor there is that the orbitals, they're not going to be able to do that as well. The other thing is that there's way more ocular involvement. So sometimes it can cause enough congestion and back like you cause enough inflammation in the eye socket that you compress a lot of veins and so drainage is affected and so because of that they can get like chemosis. I'm not even kidding their their conjunctiva looks swollen. It looks like a it looks like a like a blister on their conjunctiva. It's it's crazy but that's something that you can see as well. But the definite thing is the limitation in extracular movements. And then the other thing is the is the bulging. So presuppellitis won't cause enough perorbital inflammation to make the eye bulge out. So if I have proptosis and restricted extracular movements and visual acuity decreasing that's you really could be confident enough but then but then the question is is do they have something else going on because sometimes you can get orbital abscesses sometimes you can have cavernous sinus thrombosis and if you really wanted to have a definitive diagnosis of this I' then I'd say okay I'm pretty sure it's orbital cellulitis let me confirm let me kind of like also make sure I'm ruling out other things I could do like a CT you could even do an MRI eye as well of the orbits, the orbital cavities and stuff like that. >> And you had mentioned that it may have been from like an ethmoid sinocitis. So if you did imaging you would see that. >> Yeah, it would help with like maybe identifying a source and stuff like that of where this actually came from because you'll be able to get that especially if you get like a good CT MRI of the orbits and you can add in the sinuses as well to take a look there. >> Awesome. All right. Well, how about management time? How do you treat preceptal versus orbital cellulitis? So precep it's it's it's usually staff and so usually that happens because like I don't know like you had you scratched your eye or you had bllepherritis and you were you know itching it or you had draiocyitis and you end up causing some of that infection to spread to the eyelid. So most of the time more than not it's stafllocasarius and so then you have to ask the question is could it be is it msa or msaft oftent times it's probably missa which is a methasylan sensitive and so you could probably just get away with like a probably like a moxicylin and clavalonic acid that's probably a good enough one that I could do on its own because that's going to cover a lot of your staflloccus and and by chance if there's any kind of like gram negatives anorobes it can cover that as well so it's it's a little bit it's a little bit broader but I think that one's not bad If it's MRSA and they have so let's let's say that they have MRSA risk factors they have colon you did an NRES PCR they have pretty common colonization of MRSA they've been in the hospital they've had they have a known history of MRSA infections like that's in their history yeah then I'd say then you change your antibiotic and so using amoxicil and clavalonic acid you can still do that but you probably want to add on something like like Bactrum trimethropmulthoxol is a pretty good one and that'll help to extend for the community acquired MRSA cases so that's what I would say for that Um, the goal is that it doesn't keep spreading. You just you don't want it to spread because if it does start spreading past the orbital septum and it gets into the orbital cavity, you can then have them develop orbital cellulitis. Orbital cellulitis on the other hand, you can get away with oral meds for preceptal. You probably can't get away with that with orbital. You need to get this stuff systemic and high doses and you need to get this to penetrate into that area. So, you got to go IV medications. And because of orbital cellulitis you want to watch out for usually it's staff orius same thing the one that you get worried about is like MRSA right strepcockus species as well so pneumonia streptococcus pneumonia can spread from the sinuses pretty commonly streptococcus anginosis can spread from the from the sinuses as well some gram negatives as well can spread there the one thing I would I I like to think you should be careful with it but I think it's always just good practice is anorobes so anorobes can spread they're more likely to come from a dental infection because you you get a lot of anorobes with like odonttogenic kind of infections. So that's one thing I would consider but if it's like a sinusitis it's tough but I'd say I'd probably add on anorobic coverage as well. So to cover the chance of MRSA, you want ivy venkcomy. All right. To cover the chance of any kind of like streptocous species, I I'd probably go or even even some gram negatives, I'd probably go seph trioxone. And to cover the anorobes, I'd do something like metroniditool. So that's that's something that you could probably get away with is something like that. I'd probably go venkcomy plus sept trioxone and then maybe add on some metroniditool. Another option is sept trioxone and metroniditool is a pretty good one that can cover a good amount of anorobes and gram negatives and streptocous species. Unisonin which is ampean sulactum it can have a little bit of that coverage as well. You can cover some anorobes. It's not as good as metroniz but you can cover anorobes like bactaroides and you can cover some of the gram negs and even some of the streptococcus. So you could also do that one as well. So I'd do either if I had to pick I'd go either Ivy venkcomy plus unison or ivy venkcomy plus septraxone and metroniditool. It's it's one of those that at least you cover all of those big pathogens is the key thing. That's what you have to consider. All right. Let's say you do all of that. >> Yeah. >> However, your patient starts to look worse. >> It's bilateral perorbital edema, chemosis, severe headache, multiple cranial nerve palsies. What the heck is happening? >> Yeah, that means it probably caused like it spread to the cavernous sinus. So the the the na you ever hear the term you hey hey don't pick like they call it the the triangle of death you know there's this area that the triangle of death where you have veins that have the ability to drain portions of your that area and it can drain into the cavernous sinus and so what's important is let's say that you have an infection that's in the orbital cavity right and it's what happens is the infection spreads to these veins that are in that area called the athalmic veins well the athalmic veins are going to drain the orbital cavity And then they're going to move move back deeper and then they're going to drain it to something called the cavernous sinus. And the cavernous sinus is just it's it's just a dural venous sinus. And what happens is from the cavernous sinus it drains via what's called the petroal sinuses. So usually the superior and inferior petroal. And then eventually goes down and usually gets eventually to like your you have your your sigmoid your transver your transverse sigmoid and then you go into your internal jugular vein. They can drain into those like into your internal jugular into your sigmoid. And so that's supposed to then drain your internal jugular vein and then it takes it out into your systemic circulation eventually go to the right atrium. So that's a normal drainage pathway. If you have infection that then spreads from the opdomic veins goes to the cavernous sinus and it just decides to stay and lay up there. It's going to infect the cavernous sinus and whenever you cause a lot of infection in the sinus it's enough that it can cause inflammation of the vessel and it can cause clots. So it's called a septic thrombophilitis and cause clots in those. If you obstruct, you cause a clot. It gets in the cavern of sinus and it blocks up the cavernous sinus. All you need is one of them because cavernous sinuses are interconnected. So if they're interconnected, you could have infection and clots spread to the other side. So it could easily start as one could then spread to the other side. That's why you can get the bilateral effects. But now imagine you got the cavernous sinuses. Both of them are inflamed and both of them are blocked up with like clots. Then the drainage of the veins from the athalmic veins is kind of hitting that area and it's not being able to move and so all that congestion starts backing up to the orbits and that's why they get more worsening edema. That's why they get chemosis. That's why they get conjunctal hyperemia. That's why they get all of those features of worsening venus congestion bilaterally. And then if you have all of the swelling in the cavernous sinuses, there's cranial nerves that run a couple of them around the lateral walls and then there's some that run kind of in the center portion. And so if you have them running and it's running through this inflamed area, it's going to press on them. And if those nerves are being compressed, you're going to start having some problems. So you get three, four, so cranial nerves three, cranial nerve four, and then six goes inside. And then you got V1 and V2, which is a part of your trigeminal nerve. Those stay laterally. All of those get mashed on. >> Yeah. >> So three, four, six, control your extracular movements. So they already probably had difficulty with one eye, but now they'd have both eyes where they can't move, right? So that would that would be concerning. That would kind of make me think about cavernous went from one to both. And then V1, V1 and V2, they supply the face. So if you get like if you get kind of problems with those or you're compressing those, you may have it may be either numbness or tingling or it could be pain. You know, you know, whichever one happens. It would both suck but that's something that can happen. And then the V1 for the trigeminal nerve surprise the cornea. So if I you know what's our normal thing if I have like you know I take like a cotton swab I have a reflex to blink my eye right. >> Yeah. You blink. Yep. >> So the corial reflex would maybe be absent or diminished. >> And so that's that's pretty concerning. And then the other one it doesn't always happen but your internal corateed artery runs right up through the cavernous sinus. Whenever you have that sympathetic plexus, it wraps around the internal corateed artery and eventually it branches off and it goes into the it can supply a couple different things. It helps to supply some of the muscles of the eyelid and so you're actually going to have some effects there. On top of that, it supplies the sweat glands on the forehead and also supplies the the pupil like some of the actual muscles of the actual iris to control the dilation response. And so if you damage those sympathetic nerves, you then lose the supply to the pupil to dilate. And so it what it'll start do I'm sorry what it'll start doing is is it'll start constricting and that's called miosis. And then the other thing is you'll lose some of the supply that helps with the sweating on the forehead and you won't do that. So you'll get anhydrosis. And then the other thing is what is that? Oh the eyelid. You're going to lose some of the muscles to control the eyelid, the upper eyelid. And so that that muscle is not going to contract as much and so you're going to start getting drooping and that's you're going to get the totosis. All right? So you gettosis anhydrosis and meiosis which is a common thing for her syndrome. You may or may not see that with cavernous sinus syndrome. But the big thing is the abdomalia, the dipopia. That's the big thing that you're going to see bilaterally because of the cranial nerve 3, four, and six being compressed, worsening venus congestion, and then the the facial pain or numbness and decreased coronary reflexes. That's going to be the concerning thing that I would watch out for. >> There is so much going on here. Do we just continue to try our broadsp spectrum and do what we talked about before with the vank sept trioxone metroniditool? >> Yeah. Yeah. You still do that because that's gonna now >> because we tried that before. >> Yeah. The one thing I would say is this is why I like sept trioxone more. Sephetraxone is better penetration CNS penetration as compared to amplan sbactum. And so I would probably lean to that one a little bit more. The vencomy, septra, metroniditool because that's going to cover the rare chance that they have like a if it can cause brain abscesses too. So that's what I get worried about with this one as well is you can get sometimes get a brain abscess, but it's going to cover that a little bit better especially than the ampeoin. So I'd probably lean to that combo more just from the get-go. That's why I probably prefer that one even though it's three drugs. I'd say that one. But the thing is is that they have clots. And so sometimes Oh, okay. If if you get a you probably have to get like AI do a venagram. So let's say that they got a CT. I could do a CT venogram or they get an MRI. I'd add on an MRV. So it's either a CTV or an MRV, one of those. And I'd want to get a good look at the vessels. And so that's really really important. If I do that and I look at the kind of imaging and I look at the the MIPS and the time of flight and stuff like that, I'd look for the cavernous sinuses. I'd look for them to be enlarged. I'd look for them to have some enlargement. But the other thing is I would look to see is do I have any problems where they have like filling defects? Sometimes you may be able to get that that's helpful. So in those scenarios I would add on an anti-coagulant >> probably something like well any kind of cerebrous sinus thrombosis responds better to low molecular weight hepin than unfractionated heper. It's been shown. So I'd probably go with a low molecular weight hepin unless they have some reason or contraindication against it. So that's what I would go with. I'd add that on. I definitely would add on anti-coagulant because the goal is is to not let that clot get any bigger and bigger and bigger because if you cause the clot to get bigger, the problem that exists is then now the pressure is building up in the venus side and when blood wants to go from an artery to the capillaries to the vein, it's being impeded and so there's a less flow, less oxygen delivery. You can get a infar, believe it or not. But the other thing is if the pressure builds up in the vein, let's say here's the clot right here. All right, clots's right here. the pressure is going to back up over here and this is going to start kind of stretching and it's going to be under a lot of shear stress and it can pop and so the veins could actually rupture and you can end up with an IC a Venus kind of hemorrhage. So that's what I would probably watch out for and even if they did bleed you still give them heperin because you don't want it to get worse. So that's one of the things why you put them on the hepin is to prevent them from developing like venus infarks and venus bleeds and even if they do you don't want them to get worse you still put them on it which I think is always like scary like oh my gosh they're bleeding I wouldn't want to give them hepin in this scenario you actually you need to give them heperin but yeah that's probably what I would do in this scenario >> kind of a crazy case a lot of a lot of crap going on and it's scary yeah >> what would you say your main takehome is for our listeners >> don't sleep on like sinusitis in a kid first off so if you get a pretty bad sinusitis and it doesn't get treated properly and it gets worse and then I think the key thing is they get swelling of the eye but the most important is extra ocular movements are painful they're restricted and their eyeballs bulging out proptosis have a high high degree of suspicion of orbital cellulitis treat them aggressively with the antibiotics appropriately and if you are you need to keep a very close eye on these because not only is it visionth threatening but it can be life-threatening if it does spread to the cavernous sinus and it causes things like bleeding in the brain. So, so that's what I would watch out for is the cavernous sinus thrombosis. Watch to see if it switches. Do they get worsening abdomoplesia? Does it become bilateral? Does the congestion and swelling of the perorbital areas in the orbital signs getting worse? Do they develop any Horner syndrome? That's when I would kind of say I worry about cavernous sinus thrombosis. Let me get a MRV, CTV, watch out for any kind of like things like that and put them on Hepin accordingly. But yeah, that's what I'd say for this one. >> Okay, let's go on to case four. Here's here's a good one, Zach. Okay. My eye is killing me after cataract surgery. >> Oh, yeah. >> All right. >> Two weeks after cataract surgery, a 72-year-old man presents with severe deep eye pain, dramatically dramatically decreased vision. >> They say, "I can barely see my hand motions in front of my face." >> Okay, that's terrible. >> Yeah, that's scary. >> Phototohobia. And then we also have them explaining that they're seeing floaters. >> Okay. On exam, we have a siliary flush, a hazy cornea, hypopion in the anterior chamber, loss of the red reflex, fundus is hard to visualize. Pretty scary one. Go ahead. >> Yeah, it's things like that's this. I mean, we're at the point where it's like, all right, red flags. Then you think orbital cellitis, we already covered that one. Yeah. Right. So, we know that things to watch out for that one. Proptosis, extracular movements, some visual acuity decrease. That's a scary thing. Keratitis is really bad eye pain. Again, you're worried about the redness of the eye. They get that red eye and on top of that, they have phototohobia, but they don't really have any problems with proptosis, extracurricular movements, but they may have some lesions. Maybe you see something on their cornea potentially. For this one, when you think about endopitis is they can have decreased vision, right? They don't really have any problems with extracular movements. They don't really have any proptosis. They can have a red eye. They can have like potentially they can even have some kind of like lesions on their cornea. They c they can have infiltrates in their anterior chamber. So they can have the hypotheon. But the big thing here is all the other findings that we're going to talk about in a second plus the concerning feature or the concerning historical factor that they had the cataract surgery. >> Yeah. >> So the cataract because you can get indothylitis two different ways. One is exogenous, meaning that something had to come and penetrate through the cornea, and then you had to have that bacteria then get through the anterior chamber, move through the pupil into the posterior chamber, have some defect or breakdown or something. The barrier of the lens is kind of compromised. So then the bacteria or fungus sometimes can then move into the vitrus humor and then the vitrus humor is it's more of a jelly substance, but then you get all these like you just get pus. It's like infiltrates. you get these chunks of pus and infiltrates that form within the vitrus humor. The problem with that is when you get all these pus pockets or infiltrates that are forming in the vitrus humor, when you take when light moves through the cornea, anterior chamber, posterior chamber, moves through the lens, boom, goes through the vitrus humor to hit the retina. That light's going to have to move through this Got to be careful that it's going to move through all of this infiltrated vitrus humor, which is going to have all this pus and material that are kind of affecting it. the light is not going to kind of move nicely to the retina. And so what happens is we get this reflex that we can see when we do fundoscopy. So when we do fondoscopy, you're taking the light and you're shining it through all those areas and you should see like their their eyes should look red. That's normal. You should be able to see like this red light and that means that nothing's kind of impeding the the movement of light. But if I have a loss of the red reflex, that means something is impeding that light from being able to reflect back off. And so it'll you won't see the red reflex. And that's there's a lot of things that cause that. But when we talk about that with eye infections, the one that is probably the most ominous is indothylitis. So that's the one I you want to consider is like a loss of red reflex. The other thing is that the patient may endorse that they're seeing things floating. >> Yeah. >> And that could be the the infiltrates the vitrus infiltrates from all the pus and debris and kind of all those things moving through the vitrus humor. and then really deep like socket retroorbital eye pain that that's also going to scream a little bit more of like an intraocular infection. So th those are things I'm I'm really really concerned about. And here's the thing I told you there's two ways exogenous something's penetrating through that's either a penetrating trauma like I don't know you're getting mad that dad's not giving you the sweet potato. Yeah. Yeah. And you're forking them right. The other one is that you get the cataract surgery like they got. That's probably the more common one, but endogenous is another way. So bacteria spread through the bloodstream, they get to the central retinal artery and then they kind of like get their way into the vitrus humor. That's probably infective endocarditis is the most common cause of that. And again, I don't think it's something that's super common. So I'd say stick with the more likely the exogenous causes. But since we say exogenous, you're going to see that something's causing inflammation all the way back. So you see how this patient has hazy cornea, hypopion in the anterior chamber. That means that they have inflammation in their anterior chamber. That means something had to move through their cornea into the anterior chamber to get there. And that's that's telling me that this is exogenous. And I know it's exogenous anyway because they had the cataract surgery. That that really can't be that common though, right? I mean, how many times like it's a sterile procedure. >> Yeah, it shouldn't be. >> I know that that's more common than, you know, getting poked in the eye with a fork. Yeah. But like overall, you shouldn't be seeing this, right? Like we have sterile procedures. >> Yeah. But even after that, so the most common bacteria is usually just on your skin and in that area. >> Okay. So if you're if you're scratching your eye or >> Yeah. So it's staflacus. It's probably stafylocus epidermis is the most common probably post-operative pathogen. For example, if you do any kind of procedure where you're breaking through the skin, you're breaking through a an intact epithelial barrier, the that epithelial tissue, there's normal bacteria that are part of that flora and stafl coagulase negative staflloccus or what we call stafloccus epidermis is a very common skin flora and if it has an opportunity to move through a window or a hole that's why like for example when we do central you know venus catheterss you you insert a catheter sterily you have a catheter staying in there, but you know there's bacteria around the skin and so it can travel along the tunnel that the catheter is moving and then get its way there and it can cause infection that way. So it's it's the same kind of concept any kind of procedure like that. if it has a window that stafloccus can get through there. And so that's the one that you got to watch out for is the staflloccus epidermis. It's rare for sudamon. It's pretty rare. I mean, you're probably more likely if you have risk factors or I'm not even kidding, if you got, you know, you know, little little child didn't like, you know, the the smashed potatoes he got and and he goes with a fork, you know, you can't penetrating trauma carries more of a risk of sudamonus. But yeah, I'd say the biggest thing is there's a if you have a defect, that's all it takes is a defect in the cornea, you have a hole where it can travel through, and you have a defect in the cataract, I in the lens because you had the cataract removed and you had to place a new one in. Yeah, there's boom, you have an opportunity. Is it possible? It shouldn't be, but it's it's it's a risk. And so, yeah, this is something one of those scenarios that it can happen. Even if it's the most sterile procedure, it's a possibility, but you hope obviously for none of these things to happen. >> What are your diagnostic steps with this? >> So, I think the the big thing here is I would probably go through I'd say, "Okay, I got red flag signs." I'd ask those questions to help me to determine if it's orbital or if it's screaming more of the keratitis. I' I'd do a slit lamp exam on this patient because they I would see that they would have probably some features that make me concerned for keratitis. Like I'd see like a hor hazy cornea. It's a deminis. They got a hypopion. What's going on here? Is there a keratitis? Is there a coral ulcer, a perforation of sorts? And in theory, there is. It's the it's the procedure that they had to go to to access the the the lens to do the cataract surgery. So I'd do that and I would take a look and you probably see like what they say like a lot of corial edema. You probably see an ulcer or a defect there. You'd probably see hypopion all those things. I would do fondoscopy as well and I'd look to see if I get that red reflex, see if I have that. And if I don't have a red reflex, that's kind of concerning. And I'd really do my best and I'd see if I can find their retina and take a look at their vitrus humor and see if I see if I can visualize their v the vasculature there. I definitely am not good at the op, you know, opthalmology kind of stuff like doing a fundoscopy. That's what they got professionals in that area. But, but yeah, if you're really good, you should be able to hopefully see something. But the problem with indopthylitis is it makes things really hard to see because if the vitrus humor is is really kind of like it's got a heterogeneity to it and it's got all this kind of infiltrates and cellular debris and pus. And so what normally would be what you'd be looking for the abnormal finding is it would be really hard to see the retina. it'd be really hard to see the normal vascule. And so that's what would be you may see vitrus infiltrates if you're good. But I think the problem that you would probably most likely have to then say is I don't really see much. It's or even the cornea is really hazy. It's inflamed. I got this hypopia. It's obstructing my view. In those scenarios, I I do an ocular ultrasound if I'm like if I can't see much. And the ocular ultrasound is great because it's noninvasive and it's simple. It can be done at the bedside. And you're going to be looking to see if you see any of those infiltrates. Like it's it's it's bright as crap. It's a heterogeneity. And so you see this kind of like bright kind of finding there that shows it like a hyperacoic kind of findings. And it looks like these like little stringies that are just the infiltrates of the infection that's in the vitrus humor. So that's what I would say. But you have to to do this one. If you're wrong and you put them on the wrong antibiotic, they're they're going to lose their vision. So you gota you actually should tap in into the v. It sounds terrifying but you're going to stick a needle into their vitrus humor and you're going to pull back fluid. You're going to aspirate it that vitrus humor and sometimes you can do aquous. You can even do aquous too because it's probably exogenous. If it was endogenous I don't know if I'd do that but if it's exogenous you're probably even get you can get aquous humor and you probably be okay. But I'd stick it into the vitrius humor at least, pull back, send it off to the to the lab to get tested for the pathogen. And then at least until then, I would be treating them. I would I would then say, "All right, give me the needle." And I'm popping in the I would do intravitrial antibiotics. Wow. >> So I would inject antibiotics directly into the vitrus humor to fight that off. And I would cover the most common pathogens that you can think of. And even the worst case one, even if they didn't get hit with a, you know, the kid got mad and he didn't stab his father with the with the with the fork with the mashed potatoes that he didn't like, you know, I would still cover the sudamonus as well. So I would do intra vitrial venkcomy and that's going to cover the coagulase negative staff the stafloccus epidermis and I would do I don't know why I never have seen septazdine really ever used for sudamonus systemically but that's the choice of it intravitually I don't know if that's a reason if it's a solution of sorts that they don't use other things per se but septacidm is going to be the choice to cover the the sudamonus >> so intravitrial septacazidem and venkcomy would be the goal until I figure out what the culture tells me that it comes back as and then I can kind of narrow it down. I can say, "Okay, get rid of this one. I only need this one." But usually that's what I would say is you're going to do the intravitrial antibiotics and hope that it kind of helps in that scenario to reduce a lot of the inflammation, the vitrus humor, a lot of the compression of the retina, a lot of the damage that's causing because if they if this person got to where they can only see light and darkness antibiotics, I'm going to probably have to I'm probably have to do a vitrectomy. I'm actually have I'd have to call opthalmology and say, "Hey, you got to do a viteretomy." So they have to go in there and actually surgically remove parts of the the the vitrus humor. So that would be the worst case scenario I'd say if the the antibiotics aren't working and they're they're starting to only be able to determine distinguish between light and darkness and they can't see anything else like hand motions or fingers they have almost no visual acuity and all they see is just like light and that's it then I'd say okay at that point we need to talk about surgical involvement and continue the antibiotics but yeah that's that's what I'd say you you got to cover with this one is >> the intravitral antibiotics definitely send off the aspirate to make sure that you got the proper one because you can get fungal people can get fungal ones too which is kind of rough and that one's a very aggressive one that you got to treat. And that's what I'd say is I'd say the biggest thing here is the history is going to tell you what you need to know. The physical exam is going to tell you what you need to know. You probably don't often have to reach for an ocular ultrasound, but it's not a bad thing. The best test that you need to do this to really diagnose it definitively is the vitrus humor or aquis humor tap and culture. And that's the big thing for that one. >> Now, out of everything we've talked about, obviously this endopthitis is the biggest emergency. >> Yeah. Correct. Yeah. This one this one if you don't if you don't treat it effectively and they lose their you have to you got I'm not pop the eye out inucleation. >> So that's why it's it's it's the one that's pretty scary. I mean even orbital cellulitis is really scary too. You don't want to get cavernous but I I don't think you ever want to like lose your vision completely. And that's the one that this one carries the highest risk of vision loss but orbital cellitis carries the highest risk of cavernous sinus thrombosis. >> Speaking of eye infections, we've gone through a pretty good algorithm in great detail. Yeah. I think now for those listeners that want a quick recap. Maybe they're like, "Hey, I'm in a rush. I need to know these eye infections like quickly." >> Yeah. >> Give a quick algorithm, Zach, just a nice big picture recap saying, "Well, if you remember nothing else, what are the key steps you have to take for an eye infection?" >> All right. So, I'd say just again, we'll kind of follow this whole process where you say, "Do they have red flag signs? >> Do they have vision loss? Do they have proptosis? Do they have any kind of severe eye pain? Do they have neonatal conjunctivitis? Do they have pain with extracular movements or restriction with extracular movements? Do they have proptosis? If they do, you're thinking a couple orbital cellitis, keratitis or indopthylitis. If they have some of those features, then you have to kind of dig into a little bit more like which ones is it? It's the pain with extro of the movements. It's the proptosis. Okay, that could be orbitalitis. All right. Well, then let me go ahead and think about getting a CT or an MRI of the orbits and the sinuses and see if I find it. If I diagnose it, cool. treat them accordingly with the vank and I'd lean to the sept trioxone the metroniditool probably and just be careful if you ever notice that it's kind of switching into a bilateral presentation the venus congestion of the orbits is getting worse they present with horner syndrome you got to think about cavernous sinus thrombosis and then you got to extend that out to hepin if the patient doesn't have any proptosis or any kind of pain with extracular movements or things like that but they have other symptoms redness of the eye right they have eye pain they have phototohobia they have decreased vision Then you start thinking could it be keratitis? Could it be it endopathylitis? So then what do you do? You then start kind of doing a little more of that slit lamp, the florosine staining to see if you can see anything on this limb. Do they have a corial defect? Do they have any kind of like opacity there? Do they have any dendritic lesions? Do they have any pseudodendritic lesions? Look at the other area. Do they have a V1 dermatal rash or anything like that? That screams more of the keratitis picture. A lot of those you can get away with the topical antimicrobial of choice. Antibiotics is going to be particularly for the bacterial keratitis. Maybe you have to consider pseudamonus coverage HSV VZV you're covering with antivirals topical you can get away with that with HSV but you can't do that crap with the VZV you got to get them on oral pretty high dose decent aclave and then the other one is do they have any kind of postcataract surgery any kind of penetrating trauma or again it's rare but infective endocarditis that's going to make you think about the endopelmitis if you hear those things look at them do the slit limp exams the florosine staining Eh, but again, you're looking at the hazy cornea. They may have some pus in the anterior chamber. You may on fondoscopy have a hard time being able to visualize the retina. You may see that they have a lack of a red reflex. That may scream indopthylitis. If it's really hard for you to see anything, get the ocular ultrasound. See if you see any kind of in hyperacoic heterogeneity of the vitrus humor. Tap it, find the bacteria. It confirms the diagnosis and helps to guide which is the proper antibiotic to put them on. And then intravitrial antibiotics, venk to cover the staflloccus epidermis and the septazadium to cover the sudamonus in the worst case scenario. And then vitrectomy is like they're getting ready to lose almost all of their vision. And it's either you don't you do this or if you don't they're going to have their eye taken out anyway. They'll get a nucleation. That's the worst case scenarios, right? If you have none of those, then you just got to ask the question, is the lid inflamed? Is there a a big old pus pocket right there at the lid margin right at the eye of the follicle there? Ah, it could be a sty. Let them go. Is their lid margin just a little bit inflamed and it's a little flaky? It's a little irritated, but it's not super painful, not super swollen. Could be bluffritis. Cle, you know, clean your eyelids, people. And then move on. Is there a big goober right there on the medial canthus? They get a lot of tearing. It's swollen. It's red. It's angry. Could be dacroscitis. What do you do? Antibiotics. Refer them to ENT surgery to say, "Hey, you may need a dacroy rhinosttomy." If they have none of them are on the lacrimal eyelid area, but their conjunctiva or their eye looks red, right? All right. And it's the conjunctiva primarily that's red. They got some discharge. You determine based upon that which one is it. Is it perllin? All right. Could be bacterial which could be just your normal bacteria. Could be gynecal. Could be chlamial. Look at their history. Are they an neonate within the first two weeks of life? Are they out there you know doing some weird sexual stuff and then that's increasing the risk. All right. Definitely consider gynecal and you know your your chlamydia. But if it's those who just wear contact lenses, you know, or they're out there farting in bathtubs and stuff, you know, and and and and dumping their face in it, you know, then you're probably thinking more of the common bacteria, staff orius, you know, hmophilus, influenza, streptococcus, pneumonia, things like that. But usually the contact lens wear is the thing that screams sudamonus. Usually with bacteria, you can get away with the topical ofus and oxyusin. But with the, you know, the the scarier ones like chlamydia and ganorrhea, chlamydia, you got to cover with a zithro or doxy. With ganorrhea, and we didn't talk about that one, but zithro and doxy for chlamyia. All right, for gorrhea, it's sept trioxone, IM, IV, one of the two. But that's really important that you know those especially in the neonate or that sexually active individual. And then for the viral conjunctivitis, you don't do anything. You just kind of just support them the best they can, deal with the symptoms that they're complaining of. >> My eyes feel dry. All right, I'll give you some some artificial tears. It feels sore and painful and hot. All right, let's do some cold compresses. Just normal supportive care stuff. If they don't have any kind of red eye, they don't scream any kind of conjunctivitis picture. It kind of goes back. It is a lid and lacrimal infection. I just like to separate it because I like to compare it with the orbital cellulitis. But if it's really inflamed eyelid, really swollen, really red, really painful, it could be preceptal cellulitis. It's just important for you then to ask, do you have any pain with extracular movements? Do you have any do they have any proptosis or anything like that? If they do, that screams more that orbital cellitis, but if they don't have any of that, that's more the preceptal. You can get away with just probably augmenting, which is amoxic and clavalonic acid. Good to go. Most cases, you'll be fine. If they got that MRSA, they got the MRSA, you got to probably add on the the back as well. But that's the way I would kind of go with this one. The biggest thing, most important thing to ask yourself is really is the red flag signs. And then you have to know orbital cellulitis. pretty good. And you got to be able to know endopthylite isis pretty good because those are the ones that can take a life or take the sight. All right. >> Yeah, this is the exact episode where I love because sometimes you're you look at eye infections and you're like, "Oh my gosh, I have I have so many infections to memorize. I have to know all this information, but when you really think about it in an algorithmic approach and you just break it down like you just like you just broke it down and you said your red flag symptoms, you just follow the follow the algorithm." It really does make a lot of sense. I think it helps a lot to organize your thoughts and then to just know which ones you need to actually say, "Okay, I don't have a lot of time to mess around. I got to deal with this one now." Versus, "All right, this one's not that bad." You know, not that you should ever like be like, "I'm going to take my time on this one." No, but it helps you to it helps you to stratify how to because when you're in the ER or urgent care, you have to determine like which patients are emergent and which ones you need to get to right away. But yeah, I think that's the the beauty of this and it's I think it's like not every person who has a some eye pain or a red eye or the ooey gooey is just conjunctivitis. It could be some serious stuff and I think it's important for you to just really identify those red flags. Don't miss the ones that can can get you. >> You know what I mean? And and that can cause a lot of problems like taking a person's sight or worst case scenario taking a life. >> Well, look at that. A little over hour 15. >> All for the eyeballs. >> All for the eyeballs. But hey, I would have to think I would hope at this point you have eye infections hammered down because that was a really informative episode. >> Cool, man. I'm glad I I hope that you all liked it. I hope that you enjoyed it. I hope that you learned a lot and I hope that maybe you feel a little more comfortable with eye infections after this. If you guys liked it, just I hope that you guys continue to support us in any way that you guys, you know, find beneficial. Just remember, we have a lot of other things that we do besides the podcast. We got our website where you guys can access our notes, access our illustrations if you want to do some questions. cuz we got some Qbanks and stuff like that. But also, if a lot of this stuff was like, "Hey, it was helpful, but I need visualization. I want to follow along with you." Go to the YouTube video. We'll have a YouTube video that we cover a lot of this on the whiteboard and we'll incorporate some images along the way. So, check that out. But, man, I I really do appreciate you guys, you know, tuning in. Hope that you enjoyed the podcast. Hope you learned a lot. And, you know, I love you guys. Thank you guys. And as always, you know the saying. Until next time.