Alright Ninja Nerds, we're going to take a look at the femur now. So if we look at the femur, this is actually the posterior view of the femur okay. So if we look here, this is actually the head of the femur again it's made with, it has articular cartilage or hyaline cartilage surrounding it, so that it can articulate with the acetabulum of the coxal bone to form the synovial and socket joint. If looks here these, are some really big things that popping out here this is actually called the greater trochanter. Alright and this one down here is the lesser trochanter. And there's kind of like this crest moving between them, so this is called the intertrochanteric crest. So again greater trochanter, lesser trochanter, intertrochanteric crest. If you look right here, this is actually going to be referred to as the gluteal tuberosity, that's where the gluteus muscles attach to. Alright, they actually insert in that point right there. Then if I move down here, you can see the Linea aspera, this is a kind of an attachment for some of the hamstring muscles. And if I come down here, this is actually called lateral supracondylar line right there. And this is the medial supracondylar line right there. So again medial supracondylar line, lateral supracondylar line. I'm going to keep moving down here, and then these are going to be our condyles down here. So this is actually the medial condyle right here. This is the lateral condyle and this little space in here is called the intercondylar fossa. Now if you look over here, there's again these little condyles over her,e this is actually the medial epicondyle. Alright, so that's the medial epicondyle, what's important about the medial epicondyle is actually a little tubercle right above it, there's actually little tubercle right above that medial epicondyle, that's called the adductor tubercle. Thats were some of the adductor muscles attached right there Okay, now I come over here, take a look over here. That's our lateral epicondyle, that's lateral epicondyle. So now, we're going to flip it over and we're going to look at the anterior side. Alright again, now we're looking at the anterior side of the femur and this is a head of the femur. Now, if you saw before, there was a big crest before, now it kind of just looks like a really like less prominent crest, it's actually called the intertrochanteric line. And this little part right there, intertrochanteric line. Okay now, what I'm going to do is, I'm going to move down the shaft of the femur. Here are the diaphysis and then we're going to come down here to the distal epiphysis. So if we look here, this little divot in here, actually where the patella bone, which is a sesamoid bone, sits in there called the patellar surface right there, Alright, guys so now we're going to take a look at two more things, I want to point out and that's right here, you can actually see a little divot in there it's actually called the fovea capitis called the fovea sapitis. There are some ligaments actually attach from that to the acetabulum of the coccyx bone. Then if you look again, I'm holding the way I'm holding my fingers around this part of the femur. The way that I'm holding it that, what I'm wrapping around is the surgical neck of the femur. Alright so that pretty much covers everything you know about the femur.