All right, ninja nerds. So, what we're going to do now is we're going to talk about the acidity and basicity of salts. All right, so we have here a whole bunch of different examples, seven different examples that we're going to go through. One of them is a little bit tough, but I'll try my best to explain it to you guys where it can make sense. All right, so first off, we have here strontium chloride. And we need to determine is strontium chloride an acidic salt, a basic salt, or a neutral salt. Well, how do we do that? Okay, here's where you have to kind of imagine something, right? You have to kind of dig deep down into that cerebral cortex and say, okay, strontium strium came from what? What? What if he is acting as this case? Usually the metal is acting as the acid and the base is acting I'm sorry, the um the non-metal is acting as the base, right? So again, I'll say it one more time. The metal is usually acting as the acid and the non-metal is usually acting as the base. So we have to imagine strontium in its previous form which is strontium hydroxide. So let's try to imagine him in the form of strontium hydroxide. So if you remember strontium hydroxide when we talked about in the introductory video it's a strong base. So if it's a strong base it completely disassociates into strontium and two hydroxide ions. It's not a reversible reaction. So therefore if this is a strong and if you remember that relationship we said the stronger the base the weaker the conjugate acid. So if you think about that let's think about this guy then strontium hydroxide is a strong base. So then what happens is the strontium that's produced is a very weak conjugate acid. So that guy right there is weak. Now let's go ahead and take a look at chlorine. Well, chlorine in this case is acting as the if we look at in the chloride ion, he's acting as a base because negatively charged ions are usually acting as bases. So because of that, we have to think about him in his previous acidic form, which is hydrochloric acid. So he had to come from hydrochloric acid. Well, what's hydrochloric acid? It's a strong acid. What does that mean? He completely disassociates one whole arrow to forming H+ and chloride ions. And then again, what is this relationship? It's the same thing. The stronger the acid, guys, what happens? The weaker the conjugate base, I'm just going to put conj. So that's the relationship. The stronger the acid, the weaker the conjugate base. The stronger the base, the weaker the conjugate acid. So now he's a strong acid. So this chloride ion that we produced has to be a very what? Weak conjugate base. So, strontium hydroxide produced a very weak acid and hydrochloric acid produced a very weak base. So, if these are two weak substances, then there really isn't going to be able to say if this is a acidic salt because none of these neither one of these guys are in higher concentrations or aren't are stronger than one another. So, if that's the case, they both are weak. So, therefore, this is a neutral salt. So, what is this? This is a neutral salt. Okay, so let's go ahead and do the next one. It'll make sense the more we keep doing it. Okay, so aluminum, he's acting as the acid. We have to imagine him in the basic form. So imagine him as in the form of aluminum hydroxide. Al3. Well, what is Al3? Well, he's not a strong base. So if he's not a strong base, this reaction technically can actually have a equilibrium because it's not a one-directional reaction. So you can still produce aluminum in the 3+ form and three hydroxide ions. So if you look at that, he's not a strong base. So therefore, he might produce a if so we can actually say this is a if it's not a strong base, it's a weak base. So he's a weak base. So he'll produce a stronger conjugate acid broine or broomemide we imagine, right? He's acting as the base. We have to imagine him in his previous acidic form. So we have to imagine him as HBr hydro bromic acid. Well, he's a strong acid. Strong acids completely disassociate into H+ and broomemide ions. Stronger the acid, the weaker the base. So we have a strong acid here and we have a weak base. What does that mean? That means that this thing is so weak it's not going to affect the pH. So who's going to be having more of an effect on the pH? The aluminum. Because we already said that since aluminum was a aluminum hydroxide was a weak base. It'll produce a strong conjugate acid. HBr was a strong acid. So it produce a weak conjugate base. So this broomemide has no effect on the pH and the aluminum does. What do we say? He's stronger. So therefore it's acidic. The metal determines acidity. The non-metal determines basicity. So this is acidic. This is an acidic salt. Let's do the next one. All right. So this is the tricky one, guys. Okay, so this is the this is kind of a tough one. NH4 is ammonium. Okay, it's an ammonium. It had to come from a remember this is acting as the acid. The metal acts as the acid. So he had to come from a previous base, right? That base is ammonia NH3. Okay. And this guy here, F, he had to come from, so he's acting as the base. He had to come from a acid. So, he came from HF. Okay, here's the the tricky one with this one. NH3 is a weak base. HF is a weak acid. Well, neither one of these. How do we determine it? Is it is it neutral? No. Now, since these guys are both weak. We have to determine this based upon their KB. Remember we talked about in the intro video, which is the rate at which it disassociates, and HF, which would be the Ka. So uh the KB of ammonia is approximately about 1.8 * 105 and then HF. So the K of that guy is going to be approximately uh about 6.6* 104. All right. So that's going to be the Ka. Okay. So the Ka for this guy is about 6.6* 104. Why is that important? Okay, let's look at these two guys. Remember we said in that first video that KB determines the rate at which it under goes ionization, right? So in other words, the rate at which it accepts a proton and becomes ammonium. So that's about 1.8* 105. HF determines the rate at which the um HF is going to disassociate and give H+ ions and fluoride ions. Well, here's how you think about this. The closer the K is to zero or even closer to one, the greater or the stronger we can say the base or that acid. So, for example, if this KB was closer to one or closer to zero, it's going to be a strong base. If the Ka but not a completely strong base, it'll just be a little bit stronger. HF, if that Ka is closer to zero, closer to one, he's going to be a little bit of a stronger acid. So, which one of these guys are closer to zero? this one right there 6.6 * 104 it's it's actually closer to zero whereas 1.8* 8* 105 is even really really small. It's a lot smaller, right? A tfold smaller. So what does that mean? That means that this guy is stronger. So HF is stronger. Okay, that's helps us a little bit now. Okay, so now we know that this guy's a little bit stronger than him. If HF is stronger than him, what does that mean? That means that HF will turn into H+ and fluoride ions. So that means that we can technically technically say okay this guy is a strong now remember strong acid. He's not a strong acid but in this case he's a strong acid. So if he's a strong acid he's going to produce what? A very weak conjugate base which is the fluoride ion. Ammonia in this case is actually going to act as the weak base. So, it's going to produce NH4+, which in this case is going to be acting as the strong acid. So, what does that mean? That means that this guy's so weak, he doesn't affect the pH. This guy is a little bit stronger and he's going to have more of an effect on the pH. So, what does that mean? That means that this salt is going to act as a acidic salt because ammonium is the one that's going to be having more of the effect on the acidity because it came from a weak base. And we already know the weaker the base, the stronger the conjugate acid. The stronger the acid, the weaker the conjugate base. So this would be a acidic salt. This one was a little bit tough because you had to compare Ka and KB. All right. Na CHO2. Okay. Na. We got again imagine it came from sodium hydroxide. So N AOH and he completely dissociates into sodium and hydroxide. CHO2. Okay, so that had to come from previously H C HO2 because you had to put remember this is acting as the base. So we just got to put a H on it to treat it as the acid and he is a weak acid because this is not one of the six strong acids. So he has a double arrow movement. So this would produce H+ and CHO2 negative. Okay, let's evaluate these guys. Strong base. What's going to happen to the sodium? The sodium is going to be a weak acid. HCH2 is a weak acid. So that CHO2 negative over there is going to be a technically a strong base. So this guy is going to be stronger and he's going to have more of an effect on the actual pH. So what's going to happen? Since he's a strong base technically and this guy's a weak acid, he'll almost have no effect on the pH and he'll have more of an effect on the pH. So this is actually going to be a basic salt. Okay, let's keep going here. CH3 NH3 this is acting as the acid right in this case. So we have to think about we have to think about him in the previous basic form. So what would he have been? So let's just remove since he's acting as the acid we have to remove an H. So CH3 NH2 in this case right and then what's going to happen you know that he'll react with let's say like water and then if it reacts with water what do you get? you get the CH3, NH3, and hydroxide. So now, we said here that this guy right here, if we're looking at him, he's acting as the base now, right? But he's not one of the strong bases. So he's a weak base. If he's a weak base, the rule says the weaker the base, the stronger the conjugate acid. And this should have a plus charge. Sorry, this should have a plus charge here on that CH3 NH3+. Okay, so that is a plus charge in there. So if he's the weak base, this is a strong conjugate acid. Okay, let's do the other one. NO3, we have this is acting as the base. We have to think about it in its previous acidic form, which is slap an H on him. HNO3 H NO3. What happens to him? He's a strong acid. He completely disassociates into H+ and NO3 negative. We said stronger the acid, the weaker the conjugate base. So, what do we get out of this? Weak base, strong conjugate acid, strong acid, weak conjugate base. Well, which one did we say was strong and is going to have more of effect on the pH? The strong acid in this case. Because this guy is so weak that he doesn't have any effect on the pH. So, what kind of salt is this? This is an acidic salt. Okay, let's go on to the next one. Fe3. Well, again, think about this guy. he was the uh he's acting as the acid. So now we have to think about him in a previous basic form. Let's say that he is iron 3 oxide. So O three. What happens here? He is not a strong base. So he'll disassociate into Fe3+ and three hydroxides but not completely right. So he is a weak base. If he's a weak base, he'll produce a strong conjugate acid. Cl what do you do? He's acting as the base. Slap an H on him to put him into his previous acidic form, HCl. HCl is a strong acid. He completely disassociates into H+ and chloride ions. If he's a strong acid, he produces a weak conjugate base. So, what do we get again? We have a strong conjugate acid, a weak conjugate base. Well, which one's stronger? This guy, the iron 3+, who's acting as the acid. So he's going to have more of an effect on the pH and cause it to be acidic while he'll have as almost no effect. So what does that mean? This will be a acidic salt. So we got a lot of acidic salts here. Okay, let's do one more. C6 H5N. So what does that mean? He's acting as the acid. We have to think about him acting as the base previously, right? So he had to act as a base. So in this case right here, and actually let's actually fix this up a little bit. Let's actually make him this guy C6 H5N. Since he was acting as the uh since he's acting as the acid in this case, we have to think about him acting as the base previously, right? So, let's actually draw him with an H here. He should have an H and then we'll have an I. Sorry about that, guys. So, C6 H5 and HI. Okay. So, now C6 H5 NH, he's acting as the acid right now. We need him to act as the base. So what does he have to look like? Get rid of an H. So he will look like C6 H5 N. This is what he was acting as when he was the base. So now what happens? Okay. Well, if he's the base, what does the rule say? Let's react this with water. If we react this with water, what's going to happen? This guy's going to give a H onto him. And what are you going to get? you're going to get 6 C6 H5 NH plus and hydroxide. That's what you'll get out of this reaction right here. Okay, so again remember sorry about that there should have been an H right there. C6 H5 NH was acting as a acid previously but we have to think about in its previous basic form. So get rid of an H. So we have C6 H5N. React it with water and you get C6 H5N NH+. Okay. And you get hydroxide. So he is a acting as a weak base. So if he's acting as the weak base, he's going to produce a strong conjugate acid. Okay. I What's he coming from? Slap an H on him. H I HI is a strong acid and completely disassociates into H+ and iodide ions. Okay, if he completely disassociates, this is a strong acid. Strong acids produce weak conjugate bases. So what do we get out of this one? A strong conjugate acid and a weak conjugate base. So what is this? This guy's going to have more of effect on the actual pH. And this is going to be a acidic salt again. So a lot of acidic salts in this example. And again, sorry about that guys. There should have been an H right there. All right. So what have we done in this video right here? We've talked about the acidity and basicity of salts. being able to determine if a salt is acidic or if it's basic or if it's neutral. And the tough ones are being able to have to compare a KB value versus a Ka value. If you get those, just make sure that you compare them and you say again, whichever one of these is having a Ka or KB closer to one is the stronger one. So therefore, it's conjugate acid or base, whichever one you're dealing with, will be weaker. Okay? And then we also compare we have you need to make sure out of all of this this is the most important concept like you need this to be able to understand everything that we just did. Okay. And this is this is pretty much the thing that and if you don't understand this you're not going to be able to really get the acidity and basicity of salts. The stronger the acid, the weaker the conjugate base. And the stronger the base, the weaker the conjugate acid. And vice versa. If the if it's a weak base, stronger the conjugate acid. If it's a weak acid, the stronger the conjugate base. Okay? So, make sure you understand this concept because it's going to be the very thing that you need to understand if a solid is acidic, basic, or neutral. All right, engineers. I hope that made sense. Click on the icon in the right corner. We're going to go over in our next video on weak acid and weak base calculations.