What's going on engineers? So, if you've been watching our lectures, you already know we go deep on every topic. But, did you know that every single video comes with a full set of detailed notes? And dude, these aren't just your average study guide. Let me show you what I mean. So, the first thing that you're going to notice here is when you open up any of our notes, there's a dynamic table of contents right at the top. Every section of the note is listed here. And when you click on one, it's going to jump you directly to that part of the document. Now, you don't have to worry about endless scrolling, hunting around, just click and you're there. So, whether you're reviewing a specific concept before that tomorrow's exam or just need to revisit one part of the lecture, you can get there quickly, instantly. Now, here's something that makes this kind of note process even more powerful. Do you see these timestamps right here? Next to each section heading, every one of these link directly to the exact moment in the video lecture. So, if you're reading through the notes and you want to hear me explain something in more detail, just click the timestamp and it takes you right to that point in the video. It's kind of the ultimate way to go back and forth between watching and reading. It's kind of completely seamless when you think about it. They are packed. I mean, look at these things. Packed with detailed information that covers everything that you need to know about the topic. This isn't some bare-bones outline. We're talking thorough, well-organized content that directly follows the video lecture point by point by point. All right? And on top of that, you'll see our illustrations are integrated right into the note. So, as you're reading through a concept, the visual's right there to reinforce that concept. You're getting the full picture, the explanation, and the visual all in one place. These notes are going to be a game-changer for you. It's a dynamic table of contents, direct video timestamps, comprehensive content, and it's all having these built-in illustrations. It's all about helping you to study smarter, not harder. And these are all available to all of our Ninjaneer members. And if you haven't signed up yet, head over to ninjaneer.org. Become a member, get access to the notes. Every single lecture we offer, it's there. So, trust me, your future self will thank you. All right, let's get into it.