 mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere with three months of progressive abdominal bloating, early satiety, pelvic discomfort, and a 12-pound weight loss. Based on this information, Zach, can you kind of go through maybe some of your differential diagnoses just based on a brief history like this one? Yeah, I think if you, you know, if we're talking about gynecological cancers, and so when you think about that, obviously you're kind of limited to, you know, in this case ovarian cancer, endometrial cancer, and then obviously we can go a little bit further and we can talk about vaginal cancer and vulvar cancer, etc. So there's obviously a certain limited amount with that one. I think one of the big things that makes me kind of consider likely ovarian cancer is given the fact that this is a postmenopausal woman, so there's likely some degree of like, you know, prolonged estrogen exposure, and then the presence of abdominal bloating, early satiety, pelvic discomfort. That makes me a little bit more concerned possibly about an ascites process, which is very common whenever a patient's diagnosed with ovarian cancer, usually they're found much later. They're usually found by that time at least late stages, stage three, stage four, when it's already spread to the omentum, it's spread all over the place. And so that's what I'm thinking. There could be other reasons, especially when you have like ascites, that could be due to cirrhosis, it could be due to things like heart failure, it could be due to things like, I mean, there's many different reasons what that could be from. In this case, it could even be ascites that's due to a malignant process, like an exudative process, and we can talk about those as well. But that's what I'm starting to think about. I'm thinking that this is likely a patient with ovarian cancer, given the actual risk factors, given the presentation. What tests would you consider ordering first? Are there any things that you kind of want to prioritize? I think anytime you have a patient who presents with pelvic discomfort, you have, again, this concern of possibly ovarian cancer, a bimanual like pelvic exam and abdominal exam is going to do you very, very well. The reason why is you're going to try and be able to assess, is there anything that I feel along like the cervix? Am I concerned about any kind of like mass there? Or especially the uterus itself? Is it enlarged? Do I feel like anything weird, irregular? That would be helpful for potentially like an endometrial cancer of some sort. And then feeling the adnexa, feeling the ovary to see, hey, I feel like an adnexal mass is potentially present. That may then urge me to say, okay, if I feel something concerning, I should then ultrasound it. And usually a transvaginal ultrasound will do you very, very well to help to say, hey, what's going on along the adnexa? What's going on along the uterus? What's going on with the ovary? And then by doing that transvaginal ultrasound, it's going to be helpful because it will help me to say, hey, is there any kind of concerns with the endometrial stripe? Okay, no. Is there something where I can see the fallopian tubes are kind of like maybe twisted or am I seeing like there's a large ovarian mass that's present? That's going to be super helpful. And then I think serum tumor markers, they only come into play for your exams. They're not super helpful in real life. I think one of the benefits of them is that they may help you to differentiate, I'd say the subtype of ovarian carcinoma. So is this some type of problem where, you know, we're talking about the different types of ovarian cancers? That's where I think the serum tumor markers would be helpful. So I probably get like a CA125. I probably get an LDH. I'd get an AFP. I would check the beta HCG, estrogen, and Hib, and testosterone. That's going to help me to determine is there any kind of choreocarcinoma? Is there any kind of yolk sac tumor? Is this an epithelial tumor? Is this some type of sertoli, lydig cell tumor, etc. So that's what I would do then. And then after that, I would say given the concern that I have for this patient having likely metastasis to the omentum, I would probably get a CT scan, especially of the abdomen, pelvis, and consider the chest. The reason why is that will help me to see if I see any areas where there is potentially some tumors that metastasize to the omentum. Did it actually cause an ascites? Did that ascites lead to a pleural effusion? That's going to be super helpful. And then lastly, the only thing I would say that is beneficial to kind of a workup in these patients is an exploratory laparotomy. The reason why is it's going to definitively, that's why the serum tumor markers are helpful for the exam, but oftentimes the histology is going to tell me exactly what type of subtype of tumor I have. And then also while you're there, you can try and do a lot of cytoreduction, removing a lot of this mass around the ovary, the fallopian tube. Sometimes you have to remove the uterus as well. And then removing potentially the omentum, getting as many kind of bulky tumors as I can out of there to reduce that risk of mortality for these patients. So I know that's a long kind of way I'd be answering it, but yeah, there's a lot of things that I would go into this step by step. Let's just say we first started with that pelvic exam. So you did the bimanual pelvic and abdominal exam. Upon exam, you find a couple of things. We know a shifting dolness and a palpable right adnexal mass. What are you thinking here then? I think for this one, I would say, okay, get the transvaginal ultrasound. The only reason I say that is I'm concerned that there's potentially like an ovarian mass. The ascites, again, that's going to be helpful again, as likely as a potential cause of metastasizing. But again, I think that this is concerning for at least getting an image. So I'd proceed to the transvaginal ultrasound. All right. And when you get the transvaginal ultrasound, it reveals bilateral complex cystic solid adnexal masses with moderate ascites. What would you then do after that? At this point, I think that there's definitely a concern for ovarian cancer. Again, I wouldn't, you don't have to, but for the exam, I'd get the tumor markers. I'd get all those labs. All right. And just for argument's sake, let's say we have the results of that. We have a CA125, which is 850. Normal is less than 35. LDH, AFP, beta-HCG, estrogen, inhibin, testosterone are all normal. So really the only thing we're seeing that's abnormal is that CA125. And what is that telling you? I mean, that tells me it's probably more like an epithelial tumor that's likely there. So that's what I'm concerned about. But again, I think that LDH, that's usually screaming more like, is it going to be a dish germinoma? AFP screams a gilxac tumor. HCG screams like a choreocarsinoma. And then estrogen, inhibins, testosterone, those are all more of like the, those are random type of tumors, potentially like involving primitive tissue that convert into sertoldi, liged, exhaled tumors. So again, I think it would tell me that it's an epithelial cell tumor is a likely cause. But again, I still think that from this point, it's not definitive. I would then say, do I need to consider doing some type of exploratory laparotomy? And before I do that, I want to know the extent of what's going on. I want to help with the surgical planning process. And so I probably get a CT scan to determine what does this truly look like? How far outside of the ovarian area and tubes is this kind of extending to to help my guidance there? Okay, so we do order a CT chest, abdomen and pelvis. And this comes back with the results of Omental Kaking and peritoneal nodularity. There is no distant organ metastases. What is that telling you? I think it just tells me that there's a variancarcinoma and it's metastasized. I don't think it tells me anything yet. I think I would still have to go forward and do like an exploratory lap. Again, I think yes, you could have a degree of suspicion off of the presence of the CA125, but oftentimes the best definitive answer is to go ahead and say, let me get this exploratory lap to send off that actual sample, confirm it. And then also while I'm there, I'm going to be doing a lot of like cytoreductive kind of processes as well. But yeah, I'd say it's likely ovariancarcinoma. You could make an argument that it's epithelial based prior to even doing it, but I'm going to confirm that with the X-Lap. And let's just say we do confirm it and we have advanced epithelial ovariancarcinoma. How do you treat that? Usually you have to remove the uterus, you have to remove the fallopian tubes, and you have to remove the ovaries. Okay, so definitely surgical. Yeah, it's almost in this case, chemo therapy can only work so much. It's usually going to help with the progression, but in this case, you got to remove the total abdominals directed me with a bilateral pingo forectomy. And then oftentimes, in this patient's case, it's spread to the omentum. So I got to do an omentectomy. And then any other kind of tumors that are kind of written, there's also saying that there's peritoneal nodularity. So I'm probably going to have to do a little bit of debulking of the peritoneal areas as well. So that's that. And then after that, you'd follow it up with some chemo. Okay, and let's just say, again, for argument's sake, what happens if it did spread beyond the pelvis? Is there anything you would do differently based upon what you initially said? Well, I'd say that you probably should do chemo first, maybe to help a little bit. But I think at that point, usually when it's metastasized, it's pretty aggressive. You're kind of limited with surgical intervention, you can still try and do your best to do that. A lot of the times you're kind of stuck with chemotherapy as the primary therapy. Gotcha. Okay. And lastly, are there any complications we should be aware of with this type of carcinoma? I mean, asides is probably the likely thing for this patient. I think that's what they're experiencing right now. There's something that you have to do for it. If you treat the underlying disease, then the asides over time should resolve. And oftentimes, they develop pleural effusions, oftentimes more likely right dominant and more than left, just because of the overall anatomy. And those again, resolve with the asides resolving, you can tap into the asides and you can send off like a, you know, you do a pair of synthesis and send off the labs and stuff. But if you know that they have like ovarian cancer, it's unlikely that it's going to tell you anything else, you know, helpful. So that would be something I would say is watch out for asides, watch out for pleural effusions. I'd say it's unlikely to get a bowel obstruction. You can get it if you got a significant enough asides that's actually compressing down on the bowels. And also, if you have some of those tumors that spread from the ovary and the fallopian tubes, if they get over into the area and they start causing compression in that way, it's possible. I'd say it's unlikely. I don't say, I think that ovarian torsion is also extremely unlikely as well, unless it's a really, really big one, like a dished germinoma, that's possible as well. But I'd say the biggest thing is watching out for asides and pleural effusions. That's probably the big thing. All right, well, let's move on to the case two that was, you really hammered that one, that was perfect. Thank you. We have a 65 year old woman with two months of heavy postmenopausal bleeding. What are your first thoughts, kind of, I guess, again, your differentials out loud? Yeah, I think when you talk about gynecological cancers, this one is like, it usually screams likely some type of like uterine cancer. That's probably the likely one. So endometrial cancer early if you want to be specific. There's a lot of other things that could be there that I just don't think I have enough of their history to kind of like tell me that sometimes you can have like polyps, sometimes it could be drugs. Sometimes it could be as they get older, they can have an atrophic endometrium. But again, I think more than likely, it's, you know, and especially in this case of two months of postmenopausal bleeding that's heavy, at always you should consider that to be endometrial cancer until proven otherwise. Would you do a similar examination like the first patient? Maybe start with a bimanual pelvic exam and then maybe transition into a transvaginal ultrasound? Yeah, that's probably all you should need here. You shouldn't have to go the whole lengths of sending off any tumor markers and CT scans and explore it like this one's actually pretty straightforward that you can get away with a bimanual pelvic and a transvaginal ultrasound. Okay, great. Well, let's just go ahead and say that we do the the exam and particularly we're interested here in the transvaginal ultrasound. Okay, we have an endometrial stripe that measures 12 millimeters. Okay, what does that tell you, Zach? Anything greater than or equal to four millimeters is concerning for endometrial cancer. So you should always then proceed with a biopsy and you know, because that's that's screaming that it's endometrial cancer. That's what you need. And once you get that biopsy, that should tell you if you're like a type one or a type two endometrial cancer. Okay, the next test, let's just say we do the endometrial biopsy. We get the biopsy back and it shows endometrioid adenocarcinoma that is confined to the uterus. Talk a little bit about this diagnosis. That's all these good news. Type one is usually a positive one. Type two is usually more aggressive. It's also less common. And how do you tell the difference between the types? Histology. You have to actually look at the histology and differentiate that between like an atrophic and an endometroid usually ones like heavily, heavily proliferated. And that's the endometroid one. But the fact that it's confined to the uterus is actually pretty good. That means that we have pretty early case we caught a good the proper time. And so we can oftentimes offer things to this patient besides surgery, but oftentimes surgery is going to be the best way to go for this patient. That's fantastic. So would we go then with the surgical option then? Yeah, you can offer like, you know, sometimes if a patient has like, if they have like, like a viable reason, like I want to actually get pregnant. Okay, well, then we can for right now, we can do high dose progestin to kind of at least kind of keep the endometrial endometrial hyperplasia at bay. But eventually, we have to make a decision to do a total abdominal hysterectomy. Sometimes you could do the bilateral sopingo ophrectomy as well, just because again, it's going to be beneficial. But a lot of the times you're going to have to more likely than not remove the uterus. What complications are you most concerned about with this patient? I think if they're bleeding a lot anemia, oh, okay, that's that's probably the most likely one is that iron deficiency anemia with very, very heavy aggressive bleeding is something that I would watch out for. So I'd probably be keeping this patient on a quick, you know, not quick, but I'd be doing serial CBCs to make sure that I'm keeping an eye on that treating them with the proper iron supplementation to make sure that they don't develop any severe anemia kind of related complications. If sometimes the tumor is big enough that it obstructs the outflow of certain types of secretions, they can get a pymetra, which is like an infectious complication, a pus kind of like pocket that develops inside of the endometrial area, that cavity, but that's pretty rare. So I'd definitely be watching out for anemia. That's for sure. All right, great. Well, that covers case two. That then leads us now into case three. Our next patient, Zach, is Ms. T. She's a 34 year old woman with a three month history of postcoital spotting. Again, when you hear that, these are some buzzword terms, but what are your differentials for this patient? I think it's, you know, cervical cancer is definitely one. Vaginal cancer is another one. Those are usually conspiring postcoital bleeding. And so whenever a patient's had sexual activity, there is these tumors that are right along the cervix, they're in the vagina. And whenever there is a irritation due to friction that's kind of hitting those actual tumors, they're friable. They can bleed very easily. And that's why postcoital bleeding is concerning for cervical cancer or vaginal cancer. You're probably going to see cervical cancer more often than vaginal cancer, just overall and, you know, I'd say overall common occurrence, but either way, that's what I'm thinking between those two. All right. Are there any tests that really jump out that you really want to go after here? I'd start off at least by doing a speculum exam. I take a look. I'd see if I see any kind of tumors that are sitting within the vagina. See if I see any tumors or any kind of like concerning lesions that are present on the cervix at least first. If I don't see anything that's actually there, then I would kind of reach to doing something like, you know, we could do an acetyl white staining to see if I can find any kind of lesions that pop up along the cervix. From there, if I do see something either visibly or the acetyl white stain confirms like a lesion that I can't visibly see, then I'd probably reach to do something like like a colposcopy with a biopsy. Now, and also the other thing that you really want to do is pap smears. Pap smears and HPV testing. Just the reason why is pap smears can tell you about cytological changes that are helpful. In other words, am I seeing things like, you know, some type of like squamous intraepithelial lesion of sort. So that's what I would say is going to be beneficial there. For example, is this like atypical squamous cells? Is this some type of atypical glangular cells? Is this a low grade squamous intraepithelial lesion? Is it a high grade squamous intraepithelial lesion? So those are kind of beneficial. And then knowing if they have HPV 16 and 18 really increases the concern for cervical cancer and also vaginal cancer. So look to see if they have a lesion on speculum exam. If they don't have one, I'd consider the acetyl white staining. I would do a pap smear HPV testing. And if they have the acetyl white staining, I'm definitely going to go ahead and get a coposcopy with a biopsy. That is going to tell me, do they have any cervical intraepithelial neoplasia? And what type is it? One, two, three? Or is this cancer invasive at this point? So that's the benefit of the coposcopy. From there, based upon what I find there, it will determine if I do kind of imaging for distant meds. But I think that's, it's not even common for these things to usually distantly metastasize. They can spread more likely within the pelvis themselves. And that can help you to kind of stage it. That's the only benefit of giving it a CT scan. But oftentimes, to at least diagnose what do I have going on? Speculum, take a look. Do I see anything? If I do, biopsy it. If I don't see something, acetyl white stain, no matter what, get the pap smear, do the HPV testing. And then if I see something, or if I acetyl white stain pops up, cope with a biopsy. And then after that, again, based upon what I find, if I find cervical cancer, may do metastatic imaging if I'm concerned. All right. Well, let's start with the examination in the pap smear. Okay. On the biomanual pelvic exam, we have a friable ulcer on the cervix. And for a pap smear, we show HSIL and a positive HPV 16. What are you thinking? At least now, what are you thinking? Well, I mean, okay. So if I see something, I don't have to do the acetyl white kind of like staining. So that's good. Because it's showing me a visible lesion. It's unfortunate that I see a visible lesion. But if I see that, that's concerning for cervical cancer. The pap showing a high grade squamous intrepithelial lesion, it's concerning. And then the presence of HPV 16 is very concerning for cervical cancer. I definitely need the coposcopy of biopsy because I know that I have some abnormal atypical cells that are there in the actual cervix. And because of that, I need to know, is it just cervical intrepithelial neoplasia? It didn't break the basement membrane or it did. That's what I need. And a pulp is the only thing that's really going to tell me that. All right. So the biopsy shows invasive squamous carcinoma. All right. So then they have invasive squamous carcinoma. So that means that they don't have like CIN1, CIN2, CIN3. Those are ones that you can probably get away with like doing like a leap procedure, which is kind of helpful. And you kind of reduce the risk of a lot of these unfortunate kind of things that you'll have to do for them. But yeah, sometimes if they have CIN2, 3, you can actually curatively treat them with what's called a leap procedure. That's one. But unfortunately, that's not going to work. And sometimes you can actually do like a surgical procedure as well. But I think in this scenario here, I'd probably say, is there any extension? Because that may guide my treatment. So I'd probably do a CT scan, at least of the abdomen and pelvis, to see if there's any local or regional spread. Well, we do the CT of the chest, abdomen and pelvis. The results we get are no perimetrial evasion, no distant metastases. So that's good. Yeah. So those are usually that's where it spreads is the perimetrium spreads to the actual pelvis, it spreads to the walls, spreads to the vagina. And so the fact that it hasn't, and it's actually maintained its actual origin within the uterus, especially that cervical portion, that's good. I mean, in this scenario, I'd say you could probably, you know, I'd say you can get away with this potential scenario with a radical hysterectomy. And I know that sounds terrible. Now, if you want to get, if you're trying to get pregnant, you can consider things like a colonization procedure, that is possible. But again, I think they're still going to try to push you after that to do a radical hysterectomy. But that's what I would say for this patient. If you got that CIN2, CIN3, you can probably do like a, what's called a cold knife surgery, or you can do a leap procedure, but you're not going to be able to do that with this one, you're probably going to have to reach for a radical hysterectomy for that one. This may seem odd, but is the patient, and maybe if they want to bear a child, are they able to get pregnant and then have the surgery after pregnancy? Yeah, I mean, it definitely complicates things. But yeah, you can try and then you can do the colonization therapy if they want to get pregnant. And then afterwards, you can do the radical hysterectomy. That's at least nice to know that there are options. Yeah, but maybe it can complicate things. It makes things really complicated. So speaking of complications, what are we going to be worried about here? The thing that they're going to test you on the exam is hydronephrosis. It always comes up on the exam. And so the concept here is that whenever you have cervical cancer, given the location and the way that the actual ureters run, especially if you have a pretty decent size cervical mass, it can compress the ureters as they run down to empty into the bladder. And so if you compress the ureter, you'll end up getting backflow of the ureters. You get hydronephrosis. So sometimes, I don't know, the vignette may present with flake pain. Sometimes it may present, if you get bilateral involvement, which is not always common, you could get an acute kidney injury like a post-renal aki. That's not too common. But I'd say flank pain, if they say like they got a renal ultrasound that showed hydronephrosis, and they have this kind of clinical picture, definitely keep on your mind a potentially an ovarian cancer. But that's the big thing. Metastatic wise, it's not a common one to spread like the ovarian cancer. That's great to hear. Yeah. All right. Next case then. Next patient comes in to use Zach. She is 62 years of age, and she's been having two months of intermittent vaginal spotting and malodorous discharge with prior cervical dysplasia. Usually, again, with them 62, like we postmenopausal, and these potential patients, you definitely get worried about vaginal cancer, especially when you hear like the vaginal spotting, the malodorous discharge, and they had prior cervical dysplasia. The reason why that's important to know is that cervical cancer, if it does spread, it actually spreads commonly to the vagina. And that's why when we talk about like metastatic disease for cervical cancer, it can spread. It's just usually more locally or regionally. It's not usually distant as often. But anyway, to this patient, I'm definitely concerned for like vaginal cancer. So this patient most likely did have some local metastasis, if you will. It's possible. Okay. It's possible. So then if you are thinking that route, what test would you order first? I mean, I'd still do the same thing I did for the cervical cancer patient. So I would definitely get a speculum exam and take a look, see if I see any kind of mass still at the cervix, or if I see somewhere in the vagina, if I see something, biopsy. And then again, I would still send off like an HPV co-testing, because oftentimes usually vaginal cancers do the 16 and 18 HPV 16 18 as well. That's probably the big thing. You don't need to do any kind of distant imaging for this one, unless you really, really have concern that they have symptoms of distant metastasis, oftentimes, speculum exam, pelvic exam, and the biopsy, if you find something is going to be fine. All right. Well, let's jump right to the biopsy. Okay. What that shows is invasive vaginal squamous cell carcinoma. What would you do next? I mean, you can, if you really, really want to, you can go ahead and kind of send off. You could do imaging. I don't think it's really necessary for this patient, because no matter what, you're going to probably be hitting them with some degree of chemotherapy and radiation. So no matter what, I think it's going to be the same thing where you can do the MRI, but I don't think it's going to be helpful. All right. Well, we have, you know, early primary vaginal carcinoma. How would you treat this patient? I'd chemo radiation. That's probably going to be the primary thing I would do for this patient. That's going to be the first line. Usually vaginal cancer responds well to chemo and radiation therapy, whereas vulvar cancer, which I imagine we're going to be getting to, that one responds better to surgical therapy than chemo radiation. Okay. So is there anything like specifically as far as the chemo radiation regimen? Anything with a platinum agent is going to be good. Okay. Anything with a platinum agent is going to be good. Just like, you know, ovarian cancer responds pretty well to, you know, usually like a pachylo taxil and cisplatin or doxyl taxil and cisplatin. So yeah, any kind of solid organ tumors respond pretty well to platinum-based agents. Okay. Great. Let's move on to case five. We have another patient coming into you. She's 72 years of age and she has six months of vulvar peritis and a one and a half centimeter ulcerated labial lesion. Yeah. So when I hear vulvar peritis and again, a very elderly individual, it concerns me for vulvar cancer. You know, vulvar peritis is really, really common with vulvar cancer. And again, having that labial lesion also kind of is really concerning. Could it still be vaginal cancer? That's possible. Sometimes you can even have something called lichen sclerosis can happen with this, especially as individuals get older and they have the estrogen deficiencies, the skin of the vulva and the vaginal vagina start to get really, really thin and then get irritated. So I'm thinking it's probably vulvar cancer given our context. That's the only one that we have left, but that's what I'm going to go. And what tests are you thinking about for this patient? I do a very close inspection. You don't have, you can do, I'd still probably be throwing into a speculative exam. Make sure I'm not missing anything, but I would do a very careful inspection, especially with that ulcerated labial lesion. I mean, that right there is going to be the area that I'm just going to biopsy right off the get go. And I, you shouldn't have to do imaging. If you do, if you do, it's really because this is a pretty deep lesion. But oftentimes just do a speculative exam inspect the vulva, look to see if you see a lesion. If you got one biopsia. All right. So we do get a punch biopsy of the lesion that is in question. And this is revealing a keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma, three millimeter depth, no lymph vascular invasion, which sounds pretty good. I mean, the, this scenario here, we have vulvar carcinoma. It's not, it's not a vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia because it's obviously broken through the basement membrane because it's three millimeters in depth. So it is invasive, but at least I don't, I wouldn't be likely that this thing is spread. And then you, again, it's not being negative or anything like that, but vaginal vulvar cancers, they can spread. You should definitely always consider imaging to kind of look to see if there's any kind of concern for local regional spread. But for the purpose of an exam, it's really more important for you to know what's the step by step process. And then once you've kind of determined that with usually a speculative exam, usually some type of biopsia of sorts, then from there, the imaging is going to come more with clinical presentations that suggest metastasis ovarian cancer is just the one that usually by the time you identify, it's usually metastasized. So it's not to say that these can't actually spread. It's just less likely. And the one that I want you to remember most often for this exam that spreads is going to be ovarian cancer. And when I said fortunately, I just mean like, it just sounds like they're catching this a little earlier, which is great. But unfortunately, yes, like you said, it has, it has most likely spread. But at least maybe we can go ahead and prevent the further progression of this disease. Yeah. And the best thing to do with that is to just cut it out. Cut the actual lesion out. So I do a wide local excision, try and in these scenarios, sometimes if you have to, you may even have to remove the vulva. So like a radical vulvectomy sometimes may be the option. But a wide local excision is going to be preferred if you have to evolve active. It would be the option as well. All right. Well, that was all the cases that I had for you. And you kind of worked it up in a stepwise fashion. And everything made perfect sense. So thank you. Yeah, I think the biggest thing when it comes to gynecological cancers is having a systematic approach. Yeah. It's understanding that when a patient comes in, for example, they're coming in with maybe a CITES, they're coming in with bloating, they're coming in with a weird weight gain. And they have a clinical picture that screams some type of prolonged estrogen exposure, which is a postmenopausal woman or they're on tomoxifen or something like that. Those things concern you for ovarian cancer. The best thing to do is to again, always do a bimanual exam, a pelvic exam, consider a speculum exam. But I think the big thing for that one is it's going to be a transvaginal ultrasound. You're going to see some concerning things there. You can do the tumor markers, but oftentimes that's not completely necessary because ovarian cancer spreads very aggressively. I would do CT scans to see if it's distantly spread. An exploratory laparotomy would be the definitive way to diagnose it. When patients present with endometrial cancer, you're always hearing the word postmenopausal bleeding. And those scenarios do your same exam, your bimanual, your pelvic, your speculum. And I think the biggest thing here is it's going to lead you to get a transvaginal ultrasound. You won't see anything wrong, particularly with ovary, the fallopian tubes, you'll see that the stripe, the endometrial stripe is really big. That's going to scream something that's concerning, get the biopsy. When a patient comes in with postcoital bleeding, think is it vaginal or is it cervical? In those scenarios, you're going to do the same thing. You're going to do a bimanual pelvic. You're going to go ahead and do a speculum exam. You're going to look for lesions. If you see the lesion, great. Do a Culp biopsy yet or if it's a vaginal lesion, biopsy yet. No matter what, always do a pap smear to look to see if you have intraepithelial neoplasia. That's our intraepithelial lesions present and it can kind of help you look to see if they're positive for HPV 1618 because those things scream to you, get a coposcopy with a biopsy. When I get the coposcopy with a biopsy, it's going to confirm, is it invasive or is it intraepithelial neoplasia? Same thing. If I have a patient with vaginal cancer and I have biopsy, it's going to tell me, is it a vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia or is it an invasive one? Those things are going to tell you the likely cause or the likely lesion that you have. Then again, is it necessary for you to get distant imaging? You can if they have a local regional spread symptoms that concern you for that. Volvar cancer always be concerned when you hear the term volvar, pirates and an elderly individual. Then oftentimes it's a close inspection. You'll see a potential lesion that's either red, it's irritated, it's usually also thin labia that would suggest they have some risk factors. I should consider a biopsy of this and that will then tell you, is it an intraepithelial neoplasia of the volvar or is it actually an invasive one? Again, only do the distant imaging if they have concerning symptoms that it's local or regionally spread. But either way, I think at the end of the day, treatments for these can sometimes be dependent upon the patient's desire for fertility. In scenarios of that, you may need to consider alternative therapies. Endometrial cancer, progestin, if they have cervical cancer, you may consider something like a colonization procedure. But oftentimes the primary way that we treat these is surgical, which is removal of the tumor and sometimes the associated structures. For ovarian and endometrial cancer, oftentimes it means removing the uterus, the fallopian tubes, the ovaries. And cervical cancer sometimes means doing like, unfortunately, maybe a hysterectomy. And in certain situations of vulvar cancer, it means doing a wide excision or a radical vulvectomy. The only one that you may actually not have to do surgery for is...  is the vaginal cancer, which you can get away with with chemo and radiation. I think this was a helpful kind of podcast to kind of just, I think, think clinically about gynecological cancers, have a systematic approach. It's always going to make things easier. It's always going to help you to kind of actually at least think clinically and know why you're doing this thing and what it's going to tell you. And how is it going to help you overall with your patient? But man, I hope you guys liked this podcast. I hope you learned a lot. And I love you guys. And thank you guys. And as always, until next time. Bye.