 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам What's up, Ninja Nerds? In this video today, we're going to be talking about gynecological cancers. There's a lot of them to discuss. We're going to talk a lot about ovarian cancer. We'll also talk about endometrial cancer. We'll spend a good amount of time talking about cervical cancer. The last two we won't spend a massive amount of time on, but I'll talk about a couple big things that you may see on the exam, like vaginal and vulvar cancer. All right, this is a part of our clinical medicine series, and you guys know that if you really are helping you, they're helping you to make sense of a complicated topic, there's a couple ways that you can easily support us. You can hit the like button. You can comment down in the comment section. You can subscribe. If you're looking to take your understanding of these topics to the next level, I urge you become a member, and you can do that by going down the description box below. There's a link that goes to our website. On there, you'll find things like notes, illustrations, quiz questions, much more that I think that'll take you to that next level if you're looking to get ninja and nerdy. All right, let's get past that part and get into the pathophys. All right, friends, let's talk about ovarian cancer. Ovarian cancer is a very, very unfortunate cancer. The reason why is as we've talked about, probably unfortunately, when it comes to oncology, you find out a little bit too late. Ovarian cancer is pretty much clinically asymptomatic until you start getting to the stages where it's kind of gone beyond the ovary. It's kind of gotten into the peritoneum. It's led to ascites. It's led to potentially pleural effusions. It's gotten all over the place. That's when we start to see more of the symptoms that start to appear. Ovarian cancer is interesting because when you talk about this one, it has a decent amount of pathophys to talk about a lot of complications. We'll dig into that. When we do that, ovarian cancer is interesting to know that when we talk about the ovary, if you were to imagine here, we're just looking at one of the ovaries. Obviously, it's connected to the uterus via the fimbria, the fallopian tubes, and you got the ampula. Then you get over here to the uterus. There's also connections too that hold the ovary in place. One we have here is called the suspensory ligament. This one here is called the uteroovarian ligament. It's really helpful for keeping that ovary in a nice suspended position. What I want to do is, I want to take, for example, when we talk about ovarian cancer, it's not just like, you can say, oh, it's going to occur in the ovary. Yes, it does. We don't look at it as more of a location sense. We look at it more of like a tissue tumor type or what kind of ovarian tumor is it? Because not every tumor is exactly the same. Let's say that we have a patient who has an ovarian tumor. Here's the mass. It's on the ovary. It's decent size. It's causing maybe no symptoms. But eventually, you end up, for some reason, working the patient up. You find the ovarian tumor. You do an oophorectomy and you send it to the pathologist and they look at it and they say, oh, this is this type of ovarian tumor. What do we look for? Well, you have to kind of go in and look at a little bit more of the basic structure of the ovary. So, we have here kind of like the outer layer of the ovary. This is kind of like the epithelial layer. All right? So, this is going to be called your epithelial layer. Now, the epithelial layer, when that tissue there decides to go undergo a little bit of changes. It's not a happy tissue. It's now an angry, sad, cancerous tissue. There was some kind of mutation that led to an uptick in the proto-oncogenes and a shutting down of the tumor suppressor genes. And likely, there was some mismatch repair genes that also got mutated, which we'll talk about a little bit later because those are actually really helpful. But whenever there's an abnormality in the epithelium, that can lead to epithelial tumors. Now, epithelial tumors are by far the most common. So whenever there is an abnormality or malignancy in these cells, so we'll represent it, here's the abnormality. It's in these cells. That can lead to epithelial tumors. Now, there's a bunch of these. But I'd say out of all of these, there's two that I think are worth remembering. One is the tumor is filled, like you have a bunch of these cells that are replicating, replicating, replicating the epithelial cells. When they start to become dysplastic, they become cancerous, they can accumulate a lot of fluid in them. And it could just be like a very thin, clearish fluid called a cirrhosis adenocarcinoma. So you can have a cirrhosis type, so a cirrhosis adenocarcinoma, or you can have a musinus, cyst adenocarcinoma. So these are going to be the most common types of ovarian tumors. These are the most common. Now what I want you to remember about these tumors is something kind of unfortunate. Actually it can be somewhat helpful. When we talk about these epithelial tumors, they can gain the capacity to secrete specific markers that may help us to think about this tumor as compared to all the other ones. What is that? Well the thing I want you to associate with this one is these tumors are associated with an increase in what's called CA125. So whenever you hear epithelial tumor, it's a tumor of the outer layer, the epithelium of the ovary. It's usually cirrhosis or musinus, cyst adenocarcinomas. And the tumor marker that we oftentimes associate with is CA125. All right, let's go to the next part. Well there's no vascular part. What the heck? They're big old ovarian follicles. Now in the follicles you have these things called oocytes. It's these right here. These are your oocytes. And then around them you have some different types of cells. These are technically they are the germ cell of the ovary. They're what it's going to determine the possibility whatever a female ovulates that of a sperm cell is present, it will combine with these oocytes and lead to a fertilized egg. So these whenever you have a cancer or mutation that occurs and these this leads to something called germ cell tumors. Germ cell tumors. Now germ cell tumors are very unfortunate because they can be pretty aggressive. Epithelial tumors are usually going to occur more often in postmenopausal women, a little bit more of the older age. Germ cell tumors are going to be appearing in more than the perimenopausal. So usually it's the younger individuals and they're very aggressive and there's a couple different types. So one of them is called a yolk sac tumor. You're like, wait, Zach we're talking about ovaries bro. We ain't talking about the testicles. I know, but yolk sac tumors were germ cell tumors for testicular tumors. It's the same concept. Another one that may sound familiar, a choreo carcinoma. You're like, Zach dude, you're talking about testicular tumors. No, I'm telling you this can be again another type of germ cell tumor for ovarian to cancer. Another one is called a teratoma. You're like, huh, a lot of this sounds familiar. Yes, because they are germ cell tumors. Another one is called a dish germinoma. This one's a really nasty one. It's a very aggressive, grows pretty quick, very, very quick growing one. These are tumors that whenever we look at them under the microscope, this has that classic idea as you remember, the shillard de vol bodies. This one is the syncytiotrophoblast and the cytotrophoblast. It looks like placental tissue. This one is the Frankenstein. You guys remember this one? This is the one that has muscle and bone and teeth and hair as all a part of this tumor. It's a really nasty one. And dish germinomas. These are interesting ones. They grow very rapidly, aggressively, and they can get pretty big. Unfortunately, it can cause twisting of the ovary. They can cause ovarian torsion. What really helps these besides what they look like on the microscope, these tumor markers can be somewhat helpful. For example, for yolk sac tumors, they're highly associated with AFP. AFP is a really important one. For choreocarcinomas, it's beta-HCG. This should sound relatively familiar, guys. For teratomas, there's nothing. You don't really have any specific tumor marker that we look at. It's really the histological makeup that we get kind of concerned with. So that's one thing. The other thing is dish germinomas. These have a heavy amount of cell turnover. Do you remember what that one marker was? It was more just a heavy, heavy cell turnover. We talk about it in tumor lysosynter. We talk about it in a lot of different cancers. LDH. LDH is heavily associated with dish germinomas. So whenever a patient has an increased AFP, then yolk sac, increased beta-HCG, then choreocarcinoma, no specific markers, teratoma, LDH, dish germinomas. All right. Now, we have other cells. You see these purple cells? These purple cells are called granulosa cells. These are cool dudes. These are cool little dudes. And the reason why I say that is that they have the capacity to make hormones. And that's going to be helpful. They can make things like estrogen. They can make things like inhibin, and there's inhibit A and there's inhibit B. And there's another cell, which is these pink ones right outside of it. And these are called theca cells. These are called your theca cells. Then you have these other ones here. These are pretty simple. They make lots of fibrous tissue. I bet you'd never guess what these are. These are called fibro. Let me actually draw it up above them. Fibroblast. All right. So here we have fibroblast. And this one is called, it's literally, it's just primitive gonadal stromal tissue. That's all it is. It's a primitive gonadal tissue. So we can write this one here. I'll actually write it here so I have some room because I can tell I'm not going to make it. Primitive gonadal, we call that stroma, which is just kind of like, it's like a supportive tissue essentially. So these cells make up something called your sex cord stromal tissue. All right. They make up something called your sex cord stromal tissue. And so whenever you have cancer or mutation that involves these cells, that's called sex cord stromal tumors. And guess what? It depends upon the tissue or the cells that we just talked about. So for example, if I say it involves the granulosa and the thika cells, that's a granulosa thika cell tumor. Sometimes we call them a granulosa thicoma. Sometimes you can just have the thical cells, which is a thicoma. But usually pretty simple is we have granulosa thica cell tumors. Now granulosa cells secrete something called estrogen. And estrogen is really, really important because estrogen is what helps the process of some of these oocytes, but also it goes to the uterus. And if you remember, it kind of gets the uterus prepared. And so the estrogen is really, really important whenever we have something like FSH that comes and tells the granulosa cells to produce estrogen. So granulosa cells, if they are having cancer of them, what theoretically could be produced in higher amounts? Estrogen. So there could be an elevation in the estrogen. And if this isn't a pre-puberty female, they could have estrogenic symptoms. They could have precocious puberty potentially. And so that's something to think about. The other one that they release is they release something called inhibin. Inhibin is supposed to basically help the controlling of the regulation of the feedback pathway for estrogen. And so inhibin could also be elevated in this type of cancer. So if you see these potential levels, it's kind of just kind of queuing you off to think about which type of cancer if they're presenting the vignette somehow. The next one is if it involves the fibroblasts. So I guess you wouldn't know what we'd call that one. We call that an ovarian fibroma. Now ovarian fibromas are kind of nasty. And the reason why is they can get kind of, without being weird, they can get slippery. And these can cause a couple of different issues. But what we talk about with ovarian fibromas is something really interesting because they'll try to bring this up in the exam some way or shape or form because it's got a name associated with it. It doesn't really have hormones that are really the markers. It's really something that we talk about with this called Meg's syndrome. So I'm going to write this down. It's called Meg's syndrome. And this is a triad of a presentation that we commonly associate with ovarian fibromas. What is that triad? They usually have three things. They have a fibroma. That's one thing. So they have an ovarian fibroma. The other thing is they have ascites. And the third thing is they have a pleural effusion. So this is called Meg's syndrome. The thing that is annoying about this is that you can get ascites and pleural effusion and ovarian cancer and it could be epithelial ovarian cancer. But they just like to throw this thing in there sometimes that if a patient has a fibroma along with a pleural effusion and they have ascites, we call that Meg's syndrome. So just think about that one. It's one of those things that they can throw on for the terminology. And what I'll do here is just to pay it a little bit of homage, I'll put a red box around it. All right. The last one is the primitive gonadostroma. You should not, and I repeat, you should not be having sertoli and lideg cells and the female ovary. But if for some reason you develop a mutation, this primitive gonadostroma that it turns into sertoli or lideg cells, you can get a sertoli lideg cell tumor. So sertoli lideg ovarian tumor. These could be associated with an increase in angiogens. You definitely want to consider that. But I don't want you to get too, too worked up about these ones. But yes, you could see a bump in angiogen levels. And what are these angiogen levels? That's usually things like DHEA is one, test, some testosterone, you know, those things could theoretically be a little bit elevated. All right. So watch out for potentially an increase in angiogen levels. But the ones that I really, really want you to think about is the CA125 with epitheliovarian tumors. CIFP with yolk sac, BDHCG with choryocarsanoma, and increased LDH with this germanomas. All right. So that's a lot. That's a lot, all right. All of these are primary ovarian tumors. What if by some chance, some crazy chance, you get a metastatic, metastatic ovarian cancer. Now ovarian cancer can be bilateral, primary ones, but I'd say it's more often unilateral. And so whenever you have a patient who comes in who has this theoretical presentation of bilateral ovarian cancer, I would think about something. So what happens is, let's say that a patient has gastric cancer, all right. And there's a specific type of gastric adenocarcinoma. You know, there's two types. I mean, we talked about this actually in the esophageal and gastric cancer lecture. And it's interesting because this one gets really, really thickened layer. Starts usually approximately, kind of moves its way distally. Do you guys remember what that was called? Diffuse, gastric adenocarcinoma. So we call this one, let's say, diffuse gastric adenocarcinoma. I'm going to test your memory a little bit. Do you guys remember what led to this being diffuse? It was the loss of, because I'm going to say diffuse because it has the loss of the e-cadherins. So e-cadherins are supposed to keep cells together, nicely tightly to get back together. All of a sudden you lose it. These cells are just, you know, moving around. And now they can move, they can infiltrate deeper. And whenever these cells infiltrate deeper, they get to the lymph nodes. So it represents some kind of like, due to brown stuff here, these are the cells. And these cells get into the lymphatics. And when they get to the lymphatics, they can move their way. Unfortunately, to an ovary. And not just one ovary, both ovaries. And let's give them a little bit of a whoop, therefore the fembrane attaches. These are going to go to the ovaries. And now you're going to have these tumors here from those gastric adenocarcinoma, the diffuse type. And it's going to be in both of the ovaries. So you're going to have bilateral ovarian tumors. You know what they call this? When it comes from a gastric adenocarcinoma, it's really important to remember this term, my friends. This is called a Krockenberg tumor. Krockenberg tumor. All right, that's what I want you guys to remember here. So Krockenberg tumor is associated with a metastatic cancer. Primary tumors usually one ovary. You get both involved and the patient has a history of diffuse gastric adenocarcinoma. Think about it. One of the ways that they would say that is when these cells break off, there is a specific name for these cells. And they're called signet. That's what you're looking for. The signet ring. So essentially you kind of like think about like this. It has like that kind of look to it. The signet ring cells. These are the cells of the gastric adenocarcinoma that broke off and they moved and they got to the ovaries. That's what these are. These are the signet ring cells. All right. So at this point, I know it's a lot. I know. I promise I know and we're going to get through this. We're going to understand that I promise. But I want you to know that ovarian tumors can be primary, all of these, or it could be metastatic. This is the most important ones. What I want you to then think about is what in the heck is causing that epithelial tissue? Causing the OSI tissue? Causing the granulosa cells, sthika cells, fibroblasts, primitive granatostroma, to all of a sudden go mad and decide to become cancerous. What's anything that's causing repetitive replication and repair? What do the ovaries do? They ovulate. That's what females are supposed to allow for that to do. The ovary function is to ovulate. It is to, essentially, imagine this. There is an egg. I want this to pop out an oocyte. And I really, theoretically, I want it to go this way because I want a sperm cell to meet it so that they can implant. But that's the whole point is that what I'm looking for this ovary to do is to do something called ovulation. To pop that egg out. But every single time it does that, every time you ovulate, every time the female ovulates, there has to be a repair process. You have to heal that tissue. After you heal the tissue, guess what? You make new tissue. So if I ovulate, repair, and heal, and I keep doing that, guess what's going to happen? There is an opportunity for mutations to arise for cancer to occur. So that's what you've got to think about. You've got to go back to this thought process. What's the trigger for ovulation? Well, here we have, this is not testicles. This is hypothalamus. You know that. Here we're going to have the hypothalamus and it secretes something called GNRH. And then GNRH is going to do what? It's going to go to the anterior pituitary. The anterior pituitary is going to trigger the production of two different hormones. It depends upon which phase in the ovulation cycle we're in. Let's say that we're in the beginning part, it would cause something called FSH to be produced. FSH would then go to what? To the ovaries. And then it would go to the granulosa cells and that would trigger the production of something called estrogen. And what we know is that when estrogen levels are high, it goes to the uterus and it causes the proliferation of the uterus. It causes them to get lots of blood vessels and help to get ready to allow for them to proliferate. But then what happens is over time, estrogen usually goes and you get closer to that point of where the female is getting ready to ovulate. And what it will do is, it will trigger this process where it will not shoot into what's called the LH surge. And then LH will rise. And then what LH will do is LH will come over here and it will tell this ovarian follicle to pressurize and to trigger this ovulation process. So this is kind of the basic, I'm just real quick, ovulatory phase of what we're talking about. So whenever a patient has these hormones, Gener H triggers FSH in the initial phases, causes estrogen to get produced. Regen can go eventually as it gets higher and higher and higher. It then triggers a negative feedback mechanism where it kind of shuts it down, but then triggers an LH surge. LH then causes ovulation. The whole point here is that usually after this, LH also is supposed to help with the progesterone production. So what happens is, is any time a patient has consistent ovulatory cycles, they get exposed to higher amounts of estrogen. So here's what I want you guys to think about. What puts a person at risk of having increased ovulatory cycles? That's really the trigger. So let's talk about that. Increased ovulation cycles. Another way that we like to think about this is increase in estrogen without proper opposition from progesterone. Because progesterone is supposed to suppress this process. Eventually what happens is progesterone should get produced, especially by the corpus luteum. And then the progesterone will go and it'll actually help to shut down the FSH production and shut down the estrogen production. It'll also tell the uterus to go into more of a secretory phase because you're theoretically preparing for implantation of the baby. But increased ovulation cycles is really what's going to cause this process because anything has to do with that. So now this is going to be a couple of different things. One is if you have early monarchy. You're like, okay, maybe some of you know what that means, some of you don't. I didn't know it initially, but it's early first menstrual cycle. Let's say that you started at like nine years old. If you start at nine and you don't end until you're about 50, that's a long period of time where you're having repeated ovulatory cycles. Every ovulatory cycle leads to ovulation and then scar tissue and then repair. So that's one trigger. Another one is what if you went into menopause later? That means that you no longer ovulate. You stopped that process. If you have that going until you're like 60 years old, theoretically you have more ovulatory cycles, more ovulation, more repair, more fibrous tissue, more healing, more chance for mutations to arise. Another one is if you did not have any babies. So null parity. So no babies. That means that whenever a woman is pregnant, they produce progesterone. Guess what progesterone is supposed to do? I just told you it's supposed to oppose this process. If you've never had any periods of where you were pregnant, guess what? You have no progesterone to oppose that estrogen process. Another one, and this is kind of interesting because it's not, it's kind of weird when you think about it, but we also think about this in obesity. So obesity can also be somewhat of a trigger. And the reason why is in obesity, you express more of something called aromatase enzymes. And aromatase enzymes help to be able to convert things like androgens into estrogen. So if you have more unopposed estrogen, that's also going to lead to this potential problem. So these are the things I really want you to think about that are really the triggers here. So more ovulatory cycles means more opportunity for mutations. More mutations means opportunity for cancer to arise. The things that I think are protective, so the things that actually prevent this from happening are things like oral contraceptives. Oral contraceptives are actually really, really helpful because they contain progestinous, as long as they contain that. That's going to be helpful. Breastfeeding, because it helps with the progesterone production. It helps with prolactin, which helps to shut down some of those pathways. So having those kinds of conditions like oral contraceptives, getting pregnant, breastfeeding, those things all reduce the risk of ovarian cancer. So these are things that unfortunately, if you increase the ovulatory cycles, so more of these, that brings about more opportunity for cancer to arise. Protective factors are things like oral contraceptives, like progestin, things like breastfeeding, things like getting pregnant. Really, really important to remember that. So I think from here we've covered what are the different types of primary tumors, how can you slightly differentiate them? What's the one metastatic one that we should then consider? When we talk about ovarian cancer, what's really the underlying trigger? It's those who have frequent or increased ovulatory cycles. More ovulatory cycles brings about opportunity for repair, healing, and then with that you can introduce an opportunity for DNA replication error. Something can go wrong and you can develop cancer. With that being said, one last thing to think about. What if it has nothing to do with ovulation cycles, but you unfortunately, you then introduce a genetic problem. So let's say that you have, you know, this is all normal. But then you have genes that are supposed to help in this repair process. Because once you have this ovulation, then what's going to have to happen is you're going to have to go through a repair process. And then that will hopefully help to heal the ovaries. So you should have ovulation, then you should have repair, and then you should have healing. What if I have some genes, and we'll just, I'm not picking any color, I'm just doing it like this, you have some genes that are not going to allow for you to repair. What if I have this, and I don't allow for that healing, that can allow for potential for mutations, that can allow for cancer to occur. So what are these? This I want you to remember two. One is called the BRCA mutations. So there's BRCA one, and there's BRCA two. These increase the risk of not just ovarian cancer, but what else? Breast cancer. And the last one is called, we call it a couple of different things, but hereditary, non-polyposis, colorectal cancer. That's another name for this. Lynch syndrome. Let's write that out, we'll write that one instead. Lynch syndrome. Lynch syndrome. So this is hereditary, non-polyposis, colorectal cancer. So what kind of cancer do you think it's associated with? Colorectal cancer? Guess what else? Endometrial cancer? Guess what else? Ovarian cancer. So I always want you to know BRCA, think breast and ovarian. All right, that's the ones that you increase the risk of. So BRCA mutations, boom. If I say Lynch, which is non, I mean, which is hereditary, non-polyposis, colorectal cancer, you increase the risk of, I want you to remember Merrill Lynch, which is the CEO. C for colorectal cancer, E for endometrial, and O for ovarian cancer. These are the things that I want you guys to associate with ovarian cancer. All right, I think we really hit this pretty hard. So now what I want to do is, let's say that we have a patient comes in, postmenopausal maybe, they're coming in, and they don't have any specific labs that are being drawn yet, but they don't have any other kind of symptoms. Maybe their symptoms are very, very subtle. They don't have any history of Lynch syndrome. They don't have any history of BRCA mutations. But they do have a history of having early menarchi or late menopausal that have never been pregnant or they were obese. And they start to come in with some potential symptoms. What are those symptoms? Well, again, symptoms can be very, very vague or completely asymptomatic in ovarian cancer. It's usually as they start getting past the ovary and usually starting to invade the perisoneum or the pelvic sidewall of the lymph nodes that we started to get some symptoms. But let's imagine here, you have a tumor. So here's the ovary. So here we have the bladder. Here we have the ovary. Here we have the fallopian tube. Here we have the uterus. And here we have the rectum and colon. Here's the ovarian tumor. The ovarian tumor can actually implant and seed into the perisoneum. That's one thing it can do. So it can start to break away and get into, it can actually cause what we call peritoneal implants. It can start to kind of seed and get into the peritoneum. The other thing that this...  and alfalfa. So, what this can do is it can secrete cytokines, things like VEGF, things like interleukin-6, and what happens here is when it starts to secrete these things, especially in a little bit of a higher amount, in combination with these implants. So, we're going to actually write these out here. These are implants, peritoneal implants. And I'm talking about like breast implants or anything. I'm talking about the tumor. It literally seeds and gets pieces of it on the peritoneum. This is a peritoneal implant. That can cause one issue, but these also cause an issue, because these cytokines, they go to the capillaries in the peritoneum. And so, in the peritoneum, you have these capillary system, and they start to get really leaky. And as they start to get really leaky, guess what starts to kind of come out of this? Peritoneal fluid. You start getting some secretion, some loss of protein-rich fluid from the peritoneum. That could be from these cytokines. The other thing is it could be from these tumors itself in the peritoneum, causing inflammation, causing leakiness. And so, now you get all this fluid that starts to kind of accumulate in the peritoneum. And eventually, we're going to just draw like a fluid level here. What is this called when you have this free-floating fluid in the peritoneum? Acides. So, that's one potential presentation that we get kind of nervous about with this disease is acides. Now, acides, unfortunately, when we talk about this one, acides here can present kind of like subtly. They may present with bloating. All right? So, I'm not kidding. I'm going to write bloat, because that's sometimes the way that we'll describe these patients is they feel bloated. They look bloated. They look like the Michelin man. They come in and they say that their waist size has been going up. So, you have an increase in the waist size. You have some sensation of bloating. They may even have some associated like pelvic pain down there, right? So, that's something I'll also think about. But the thing that we can start to consider is if a patient ever came in with acides, they would have potentially those signs of acides. Shifting dullness, fluid wave test. So, always look for that in the exam, because that's your classic stuff. So, your fluid wave test would be positive. You would have shifting dullness, right? Those are all definitely things that we could see on exam, if mentioned. But oftentimes, the key thing that we kind of hear in your exam questions is you're going to hear this term bloat. Now, another thing that can happen, I would say it's not as common, but because this is going to be a protein. So, I'm actually representing this as a fluid that's rich in protein. We're going to represent these proteins in pink. So, there's going to be not just like your water and plasma material, but there's going to be lots of albumin. Lots of proteins get leaked into this. And so, that changes what's called their SAG. And so, the other thing that you could say is if you really, really wanted to, is if you ever tapped this, if you did ever do the Parisian thesis and you tested this fluid, they would have a SAG, a series of societies of human gradient that would be less than 1.1. And all that tells me, and you can't really see that point there, 1.1, that just tells me that it's non-portal hypertension related. It's exudative. Something's making the capillaries leaky. There's a lot of different things, tuberculosis. Sometimes pancreatitis can do this, but malignancies are really, really the big one to think about. And one of the most common malignancies is a peritoneal carcinomatosis. And guess what this is? This is peritoneal carcinomatosis that's due to ovarian cancer seeding and causing implants or causing cytokines that's leading to leakage. But that's what I want you guys to think about is peritoneal carcinomatosis. Now, something else that's kind of really interesting with ovarian cancer, especially with the ascites, is that on the right side, you have these little, like, small holes and you also have more patent lymphatic channels. And so what happens is the diaphragm is kind of like the border between the abdominal cavity and the pleural cavity. But sometimes this fluid can move through these small little defects, these small little lymphatic channels, under the right hemidiaphragm. And if it does, you can start to get fluid that accumulates here in the pleural cavity. What is this called? Pleural effusion. All right? So they can get pleural effusions. So the two things that I really want you to remember is pleural effusions and ascites. Pleural effusions, obviously, they can present a bunch of different ways. If we really wanted to go into it, right, you'd have decreased breath sounds, right? You'd have, you know, usually if you really wanted to go there, you could have the decreased breath sounds. You would have dullness to percussion. If you were to percuss, I can't say I haven't done this too often, but it's something that helps you to make you very, very thorough. And the last one is obviously they may have some chief complaint. So dyspnea is a very common one as well. Maybe even some pleuridic chest pain. But pleural effusions and ascites are interesting because they kind of go hand in hand. And if you think about this, I talked about that with what's called MEGZ syndrome. So if a patient has an ovarian fibroma, ascites, and pleural effusion, that's called MEGZ syndrome. But we see this with really any kind of ovarian tumor, especially things like epithelial ovarian tumors, which are the most common type of ovarian tumor. All right. So that's really important. And the other thing I want you to remember is the pleural effusion. Just to have a little notation here, it's often right-sided. Just basically because of the smaller, because the, there's small little channels that are more patent on the right hemidiafram. And also they have more patent lymphatic channels for it to kind of move through. Probably enough, if you treat the ovarian cancer and the ascites goes away, the pleural effusion goes away without having to treat it. All right. That's that one. Now the next thing that I want you guys to think about is again, if a patient has ovarian cancer, here's their ovary. Here's the bladder. Here's the fallopian tube, uterus, and then the rectum and colon. Here's the tumor. Again, it can kind of break through the peritoneum and it can implant. So you can get some implants here, all right, all over here. And then again, we also know that it can secrete chemicals like VEGF and interleukin-6. And then what we know about these is that if these are released in higher than normal amounts, they do have the capability of acting on the peritoneum and doing what? Making the peritoneum a little bit more leaky. And that's what led to the ascites, right? And then theoretically even the pleural effusions. But that's one component here. The other thing is that there's, let's actually do it here in like this kind of orangish color here. There's a structure here called the omentum. You know you have your greater omentum and you have your lesser omentum. The ovarian tumors love the omentum. They like to go there and attach to the omentum. And so that's one thing. They can attach to the peritoneum, but they can also implant into the omentum. And so imagine here, you have a bunch of fluid. So here's some acidic fluid, right? And this is because of the implants, the peritoneal implants. But it's also because of these cytokines. So you have the ascites and that's kind of pushing on the bowels. And then you have these implants and it's kind of thickening the omentum and that's pushing on the bowels. If you compress on the bowels, what's going to happen? You're going to decrease the luminal caliber. And now the luminae's look like that. And now look at that. It's a tiny little guy. Because you're having extrinsic force that's compressing it. What can that do? That can lead to a bowel obstruction. So these patients can also present with symptoms of a small bowel obstruction or an SBO. I wouldn't have this at the top of your differential, but it's something to think about especially in this clinical vignette, that it could be due to the ascites that's smushing and it could be due to the peritoneal implants and the omental implants that's smushing on the small bowel. Obviously, what are some symptoms of small bowel obstruction? It's usually, remember the pneumonic cavo, so cramping abdominal pain is one presentation. So they may come in with some abdominal pain. They may have abdominal distention. And that obviously could be because of the gas that's building up and the air and the fluid and the food contents. And also could be due to the ascites. They could have vomiting or associated nausea. And this one's I'd say less likely unless it's more of a severe obstruction, but they could also have obstipation where they can't fart, can't pass gas. And sometimes they can't even have poops, so constipation. So small bowel obstruction is definitely something to think about, but I would want you to focus more of your energy on the pleural effusion and the ascites. And know that this can happen as a result of the implants and the ascites themselves. This is one of the problems, and that's why sometimes whenever patients have ovarian tumors, guess what we do? We remove the ovary, and then unfortunately we have to remove the fallopian tubes, and sometimes we've got to pretty much use it to remove the uterus as well. So you do what's called a total abdominus directumiae and a bilateral subhingo opherectomy. And then what happens is you have to go in and explore. And you have to see if these tumors went into the paritidium, if they have implants, and you have to remove those. And then sometimes you have to remove the omentum. So you have to do an omentectomy. So you're trying to basically reduce the risk of these areas. You do what's called a cytoreductive debulking. You're really trying to get as much of the tumor out of the paritidium as possible. The last complication that I want to quickly hit on here, and you can see this one with, I'd say it's more ovarian cis, but you can see it with dish Germanomas. What's that have here, ovarian tumor, it's a big one. And it's growing rapidly and aggressively. So you get a really, really quick one. So we're just going to, we'll call this one a dish Germanoma. This is usually the one that we would see just because of its increase in growth and the rapidity of it. Here is your dish Germanoma. Remember I told you the ovaries kind of held in place by two ligaments that are really kind of important here. Let's see if I can get these guys in here. I'm going to put this one as the utero ovarian ligament. And this one here is called your suspensory ligament. Now these are helpful for really helping to keep the ovary nicely in place. But let's say that this dish Germanoma starts kind of getting big and floppy and the ovary starts kind of like feeling like it's going to teeter-totter and it starts to rotate around these ligaments. Well then what happens is you got this big old honking tumor here that makes the tumor rotate, makes the ovary rotate around the ligament. So let's say here this ligament here which was the suspensory ligament. Now it's all the way over here. Alright. And then this one which is the utero ovarian ligament, it got crossed over, over here. And then this starts twisting around itself. What happens and this is why it's really important is when this torsus, you have an ovarian torsion, there's vessels that run through here. You have arteries that run through here. And you have veins that run through here. If you are pinching those off, what's going to happen? Well the first thing is if you pinch off the veins it's going to lead to edema of the ovary, congestion of the ovary. It's going to get it even bigger and more swollen. And then if you pinch the arteries enough, what's going to happen? Necrosis. So this here my friends is what we get scared about is ovarian torsion because ovarian torsion, oh man, they will present with severe sudden onset. So it'll be a really sudden onset pain. Sudden onset abdominal pain. They'll probably have some associated nausea and vomiting and if you don't get to this and if you don't reverse this, you could cause necrosis of the ovary and they could potentially lose, if it's bad enough, you obviously lose a potential ovary for ovulation. So you reduce the risk of fertility for these patients. And that's really, really important. So dish germinomas do carry a risk of ovarian torsion, but I would say you'll see this more likely with like large cysts. And we'll talk about some other ones when we get into the gynecology lectures. But here's what I want you to take away from this. When we talk about ovarian tumors or ovarian cancer, it's usually asymptomatic. If they do present with anything, look for this bloating, increase in waist size. Usually with cancers, you don't gain weight. That's not too often, right? This is the one where it's a little odd. Think about ascites, think about pleural effusions. If you've got the brain space, remember ovarian torsions can occur, but it's usually with dish germinomas. Remember all of the different types of tumors that can occur, but the most common one is epithelial ovarian tumors. Switch to tumor marker, C125. If you see AFB, you'll exact tumor. Coriocarsinoma, beta-HCG. LDH, dish germinoma, which is the one that comes from the gastric adenocarcinoma that has the signet ring cells, the Krockenberg tumor. What is the reason that these things occur? It's increased ovulatory cycles, high estrogen that's unopposed for a long period of time, or you didn't hit the genetic lottery when it came to these things like Lynch syndrome and BRCA mutations. Lots of stuff with ovarian cancer. I hope that you guys are still with me because now what we're going to do is we're going to move over and talk about endometrial cancer. All right, so endometrial cancer. This is again, like when we talk about ovarian cancer, similar. You're going to see this, like ovarian cancer is more epithelial ovarian tumors, which we see more in that postmenopausal. You're going to see this in definitely women who are above the age of like 50, 55 for ovarian cancer. It's going to be pretty much similar for endometrial cancer. You're going to see this more in the postmenopausal woman, much more common in that one. When we talk about these, there is two types of endometrial cancer. One that is extremely common. It makes up 80, 85% of them, and that's going to be the type one. You'll see this way more often. This is your 80, 85%. Could even be a little bit higher, but this is the endometroid carcinoma. Then you're going to have your type two. This is a very small percentage. It may be somewhere around 15, 20%. Very, very small percentage for this one. When we talk about these, one of the things that I think is important to remember is with endometrial cancer, it involves the endometrium. You have to have a little reminder, nothing crazy, a little reminder of your anatomy. Here we have the endometrium, which is the inner lining, which is your simple columnar epithelial tissue. If you were to zoom in on it, you definitely will have some areas where it invaginates and creates things like glands. I'm just representing that with this green cell given the space that we have. That's the one component. Then in the middle portion, which is this whiter portion, if I were to have it color-coded, I would probably put a red color. That's the myometrium. That's the contractile portion that helps during the portion of whenever you're trying to deliver a baby. You want that to contract to expel the baby out. Then this outer pinkish-purplish layer is the perimetrium. That's going to be the outer layer of the uterus. Whenever patients develop endometrial cancer, it's involving the inner lining. Here you're going to have some type of, usually it starts off with type one, as an endometrial hyperplasia. It's a thickening. It's an enlargement of the endometrium. Usually this will present more with a hyperplasia. This is going to be more likely to be hyperplasia. I told you that this is more common in post-metapausal women in general. That is 100% true. This one, usually what we think about here is interesting. Whenever there's hyperplasia, there's lots and lots of thickening of the actual endometrium. That's why we're going to use the term hyperplasia. The other thing is, with this, we want to know what's driving it. What's really driving this process? This one is extremely estrogen dependent. This one is going to be similarly to all the stuff that we talked about with ovarian cancer. The number of those ovulatory cycles, the amount of time that the patient is going with unopposed elevated estrogen exposure, puts them at a theoretical risk of not just ovarian cancer but also endometrial cancer. The other thing is that because of this type of tumor, it's usually a better prognosis. It's not as aggressive. So a better prognosis when it comes to comparing type 1 to type 2. This one, it doesn't metastasize as aggressively. It's not a scary one. When it comes to type 2, this one is usually not hyperplastic. Funnily enough, it's actually an atrophic endometrium. So it's an atrophic endometrium. So what I'll do is, honestly, I'm not kidding. I'll just show a little thin line here. This one, very, very thickened, hyperplastic tissue that eventually becomes cancer. It usually becomes a carcinoma eventually. This one, atrophic. And this one, it likes to actually invade deeper. So it may cause a carcinoma, but this one likes to invade very, very deep. And this one allows it to be very aggressive and to spread. The other thing is that estrogen has no bearing on it. Estrogen has no bearing. So it's estrogen independent. Estrogen independent. And the other thing is this one has a very poor prognosis. It is extremely aggressive. Usually when it's diagnosed, they've already metastasized because this one is very, very invasive. It's an aggressive one. So these are the things that I want you guys to think about. But either way, when you talk about the tissue that's being involved here, if we were to kind of zoom in on a piece of the endometrium, here is your simple columnar epithelium. And what really starts happening here is that you develop hyperplasia. So you increase the amount of columnar tissue and glandular tissue as compared to the surrounding stromal tissue. So what really happens in patients who develop endometrial cancer is that when you look at this, they end up with what's called, this is what we kind of call it, we call it an increased gland to stromal ratio. So increased gland to stromal ratio. So all that keeps happening is you keep having, usually, because this is going to be the one that we're going to be using as the primary example. This one's not too common. So this is not going to be super applicable to this concept. But for type 1, since it is hyperplastic, you're having constant replication. It is estrogen dependent that's doing this one. We see an increased gland to stromal ratio. All that means is, as we're developing more of this glandular tissue, more of this columnar tissue that's kind of popping around and replicating and eventually becoming dysplastic. And then surrounding tissue, like connective tissue, muscle tissue, all of that stuff, there's less of it. There's way more of this simple columnar tissue and way more of that glandular tissue as compared to the stromal tissue. And that's what I really want you guys to know is that when patients start to develop this carcinoma, it's an increased gland to stromal ratio. You have to start asking yourself the question, what in the world is causing these cells to become hyperplastic? Well, it's estrogen dependence. So here we have to remind ourselves. Here we have a hormone that's made by the hypothalamus called GNRH. GNRH then tells the antipyretuotery to make something called what? FSH. And then FSH then does what? It then goes to the ovary, where the ovary, specifically the granulosa cells, respond by producing something called estrogen. And then estrogen is important, obviously, because it has a lot of different effects. It definitely helps with the oocyte, beginning to kind of go through its metaphase process and kind of finish that off. But also, the other thing about estrogen is that it also really, really has a profound effect on the uterus. What it's going to want to do to the uterus is it's going to want to cause it to go into a proliferative phase. So it's going to help it to go into this proliferative phase. It's going to make it thicken up. It's going to increase the actual blood supply to it. So it's going to make it a proliferative tissue. If you keep having multiple time frames where estrogen is elevated and unopposed by progesterone and you keep having these events, guess what's going to happen? You keep undergoing excessive amounts of proliferation. Every single time a cell goes through its cell cycle, what happens? Oh, yeah, you make more cells, but you increase the risk for mutations. So here, every single time I proliferate, what do I do? I increase the risk of mutation. It's exactly the same thing that we talked about over there. So we increase risk of mutations. And that's what leads to cancer. That's what's going to cause this eventually to go from hyperplasia to then becoming nasty, displastic tissue and then carcinomas. So that's what I want you guys to understand. Now, here's the unfortunate thing. What's causing an increased estrogen exposure over time? So again, it's going to be an increased, what did I do? I do all red? No, I did not. So increased prolonged estrogen exposure. And it has to be really, really kind of like really accentuated that it is unopposed. There's no progesterone to really kind of oppose this as much. So again, this is a recap, dudes. It's the same exact thing. What is it? It's the person who is having multiple ovulatory cycles. And so that is going to be the early monarchy. That's definitely a big one. Another one is going to be late menopause. Another one is never getting pregnant. So null parity. And then the other one is obesity because again, they express increased amounts of aromatase enzymes. And those increased aromatase enzymes, especially postmenopausal, increases conversion of things like androgens into estrogen. And that leads to unopposed estrogen exposure, increased proliferation of the endometrium, increased risk of mutations, and carcinoma formation. So this is all that kind of stuff that I want you guys to think about. There's one other thing that's kind of interesting because it's a drug. So I kind of want to add this one on. We'll add it on. I won't put it right here. This is called tamoxifen. And you're like, wait a second. If you guys have been watching the oncology series, you guys will hear this term, tamoxifen. What is this one? Oh, that's that selective estrogen receptor modulator. It's a serum. Zach, you talked about that in breast cancer. We use that in breast cancer. And what it did is in that scenario, it actually helped to act as an antagonist that kind of blocked estrogen's effect. And it's a receptor. Here's what's weird. In the breast, in the breast, it inhibits. And in the endometrium, it stimulates. So in the breast, it is an antagonist in the breast. So that's why we use it. We use it kind of oftentimes as like a more of the targeted therapy that we can give in patients, especially who have ERP or positive breast cancer, especially if it's like metastatic or they're early stages. We can even do it in chemo prevention too. But for the actual endometrium, it is an agonist. Agonist in the endometrium. So basically, it decreases the risk of developing breast cancer while also increasing the risk of developing endometrial cancer. Son of a gun. So tamoxifen increases the risk of developing endometrial cancer while also opposing or trying to prevent breast cancer. That's actually one of the things that we did talk about in that lecture that you have to be considerate of. Now things that basically are protective, we talked about this with ovarian cancer, it's things that basically lead to progesterone being a little bit more elevated and opposing the estrogen. What was that again? Oral contraceptives that are progestin containing. That's going to block and oppose the estrogen. Being pregnant, that leads to prolactin production, that leads to progesterone production. That's going to oppose the estrogen. Breastfeeding is going to help with that process as well, especially with the prolactin. Again, progesterone production. So those are the things that I need you guys to think about. Now here's the other thing I want you guys to think about. When we talk about this, there's the mutation aspect. Again, what if I have here DNA, you have DNA repair genes. I have a mutation in one of these genes. I have a mutation. So now I don't have the ability that if there's proliferation and you get a mutation, I don't have the ability to allow for DNA repair. What this is going to do then is this is going to lead to an increase risk of mutations because I can't repair that break in the DNA. I can't repair some of those mismatches. That's a potential problem. What hereditary cancer syndrome puts you at risk, especially if they have mutations in the MLH gene or the MSH2 gene. This is Lynch syndrome. So Lynch syndrome or hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer, which is associated with again which three cancers. I'm just going to use this as a reminder to you. I'll put it in the apostrophes here. What was it? C E O. So colorectal cancer, endometrial cancer, ovarian cancer. This is associated with specific genes. There's MLH gene. So you can write it down. There's MLH. If you really want to, the MSH genes, these become abnormal. They become mutated. They become high risk that they don't allow for DNA repair. And then you get microsatellite instability and boom, you get these problems that we see here. All right. My friends, with endometrial cancer, type one is the most common. It's usually lots of hyperplastic tissue. It's usually estrogen dependent. And if you catch it, it has a better prognosis if you cut the dang uterus out. What is the big thing to remember with this one? What's causing a lot of this hyperplastic glans and simple columnar tissue? It's high, prolonged, unopposed estrogen exposure. And if you got that risk, the cancer syndromes, think about that. How will these patients present? It's a really important one to remember, right? Because ovarian cancer, it was that bloat, right? It was the increased waist size. It's especially in that postmenopausal female who maybe has a little bit of pelvic abdominal pain. But we think about ascites. We think about pleural effusions are the big things to think about there. But we know they have the risk factors. We know that they have the null parity, the early monarchy, the late menopause, the obesity, right? They have no protective factors. They've never been pregnant. They've never breastfed. They're not on oral contraceptives. They have cancer syndromes like BRCA mutations, so they have Lynch syndrome, so they have mutations there. Within a metriocancers, the same concept. It's all those same risk factors. Null parity, early monarchy, late menopause, obesity. Think about tamoxifen, especially don't they're going to present that somehow in the exam. I'm telling you, watch out for it where it's going to be a question where a patient's taking tamoxifen because they have ERP or positive breast cancer and they're monitoring for things like what? The big thing is obviously osteoporosis, but they're going to ask you what happens if you see that there's a postmenopausal bleeding or they're bleeding now. That's when I would start thinking about having endometrial cancer. I get that transvag ultrasound. All right. What would they present with? I kind of just, unfortunately, I gave it away here. These patients, usually if it's type one, they're going to have this nasty mass. These masses are pretty, since they're proliferative and...  amnestinator, because of the prolonged estrogen exposure, they're pretty vascular. And so what happens is they can definitely bleed. You're going to get bleeding. Now the way that they bleed is kind of important because if you bleed, and let's say that you're just, it's not a part of your normal menstrual cycle, we can call that abnormal uterine bleeding, right? So this can cause something called abnormal uterine bleeding. But that abnormal uterine bleeding, it doesn't mean anything if you don't put it in the right clinical context, right? You have to put it in the correct clinical context. So let's say here, I'm going to use this abnormal uterine bleeding. Let's say that I have a patient here, and let's use the example. Here's going to be where we have the kind of the dotted line, and this is going to be menopause. So they've already hit menopause, and this is kind of like peri. Menopause, right? If you have this point here where you're having, you know, your normal cycles, which were represented as these red spikes, and then you're supposed to not have any bleeding in postmenopause, right? And your menopause state, but you have some bleeding, that would make me concerned, right? So this right here would be one indication. If I have postmenopausal bleeding, funny enough, it's not really funny. But this is the most common way of abnormal uterine bleeding presenting. So postmenopausal bleeding, this is going to be the main way where a patient who hits menopause, they shouldn't be having any kind of bleeding, but all of a sudden they're having some bleeding or some spotting. You should definitely be concerned, and that should be the first thing that should pop into your mind when you hear the term postmenopausal bleeding is endometrial cancer. Now let's say that we take the next patient, all right? In this one, they're paramedopausal, so they don't have any bleeding here, no bleeding, but what we notice is that the amount of bleeding that they're having is heavy. They're having heavy, heavy, heavy bleeding. This is called menorrhagia. This is another way that a patient can present with abnormal uterine bleeding. So menorrhagia is another one. Now when a patient has menorrhagia, what is a potential concern that you should think about? What can a patient potentially present? Well, if you bleed enough, if you have chronic and heavy blood loss, so chronic blood loss, this is going to lead to anemia. And usually, which one? Come on, iron deficiency anemia, my friends, so they'll have a low MCV, their iron studies will come back abnormal. This is what I want you to think about. Anemia is another potential clinical clinical presentation, so they could have heavy, heavy bleeding, but if it's associated with anemia, that's another thing to be thinking about. Because they may present that in your work. Like, hey, you have a patient who has menorrhagia, all of a sudden you get a CBC and it shows that they're having anemia. That just may be something that kind of cues you off to think about that as well. But that should be a part of your differential. Endometrial cancer should definitely be a part of your differential. They have risk factors that we talked about here. The next one here is, let's say that here you have normal cycles. So we'll have this as a normal cycle. But then you have a little bit of bleeding in between, normal cycle. A little bit of bleeding in between, normal cycle. And you're not bleeding postmenopausal. These points here, which I'll represent with kind of like these blue asterisks here, that's intermenstrual bleeding. That intermenstrual bleeding could be concerning, right? So intermenstrual bleeding definitely makes me a little bit more concerned about a patient having some type of pathology. And what is the one that I want you to think about? Think about potentially endometrial cancer. But I have all of these, I have all of them, which is the one that I really need you to remember, postmenopausal bleeding. That's going to be the most classic clinical finding that they're going to present in the exam to think about. All right? So you shouldn't be bleeding during menopause. If you are or spotting, think about endometrial cancer. In these other ones, it should be a part of the differential. But it's not going to be high up on the differential unless you have potential risk factors that are making you think about that. Other things that can happen, I just don't want to go too crazy talking about them, is if the tumor is big enough and it obstructs this cervical oz, this portion here, this internal cervical oz, it can cause blood and pus to accumulate here. Especially, we'll start with blood. So just imagine for a second, let's say you have a tumor here and it gets big enough that it obstructs the cervical oz. Then what happens is blood, if you're still bleeding here, if you're bleeding, what will happen is, is this son of a gun, that blood will kind of start to accumulate here. It'll back up. And as it starts to back up, you get into tons of blood clots kind of accumulating inside of the uterus. The other thing is that you naturally have bacteria. It's a part of our flora that's going to be here as well. The bacteria, which we'll represent here in purple, that also can build up. You can get blood clots, which is called hematometra. Then you can even have bacteria that grow and grow and grow. Then you get pus material and that's called pyometra. Two scary complications, I don't want you to go too crazy, but if you've got lots of pus that's building up in there, it can cause something called a pyometra. They'll probably have some pretty, they may have a fever, they may have a white count, they may have some discharge that does able to squeeze through here. But if they have bloody kind of accumulation here, especially on your speculum exam or kind of evaluating there, then you can think about hematometra. These are also things that can happen, but this is the real, real critical thing I want you to remember and the most common way this occurs, this one. Alright, endometrial cancer, roasted. Let's now move on to the next one, cervical cancer. Cervical cancer. Now this is again, it's kind of similar if you guys watched our video on pancreatic and apatobiliary cancer. This is one that we oftentimes, we talk a lot about screening. So pathosalic carcinoma, you want to screen for, and patients who have cirrhosis, you want to screen for this, and patients who have chronic hepatitis B virus infections, and things like that. So this is actually one of those that we can screen for. Now oftentimes we screen based upon an age range, so usually anywhere from 21 years old to 29 years old, we'll do something called a pap smear. And then depending upon the results of that pap smear, we can do something called a reflex HPV testing, where you test for something called HPV 16 and 18. Those are the poor ones. There's other ones, like 31 and 33, but 16, 18 are the big ones. And then the other thing that we do is usually when they get to about 30, anywhere up to about 65 years of age, we'll do a pap smear. We can keep doing it every three years, or sometimes we can do a pap smear and you can do an HPV test. You can do that every five years. We'll get that in the screening section, but when I talk about cervical cancer, this is a cancer of the cervix. And so you kind of have, as the uterus kind of tapers down, so we had like, if you had the funness and you get to the body, and then you get to the cervix. So this portion here, if we were to kind of like, I'll do it like this. Here and here, that's your cervix, right? So that's the cervix of the uterus. Now the big thing to remember here is when we talk about the cervix here, the cervix has a couple of different like tissue where the tissues are, you know, it's something called the transformation zone. And the transformation zone, it kind of just, it moves, believe it or not, it moves depending upon a lot of the processes of which, you know, when women are going through their ovarian cycles and their uterine cycles, it does move a lot. And so what's really important to know about this is where there's kind of like this transformation zone or this junction where the swamous tissue and columnar tissue kind of come together. So if I were to look here, let's say that I kind of take this tissue right here and I kind of bring it over here, and then there's this deeper tissue closer to the vagina and I bring it over here. I'm not trying to be like inappropriate, but the vagina is meant to take a beating, all right? And what I mean by that is that the tissue type is meant to allow for friction. Whenever sexual intercourse occurs, there's lots of friction. There's resistance. There's abrasion. You want that tissue to be more of a stratified, squamous epithelial tissue. So here, this is going to be the vaginas. This is the upper like two thirds, but the cervix is going to be, you know, it's going to be taking a beating too. And so you want that tissue that's closest to where the penis will be poking it to be a little bit more of a tougher tissue. So right here, and I'll kind of represent this, let's do it in, let's do this bluish color. So like right here, right here, as I kind of come down, all of this is going to be that tissue here. And as I go here, I'm going inwards, I'm changing it. And this one is meant to be more uterine tissue. So uterine tissue is meant to be more for proliferative and secretory and able to secrete substances. That's where you're going to want simple columnar tissue. So what I'll do is, as I'll represent this, I know it's kind of usually a little odd because I usually use blue lines, but this one is going to be your columnar tissue. So this is your columnar tissue. All right. And then over here in the blue, this is going to be representing the squamous tissue. And so this is usually simple columnar, and this is usually stratified squamous. Now stratified squamous epithelial tissue is meant to allow for resistance to abrasion and friction. This one's more for the secretory function. You see how they kind of come to a point where they have a junction? That point where they have that junction should move. And so we're going to theoretically put this one in kind of like this box. We're going to call this the transformation zone. So it's called the transformation zone. The reason why I want you to know this is because it's usually right here, usually right there. That is where most of the cancers occur. Most of the time when a patient develops cervical cancer, it is involving that transformation zone. And usually it's going to be right around this area that a patient will develop a cervical cancer. All right. Now, of that, the tissue that it most often takes place of is the stratified squamous. That's the one that usually starts to, unfortunately, it gets hit. It undergoes lots of replication, so hyperplasia. And from hyperplasia, it then eventually develops into this plastic tissue and then cancer. So let's say that we take for a second and we zoom in on that kind of like, again, this is where the columnar tissue and the squamous tissue is. Something has to make this thing around the transformation zone decide to become malignant. What is that thing? It's HPV. So HPV 16 or HPV 18 are nasty little viruses. So theoretically, you can say that they are sexually transmitted infections. And what happens with these is that they like to go after this tissue, the squamous tissue, and they will infect it. All right. Now, whenever they infect this tissue, that's what usually starts causing some problems. Let me explain how. So what happens is HPV, it kind of releases, it kind of works on specific proteins that are in these cells. So what HPV will do is, HPV, and this is 16 and 18, it can work on two proteins and increase the activity of those. One is called E6. One is called E6 and the other one is called E7. Once these are activated, what they do is, is they target specific types of, you know, I'd say genes or proteins that are coming from genes that help play a role in the cell cycle. E6 likes to go and bind and inhibit P53. So this one's to inhibit the activity of the P53. What is that? That's from the tumor suppressor gene. So these are the proteins that come from the tumor suppressor genes. We're going to have this one bind to it. So here's the P53. And then what we're going to do is, is we're going to have this guy bind. And that's going to render this effective. Now P53, when it's suppressed, it's a tumor suppressor. So tumor suppressor genes, whenever you give them, you know, these are uncle proteins, whenever you have these tumor suppressor proteins, they're supposed to act in a way to inhibit excessive cell replication. If you shut that down, what's going to happen? Lots of cellular replication. So this is going to lead to lots of cell proliferation. All right. There's one problem. We've got cell proliferation that's occurring because we're shutting down that tumor suppressor. The other one is HPV acts on E7. And E7 leads to inhibiting the retinoblastoma protein. It binds to the retinoblastoma protein. When you bind to the retinoblastoma protein, what it does is, it leads to the release of a molecule called E2F. And E2F basically will help to lead to the cell cycle, kind of going through its phases from G1 to the S and the G2 and the mitosis. So that's really what's going to happen here is we're going to release the E2F, which is going to trigger cell proliferation. So you see how HPV, when it infects these cells, it starts off by infecting one cell, increase the expression of E67, shuts down the tumor suppressor gene, shuts down retinoblastoma. Leads to the expression of E2F now being on its own. These things then lead to the breaks of the cell proliferation not occurring. And instead, the cell going through its cell cycles repeatedly. Cell proliferation, guess what that leads to an opportunity for? I think I said it right here. Increase risk of mutations. You get a mutation, guess what? That's when dysplasia occurs. When dysplasia occurs, you increase the risk of carcinomas. Carcinoma, boom, you got cervical cancer. Now with cervical cancer, what happens here is usually you may hit like one cell, right, and it may become a little bit dysplastic. And then eventually it'll start working its way down and you get some neoplastic cells that work its way through. And then eventually you got neoplastic cells that work its way down further. And then eventually these neoplastic cells, I'll represent them as red, they start spreading. They start invading. I'm going to draw this here as kind of like the barrier. What is this called? We always use this as a way to describe like an invasive cancer, the basement membrane, right? So whenever the cancer starts and kind of works its way through, that's how we get to that invasive cervical cancer. We'll talk about a couple different cancers along the way, especially when we get into the diagnostic section. We'll talk about something called CIN. So this is cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. So it's the amount of kind of like cancerous appearing cells or dysplastic cells that depend upon how much of that epithelial tissue is involved. If it's only a small amount, it could be CIN1. If it's a good chunk, it could be CIN2, CIN3. But if it's broken past the basement membrane, that's when we start talking about invasive cervical cancer. So I want you to remember something that we'll talk about, which is we talk about something like CIN. So it usually goes CIN1, CIN2, CIN3, and then we get cervical cancer, the invasive cervical cancer. So we'll talk about that a little bit more when we get into the diagnostic section. But a lot of the times, these HPVs will cause a lot of weird appearing cells. It'll make the cells appear weird. And we'll talk about that when we get into the pap smear. Whenever you do a pap smear, which is you take this weird little, I'm not gonna lay it down, weird toothbrush and you scrape some cells off of the cervix and you look at them. You want to see if they look normal or if they look a little bit atypical. And so we'll talk about terms like atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance or low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions or high-grade squamous cell intraepithelial lesions. It's really important to remember that. And the reason why is we use those terms a lot for pap smears because we describe things like low-grade squamous cells, intra-epithelial lesions as CIN1. And we describe things like high-grade squamous cell intraepithelial lesions as CIN2 and 3. So again, we'll get into this more in that diagnostic section when we start taking and doing pap smears and doing what's called coposcopies with biopsies. But I really want you guys to think about this. All right. The next thing that we need to talk about is what in the heck brings about HPV16 and 18? How does this, because a lot of people have age, so when we talk about cervical cancer, I think it's like it's an alarming fact. It's like 95% or maybe even more of those patients have HPV. But that doesn't mean that just because you have HPV, you're going to develop cervical cancer. So it's certain people that are a little bit of a higher risk. And so when we talk about HPV, you usually get this because of, especially with Greek havoc in certain scenarios. Usually sexual intercourse is going to be a really important one. All right. So you definitely want to look for that. Insexual intercourse, multiple sexual partners, things of that nature. Another one is immunosuppression. So if a patient is immunosuppressed, they don't have the immune system. So in sexual intercourse, whether it's frequent, early, multiple sexual partners, you bring about the opportunity to give the individual HPV. Immunosuppression, you lose the ability, especially in patients who have HIV or AIDS. If you have a normal immune system, you should clear 16, 18. You should be able to clear it. If you frequently get exposed to it, or you have multiple sexual partners, or you got exposed to it very young, or you don't have an immune system to clear it, that's when it can wreak havoc. It's really important to remember that. We'll talk about this later. You know, there's a way that just like if patients become exposed to homophilus influenza or pneumococcus, we have vaccines for them, right? If you have, we have vaccines for hepatitis. We have vaccines for a lot of different things like meningitis. We have vaccines for HPV, especially nine different strains. It's just we really, really care about 16 and 18, because other HPVs can cause genital warts. HPV 16, 18, we just know can cause swamacil carcinoma, particularly of the cervix, vagina, and the vulva. So when you give them things like Gardasil 9 and you tell them, hey, try to use condoms and practice safe sex, you reduce not only the transmission, but you also generate an immune response capable of neutralizing those HPVs, which reduce the risk of this whole process causing cervical cancer, which can start off with nothing like this, can get to this, and eventually end up full blown cervical cancer. So my question then to you is how would cervical cancer present? We screen because if a lot of women unfortunately are at risk, sexual intercourse is very common, and sometimes you can get exposed to this. You have specific risk factors. So we like to do screening, but in the worst case scenario, where a patient is being screened, we're not being screened and they develop symptoms, and you have to know what to do. So one of the big things is because this cancer is near this portion here, it's usually fungating, which means it can be fungating. It doesn't have to be, but it can protrude. It can also be flat because it depends. If you have a neoplastic tissue and it's really only like C-Ain1 or 2, 3, or it's very, very early stages, it may not fungate and be visible. And sometimes that's why we have to do coposcopies, where we give them a little bit of acetic acid and it turns up white. And then we can biopsy that a little bit easier. But the other thing is that they're very friable and they bleed super easy. So let's say that we just have a little bit of a blood supply around this thing. So now, I'm not trying to be weird. Sexual intercourse occurs. Boom. You poke that puppy. You poke it a couple times. You give it a couple of good nails. What's going to happen? It's going to bleed. So because these masses are very, very friable, even though they may not be fungating, they're very friable, which means that they're super easy to bleed. So you poke it with a penis. Guess what's going to happen? You're going to have bleeding occur. But it's usually going to be after coitus. Something like Sheldon Cooper from the Big Bang Theory would say. Coitus. So after coitus, that is when you're going to notice, unfortunately, bleeding or spotting. Now this doesn't mean that you have cervical cancer. It could just be you got a rough nailing. But this is important to definitely think about. If a patient has post-coital spotting, especially if it's repeated, that's something I would definitely be concerned about. Go to your gynecologist. They should do a speculative exam. See if they can find a fungating friable mass. And if they don't, and you have those risk factors, you get a pap smear, shows up some concerns, then you may want to get a colp and a biopsy. But that's the big thing. That is the most classic way that they will present this on the exam is post-coital bleeding. All right? Now another way that they will try to bring this up somehow, some way, it's loved on your first aid books and a lot of different textbooks. But when cervical cancer occurs, especially as it's mainly for the invasive types, because usually if it's just confined to the cervix, it can drop a couple different places. So funny enough, vaginal cancer is more often than not metastasis from cervical cancer. So oftentimes it will drop down here into the vagina, the upper two thirds usually. But whenever this cervical cancer gets kind of invasive and invades past the perimetrium and into this pelvic sidewall area, well guess what? There's a couple different things that run through that little area and it's the ureters. And so if you get a pretty good enough size cervical cancer, it can move laterally and get into the pelvic sidewall and compress the ureters. So now I'm pinching the ureters. Guess what's going to happen? If I pinch these poppies, the urine is going to backflow. And if that urine backflows, guess what you're going to get? You're going to get some swollen kidneys. And then these kidneys are going to blow up. They're not going to pop. They're going to get a little bit enlarged. So what is that called? Hydroenophrosis. So you can definitely get hydroenophrosis as a potential complication due to the cervical cancer kind of spreading into the pelvic sidewall and then mashing on these ureters. And so hydroenophrosis isn't something that you're just like, oh they present with flank pain. They could present with flank pain. So they could be symptomatic. They could have things like flank pain. But oftentimes we don't diagnose it that way. It's usually on some type of ultrasound or a CT scan that it would come back positive and say, oh man, there's some hydroenophrosis. I can see some dilation of the ureters. As you can see, some enlargement of the renal calices in the pelvis and stuff like that. That's what would be concerning. But another way that hydroenophrosis can occur only if it's bilateral is if both of these get affected. You could increase the capsular hydrostatic pressure enough that you could cause an acute kidney injury. And the only way that we know about acute kidney injuries is by trending that creatinine. So you want to know did that creatinine bump greater than 0.3 within a 40-hour period is kind of concerning. Does their urine output go down? So if you are monitoring the urine output, do they have any oliguria or anuria? Because that just is a sign that you're not getting much urine coming down through the ureters and into the bladder. So these are definitely potentials for cervical cancer. So it's usually whenever the cervical cancer spreads to pelvic sidewall. They love this one on the exams. All right? With cervical cancer, yes, it can metastasize. I think this is the big one that they like to kind of test about is just how it can, and when we talk about it's local, so it does spread, it gets past the myometry and perimetry and gets into that pelvic sidewall kind of area, and that's where the ureter kind of runs through. But it also can invade nearby structures. So if you had like a cervical cancer here and it's getting pretty nasty and it's growing and it's invading past and it gets into the pelvic sidewall 100%, it can kind of get an encroach onto the rectum or near the colon. It can encroach near the bladder. It can start even spreading. So imagine here I get these things that are kind of seeding and they get and they move their way into the lymph nodes. So now I have some lymph nodes that are really involved. I got some retroperitoneal lymph nodes hitting. I can even get some of these cancers to spread hematogenously through the vascular system and then boop right in the lung, boop right in the liver, boop right in the bones. So there's different areas that can spread. I think the important things to remember is if it does spread, it's usually more regionally. So it's going to go to the colon or the rectum area. It may go to the bladder. So what are some potential symptoms here? Well, if you got a big enough tumor, it could cause constipation. If you got a tumor here, it can actually cause potentially dysuria, but more often it's hematuria. So I'd watch out for things like hematuria and maybe some dysuria. And if it gets into these pelvic lymph nodes and the pelvic lymph nodes get enlarged enough, it can actually cause pelvic pain. So a couple of different symptoms is constipation if it gets nearby and really gets in the area like the rectum. That's one. Another one is going to be the bladder. It may cause dysuria. If the tumor does get crazy enough, it can cause hematuria, but I would say that that's low on the likelihood of differentials. And if it gets into the pelvic nodes, that's where you can see things like pelvic pain. Now cervical cancer can hematogenously metastasize. 100%. It's definitely possible. It can go to the lungs, as we said. It can go to the liver. It can go to the bone. But I think it's important to remember that it's most likely going to be local or regional. But if it did go to the lungs, you're going to watch out for a patient who has a known history of cervical cancer and now comes in with a new one set of dyspnea or homoptysis or they have recurrent pleural effusions, things like that. Now what can happen is theoretically, if you're checking the patient's LFTs, they could have a bump in the LFTs. It's possible they could get some hepatomegaly as well. That's definitely something to consider. The other thing is if it gets into the bones, well, it's pretty common. We talked about this a million times. Bone pain, definitely if they get some really nasty lytic lesions. If they get enough osteolysis, it can cause weakening of the bone and fractures, especially pathological ones. If you happen to check their calcium level, it could be really high. If you happen to check the alkaline phosphate level, which is kind of like a harbinger of their overall bone turnover, that could also be high. So yeah, that's definitely something to think about when you're talking about metastasis to these potential locations, things like this. Now the last thing I will say with cervical cancer is again, when we talk about a patient with cervical cancer, it's usually not something that you're going to get to this. It's not something you usually get to this. You may see postcoital spotting if it is a little bit too late. What oftentimes is going to be the key way that they're going to try to test you is going to be on a patient who comes in who is of age and they're going to ask you what would be the next step in their screening or they'll give you what they've gotten done so far in the screening and then you need to figure out what the next step is. That's what I really want you to remember. We'll really harp on that in the diagnostic approach. What I want to finish off with is really quickly is to pay homage to the remaining part of what we've talked about for that female reproductive system. We really, when you think about it, we hit the ovaries, we came down and we hit the uterus and we talked about the endometrial cancer. We hit the last part of the uterus, which is the cervix. We talked about cervical cancer and then we're going to get downwards into the vagina. Interestingly enough, vaginal cancer, cervical cancer and vulvar cancer all have similar risk factors. So whenever a patient has a mass here in the vagina, usually it could be upper two-thirds. I'd say that's the more common location. It can get into the lower third, but I'd say more commonly you're going to have it occurring and the upper two-thirds is where you're going to see these potential lesions. Now, with this, with vaginal cancer, again, we know that it's going to be stratified scrimacephalophthalo tissue with the vulva. We talk about the cancer here. So when you look at general anatomy, leg, leg.  you got some fur there, you have the clitoris, and then you have this outer part here. So we'll put this one as the labia majora, right? So the big lips, and then you come here and then you have this next one here, which is the labia minora, the small lips. And with this, what I want you guys to understand is oftentimes, these lesions, these vulver lesions, they occur usually in the labia minora, or they can occur in the labia majora. But that's usually where vulvar cancer occurs. So vaginal cancer, usually more often, son of a gun, is going to occur in the upper two-thirds of the vagina. And again, I told you this already, but interestingly enough, primary vaginal cancer is quite rare. More often than not, a patient has cervical cancer, and that cervical cancer, I'm not kidding, boop, dropped off, boop, dropped off. More often than not, when you look at this, primary vaginal cancer, rare, right? Usually vaginal cancer is secondary to cervical metastasis. That's what I want you guys to remember. So primary vaginal cancer is relatively rare. It's more often secondary to it falling off from a cervical cancer, or metastasizing, if you will, for the proper vernacular. Now, when we think about that, what is the reason this happens? It's the same thing as cervical cancer. If oftentimes more than not, it's from cervical met, what's it likely due to? It's likely due to HPV. So when we talk about this, it's likely HPV, which one? 16 or 18. That is likely going to be the most common risk factor, because this virus is a nasty son of a gun, which is going to cause potentially cervical cancer. When it metastasizes, it can then spread to the upper two-thirds of the vagina, the lower third of the vagina, and you can have a patient presenting with vaginal cancer. Now, with vaginal cancer, the classic finding is that of cervical cancer. So what would you most likely have? You'll most likely have postcoital bleeding. It's the same concept. You've got a penis in here with a friable vaginal tumor, or here. Boom, you poke that thing a couple of times, and you're going to end up with postcoital bleeding. So it's the same thing. It's just if I were to then say they have postcoital bleeding, let me do a speculum exam. I do the speculum exam, and I see a vaginal mass. It could be vaginal cancer. But did it start primarily, or did it spread from cervical? I don't know. I have to look to see if they have a cervical mass around the cervix. If they don't, then I'll go to the next step, which is probably saying let me biopsy that actual cancer that's near the vagina. So again, that is the real important thing to remember there. Now, with vulvar cancer, this one's interesting, where vulvar cancer is the same concept. It's usually two different triggers, two different triggers for vulvar cancer. And let's actually write this in two different ways. So one is if it's, let's say I actually do red. So let's say a younger, a younger patient, and then an older. And when I say older, I'm referring more likely to the postmenopausal, 70s, things like that. For this patient, the common trigger is chronic inflammation or dermatoses around this area. And we call this lichen sclerosis. Lichen sclerosis. It's essentially a chronic dermatosis of the vulvar tissue that when it becomes inflamed over time, over time, over time, it increases the risk of dysplasia and it can become a carcinoma. So we can see this. I'm not kidding. The way they describe this lesion is a periodic lesion that looks and feels like parchment paper. Not kidding. The younger patient is more likely, and this is going to, it can be around the menopause age, but this is going to be your HPV, 16 or 18. So that's the things that I want you to remember is vulvar cancer is more often to occur in the labia majora and menora. They can be HPV related. If they're older and they have this kind of like periodic white parchment paper like lesion, think like in sclerosis. Vaginal cancer is more likely to be from cervical cancer than metastasized rather than primary, but it is due to HPV 16 or 18. With vulvar cancer, this one is usually going to be vulvar periodus. That is oftentimes the most common clinical finding is going to be vulvar periodus. So when we think about these patients, if a patient came in and I said vulvar periodus, you think about vulvar cancer. If I said post-coated bleeding, you could say vaginal or cervical cancer. If I said post-menopausal bleeding, you say endometrial cancer. If I say bloating and increased waist size, maybe some weird pleural effusions and ascites that occur, you think ovarian cancer. Those are the ways that these patients will oftentimes clinically present. Sometimes they won't present with any symptoms. In the scenarios of that, that's when we want to talk about screening. We don't really screen for any of these except for cervical cancer. What I want to do now is I want to take the time to say we've built a pretty strong foundation. Let's really talk about it more and go through a very thorough diagnostic approach, taking everything that we talked about and putting it into use. All right, my friends, let's now talk about the diagnostic approach. So we got a lot of these to go through. So when we think about the first one, ovarian cancer, ovarian cancer as we discussed, that usually when these patients come and they present with symptoms, they're usually at the later stages. And that's the unfortunate thing about this cancer. But if they do happen to present in the vignettes, they'll present with the classic findings of usually bloating. There may be some type of abnormal increase in their waist size. So they've been going up in their pants size or their short size pretty recently. And on top of that, they may present with some abdominal pelvic pain. And that usually may be again, due to the ovarian mass, maybe causing some compression of nearby nerves. So with all of this being said, if a patient has these symptoms and you have also the risk factors, what are those risk factors? Is that prolonged, unopposed estrogen exposure, early monarchy, late menopause, null parity, not breastfeeding, not any kind of contraceptives of any sort. Also could be due to genetic mutations, things like the BRCA mutations, the Lynch syndrome, et cetera. Other things that I think are a consideration, and usually these are in post-menopausal women as well, especially the epithelial ovarian cancer, which is the most common one. So if they have the risk factors, they have these symptoms, the best thing to do is first, let's just do a bimanual pelvic exam and an abdominal exam. Because with the abdominal exam, you're kind of feeling around, do I feel anything abnormal of any sorts? Do they have ascites, which is pretty common, and patients who have pretty advanced stages of ovarian cancer. And the bimanual pelvic exam is going to allow for me to palpate and see, do I feel any kind of like adnexal mass that's potentially present near the fallopian tubes or near the ovaries. And again, if I palpate that adnexal mass, if I appreciate some degree of like ascites on physical exam, this may bring about a concern of ovarian cancer. One of the things I should do is especially if I palpate an adnexal mass and they have these symptoms, they have risk factors for ovarian cancer, is to get a transvaginal ultrasound. And when you do that, you may show something like this, where you'll appreciate this kind of like weird, cystic and solid, you know, appearance of this mass here on transvaginal ultrasound. So this would definitely be concerning for an ovarian cancer. At this point, this is where you could likely say, I probably have ovarian cancer and kind of an exploratory laparotomy staging procedure would probably be the way to go. On the exams, they may try to ask other questions that come about. I wouldn't say that these are truly diagnostic markers. They're more prognostic and indicating how well someone's responding to treatment. But sometimes we like to talk about these on the exam. So I would order serum tumor markers because it may give me a possible inclination of which tumor it could be. This doesn't guarantee it though. For example, let's say that I got the CA125 and that was elevated and they also had a history of them being postmenopausal, the most common ovarian tumors, tumor is epithelial ovarian tumors. If I saw that the AFP was high, that suggests more likely a yolk sac tumor. If beta-HCG was high, that suggests more vacorrhocarcinoma. Which LDH is high? That means that there's a crazy amount of cell turnover. This thing is growing. If it grows rapidly and quickly enough, it can cause some twisting around the ligaments that are around the ovary and the uterus. That's when we get really concerned because the utero-ovarian ligament, the suspensory ligament can lead to twisting and that can lead to ovarian torsion. They would present with severe abdominal pain, maybe nausea, vomiting. This could be something that would make me think about a dish germinoma. The other thing is if I have increased estrogen, increased inhibit. These are less common, but you would definitely be concerned about a granulosa cell tumor that's pumping out estrogen, pumping out in hibin, and even associated with that is the theticoma. A granulosa thicacel tumor, really think about this when they have high estrogen levels and hibin levels and also estrogenic symptoms. How would that present? Well, if these tumors occur in the younger individual and the younger child, they may have precocious puberty. That's when I would think about this potential tumor. The last one is you have that primordial sex-core tissue that can put, I would say more of a stromal tissue. It's kind of like a primordial tissue. This can sometimes convert into sertoli-lidic cell tumors. That's normally an antisticular tumor and you shouldn't see these in females, but generally if it does become a tumor, these can pump out testosterone, especially the lidic cell component. When females pump out lots of testosterone, it can lead to things like acne. It can lead to deepening of their voice. A laryngeal prominence, it can lead to hair growth. They can have lots of herzitism, walk around with a full beard and they can cause clitoromegaly. They can cause increased libido. They can have acne. They can have oily skin. All of those things would be suggesting more of a masculinization effect, which could make you think about a sertoli-lidic cell tumor. Either way, these are things that we utilize more in the clinical vignettes as compared to in reality. If you see the ovary mass and transvaginal ultrasound, you're probably going to go more likely to maybe get a CT chest abdomen pelvis or you may go straight to an exploratory laparotomy or some type of staging procedure. Let's say that you get the CT chest abdomen pelvis. The whole point of this is looking to see has it spread. One of the problems with ovarian tumors, especially with these, is that if they do spread, they can spread to some nasty areas. What I mean by that is they can cause a lot of problems within the peritoneum. Let's say that we got a CT chest abdomen pelvis. Again, what that may show is it may show the ovarian mass. We can appreciate here that there's definitely a weird looking structure here in that right lower quadrant. That would be an ovarian mass. The other thing that I would say is with these, when ovarian masses are present, they do like to seed. When they seed, they can seed into the peritoneum. They can lead to peritoneal carcinomatosis. One of the ways that that presents is, as you can see this here, this is also some presence of ascites. That ascites is probably secondary to the ovarian cancer. To appreciate this more, that peritoneal involvement metastas can be further characterized. One of the things that we see with peritoneal carcinomatosis is you can appreciate the cites, but you can appreciate this thickening of the omentum. That's due to the peritoneal implants in the omentum. It loves the omentum. They can definitely get some omental caking, which is common here. Then again, you can appreciate that one of the big things here is that these patients, because of that abdominal bloating, that increased waist size, maybe they have shifting dullness, positive fluid wave test, they have a cites. That could be present here. One of the things with these a cites is that it can actually move through the right hemidiafran. Some small congenital holes there. There also can be some lymphatic ducts that are a little bit more patent there. It's easier for things to move through the right hemidiafran into the right pleural cavity, and they can get associated pleural effusions. You can see that this patient has a chest tube actually going in because of that. We can appreciate here that this patient has a significant degree of spread, and that's very, very concerning. Again, that omentum involvement, that's usually when we say that this patient is more stage three. That's pretty concerning. This would be something that if I was doing a cytoborductive debulking, it's greater than a centimeter. I could actually remove these tumors, especially the ovarian. I'd probably do an ophorectomy. You may even do a tomododontal hysterectomy. You didn't have to go over here and start removing some of these areas of the omentum. Sometimes you remove the entire omentum. It's really, really important to have a really strong idea of this. Sometimes the CT can tell you that, but sometimes you find this out when you go to the next step. What is that next step? It's usually an exploratory laparotomy. This is usually, you probably open them up. You can do this laparoscopically as well. But again, just giving you an idea, the whole concept here is that once we do this, we're kind of helping to look and evaluate. We're looking to say, hey, what's that ovarian mass look like? Okay, there is one. Let me take and remove that. Send it off to the pathologist. Why? Because that's the definitive way of telling us if it's ovarian cancer and what type of ovarian cancer it is. Is it epithelios, a germ cell, is it sex-court stromal tumor? That's going to be the definitive way. The other benefit of doing an exploratory laparotomy is it helps us to stage. We see any other areas that are involved. Is it involving the peritoneum? Is it involving the omentum? Is it spread outside of that? It's really, really helpful. While we're there, we can also do cytoreductive debulking. We can remove a lot of the visible tumors greater than a centimeter. So there's a lot of things that we can do during this process of an X-lab and a staging procedure. But either way, this is going to tell us if we have ovarian cancer. It's going to tell us how far the ovarian cancer is extended. It's going to tell us the type of ovarian cancer. So it really is the way to go here. All right. Indometrial cancer. This is something where if you think about the risk factors, it's pretty much the exact same as indometrial, I mean, sorry, ovarian cancer. It's a patient with prolonged, unopposed estrogen exposure, early monarchy, late menopause, there null parity, no breastfeeding. Again, also we can see this with the serums. So we can see this with things like tamoxifen use as well. You can see this in obesity. You can see this in patients who, again, are post-menopausal. And then also we can see this in the genetic conditions, especially things like Lynch syndrome. So there's a lot of things that put these patients at pretty high risk, but if they have that and they come in with abnormal uterine bleeding, and what do I mean by that? It's usually post-menopausal. That's the most common presentation. I would definitely have a degree of concern. And that's where I would get abnormal uterine bleeding examined. Make sure that you do a good exam. I do a pimanu pelvic exam. I may even do like a speculum exam. I may palpate around the abdomen. And what you're trying to do is do you feel anything abnormal? Do you see anything abnormal? I think one of the things is that on the speculum exam, you may not see anything. On the abdominal exam, it may be relatively kind of like benign. The bimanu pelvic exam, if it's a decent enough size tumor, so it's probably getting more to like the stage two or stage three, you may be able to palpate in an enlarged uterus. And that's something that could be palpated during your bimanu pelvic exam. If I do that, again, I think the biggest thing is when there's a post-menopausal bleeding, your first thing should be is doing a transvaginal ultrasound. And the reason why is when we do this, we get a really good look at the endometrial stripe. And what we're looking for is that stripe to be greater than or equals to four millimeters. If you look and appreciate this here, you can see that there's kind of a thickened stripe. And that's pretty concerning when we actually consider this. This would be a pretty concerning feature. Well, for example, if you had an increased endometrial stripe greater than or equal to four millimeters, that would be pretty concerning. And I would say that this is endometrial hyperplasia. It could be endometrial carcinoma. We have to biopsy that. So we'll do a suction curet. We'll go up. We'll actually take a piece of that tissue and send it off to the pathologist. And the whole point of that is telling me, hey, what kind of cancer it is? Is it cancer? Is it just hyperplasia? All right, cool. Is it type one or type two? Type one, significantly more common. 85% of the cases are usually this one. It's usually increased amounts of glands, increasing amounts of columnar tissue. So that gland to stromal ratio is pretty, pretty high. This is usually estrogen dependent. It's associated with a lot of thickening or endometrial hyperplasia. That's going to be the more common one, the type one. Type two is usually going to be the, you know, it's going to cause endometrial kind of like atrophy. This is usually going to be estrogen independent. It's not going to have as much of this gland to stromal ratio as we see here. And so this one's definitely going to be more aggressive and it's a scarier one, but it's going to be less common. And again, that biopsy would tell me which one it is. Once we've diagnosed endometrial cancer, this is not one of those that we oftentimes really go and think that it metastasizes very, very far. Oftentimes this one's pretty straightforward. All right. So at this point, we've diagnosed endometrial cancer. Cervical cancer is kind of another beast because it comes down a little bit more to visualizing the lesion if there is one. And if you don't visualize it, what do you do? So post-coital bleeding is the most common presentation of cervical cancer. And the reason why is you can have a friable mass. Maybe that's not a very visible, fungating mass. Maybe it's a friable mass that's kind of like relatively flat on that cervix and it's not visible as much. But whenever you have sexual intercourse, there's the friction against that, you know, that penile structure against that, you know, friable tissue, boom, it's going to bleed. And so that's a concerning feature. And when we have that, I think one of the best things to do is to do a bimanuapalic exam and to really evaluate with a specular exam. If there's anything in the vagina, anything along the cervix, that's usually visible in this case. And so that's really going to be the way to go. And if I do the bimanuapalic exam, I'm probably not going to feel anything like super abnormal unless this is a really large cervical mass. It's the specular exam that's really going to be the key thing. And if I do this and I visualize a lesion, something for example like this, this would be pretty concerning. And I'd probably go right to doing a punch biopsy of this area and send this off to the pathology lab and say, Hey, does this come back as invasive cervical cancer or not? And usually that's going to tell me if it is or is not invasive cervical cancer. Now, a lot of other patients, they don't really present with these visible cervical lesions. They may come in where they have postcoital bleeding. You do a specular exam. You don't see any visible friable, fungating mass. And so what do you do? And those particular situations, you should do a pap smear. And the reason why is the pap smear is going to kind of shave off a couple cells. We're going to kind of like, I'm not getting, take like a toothbrush like structure and kind of scrape off some of the tissue cells there and say, Hey, if I look at these tissue cells, they look abnormal. And on top of that, do any of these tissue cells have positive HPV 16, 18 phenotype? The reason why is the abnormal cells? That's concerning. You may need to do a coposcopy and a biopsy. HPV 16, 18, that is a scary HPV phenotype that carries the risk of pretty decently high risk of cervical cancer. Um, and so I think these are really, really important things to consider. So when we do the pap smear, again, what you're trying to do is you're using the speculum, you're inserting in like a little swab and you're going to be brushing. You're going to be doing kind of a rotational movement around that cervix. And the whole point is to kind of scrape off some of those cells and then collect it into a container, send it off to the pathology lab and then have them evaluate it and say, Hey, what types of cells do we have? And this is the ones right here. Just off the get go, we'll explain these a little bit more, but these are the ones that are pretty concerning. If any of these come back with high grade squamous intra-apithelial lesion, which is HSIL, atypical squamous cells of high grade dysplasia, that's a pretty concerning one, or atypical glandular cells. This could even be concerning about a potentially endometrial cancer that's involved. So with these, these are pretty high grade, man. These are definitely like what I would consider pre-malignant or right there on the edge of a malignant condition. And this is something that I would go straight and do a coposcopy and then biopsy based upon if I have any lesions. The other thing is if you have HPV 16 or 18. With HPV 16, 18, these are high grade phenotypes. And when patients are positive with these, you can't deny that. And you should have a degree of suspicion and probably say, let's go get a coposcopy with biopsy. Now, when we think about these kind of tissues, when you do a pap smear, there's different types of cells that they could list off. They could obviously list a normal intra, you know, intraepithelial tissue. They also could show low grade lesions. And these ones, they, they don't carry that same degree of concern unless you probably have them in the appropriate age range or they have the associated HPV 16 and 18. So when I see low grade lesions, it's usually LSIO, which is a low grade squamous intraepithelial lesion. Usually if they're like, they have this and they're greater than or equal to 25. I probably would do a coposcopy with a biopsy or if they came back positive. With HPV 16, I'd probably do it. Same thing for this one. If I had atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance, if they came back positive with HPV 16, 18, I probably would do a coposcopy. But if they have any of these high grade lesions, HSIL, the atypical squamous cells of high grade dysplasia or the atypical glandular cells, I'm going to go straight to a coposcopy. All right. Now, doing a coposcopy and a biopsy is beneficial because what it's going to do is you're going to give this like a little acetic acid to the cervix. And what it's going to do is it's going to show kind of like certain acetyl white changes. And so that's helpful because that's an area that is kind of concerning. It's atypical. And then we can biopsy that particular area and send it off to the pathologist and say, Hey, is this invasive or not? Okay. There is cancer and it's invaded past the basement memory. We have invasive cervical cancer. The benefit of also doing this is that when you, when you take a biopsy, you may see, okay, there is some abnormal intraepithelial cells in that cervical tissue, but it's not all the way down and invading past the basement membrane. So that's when we start talking about degrees of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. So it's like a type of carcinoma and situ pretty much. And so we talk about things like CIN1 and CIN2 and CIN3. So CIN2 or 3 is the concerning ones. These are pre-malignant conditions that I'd say like, these are relatively concerning. And usually when we get these, we should be considering things like colonization procedures. So we'll talk about these things, like the leap procedure, things like the cold knife therapy, where we remove the transformation zone or the squamal columnar juncture, where most of these malignancies occur. So just to give you an idea of what CIN2 or 3 means, let's say that we have here that cervical sample. When you take a look at the cervical sample, this is all your stratified scrimaceous epithelial cells. And this is kind of that basal layer. And then you'll have a basement membrane underneath this. This is normal. But let's say that these cells become infected with HPV, 16, 18, becomes abnormal. And then what happens is because of that, it decides to change its cellular look a little bit. And it starts to become dysplastic. And then it looks like this. Well, this is CIN1. It's not all of the entire interepithelial layer, but it's a good chunk of it. And then you get CIN2, which is, oh man, this is really involving a significant amount of the epithelium, but it's not the complete component of the epithelium. And then you have CIN3, which is almost involving the entire epithelial layer, but it hasn't invaded past this basal cell and get into the basement membrane. And then invasive cervical cancer is when we have invaded past the basal cells into the basement membrane. So now we have invasive cervical cancer. So doing the coposcopio biopsy will show us which one of those stages do we have. And then on top of that, it really helps us with CIN2 or 3. The reason why I say that is in a patient who has these conditions, we oftentimes try to do our best to use synonymous terms. So CIN1, we can consider to be kind of a low grade squamous intrepithelial lesion. It's kind of like if we had a pap smear and we got that cytology, could you theoretically say it could be CIN1? It could be. If you had, you know, the pap smear and it showed HSIL, you could say, oh, it could be CIN2, 3, but the coposcopy and biopsy is the only way that you can truly determine that. Here's the thing though. When we have CIN2 or 3, you can theoretically cure this, but you could also confirm that it truly is CIN2 or 3, or if it's invasive cervical cancer. And so we'll talk about something called a leap. And this is kind of like it's a loop, it's a loop, electro surgical excision kind of procedure. And I'm not kidding, you're taking like a little wire, a leap wire, and you're cutting a cone out right where that transformation zone is. So if you imagine here we have the cervix, let's take a closer look at it. You're taking this wire where let's say all of the abnormal cells are right here. You're just cutting that out and you're removing the areas where the malignancy is most often to occur. And so that's the benefit of this procedure. You also can do this where you can do with a knife. Now, it's not like it's not like the knife is coming out of a freeze or anything. We just say cold because it's again, you think about the steel, it's a cold blade, right? So we're doing a knife where it's a scalp and you're literally removing that area of the transformation zone, that squammal columnar junction. It's the same concept though, you're removing that tissue. The benefit of doing this is it can confirm if it's CIN2 or 3 and then if that is the case, you cured them. You actually treated and removed that intrepithelial neoplasia. But it also can say that when you send that cone off to the pathology lab and they look at it, they can say, oh, some of these actual neoplastic cells did invade the basement membrane. And they could be technically more of like a stage 1, 1A when we really think about that. And that's helpful because that's an invasive cervical cancer. And so that's the benefit of thinking about this with cervical cancer. Now, with cervical cancer, it can spread. And one of the ways that they're going to try and test you on this in the exam is that when it gets big enough, it can actually kind of, especially as you get to, I'd say, start getting to stage 3, it starts compressing on a structure that runs down near it called the ureter. And this can actually compress on the ureters and it can lead to backflow of urine into the kidney and cause enlargement of that kidney, especially the renal calices. And this can cause the hydranephrosis. And so that's something that we can consider. But I think a CT, chest, abdomen, pelvis will help to see if it's spread to the lungs, it's spread to the liver, is it spread to the bone, is it spread kind of outside of the cervix where it's gone into the rectum, it's gone into the colon, it's involved the pelvic wall. So it's not a bad test to do. And also evaluating during the speculum exam, do you see any lesions where it's spread to the vagina? Because sometimes it can actually spread to the upper two thirds or the lower third of the vagina. So I think this is a benefit to kind of looking for a degree of spread. One of the things, since we talked about vaginal cancer is we're not going to have a specific vaginal cancer workup, kind of like algorithm. And the reason why is it's pretty much the same as cervical cancer. They usually present with postcoital bleeding. If you see a visible vaginal lesion, you biopsy. If you don't see a visible lesion, you probably test them for HPV. Because oftentimes when we think about vaginal cancer, it's usually due to HPV, but also it could be due to cervical metastasis. So that cervical lesion fell off or it spread to the upper two thirds of the vagina or the lower third of the vagina. So that's one thing to consider is that if you see a vaginal lesion, you're just going to biopsy that is compared to a cervical lesion for vaginal cancer. But when we talk about cervical cancer kind of going off of this, when we get that CT or we kind of really try to do more of a thorough workup from a test, it's the benefit of knowing this next step as we talk about like phygo staging. And really the key thing is just knowing if it's like a simple stage one, two, three or four. I don't want to go too crazy. There's also some other data that you guys can have here to remember such as the five year survival rate, the stage of presentation. I really just want you to focus on how far has the tumor extended. So if it hasn't really broken past the basement membrane, it's stage zero. That's your carcinoma and cytosine, that's your CIN2, 3 technically. All right. Now, when we think about the next one, which is going to be your stage one, stage one is actually it's confined to just the cervix, right? So you're going to see kind of like a mass, probably just like right here. All right. That's the big one that I want you guys to know. When we talk about stage two, stage two is this is actually going to be a tumor that it's involving the cervix, right? But it's not going beyond to the point where it's going all the way out to the pelvic side wall. It's not going down all the way to like the lower third of the vagina. Usually it kind of can invade into the perimetrium. So that's one thing or it can involve the upper two thirds of the vagina. So you may get some perimetrial invasion. You may get some upper two thirds of the vagina involvement, but it doesn't go out to the pelvic side wall and it doesn't go down to the lower third of the vagina. That's the key way that I want you to distinguish that. I know it seems a little odd. The reason why is as we talk about stage three is now it does go to the pelvic side wall and it does involve the lower third of the vagina. So if it does not involve the lower third, if it does not involve the pelvic side wall and it's kind of in the cervix, but it's kind of going into the perimetrium upper two thirds at stage two, if it goes down to the lower third or to the pelvic side wall, that is stage three. And then the simplistic one to remember stage four is it's either very close proximity metastasso you have a big, big stink and tumor, but this thing spreads to the rectum. It spreads to the bladder, spreads to the lungs, the liver, the bone. That's when we call this metastatic or stage four cervical cancer. All right. And again, you can appreciate that obviously as you go down towards the stage four, that five year survival rate is going to be consistently plummeting down. And obviously stage of presentation, most people will kind of present at stage one. All right. When we talk about cervical cancer, it's important to remember that this is one of those cancers that we want to screen for because a lot of them, you know, it's unfortunate, but this is kind of a sexually transmitted infection. So usually people were having sex at a young age, people were having unprotected sex, those who are immunocompromised. These are people who are at high risk of HPV. And so 16, 18 is the primary phenotypes that we could concern because it contains that mutagenic potential or that carcinogenic potential as well. And so we want to screen these patients with pap smears. That's the primary way you can do HPV testing. It kind of just depends on what the USPST have guidelines tell you. So what are those guidelines? Well, the guidelines say that if the patient's 21 to 29 years of age, we should do a pap smears.  pap smear, every three years. We don't have to do any HPV co-testing unless something comes back really abnormal from the pap smear. And then we can go from there. The other thing is 30 to 65. And this, we have two options. You can do the pap smear every three years, or you can do the pap smear plus the HPV testing every five years. So those are the two options that you have to consider in this potential scenario. Now, you do the pap smear in these patients, again, based upon what is their age, 21 to 29, 30 to 65. You can add the HPV testing in if you want to go every five years of the pap smear, or you don't have to, and you can just do it every three years. When you do the pap smear, it's the same thing we talked about. If you're doing this in a patient who has postcoital bleeding and you want to do pap smear, you're taking that kind of brush down there, you're scraping off some cells, and you're going to evaluate it. You're going to look and see what kind of cells do I have. If you see that they have low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion, that's a low-grade lesion, but they are greater than or equal to 25 years of age, they probably need to go and get a coposcopy. If they have a high-grade lesion, H-S-I-L, A-S-C-H, or A-G-C, that is concerning, and they need to get a coposcopy with a biopsy. Or if they have positive HPV 16 or 18, this is a concerning phenotype. They need a coposcopy and a biopsy, right? Again, I think the importance of remembering these is that here's your normal cells. This is when you're getting into your low-grade lesions. This is the L-S-I-L. You also have your atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance. You have your high-grade lesions like H-S-I-L, and you have your atypical squamous cells with high-grade dysplasia. Again, you also have, as we see here, the atypical glandular cells. These, you go straight to coposcopy. These, usually with L-S-I-L, if they're greater than 25, you get a coposcopy. This one, which we'll talk about in just a second, you're actually going to want to get a reflex HPV testing to see if this comes back positive. If you have HPV testing for 16-18, you get the cope. That's the important thing to remember. Again, we talked about this just a second ago. This is a quick reminder. If they have atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance, you need to determine what's the significance. How do I do that? Do they have HPV 16 or 18? If you haven't done this yet, get it done. If that comes back positive, you get the coposcopy with the biopsy. Now, let's say that you get the cope, and this should sound really familiar. It comes back C-I-N2 or 3. What does that mean? Well, this is normal. Then you get a lot of the neoplastic cells that are involved in a small portion of it. Then they involve a really large portion, and then they involve the entire intreapithelial tissue. That's going to tell you if it's C-I-N1, 2, or 3. If it breaks past the basement membrane, we have invasive cervical cancer. The benefit of doing this is it's going to tell you which type of these things you have. Again, you can combine and say, how do I think about C-I-N1? Well, that can technically be classified as a low-grade squamous intreapithelial lesion. C-I-N2, 3 are more of your high-grade squamous intreapithelial lesions. The point of me telling you this is that if you see C-I-N2 or 3, that's a high-grade lesion. You need to do a colonization. There's two benefits to this. What is it? If I do the colonization, which is, again, what are the two options? I can do a cold knife, or I can do a leap. Take the leap wire, burn that puppy out. What's the point of doing all of this? The whole point of doing the colonization is to say, is this C-I-N2 or 3? If it is, guess what? When you do the leap procedure and you confirm on that cone, you set up the pathologist that it's C-I-N2, 3, that's curative. You're done. If it doesn't come back positive for C-I-N2, 3, and maybe it shows it in a way to the basement membrane, you have an invasive cervical cancer. That's why C-I-N2, 3, you do the colonization. If you do the Culp and it shows that there's an invasive cervical lesion, now I'm actually concerned. That could be that I have invasive cervical cancer. Again, the colonization procedure, it could prove that it's C-I-N2, 3, or it may show that you did invade a little bit of the basement membrane, and it can actually confirm that. These are the benefits of doing this screening process. Now, vulvar cancer. When we talk about vulvar cancer, this one is oftentimes most common. Again, you'll probably see this more and more likely post-menopausal, but it could be due to Lycan sclerosis. It could be due to HPV16, 18 as well. These patients oftentimes most often present with a puritic vulvar lesion. That's the way that they would oftentimes present. When you do that, you carefully inspect the vulva to see if you can visibly find that lesion. If you see that they have these widening plaques that could suggest the Lycan sclerosis and it's very erythematous and it's itchy for the patient, that'd be pretty concerning. What should you do? Biopsy it. If I see something like this on this patient, I am definitely going to biopsy it. By doing that punch biopsy, it's going to tell you what do you have. Is this squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva? All right, gotcha. It's vulvar cancer. I think we got down the diagnostic approaches. The ones that are probably going to be the more challenging one is the ovarian cancer, the cervical cancer. I think go through these a couple different times. But I think the big thing here is that now that we've gone through the diagnostic approach, it's about talking about treatment. How do I treat these patients? With ovarian cancer, it's oftentimes you have to remove the ovaries, but you also have to remove a source of estrogen production and the effect that it has on the uterus as well. Oftentimes, we'll do a total abdominal hysterectomy and a bilateral sappingo ophorectomy. This could be done for any stage of ovarian cancer. It doesn't matter. Stage one all the way to stage four. Again, what you're doing with the total abdominal hysterectomy is you're removing the uterus. What you're doing with the bilateral sappingo ophorectomy is you're removing the fallopian tubes and the ovaries. Obviously, doing this, the patient would no longer be able to have child birthing capabilities. That's obviously a discussion that you'd have to have with them. Another thing is that we talk about with this is that these patients, again, I told you, loves to go to the peritoneum. One area that it likes to go to is the omentum. Oftentimes, when we're doing that exploratory laparotomy, we're doing the staging procedure, we may remove the omentum. There could be an omentectomy that's also considered in stage one to stage four ovarian cancer, especially if you get into the later stages, stage three, stage four, it's probably already there in the omentum. You're removing it anyway, but stage one, stage two, you're probably just removing it before it even gets to that area. Again, with omentectomy, all you're doing is let's say that you have a tumor here, let's say that you have an ovarian cancer in one of these areas, and you have a tumor here in the omentum, all that you're going to be doing is cutting that omentum out. The next thing that we should do in these patients is consider things like chemotherapy. Carboplatin, passotaxyl, this is usually going to be adjuvant therapy. What does that mean? That means you're going to be giving it after they've gotten that surgical procedure. Once you've diagnosed that they have ovarian cancer, you do the exploratory laparotomy, the staging procedure, you remove the ovary, you remove the uterus, you remove the fallopian tubes, you remove the omentum, you do a lot of cytoreductive debulking to remove any kind of like paritoneal masses that are greater than a centimeter, then what do you do? You hit them with chemotherapy afterwards. It can be given prior to surgery, but it's usually in those where it's a decent size tumor and you're maybe trying to just decrease or downstage the size of the tumor before you do some type of surgery. You can consider that in stage three or stage four when they're a little bit of a larger tumor or you have lots of paritoneal implants or it's kind of a task size to some other areas. Targeted therapy is something you can consider. I wouldn't go too crazy remembering this, but we can use PARP inhibitors, oliparibid, and this may sound familiar. We talked about this in breast cancer. What's the type of mutation that we can see in both breast and ovarian cancer? That's BRCA. Patients who are getting chemotherapy, especially for ovarian cancer, we may keep them on maintenance therapy within oliparib for their BRCA mutation. Because again, BRCA mutations increase the risk of both breast and ovarian cancer. That's considerable to think about. A lot of the times when patients have these BRCA mutations, they can consider things like not just the total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral sauphingo opherectomy, but they can also consider a bilateral prophylactic mastectomy as well. That's a consideration as well. Again, what do PARP inhibitors really do? Well, think about it. Whenever you have BRCA mutations, you lose your ability to allow for fixes and DNA damage. The DNA repair genes become altered. Let's say you have a break in your DNA. Normally, what happens is the PARP enzyme is going to come in there and it's going to help with the repair process and that cell should survive. If you give something like a PARP inhibitor, let's say that you have a single-strand DNA break. What happens is you give a PARP inhibitor that binds on with that PARP enzyme. Now, it's going to lose that ability to allow for fixing of that break. What happens is you may get a double-stranded DNA break. In a normal cell who has normal repair genes, what would happen? Well, they'd probably be able to fix this somehow. But in patients who have BRCA mutations, they don't allow for that. They lose that ability to fix that double-stranded DNA break. Then the cells oftentimes die. This is where this drug can really help us to kill some of these cells that are actually going to be having these double-stranded DNA breaks. That's getting the whole point of giving this medication. Indometrial cancer, my friends. In this one, what we're doing is, again, we're treating it the same way. In patients who have indometrial cancer, a total abdominal hysterectomy and a bilateral subhingal refractomy is the way to go. An advanced stage of indometrial cancer will oftentimes do this in combination with radiation therapy. Again, with total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral subhingal refractomy, that you're removing the uterus and you're also removing the fallopian tubes and the ovaries. Chemotherapy, again, is the same concept. It's likely going to be given in those patients who have metastatic indometrial cancer. You're trying to kill as many and at least reduce the progression of that disease. High dose progestin therapy is something that you can offer to these patients. Again, this is usually if you have a person who has the desire to bear a child. Maybe they're pregnant and they don't want to get a total abdominal hysterectomy or a bilateral subhingal refractomy or they want to have a child first. You can consider things like high dose progestin therapy, at least until you get to where they have the child, they're past their childbearing age, and then you remove the uterus, the fallopian tubes, and the ovaries. You can do that if it's in more in the early stages of endometrial cancer and you still want to have the ability to bear a child. The concept behind this is that, well, your hypothalamus produces something called GnRH. GnRH tells the antripetuitary to make FSH. FSH goes to the ovary and that helps to increase estrogen production. That actually tells the uterus to what? Go through a proliferative stage. Problem with this is that in these patients over time and time and time and where there's no progestin to oppose this, it can lead to thickening of the endometrium so they can get endometrial hyperplasia. The other thing is that GnRH can tell the antripetuitary to produce LH. LH tells the ovary, it actually causes the secondary oocyte that's frozen in metaphase 2 to pop out, and it causes ovulation. The ovulation is what helps us to allow for the process of fertility to occur. More ovulation though increases the risk of ovarian cancer, obviously. Now, the big thing here is that when we talk about progestins, it actually can work to suppress GnRH. That's one benefit. If we suppress GnRH, that can suppress the FSH and LH, but progestins also can shut down that pathway in general. It can also shut down the antripetuitary. If we shut down FSH, what's going to happen to the ovary? That's going to have a reduction in estrogen. What's going to happen if we have a reduction in estrogen at the uterus level? That's going to lead to decreased proliferation. If we have decreased proliferation of the endometrium in the uterus, what's going to happen to that hyperplasia? It's going to theoretically decrease. So that's why getting progestins in patients who have endometrial hyperplasia is really the go-to. It's not as desirable in patients who have endometrial cancer unless we have a very valid reason that they want to preserve fertility for a certain amount of time. Again, the other benefit of giving progestins is that they also do what to the LH? They suppress LH production. That's going to cause a decrease in the ovulation. That decrease in ovulation is what gives you that contraceptive type of function. The other thing about progestin is it can work directly on the uterus. Progestin has more of an opposing action where it doesn't want to cause proliferation. It actually wants to trigger it more of a secretory effect, where it secretes more of a glycogen-rich broth that helps to allow for the fertilization processes, especially for implantation and feeding the embryo. That's the whole goal in there. When you do progestins, you're basically trying to oppose estrogen, lead to less proliferation, lead to more secretion, lead to less ovulation. That's the purpose of doing this, but you should only do it until a certain point where they bear child, and then you should remove the uterus, the ovary, and the fallopian tubes. Again, that is really the biggest thing. Again, it works saying here as an important note is that once childbearing is complete, you have to discontinue the progestin therapy and urge the patient to get a total abdominals direct amino byelodorsal pingoaffractomy. The next one is going to be cervical cancer. We actually talked a little bit about some of these, but the leap or the cold knife colonization, what is that going to be truly given for? We do that in the diagnostic approach because if we see that a patient has CIN2, 3, we should do the leap procedure. The whole goal of that is you can remove that cone and remove that transformations and where most of that neoplasia can actually occur. It's really going to be the gold standard for your CIN2, your CIN3. You can use it in the early stage cervical cancer like stage 1A, especially if you have the fertility desire, but I wouldn't say it's your first line. I would say that that's not going to be the preferable first line, but it can be considered if you still want to try and have a baby because obviously what's the goal in cervical cancer? If you have it, you're probably going to have to remove the uterus. Historic amino would be the way to go here, but if you have the desire to have a child and you have a very, very early stage, I'm probably saying like stage 1A, you could consider doing a leap or a cold knife. Again, when we talk about these, the leap wire, you're using that cold knife, you're using a scalpel, and that's going to be allowing for you to remove that cone, that area of the transformations and where most often the malignancies occur. Again, this is just kind of paying homage to that process we've talked about. Now, hysterectomy is really going to be the first line. You should really utilize this in early stage cervical cancer, especially if the fertility is not desired or it's really, really invasive. I'd say anything when we talk about stage 1, I'm talking about stage 1 all the way you should consider a hysterectomy. That's going to be the removal of the uterus. That would be the primary way that I would treat these patients. Chemo radiation therapy is going to be a consideration. The chemo agent would be cis-platin, but that can really be given in the more advanced stages of cervical cancer, so you can definitely consider that one as well. Now, vaginal cancer, I would say that this one, again, when we talk about this one, we would think, oh, it would be like you're going to be doing a surgical excision, right? No, it's actually quite interesting. These patients are going to respond better to chemo radiation. That's the first line therapy. When you talk about vulvar cancer, though, on the other hand, it's the exact opposite. So, vulvar cancer responds better to surgery. Vaginal cancer responds better to chemo radiation therapy. So, vulvar cancer, vulvectomy would be the primary way of which you would be removing parts of the vulva where that actual cancerous mass is. This could be partial or it could be a radical vulvectomy. Now, one last thing that I want to take some time to talk about, because obviously prevention is key in a lot of these kinds of ecological cancers, because vaginal cancer, vulvar cancer, and cervical cancer all carry that risk of if you have HPV, and so any HPV-related gynecological cancer, you should try to do your best to prevent that. How do we do that? One of them is by giving a vaccine, and that is the HPV vaccine Gardasil 9. So, it's against nine different types of phenotypes. And so usually this is given around ages 11 to 12 years of age. Obviously, you can have it as a catch-up if they're getting it later on in life, but this is really the goal. You're trying to reduce the risk of that kind of causing that transmission of HPV, or at least giving them the immunity to fight off. I should say more specifically, giving the immunity to fight off the HPV. When you try to reduce the transmission, that's when it comes to safe sex practices. Obviously, abstinence or utilizing condoms, this is going to reduce that transmission of the HPV. And then routine screening is going to allow for us to identify any kind of abnormal, what? High-grade, low-grade squamous interoperative lesions, identify HVV16, 18 phenotyping so that we can go through the steps to say, hey, they have cervical cancer, hey, they have CIN2, 3, let's do a leave, let's do a colonization, let's do a hysterectomy, et cetera. We want to catch this before the patient has stage 4, and it's spread all over the place. So utilizing a pap smear every three years for 20 to 29, or doing it every three years, or a pap smear plus an HPV testing every five years for those who are 30 to 65 years of age is going to be the way to go. And again, you're just doing that pap smear is a way of being able to test for specific types of cytology like low-grade squamous interoperative lesions or high-grade squamous interoperative lesions. All right. My friends, this was a monster lecture. I know it was a lot. I know it can be challenging. Again, I hope that it really made sense. If you guys want, I think one of the ways that you'll help you to really solidify your understanding is go to our website. On our website, we have a lot of things like notes, where you can follow along with me, illustrations, draw these things as we go through it together, and then quiz questions. I think that's one of the best ways to truly test your knowledge. A lot of a lot of spaced repetition and see if you understand that concept. So go to the website, check those out, become a member, and I really think that'll benefit you. But man, I really thank you guys so much for hanging in there, watching this and learning with me. And I hope that you feel more comfortable. And I feel like you are going to be able to crush any exam on gynecological cancers that come your way. But I love you guys. Thank you guys. And as always, until next time.