Alright Ninja Nerds, we're going to talk about the humerus now. so if you look here, this is actually going to be the, well this whole thing up here is the proximal epiphysis, but this part right here this articulating surface. Right here is called the head of the humerus. it's actually covered with a hyaline cartilage. They call it an articular cartilage and whenever it actually forms the articulation with the glenoid cavity of the scapula, it actually is going to form the synovial ball and socket joint right there. All right so now that covers the head. So now what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna cover this other part of the proximal epiphysis here. At the proximal epiphysis over here, we have this structure right here. This structure here is called the lesser tubercle. So that's your tubercle, this one here is the greater tubercle, this right here is the intertubercular sulcus. And then if I move right here, this is the deltoid tuberosity, it is this roughened surface right there. It's where the deltoid inserts. Now what I'm going to do is, I'm going to kind of pull this back here, so you guys can see this this right here is actually going to be called the coronoid fossa. So where the coronoid process of the ulna inserts, actually forms a little depression there. Here's the radial fossa right there, and the radial fossa is actually caused by the head of the radius was causes this depression. This is the medial side of the bone right, so this is actually technically called the medial condyle, but we actually have a specific name for, we actually called the trochlear. Then over here, we actually have the lateral condyle. Again, we give this a specific name, we call it the capitulum. If I come over here, this right here is the epicondyles right here. And this right here, since this is the lateral condyle this is the lateral epicondyle. And if I come over here, since this is the medial condyle, this is the medial epicondyle. Now, what I'm gonna do is, we're going to flip it over and look at the posterior aspect over. So we look at their posterior aspect again, you guys can see that you see the head there and you can see the part of the tubercles. If I'm moving down the diaphysis and you kind of see this like a little like big turn that this part of the bone makes right here. You see that turn that right there? Specifically, as I'm coming out of that, boom, I hit that turn that right there, is the radial groove. Okay, now I'm going to come down here, this right here. Now we're looking at the posterior part of the humerus, this big, big divot right here is actually called the olecranon fossa, that's where the olecranon process of the ulna just actually causes a depression right there. Now, we're going to look at the head of the humerus, but I want to cover two types of next the anatomical neck and the surgical neck. So if you, if I kind of take my fingers and wrap all the way around this guy right here, wrapping around that that part that, I'm wrapping where my fingers are, that is actually referred to as the anatomical neck. Then if I take and I come over here and I wrap in this part around the part of the bone, that is going to be the surgical neck. Alright guys, that pretty much covers the humerus.