All right, engineer. So, what we're going to do in this video is we're going to talk about antibbody structure and function. All right. So, antibodies, there's actually these ones that we have right here. One, two, three, four, five antibodies that we have listed, right? How what is an easy way? There was an acronym that I found from someone who actually helped me when I first took this uh anatomy and physiology was this little this little pneummonic here called gamed and gamed gives you the all the antibodies that you'd have to know IGG IGA IGM IG IGD so it's a quick little way of being able to remember all the five antibodies all right so now what we're going to do is we're going to go into detail into each different type of antibbody so let's go ahead and dive right in away right away to the IGG antibbody so IGG antibodies One thing you're definitely going to want to know about this guy, he is the most abundant antibbody. So out of all of these antibodies, he is the most abundant antibbody. Okay. So a a good portion of him literally about um 65% of him 65 to 70% of him is actually found within our blood plasma. So 65 to about 70% 70% is found within the blood plasma. And again, who secretes these antibodies? We already know this. The plasma cells, right? So, our plasma cells, if you remember them, the one with that uh really, really big nucleus and again a large amount of rough endopplasmic reticulum. These are the guys that are responsible for producing this one in this case, what is this one right here called? This is IGG antibodies. Now, IGG antibodies, we're going to get into its structure in a little bit here, but this guy is actually designed to be what's called a monomer. What is a monomer? That means he just has one of these antibodies here. So, there's only one of them. So, what is this guy here again? He is actually a monomer. All right, so IG G antibodies are monomers. So, there's only one of these puppies. All right, now we know plasma cells make these guys, right? We know that it's the most abundant antibbody. We know that 65 to 70% of it's found within the blood plasma. This antibbody is actually produced within the second, it's produced within both the primary and the secondary, but it's the most abundant one in the secondary immune response. So it's more abundant or the primary one in the secondary immune response but it is produced in small amounts dur in the primary immune response. So in a primary meaning that you first get infected secondary is you're getting exposed to that antigen or foreign pathogen again and we'll talk about that when we talk about the graph and we'll talk about sematic hypermutations. All right. So again, he's producing the primary and the secondary immune response. Okay, next thing. What does this guy do? So if you remember from before, you'll remember that we had a bacteria here, right? And if you remember that bacteria, what can be on the cell membrane of that bacteria or the cell wall, right? Depending upon what type of bacteria it is, gram negative or gram positive, you know that it can have those antigens, right? So here's that antigen. Let's actually draw this antigen in blue here. So here's this antigen, right? And then what can be bound to that antigen? We can have the IGG antibodies bind to that. And if the IGG antibodies bind to that, what can that do? That can activate, if we remember already, it can activate the complement system. And what can the complement system do? That can initiate the formation of a membrane attack complex or they can enhance opsization. Right? So that's that's one thing where they can form the membrane attack complex or they can enhance the optionization, right? And they can cause C3 and C5A which enhance inflammation. That's one mechanism. Another thing they can do, let's say that there's a virus particle. Here's a virus. So here's a viral molecule here. So it's got like this nucleioapsid and then it's got some uh so let's say say it's RNA or DNA that's actually present with inside of it. And then let's say it has like these specific types of uh viral antigens out here on the surface. What can happen is those IGG antibodies can literally bind to every one of these every one of these antigens. And whenever it binds to these guys, this virus can no longer come and bind to an actual host cell. So it can't infect it. So what is that called? That's called neutralization. Neutralization. Let's say these there's a free antigen, right? So there's some type of free antigen circulating in this vicinity of the plasma or within the uh extracellular fluid, right? And what happens? These antibodies they bind to this free antigen and precipitates this antigen which can enhance uh fagocytosis. So this can do two things. It can actually initiate optinization and it can initiate fagocytosis by trying to enhance the fagocytosis. But what is this process right here called? This is called precipitation. Right? So it can do precipitation. What else can it do? Um it also because it can do precipitation, it can do neutralization. It could activate our our compliment proteins and there's a lot of other things that it can do also right one other thing I want to mention is you know that whenever a baby is within the just it's just in the gestational phase right so it's actually uh in the fetus stage and there's the placenta that's developed around the 12th week right well the placenta let's just say here's our placenta right here the placenta can actually provide so here let's say some blood vessels coming from the placenta right they're like the umbilical veins they can allow for these antibodies to circulate through. So let's say here I have IGG antibodies. These IGG antibodies can actually pass over from the placenta where to the baby. Right? And so let's say here's your baby, right? So here's your baby. All right. What can it do? It can pass these IGG antibodies onto the baby so that that baby has what's called passive immunity. So whenever it's born, it's already going to have a small amount of immunity, right, to specific pathogens that the mother's been exposed to. So that's kind of cool. So again, what do we have for the IGG antibbody? Most abundant antibbody 65 to 70% of it's found within the blood plasma or extracellular fluids. It's secreted by plasma cells in the monomeic form. It's secreted within the primary and the secondary immune response, but it's more abundant within the secondary immune response. And what is its effects? It can enhance the compliment proteins by doing the membrane attack complex and optinization. It can bind and cause neutralization of certain types of viruses or other microbes. It can cause precipitation reactions which can enhance optinization and fagocytosis. And it can also pass the placenta and confer passive immunity between the mother and the and the baby. Right? That's that part for IGG antibodies. Now let's go to IgA antibodies. So IgA antibodies. All right? All right, so IgA antibodies, you would find these. Where would you find these? Because we talked about these guys. Where would you find these guys? And again, well, first off, who secretes them? Again, it's going to be the same cell constantly over and over and over again, but we're going to keep mentioning that so you don't forget it. This is actually going to be the plasma cells. So, the plasma cells secrete this antibbody, but IgA antibodies. Interesting. Look at this. You see, you notice something right here? Look at that. They're linked together, but it's not a monomer. There's two of them. So, if there's two of them, what do we call this? This is called a dimer. This is called a dimer. So, again, plasma cells secrete these IgA antibodies, but they're in the dimeic form. So, it's two monomers linked together. So, this is a dimer. All right. So, now where would you find these IgA antibodies? Well, these plasma cells, they're secretreting these antibodies that's present within a lot of the actual fluids within our body. For example, you can find this within the saliva. You can find this within the skin. So, it can be on the skin secretions like your sweat secretions. So, we'll put sweat. Uh you can find it within the mucosal lining of our GI tract. So, the mucosal lining of the GI tract. Oh, and one really, really good one too. This is an important one. I'm going to mention this one within the milk the milk of the mother. Right? So whenever the milk so we'll call this the milk the milk produced by the actual mother within her alvolar glands, right? So the milk from lactation. So whenever the baby is actually suckling and it's actually gaining that milk from the mother, these IgA antibodies can actually get pushed into that actual milk and those IgA antibodies can get passed from mother to the baby and that can help with some of the actual immunity. That's why you want to be able to to breastfeed, right? All right. So again, that's pretty much these ones that you would find them in. Again, so it's a lot of our actual body fluids like saliva and the sweat and the mucosal lining of our GI tract and within the milk and even with some within the eurogenital tract and stuff, right? So we can even say eurogenital tract. But now what are these designed to do? So what they love to do is they love to be able to destroy certain types of bacteria that might actually show up within this area. That's pretty much it. How can they do that? They can do a lot of the similar mechanisms that we already talked about, right? So again, these IG uh IgA antibodies, they're really really good at being able to let's say here we have a bacteria here that somehow gets inside of the actual GI tract or within the saliva or it's actually on the skin or it's within the mucosa lining or whatever. Then you would have let's say here's the antigen here. You would have this IgA antibbody here that is actually going to be a dimer and he can actually bind this point right here. But if he's actually a dimer, maybe there might be another bacteria within the vicinity or some type of microbe right here. And what can it do? It can also bind to that antigen. So again, that's why he's a very good one right there. He is a dimer. All right. So that's pretty much about a IG antibodies. Again, you'd find it within the saliva of the skin, the mucosal lining, certain types of milk, within the mother, and you can even find it within the eurogenital tract. And just know that it is a dimer. Okay, next one. IgM antibodies. So, IgM antibodies are actually going to be another very very important one. And again, we should continue to keep doing this. Who secretes this guy? Plasma cells, right? So, the plasma cells are the primary cells that are going to be the only cells really. There is other cells that can make antibodies, but these are going to be the primary ones. And these guys are going to be our plasma cells, and they are secretreting IG M antibodies. You guys are going to crap your huggies right here because this guy, he is a pentimer. He can, look at this guy. He can exist in two forms. He can exist in a pentame form and he can exist in a a monomeic form, right? So we have two of these guys, right? He can exist in this form, which is what? One, two, three, four, five. This is a pentimer and it's all linked together through what's called a J protein. But again, this is a pentimer. So it can secrete these antibodies in the pentame form or can they can be secreted in the monomeic form. Right? So there is two different forms of this antibbody. The monomer and the pentimer IGM antibodies are very very important. Right? So they're secreted by plasma cells and they're pretty abundant too. Now what do these guys do? So these guys are the ones that are secreted within your primary immune response. So this is the one that's made during your primary immune response. All right, so this is important. Why is this important? Because this could be a good diagnostic tool. If you actually run somebody's actual blood or their antibbody titers and you find out that they have elevated levels of IgM, it could actually let you know that they're undergoing some type of active infection, some type of primary exposure. First time they're being exposed to some type of foreign antigen and they're producing antibodies against that, right? So that's important for understanding that that these IGM antibodies are made during their first prim or primary immune response. Right. What can these antibodies do? All right. Well, these antibodies and they can also be found within a lot of our extracellular fluids also. This guy, he actually is going to love to be able to activate the compliment protein. So if you remember here, we had that bacteria. Let's say here we have that bacteria. And if we have that bacteria there, and again, what did that bacteria have on its cell membrane? It had specific types of antigens. And what can happen is this monomeic form of the antibbody can bind on to that guy right there. And then what can happen? We already know what's going to happen. You could activate the complement proteins, right? And the complement proteins could lead to membrane attack complex or optinization. Right? So that's that. What else can he do? He's really good at being able to pick up. So, you know, whenever you uh get a mismatch blood transfusion, if you get a mismatched blood transfusion, so let's say that you have a mismatched blood transfusion. So, here's your red blood cells here. Let's say I have a couple red blood cells here. And these red blood cells here, they all have foreign antigens. Maybe it's an A antigen and you weren't supposed to give an A antigen to this individual, but here's this A antigen and you have, let's say, anti-A antibodies. Well, guess what? This IGM can actually bind right here. Look at this. This is a beautiful thing. And then all of these guys can bind here through again what is that molecule called? It's called a J protein that links them all together. This right here, this molecule here is our I G and antibody. And what is he doing? Remember when we talked about this when we talked about this in the um blood typing videos that whenever we have any type of mismatch blood transfusions and there's a antibbody antigen interaction well an antibbody antigen interaction can lead to what's called a glutination and a glutination is clumping right and that can cause a lot of problems here so again there can be a glutination this is a type two hypersensitivity all right so this is actually what's called a type two hypersensitivity whenever there is a mismatched blood transfusion and we'll talk about that more pathology. So again what can this guy do? Okay, he can be made by plasma cells in the pentime form or the monomeic form. He can be made during the primary immune response and he can even be made a little bit during the secondary immune response but very very little. What does he do? He can bind on in the monomeic form to foreign antigens and initiate the complement system and activate the membrane attack complex and oxidization mechanisms or he can bind on to multiple different antigen binding sites. So he has multiple antigen binding sites. If you think about it when we draw the structure of the antibodies and discuss them he has 10 different antigen binding sites or epitopes. So he has 10 antigen binding sites. And for right now, you're just going to have to trust me what I'm saying that it has 10 because you might be like, "Oh, it only seems like it has five." Well, you'll see here in a second whenever we talk about it. Okay. So, again, that pretty much covers IGM antibodies. Let's go to the next one, which is Ig antibodies. All right. So, now antibodies. What do I antibodies? Where? Okay. Where are they secreted from? Again, let's just keep doing this just so we can be consistent here. They're made by plasma cells. But we can kind of expand on this a little bit. So, they're made by plasma cells. All right. And when they're made by these plasma cells, so they can be secreted by plasma cells because these are the only ones that are really releasing the antibodies. The plasma cells. Plasma cells are the only cells that are making these antibodies. Now, antibodies are monomers also. So these are also monomers. So these are monomeic proteins or glyoproteins. So this is a monomer. And where would you actually find this guy? Well, you can find it within the actual respiratory tract. So the respiratory tract mucosa you can also so it's found within the respiratory tract mucosa and you can even find it within some of the eurogenital structures too right so you can also find it within the eurogenital structures and you can also we're going to discuss another thing you can also find it within the laminaropria too or certain types of lymphatic tissue so we'll put laminaropria or uh and lymphatic tissues. Okay, so now these antibodies are pretty cool. What do they do? All right, so let's say we talk about the respiratory tract mucosa first because this is has a very important role within what's called type one hypersensitivities or anaphylactic shock. You might have heard of that, right? So let's say here I have a mass cell. You guys remember mass cells, right? So mass cells right here, we talked about this in other videos, but we didn't go into super super depth on it. You know how you have these receptors, right? These receptors are called on the mass cell FC epsilon R1 receptors. So again, what is this called? FC stands for the FC portion of the antibbody. Epsilon R1. Okay, so this is the FCP epsilon R1 receptor. Why do I mention that? Well, guess what? You see this monomeic antibbody? Whenever there's some type of inflammatory response, that monomer will literally bind in right here. So that monomer will literally bind in right here. So now you have the Fle FC epsilon R1 receptor bound with the monomeic Ig antibbody. Why is this important? Because whenever someone is exposed to some type of allergen, something that they're allergic to, for example, let's just say it's a ragweed pollen that I draw here in blue. Whenever these ragweed pollen molecules activate this actual IG antibodies, sorry, antibodies, it can signal the actual mass cell to start producing tons of different types of inflammatory chemicals. So again, you already know these molecules. What are these molecules called? They're called histamines. And I'm not going to go over all them, but they could be lucatrines, right? So they could be lucatrines, they could be prostaglandins, right? So, and what are these molecules designed to do? Well, if you remember, they cause widespread vasoddilation, right? And another thing that they're going to do is there's also going to be other molecules that are produced too. Whenever they cause that widespread vasoddilation, it's going to cause the blood vessels to start getting leaky. And if this is happening within the respiratory mucosa, if you imagine here, if I were to draw someone's bronchi here, let's say I draw a bronchi and I have a blood vessel right here serving that bronchi and I have a lot of capillary permeability coming out of that. I have an increased capillary permeability. What's going to happen to that actual space right there? It's going to start getting bigger and bigger and bigger and it's going to cause a lot of edema and that's going to create swelling which can actually start restricting the airways. All right. So that's why people can actually have a problem breathing. So there would be a lack of oxygen coming into this area here and a lack of CO2 getting out and that's because of that a lot of that edema here that accumulation of fluid there. Another thing that happens is these actual molecules they bind onto different receptors. Now we know that they cause vasoddilation right they also bind onto smooth muscle cells here within the bronchi. And when they bind onto these smooth muscle cells within the bronchi, they actually cause these smooth muscle cells to actually contract. And when the smooth muscle cells contract here, so it's going to cause contraction of the smooth muscle cells within the bronchi, it actually decreases the size of the airway. And if you decrease the size of the airway, can as much oxygen get in and as much CO2 get out? No. And that can affect breathing, right? That's what people know to be called as an anapilaxis, right? So anaphilaxis, this is actually a type one hyper sensitivity. Okay, that's one of the big big important things with these respiratory tract mucosa is that they play a very very huge role within these allergic reactions specifically type one hypersensitivities or anaphylactic shock. Right. All right. What's the other thing? Eurogenital it's also important of right and it's also part important within this laminar appropriate and lymphatic tissue. It's also important within the GI tract mucosa. Why is it important within the GI tract mucosa? Let's say that I decide to eat some type of uncooked bare meat and I'm an idiot. I don't know why I would ever do that but I did. So here's my GI tract, right? I eat this undesirabably uncooked meat or whatever, whatever it might be, and I ended up getting somehow I get parasites. So, I get a parasitic worm in here. Look at this puppy right here. I got a parasitic worm floating around in me. That's nasty, right? But what happens? These actual parasitic worms, we actually can produce antibodies against them. And guess what antibbody we produce against them? Ig antibodies. And then we can tag these antibodies for what type of white blood cells. You should know this. This is actually going to be our eosinophils. So if you remember from before, what was this actual cell called? This is called a eosinaphil because he loves to release the major basic protein and the cationic peptide which cause destruction of the actual parasite. So it'll come over here and it'll actually destroy that parasite. All right. So that's that for the IG antibbody and there is small traces of it. You can find tiny amount of traces of it within the blood plasma. So very small traces in the blood plasma. Okay. So that's a cool antibody there. All right. Now let's come over to the last and the final one, the easiest one. IgD antibodies. IgD antibodies are again they're made by plasma cells, but you're going to love what they do because they're not not that hard to remember. They're actually made by the plasma cells and they are also monome. So these are also monomeic. All right. So they're only going to be one of these molecules here. So this is again this is a monomer. But what do you think this guy does? It's actually not bad. Guess what? He decides to come back or actually he wouldn't be secreted because you know proteins whenever they come from the gogi apparatus they can actually become a part of the cell membrane or they can be secreted. I just wanted to show it so you guys could see this guy here in a larger view here. He actually is gonna whenever the gogi apparatus has those vesicles, it's actually going to fuse with the cell membrane. And when it fuses with the cell membrane, it's actually going to express that actual monomer on the B cell surface. So this is our B cell receptor. So this is going to act as a B cell receptor. What we talked about in the actual hummeral immunity or the adaptive immunity video, right? So he's a very good B cell receptor. All right. So that pretty much covers everything for him for the IGD antibodies, right? So he's a very good B cell receptor just like the actual monomeic form of the IGM antibbody. All right. So again, come back over here to the IGM antibody really quickly. Another thing that can actually happen with this monomer that I didn't mention is that this monomer can also exist as a B cell receptor. So he can also exist as a B cell receptor just as the IGD antibbody can. All right. Now that we've done that, I want to talk about what's called sematic hypermutation. What is meant by sematic hypermutation? All right. So, if you remember, we talked a little bit about this already when we talked about the IGM and the IGG antibodies, how they're a part of the primary and the secondary immune response. So, here on the y- axis, I have the abundance of antibodies within our serum. And here on the x- axis, I have the time this is actually going to occur over time in days. So, let's say, all right, first thing I get exposed to an antigen. Let's say I get exposed to antigen X. So I get exposed to antigen X. What happens is after we're exposed to antigen X, there's a lag period. So there's this period, there's this lag period where nothing's happening, right? So here's this lag period. But then let's say after maybe a day or something like that, we start producing antibodies and this starts rising. Look at this. It starts rising. All right? And after that, it'll actually come back down. But then there's another antibbody that'll also be produced, but he's actually going to be produced a little bit later even that longer than that. Look at this guy here. And then he comes back down. So whenever we have a primary our first exposure to an antigen, we produced an antibbody a little bit like there's a lag period. What is this thing right here called? This is a lag period. And this lag period is actually going to take some time and for our plasma cells to start producing antibodies. Let's just say for this case it's 2 days whatever let's just say it obviously could even be a little bit longer maybe 5 days let's say two to five days so two to five days and then what happens during this lag period we start producing a specific type of antibbody what is that antibbody this is called I G antibbody that's the first antibbody that we're going to produce during the primary immune response but then later on in that primary immune response we make another antibbody and this antibbody is actually going to be called and as this antibbody is going down this antibbody is actually going up. That's interesting, right? Because now that means what does that mean? That means our plasma cells were designing themselves to secrete what at this point in time IG M antibodies. But then over a certain amount of time they switched and then they started producing IGG antibodies. Well, how does that happen? That's weird, right? The genes get activated by certain types of interlucans and cytoines. So, there might be, for example, for this IGM antibbody, there might be certain types of cytoines here. So, there might be certain types of cytoines or stimuli like the microbe itself that's activating this guy to produce IgM antibodies. Whereas there might be other types of cytoines or there might be other types of microbes that is actually going to tell this plasma cell to start changing its gene sequence uh changing the actual genetic uh transcripts and producing IGG antibodies. So whenever there's this change or this shift with from IG M to IG G antibodies that change in the production this right here is called sematic hyper mutation. Okay. Now we're not done yet. So now as this starts dropping and then eventually this starts dropping. So again, what is this antibbody here? This is Ig G. Here's where sematic hyper hypermutation takes a definite huge change. So again, let's say we're coming over here. It's that we're not actually getting exposed to anything. And then right away I give a second exposure. So now I'm exposing them to a different type of antigen. Maybe I'm just having a second exposure to X. If there's a second exposure to X, now watch this. The IgM antibody actually has a little lag period, but then it produces it again, but it's not as much. Now, watch what's going to happen to this black line here. It's going to go ham, and it's going to go all the way up here, right? So, there's that change, right? So, look how much of a difference there is here. This is the big difference. This is really the definition of this is really the better example of sematic hypermutation because primarily we were making IGM antibodies right that was the first one that we were making and we still do make a tiny little bit about amount of him in the secondary immune response but look which one we're making primarily IGG antibodies. So this is how we actually should describe sematic hypermutation is that how we were making IGM antibodies primarily and IGG at almost equal amounts pretty much close to equal amounts. There was a greater lag period for the IGG though. And then afterwards when we were exposed to the antigen a second time, we didn't even make that many IgM antibodies at all. We primarily produced IGG antibodies. That is sematic hypermutation. Okay, now we're getting close to done. Let's talk about a couple more things and then we are we are done with this lecture here, right? Immunity. There's two types. One type is actually going to be called passive And the other type is actually called active. Now what is the difference between passive immunity and active immunity? Passive immunities means you didn't have to do anything to be able to get that form of immunity. It was given to you without you having to do any work, right? Or produce any antibodies in response to it. So you weren't you were given these. It's like it's like someone actually me working to be able to get money or me just getting money from somebody. If I'm just getting money because I'm an air, it's a passive form, right? If I'm actually working to gain that money, that's active. That's how this is actually going to work. So, let's explain what I mean by this. So, passive, there's two types of passive immunity as there is two types of active immunity. Passive, there's what's called naturally acquired. So there's the ways that you can naturally acquire immunity and then there's ways that you can artificially acquire immunity, right? So artificially acquire. What are these ways that you do that? So naturally acquired, we already talked about one example. It's a perfect example. That would be the IGG antibodies and the IgA antibodies. So again, what is these IG G antibodies and the IG A antibodies that we got from our mother, right? So IGG antibodies that would be the ones that cross the placenta. And then the IgA antibodies are going to be the ones that we got from the mother's milk. These are naturally acquired. We didn't have to do anything to get these. We were given these naturally, right? So if we were given these molecules, if we were given these IGA and IGG molecules naturally, we didn't have to work for them. They were given to us, right? All right. Artificially acquired. This one would be let's say that I got um bitten by a snake. I got bit by a snake and the snake has a specific type of venom, right? And that venom is actually causing damage to my tissue and I have to get the antidote. So then what they do is they give me an artificial form of the antidote which is an immunogloabbulin. So let's say that they give me an antivenenom or maybe I got bit by a uh like a black widow which is has a lrotoxin I have produced uh they gave me specifically antibodies amunoglobulins that will actually ward off that venom. So it's an antivenenom. So you can think about that. I didn't do anything against it. I didn't produce the antibodies. They gave me the antibodies. So think about that as like a antivenenom. The antivenenom is actually amunoglobulins. And what do I mean by amunoglobulins? I'm just now mentioning this and I'm sorry. This is another word for antibodies. So antibodies, they literally gave me antibodies against the actual. So these antibodies are against the venom from a snake. And this could be other examples. This is just the first example that popped in my head. Right? So that's artificially acquired. Now let's come over to active. Active is the one that we actually have to produce antibodies against. And again there's two types. There's naturally acquired, right? Naturally acquired and then there's also artificially. All right. So again naturally acquired, what does this mean? So naturally acquired is I was exposed to it. So me actually being infected with EC coli. So me actually being infected by pathogen because I'm if I'm infected by a pathogen like uh maybe streptococcus behemolyticus uh lanceville type a strep throat right I have to produce antibodies against that pathogen that is an active form of immunity naturally all right what is the artificial form This would be an example of vaccines and booster shots, right? So vaccines and booster shots. Why is this active? Because you know when vaccines or in certain types of booster shots, they literally give you a weak. So here's let's say here's the antigen. This antigen is weak or we can even say dead. So they're weak or attenuated or they're dead antigens. And then what happens is my immune system produces antibodies against that actual weak or dead pathogen. And then when I produce antibodies against that weak or dead path dead pathogen, that is an artificial way of having active immunity. And that could help us to be able to have specific types of immunity against certain types of flu or viruses or certain types of bacteria. Right? That's the purpose of artificial vaccination. All right, last thing and then we're done guys. Let's talk about the structure of an antibbody. Let's take the structure of our antibodies. So what we have here is we actually have these two different types of chains here. Look at this. So right here I have what's called a this whole part right here. All the way up all the way up. All the way up right here. I'm going to shade this in right now. This whole thing right here is called our constant heavy chain. And if we have one here, we should have one right here too. So all this right here is also constant heavy chain. Then we have another chunk of it over here. Let's draw that other chunk over to here. So now we have two chunks over here also. So we have a constant heavy chain. Then over here we got another piece right here. This piece right here that I'm going to shade in and this piece right here that I'm going to shade in. This is our constant light chain. And this over here is our constant light chain. this right here. And I'm going to draw a little bit of a different structure here. It can actually kind of look like this maybe. This is our variable heavy chain. And then this right here, this can also have a different type of structure here. This is our variable light chain. And the same thing over here. This would be variable light chain. This would be variable heavy chain. And then look what we have connecting these guys together. Right here we're going to have dulfide bonds linking that guy together. Dulfi bonds linking this part together and dulfide bonds linking that guy together. This is the structure of the antibbody. Why is this important? All right, let's finish up here. This portion of the antibbody is a good attachment point for compliment proteins. Compliment proteins love to be able to bind to these portions right here. All right, that's one thing. Second thing that's really really important, you see how I drew these uh variable regions a little bit different. These variable regions differ from antibbody to antibbody. In other words, let's say right here I have three different types of antigens. This under goes recombination in such a way that every variable region is different for every type of antigen. So in other words, if this one is going to be for this one, right? It's going to make a variable region that's specific to this antigen right here. If we wanted it specific to this antigen, what would it take on? The variable shape would look like this. And if we wanted to be able to fit this, what would it look like? It would look like this. That is the purpose of these variable heavy chains and these variable light chains is that they can undergo recombination to make different structures to accommodate these different types of antigens which makes them good for being able to bind on to foreign invaders, right? Plus, if you think about it, I have two binding sites here for one antibbody. So, this technically has two antigen binding sites. What does that mean? Remember when I told you I'd explain to you what was the purpose of that anti- antibbody for IGM? Let's come over here real quick. Remember I told you it has 10 antigen binding sites. It's because of that each one of these antibodies has two antigen binding sites and it's a pentimer. That's a total of 10 antigen binding sites. All right guys, so in this video we covered a lot on antibbody structure and function. All right. All right. I hope you guys enjoyed it. Hope it helps. See an engine nerds.