All right, ninja nerds. So, the goal of this video is to cover an entire adaptive and an innate overview. And again, I get a prize if I win if I do this under 20 minutes. So, we're definitely going to try to make this kind of quick, good overview here. So, again, starting with anate immune system, right? With the innate, there was some type of damage, right? Because of this bacterial cell, it caused the release of endotoxins. Caused what? a massive release of inflammatory cytoines, right? Such as all of these ones that we've already talked about here. What is the overall results of these guys? One thing that they're going to do is is they're going to act on smooth muscle cells and cause vasoddilation, which increases the blood flow and causes heat and redness. They're also going to act on the endothelial cells, cause contraction, right? Which is going to cause a lot of fluid to leak out, increasing permeability. And a lot of that fluid leaking out can compress on the pain uh receptors and bridinus can activate pain pain receptors inducing pain and that fluid exodate that leaks out can cause swelling. So that covers swelling, pain, heat and redness which are the four cardinal signs of inflammation. Right? And if there's a really really bad form of inflammation like you burn your your hand thirdderee burn around your hand, it actually can cause a lot of inflammation around this joint to where you can't move it, right? So that's joint immobility. What else can happen? These histamines and all these other chemicals, they can also cause the production of certain types of cell adhesion molecules. And we've already talked about these in great detail. There's no need to go over them again. These things could be like P selectins, E selectins, ICAMs, and VCAMs. And what is their whole purpose? To enhance the margination response. In other words, clinging to the edge of the capillary bed and rolling on the surface. Right? Then as it rolls it can move through the actual endothelial cells by diipidesis which is that amiioid motion and then what it can actually migrate to the site of injury where all these bacteria molecules are due to these inflammatory chemicals and it's going to move towards that area by positive chemotaxis. Right? So that's the overall result there. What else can happen though? A lot of these inflammatory cytoines that's also being released like interlucan one tumor necrotic factor alpha interlucan 6. What can they do? Let's follow it up here. Look what they can do. They can cause fever within the hypothalamus, right? They can cause the liver to produce C- reactive peptide, which is a good indicator of active inflammation. And they can trigger the bone marrow to make more luccoytes via luccoytosis. That's the entire inflammatory response for the vascular and some of the cellular effects. Right? So, it's not that bad, right? Now, what else can happen? Well, once these fagosytes get out here into this area and they start fighting with this bacteria, what can be the result? Fagocytosis. They eat the bacteria, right? So, they take the bacteria in through their pseudapods, which is called fagocytosis. And remember, they form the fagosome, combine with the loome, form the fagosome, break them down through the looal action. But neutrfils sometimes depend upon how intense the bacteria or form microbe may be. It might have to do free radical reactions called oxidative burst or release its chromatin out into the extracellular space to tag bacterial molecules for destruction from from like for example cathon G. What else can happen? The macrofasages they can fagocytose those actual bacteria and actually what expose those antigens on the cell membrane with MHC2 molecules major hystocompatibility complex type two but remember all nucleiated cells all nucleated cells in your entire body express what's called MHC1 molecules so that's important and we'll talk about that when we get to adaptive all right so that's one mechanism there what else can happen remember you also have compliment proteins your liver is constantly making these compliment proteins and they're circulating within our plasma in the inactive form and whenever they're in the inactive form what can happen whenever they actually act they become activated due to certain types of chemotaxis or due to the increased permeability or due to the FC portion of antibodies so on and so forth what happens you activate these proteins and they undergo specific cascades like the classical pathway which is antibbody mediated right so it has to be antibody mediated and it starts with C1 and it goes all the way to C9 9 producing C3A and C5A which enhance inflammation alternative is not antibbody mediated it's directly binding C3B with the foreign pathogen and that causes that whole process again right and then lectin you just need a manos and a lectin binding manos to trigger this entire cascade what's the overall effect of these these pathways right here to produce the membrane attack complex to initiate lis of the bacteria or to enhance oxinization by the C3B B or to enhance the inflammatory response to C3A and C5A. So that's the complement system still in the innate. Now what else? We also said what if we have these cells here our macrofasages or our general tissue cells. What if they're infected by a virus? So they're infected by some type of viral molecules, right? If they're infected by the virus, so this is the cells are infected by a virus. What can happen? They can activate genes to produce specific types of molecules called interferons like alpha, beta and gamma. What do alpha and beta do? They activate what? They come over here to a nearby healthy cell and tell those nearby healthy cells to produce antiviral peptides. For example, protein kynise R. What does that do? It actually destroys the actual virus or prevents the virus from attaching, right? And prevents this virus from causing damage in these tissue cells. What does gamma interferons do? Well, the only one who really secretes gamma interferons because we have them over here. Remember, alpha and beta interferons are produced by tons of cells, a lot of different cells. Beta interferons are usually specific to making platelets though. They're from they're made by platelets, right? Gam interferons are made by specific types of cells like your natural killer cells, your lymphocytes, your macrofasages. What do those gamma interferons do? We already showed it over here, right? These gamma interferons, they're secreted by macrofasages or natural killer cells or lymphocytes. They come over, activate other macrofasages and then do what? Cause these macrofase to proliferate, get bigger, get hungrier and increase the expression of class one and class 2 molecules. All designed to enhance the inflammatory response, right? Then what else? Alpha and beta. They can also cause the activation of natural killer cells who can come in and start killing some of these virus infected cells. So it's a beautiful thing, right? And that is a part of our innate immune system still. Now last thing for our nate immune system we have these tolike receptors and these tolike receptors we have 11 different types right so many different types but there's 10 that we're only talked about here because we don't know the function of tolike receptor 10 what is the overall result of all these because they're all responding to different types of pathogens. The overall result is the production of specific types of signaling proteins for chemotaxis, right? Or the production of interferons like alpha, beta and gamma interferons and the production of tumor necrotic factor alpha, interlucan one beta and interlucan 18. And remember these guys have to be acted on by caspes to become in their active form because they're in their their preform right now or their pro form. What do all these guys do? They enhance the inflammatory response, enhance chemotaxis and tried to be able to eliminate the foreign pathogens from the body. Right? That's the desire. Now then we go into the adaptive immunity. What was the adaptive effect? You remember we took these macrofasages with the MHC2 molecules and we also took these free antigens and we take them into a lymph node. What was the effect here? So again what do we do? We take this macroofage and we take these free antigens and we bring them inside the lymph node. Right? Because we already went through the fagocytosis process and we know that the neutrfils exocytose what those free antigens the macrofasages are good antigen presenting cells those as well as lymphocytes and uh specifically antigen I'm sorry dendritic cells they come in and what happens let's say we follow the free antigens first the free antigens are the exogenous antigens bind onto a naive belymphosy activating that belymphosy right that belymphosy then can bring in the receptor mediated endoccytosis bring that antigen in and produce MHC2 molecules against it, right? And expose it on the membrane surface. But that activated lymphosy which also has all these BCR receptors specific to that antigen, he can't get stimulated to proliferate yet. Why? Because he needs some type of stimulation from other cells. So what's those other cells? Remember the macrofase? The macroofase is going to be coming over here. It's having its MHC2 and the foreign antigen. it brings it to a naive T- cell T-H helpper cell right that T-H helpper cell will have CD4 positive proteins it will have a TCR or a T- cell receptor specific to that foreign antigen which will interact when they interact it activates a CD3 molecule which sends this primary signal into the nucleus there also be host stimulation signals between B7 and CD28 and then there'll also be the secretion of interlucan one what does this do interlucan one that third signal will activate this T- helpper cell to produce interlucan 2 and there'll also be the production of interlucan 4 from other cells which will bind onto this actual T- helpper cell then what will happen whenever this interlucan 4 and interlucan 2 bind it triggers the T naive cell to start proliferating and becoming specialized and differentiating into what's called TH2 lymphosytes because you remember interlucan 4 converts the naive T- cell to TH2 interlucan 12 converts the naive T- cell to TH1 our T-H helpper one cells. So now our TH2 cells are activated. They're ready to start producing specific types of interlucans. What are those interlucans? One of them is interlucan 4, interlucan 5 and interlucan 6. Interlucan 4 is the very signal that these activated lymphocytes need to start proliferating. What is that proliferation called? It's called clonal expansion. And you're making all these B cells with the BCR specific to that foreign antigen that we've started with throughout this whole process. They expand interlucan 5 stimulates these actual activated B cells to undergo differentiation. So again, what is this step right here called? This is actually differentiation. So differentiation right here will convert these actual B cells into memory cells or plasma cells. Memory cells will stay in our body for a while, right? With that specific B cell receptor specific to any foreign antigen. The plasma cells will respond to interlucan 5 and interlucan 6 and they'll produce antibodies. And what will those antibodies do? These antibodies will can either do a couple different things, right? We talked about it very briefly. They can bind with these foreign antigens and cause neutralization reactions, precipitation reactions, lis, and we also said a glutination reactions too, right? So there's a lot of different things and optinization. We'll go into more detail on those in antibodies. Right? All right. So again, they can undergo the oxinization reactions. Right? Now that whole thing that we talked about is hummeral immunity. What is hummeral immunity? It's the effect again one more time of those exogenous antigens stimulating these actual B cells or these tea cells and the overall responses to produce antibodies in response to that right or to produce memory B cells. And we can also produce memory T cells. I didn't talk about those enough but again these are aector tea cells but you also can make as a response to this whenever they proliferate you also can make memory TH2 cells and those memory TH2 cells will have a TCR specific to that foreign antigen. All right whenever the MHC molecule comes back MHC2 molecule and the foreign antigen on the macrofase comes to him again he'll be ready for it. All right that's hummeral immunity. What is cell mediated immunity? Cell mediated immunity is due to the it's going to be exerted by the cytotoxic tea cells. And the cytotoxic tea cells, they're going to act on cells that have already been virally infected. So they've been infected by a virus and there's no turning back. Or they're cancerous. What's the overall result again? One is it can actually downregulate the class one molecules or it can produce the expression of a viral peptide that can bind with our own self peptide. And then what happens? Our T- cytotoxic tea cells recognize those either foreign peptides or they recognize the lack of class one molecules as there's not that many and then what will they do? They'll produce perfor holes in the membrane and granzymes which initiates this apoptoic mechanism that we talked about, right? So that's killing the cell. Why is it cell mediated though? Because the actual infectious pathogen is already inside of the cell. It's not outside of the cell. It's inside of the cell and it's affected it inside of the cell. Okay, that's the basis way the basic way of understanding cell mediated immunity. We also talked about natural killer cells, but remember just because I included them with the adaptive immune system, that doesn't mean they are a part of them. They are not a part of the adaptive immune system. They're a part of our innate immune system. They're not specific, but their mechanism is very similar to the cytotoxic tea cells. How do they do this? What do they do? There's three mechanisms. One is they either recognize that there is no MHC1 molecules present and if there's no class one molecules present they perceive it as foreign because all nucleated cells have class one molecules and then what it'll produce perforence and grandy and kill this cell. It'll also recognize an abnormal form of the MHC molecule, right? And again, we said the MHC molecules have alpha 1, alpha 2, alpha 3 chains as well as a beta 2lobin. But a ma or micah has no beta 2 microglobin. So therefore, he's kind of like an MHC. If he's recognized by the natural killer cells, he'll actually release perfins and enzymes and kill him. And then again, if there's any type of foreign antigen with IGG antibodies bound, the natural killer cells release perfins and enzymes and kill him. Again, guys, this pretty much gives us everything we're going to need to know about the entire overview of what the adaptive and the innate immune system. All right, ninja nerds.