Hi, Ninja Nerds! In this video we are gonna talk about the inflammatory response, but before we... do that, let's define what is inflammation. Inflammation, is some type of tissue damage. Right? So it's damage to the tissue that initiates... a set of vascular and cellular events... that are designed to be able to clean up... any type of cellular debris, any type of infectious organisms, and initiate repair. So again, one more time. What is inflammation? Inflammation is any type of tissue damage or tissue infliction All right? ... that initiates a set of vascular events, and cellular and molecular events... that are designed to clean up any type of cellular debris... or pathogens and initiate repair. That is it's design. Right? What could cause inflammation? It could be due to physical trauma, it could be due to certain types of chemical trauma, it could be due to infectious microorganisms, it could be due to sunlight and burns... Right? There is many, many causes of inflammation. What we are gonna do in this video, is we are gonna take a scenario. We are gonna look at a gram-negative bacteria and then we are gonna follow the entire inflammatory response in a sequence of actions beginning with that infectious microorganism. So let's go ahead and dive right in. All right! So first of... Let's say here I have this gram negative bacteria here It's this gram negative bacteria and you know gram negative bacteria has on its outer lining it has lipopolysaccharide layer That lipopolysaccharide is pretty dangerous, they have lipid A which can act as endotoxins. so, also A lot of bacteria have specific types of antigens On their surface, right? and what are these red things called? these red things are called antigens and antigens could be sugar molecules they could be protein molecules. They could be glycoproteins. But what do antigens have to be? In order for it to be an antigen, an antigen has to be two things it has to initiate two different types of things One is it has to be immunogenic And the other thing is that an antigen has to be reactive What does that mean to be immunogenic and reactive it means that it has to be immunogenic meaning that is has to be able to activate certain types of immune system cells in order for those immune system cells to start proliferating in response to that Reactive means that the actual immune system cells, specifically the plasma cells can produce antibodies against this antigen so in order for it to be a complete antigen, it has to be immunogenic initiate proliferation and reactive which is going to be initiating antibody production There is what's called incomplete antigens Incomplete antigens, for example, could be something like poison ivy or poison oak, like the urushoil oil when ever it gets into the skin it's actually not specifically a complete antigen but then it binds with our skin protein. So it's called a hapten, right. An incomplete antigen But when it binds with our skin proteins it then becomes a complete antigen and then it can cause that rash that we see with poison ivy, right. Anyway, just want to give you a little bit of information about antigens. What are antigens? They are going to be the sugar molecules, our proteins, our glycoproteins that are immunogenic and reactive as long as they are specifically complete antigens So now, this bacteria let's say this bacteria is releasing endotoxins. It's releasing its specific endotoxins and these endotoxins they start damaging these tissue cells so let's say they end up damaging a lot of these tissue cells. A lot of damage to these generalized tissue cells. And we'll talk about what happens whenever they're damaged. Also there's a lot of other types of cells of other types of cells circulating right around this area that are kind of just posting up in this area. There cells, these green cells are called MAST CELLS. And these mast cells have specific types of receptors present on its cell membrane and whenever these endotoxins either damage this mast cell or activate these receptors on the mast cell, it can initiate a specific type of inflammatory response. If these endotoxins damages the mast cell or it activates these receptors present on the mast cell And it sends signals to the nucleus. This preformed granules in here, which are called Weibel-Palade bodies. They are not that important, just know that they are preformed granules... that are called Weibel-Palade bodies.