All right, guys. So, what we're going to do now is we're going to go into the second part of our inflammatory response. If you didn't see the first part, click on our video up here in the right corner on the icon and watch inflammatory response part one before you come to this part. Okay, so we left off guys saying how these white blood cells are getting ready to fight this bacteria, right? They're going to come out here and they're going to fight against this bacteria. They've already undergone the positive chemotaxis. They're ready. All right. So, how does this happen? Well, first off, again, here's our bacteras right here, our gram negative bacteras with the lipopolysaccharides and specific types of antigens. This macrofase, right? What he's going to do is he's going to work and he's going to put like these little pseudapods. He's going to have these like things which are like these little pseudapods. And basically all they are is just his cytokeleton like his actin filaments and meosin filaments are going to be able to change its shape to where he can literally come around the bacteria latch onto it and pull it inside of its actual cell uh cell uh cell cytool right to form a specific end uh specific endoome. We're going to talk about that. So again what will the neutrfil also do? He'll form these specific types of pseudapods. All right. And these pseudapods will again hold the bacteria and pull the bacteria into an inner enclosed vesicle. So now this process where they're eating the bacteria is called fagocytosis. So again what's happening here? Both of these guys are undergoing fagago cytosis. Right? And again this is fagago cytosis. So now look now look what they look like after that. So now here we're going to have our macrofase. Here's its nucleus right there. And then it brought it inside. It brought in this nice little vesicle. So now we have this vesicle right here. Look at this vesicle right here. This vesicle is called a fagosome. And what's inside of the fagosome? Inside of the fagosome, we're going to have our gram negative bacteria. And the gram negative bacteria is going to have still on it these antigens, right? Which again could be sugar molecules, could be proteins, or it could be glyoprotein. Same thing with the neutrfil. The neutrfil is also going to be right here, right? So here's the neutrfll. It's going to have its multilobated nuclei, right? And then it's again, it's going to have a fagosome. So what's in the fagosome? What's in the fagosome is the gram negative bacteria with the specific antigens exposed on the cell I'm sorry the cell wall right because this guy is going to have a cell wall here with the specific types of antigens here which could be sugar molecules or it could be specific types of proteins. Right? So now what's going to happen now inside of these actual cells they have these other specific vesicles. Okay. Again, what is this thing right here called again? This is called a fagosome. It's just a vesicle containing the actual bacteria within it. Right? So again, this is called a fagosome. But then it has these other vesicles which consist of specific types of hydraytic enzymes. So you see these green molecules here, these green molecules are called lys. This is actually a loome, but it has specific hydraytic enzymes present within it. So what is this called here? This molecule that with these green these green things in it is called lo which has specific types of hydraytic enzymes which are going to break down this bacteria cell wall and a whole bunch of its pepidoglycans and a lot of its inner cell structures. Right? So now again what is this molecule here with the green? This is called a lo and then this is again called a loone. What happens is these two membranes are going to fuse together. So look, that loome is going to fuse with the fagosome and this loome is going to fuse with the fagosome. Then look what happens. So after there's fusion of the fagosome with the loome, now look what we have here. Now again we have the monocy with its nucleus and again inside of it it's actually going to have the loosomes have combined. And what do the loomes start doing now? Look what the lysosomes do. So let's actually draw a little vesicle here, a little bubble vesicle like this. So again, what is this guy right here? This is our neutrfil. All right, with its nuclei in here. And then here's the big big vesicle here. All right, so now the hydraytic enzymes from the loome are released, right? Hydraytic enzymes over here are released. What are these hydraytic enzymes going to do? Well, remember you had the bacteria, right? Okay, so here's our gram negative bacteria and then here's our gram negative bacteria. And what's on these gram negative bacteras? Again, they have those antigens. The reason why I keep mentioning these antigens because they're extremely extremely important. We'll see why in a second. Okay, so here again, it's got these antigens. What does the losomes do? They start breaking down the cell wall and a lot of the inner cell structures, right? So look, it starts breaking down the cell wall and a lot of the inner cell structures. Once it does that, now what is this whole thing right here called? Whenever these two losome and the fagosome fuse, this right here is called a this whole thing right here is called a fagago lysosome. So again, what do we have in order here? Let's hit them in order one more time. First thing that we form is fagosome. Then the fagosome combines with the lo. And when the fagosome and the loome combine, we have a fagaloome. And what's the overall result? destruction of the bacterial cell wall or the fungi cell wall or whatever the pathogen might be viral, fungal, parasitic, bacterial, whatever. It's going to destroy that all of the actual cell walls, all of the other materials and only leave with it at the end what's going to be left the antigens, those red molecules that I keep drawing. So again, here's our macrofase, there's his nucleus right here. Here's that fagaloome. Here's our neutrfil. Here's its nucleus, multilobated nuclei, right? And again, it's going to have its fagalizome. And what's left over now? The only thing left over on this guy is going to be the antigens. All the other bacterial substances or viral substances, all of those are gone, right? The only thing that's left over inside of this fagaloo is the antigens. Why is that important? Okay, here's what we're going to we're getting ready to head into the specific type of immunity. We're not we're going to talk about it in more detail in a second and in a couple more videos. For right now, we're just going to do a little bit of depth. Nothing crazy. Okay, we're going to talk about in more detail. All right, first off, the neutrfil, these antigens right here. We want to be able to get rid of these antigens. He doesn't like taking there's what's called antigen presenting cells. Let me write this down. antigen presenting cells and there are of three types one is what's called our B cells or our belymphosytes second one is our macrofasages and the third one is dendritic cells and what do I mean by antigen presenting cells they present these these red molecules those antigens on their cell membrane and take it to some specific cell which we will talk about but not yet. All right. This neutrfil though he doesn't do that. He's not an antigen presenting cell. He doesn't want to do that. So what happens is his fagalysis fuses with his cell membrane. And now look now this is fused. And if it fuses with the cell membrane now the internal particles can actually come out here into the extracellular environment. And now look these substances start getting pushed out. What is this called? This is called exoccytosis. So it spits out these antigens. Okay? Spits out these antigens and they get pushed into the interstatial fluid. And then where can they go? Well, if you notice this big green structure that we drew, this is a lymph node. And we're going to get into this when we get into the more of the adaptive immunity. It can actually circulate into the lymph nodes, right? We'll get into that in more detail later, but know that. What does the neutrfil do? It releases these antigens out by exocytosis. And we'll talk about what happens to those antigens in future videos. Right. Next thing, one other thing I want to mention before I go here. If you remember in lucap, we talked a little bit about neutrfils. I want to show something else here real quickly with neutrfils. It's very interesting. You see how this neutrfil, it used these lysosomes to try to break down the bacteria and kill it. Sometimes there can be very very intense bacteria that are hard to break down with just necessary losomes. we need to do more. Sometimes it might take it might actually even require that the neutrfil sacrifice himself. How does it do that? If you remember, neutrfils have the capability of taking oxygen converting it into super oxide annions that can get converted into hydrogen peroxide that can get converted into hydroxide free radicals or it can get converted into hypocchlorous acid. Right? What does all of these molecules What's the significance of all of these molecules here? All of these molecules are free radicals. They're called free radicals. And these free radicals can actually come in. Let's say that we use the hydroxide or we use the hypocchlorous acid or we use the hydrogen peroxide or the super oxide ion. It can actually come in and destroy the bacteria's proteins, it cell uh cell walls. Uh, it can even destroy some of the DNA, but free radicals aren't specific. It doesn't just like target, oh, I'm only going to kill bacterial substances. No, it can also kill the actual can also destroy some of the actual neutrfils DNA, some of the neutrfils protein, some of the neutrfils membrane, and it can actually result in the neutrfil killing itself. What is this process called? This is called oxidative or respiratory burst. That's one mechanism that the actual neutrfils can do this. There's one more and I'm only going to mention it real briefly, very very briefly. If this neutrfil is about to die, if it's about to die because it's actually undergone this free radical reactions. Okay, so here's our bacteria right here, right? And this bacteria again, let's say that it's again it's a pathogenic bacteria, right? And it has specific types of antigens. What can happen is, and I talked about this very very uh very very little in the other video with Luca is this guy is getting ready to die. He's getting ready to die. And so because he's getting ready to die, whenever he actually under goes maybe apoptosis or cell fragmentation or whatever, he can start releasing out his DNA, his chromatin. So here, let's say if you know what DNA is, uh you have your chromatin. Chromatin is made up of DNA and histone proteins. Those histone proteins are very very interesting because what can happen with those histone proteins is they can bind on with these actual foreign bacteria's antigens and now it's bound on here and you know histone proteins we shouldn't usually have DNA outside of our cells because now what can happen we can produce antibodies against this right and that could there is a possibility for it leading to what's called systemic lupus ariththmatitosis but we don't care about that it can activate other enzymes one of the enzymes is called cathpipseng and there's many many other different types of molecules here that can come and actually try to degrade this bacteria and might even activate fagosytes ton of different mechanisms this process is called nets which stands for neutrfils extracellular traps all right where they literally release out their DNA into the extracellular fluid binding it onto a specific type of foreign pathogen and tagging that path pathogen to either be destroyed by cadypes J or other enzymes, cadypes G or other enzymes or even be tagged for oxidization for white blood cells. Right? All right. So that's that. Now let's come back to this beautiful macroofage here. What happens with this macrofase? Now macrofasages I already mentioned up above that they're antigen presenting cells. What does that mean? That means that they can present this antigen on the cell membrane. How do they do that? This sucker right here has in its DNA on chromosome number six. On chromosome number six, there's a specific gene sequence. Specific gene sequence right here. Let's say here it is. And this gene sequence is responsible for producing proteins. And these proteins there is what's called recombination where these the DNA within this area can actually shuffle around and produce different types of protein fragments. So let's say for example, let's say that this there's four, let's say there three different types of antigens right here. Circular, square, and triangular. The first MHC molecule, I kind of already gave you what it is, is actually going to be produced, and it's going to be able to be specific to fit that antigen, right? So it'll actually look like this, right? The other MHC molecule, if it's specific to this antigen, will look like this. and the other MHC molecule will look like this. So this is because of how it can do this. This is due to re combination where it's literally the genes are shuffling around and moving around to be able to produce different types of mRNAs and different types of peptides. Right? So now what are these molecules called? What are these black molecules called? These black molecules are called MHC molecules. Specifically, specifically this one is called MHC2 molecules which stands for major hystocompatibility complex. Right? So major hystocompatibility complex and this one is type two. So MHC and what does it do? It goes and binds with all of these different types of antigens. Okay. So now let's draw that here. So let's say here we secreted it. we make it right and now look it's going to bind here all of these specific MHC molecules MHC2 molecules will bind here and what will happen then it will actually take and express this on the cell membrane so then what would it look like after this let's show you so now look here look at this macroofase now so again here's this nucleus let's assume that that actual vesicle fused with the cell membrane and Now look what he has exposed on his cell membrane. He's got the MHC2 molecule. Let's draw two of them. Here's the MHC2 molecule. And what's bound right there with it? A foreign antigen. It's beautiful, right? So again, what is this called here? This black molecule is called MHC2. MHC2. And that red molecule is the foreign antigen. Now it is now an antigen presenting cell. Very very quickly because I mentioned MHC2. What is what is MHC1 then? Because there's got to be a one, right? And there actually is MHC3, but we are definitely not going to talk about that. We're just going to talk about MHC1 and MHC2. MHC2 is only found on antigen presenting cells. So let's put that up there. These can only have these are the only ones that can have MHC2 molecules. MHC1 is found on all nucleiated cells within the body. So again, well look, he's nucleated. He's nucleated. They should have MHC1 molecules. Well, they do. So let's draw right here. Let's say here this green molecule. This is called an MHC1 molecule. And this one right here will have MHC1 molecules. And all these MHC molecules always have what's called an self antigen. So it might have what's called a self antigen present there which is this blue molecule. So it's other than it's a it's a protein or a sugar molecule other than the MHC1. So again this green molecule is called MHC1 because it's found on all nucleated cells and it's exposing with it this blue molecule which is a self antigen. Now really quickly and this is why you can have different types of shapes. these genes right here, there's actually within MHC1. So let's say I have MHC1 here. There's three types. There's A, B, and C genes. And that's how you can produce three different You have these three genes, and they can shuffle around and produce different types of fragments. MHC2 has DP, DQ, and DR. I always remember Dr. Pepper, Dairy Queen, and doctor. Okay, these are the three different types of genes that you'll find for MHC2. Why am I mentioning this? We'll talk about when we talk about transplants. This is important that whenever you had do transplants, all right, you're grafting someone else's tissue maybe and giving it to another person, right? So, it's not an autograph. It could be like an alligraph. If you're doing that, you need to be able to make sure that they have at least six MHC or sometimes even call MHC's HLAs. you give them at least six HLA matches in order for it to be an acceptable um transplant and that there would be no rejection. Okay, so now that's gotten us up to the point of where what was the overall result of this? Two things. One thing was that the neutrfil initiated exocytosis of these antigens that will go into the lymphatic fluid, right? The second result was that this MHC2 molecule would be produced and exposed on the cell membrane surface with this foreign antigen. And where do you think this molecule is going to go? He's going to also go into the lymph node. And they're going to go and we're going to do something about this a little bit later in another video. All right? And we'll talk about that entire mechanism afterwards. All right. So now what have we done? Quick quick review again. White blood cells macrofase neutrfil underwent fagocytosis produced a fagosome combined with loss. Losomes break down all the different parts and just leave what the antigens the antigens on the for the macrofase they'll produce a specific molecule called MHC2 which is present on chromosome number six it can undergo consistent recombination and this recombination allows for it to be able to fit different types of antigens and the reason it can do this because MHC2 has three different gene sequences uh DPDQDR all right and then it allow for re combination to produce different types of MHC's is to fit each different types of foreign antigens and it'll expose it on the cell membrane surface. And then remember every nucleated cell has MHC1 molecules. We'll explain their significance a little later. All right. Then with the neutrfil, he breaks down the bacteria, just leaves the antigens and then exocytoses them into the extracellular fluid. But if the actual microorganism, the infectious microorganism is too hardy and too hard to break down, it can produce free radicals through oxidative burst which can damage and kill the bacteria or microorganism but also damage itself. And then another mechanism is when it's being killed it can release out these things called nets. These neutrfilic extracellular traps which are basically it's chromatin which bind on with these foreign microbes and initiate them to be broken down by enzymes like cathpips and G or other types of fagosytes. Right. And then after that this macrofase and these these free antigens are going to go and circulate into a lymph node. Right? Well, we're going to talk about that in future videos. Now, in the next video, we're going to go over a little bit about more about the innate immune system. Okay? We're going to talk about compliment proteins. So, click up in the right corner in the right to click the icon in the right corner so we can go over compliment proteins in the next video.