What's up, Ninja Nerds. In this video today we have our amazing guest John. He is an unbelievable story that we want to share with you guys today. If you guys want to know more about his story, he has an amazing book, a completely and truly inspiring It's called: The Boy From Baby House 10. We will have a link down in the description box below where you guys can go to purchase this. Just wanted to give you a quick synopsis of this unbelievably inspiring book. It's about John's life, The Boy From Baby House 10. His childhood, but not his will to survive was cruelly taken away from him. Once inside this state run Orphanage, he entered a nightmare world where he was not to leave for more than 8 years. Confined to one room, with a group of silent children he was ignored by most of the staff and labeled an 'imbecile' and 'ineducable' by the authorities. He was consigned for a time to a mental asylum where he lived in a high sided, iron barred crib, lying in a pool of his own waste, in a locked ward surrounded by screaming children and psychotic adults. Even these dire surroundings didn't destroy the spirit of this little boy. Vanya grew into an intellectually curious complex youngster who reached out to everyone around him. I really, really hope that if you guys please check out this book, read this book, it definitely will be an amazing read and leave you probably in tears, but inspired at the end of it. So, Please check that book out. I wanted to start this interview off with John, and kind of wanted to ask him some questions. John has cerebral palsy and one of the things that if you guys read his book, he faced a lot of challenges, particularly- he was abandoned by his Mother and placed into a Russian Orphanage or as they called them, Baby Houses. I just wanted to know if John- you can give kind of a little backstory about you, the challenges you faced coming from whenever you were placed in this Orphanage, until you guys came to the US. The challenges that I faced in Russia was at 18 months I was abandoned and then I went to the Orphanage at 18 months- Baby House 10. What happened was I didn't really see the outside world until I was age 4. I really had no interaction, I was keeping myself busy by teaching somebody else how to talk, but I learned how to talk through listening to the adults at the Baby House, and that's how I picked up the perfect Russian language. At age 6 I went in front of a board of doctors and there were asking me questions like: what is a tree? What does the traffic light turn, what colors do they turn? And... I had no clue because I had no stimulation. I had no idea what the outside world really was. I have been locked up in a dark room, I had nobody to talk to, nobody to explain to me- Okay, this is the world. They said: Okay, he's mentally retarded, he can't do anything. We sentence him to basically a death sentence, he will be going to the mental asylum and he will die there. I was there for nine months and I was so drugged up I was so weak, I was basically starved to death. It was unbearable. By the grace of God, thanks to Alan exposing the atrocities little kids were going through. That is how I got out and I thank God for Alan's help. And Alan, he was a journalist for the daily telegraph. He had been assigned to cover the turmoil in Russia when communism was collapsing. The mental asylum and orphanage was from a Stalin-istic era. Stalin had started the system. That was an unbelievably powerful message and a lot of things that you went through, I feel like it would have broken a lot of people. I want to say thank you for taking the time to explain that. Oh, you're welcome, I appreciate it. One of the things that I wanted to take the time to do is Cerebral Palsy is a condition that there comes a lot of complications a lot of different things that require more inter-disciplinary management. Some of the things that I wanted to talk about is Cerebral Palsy, there's a very specifically with spastic cerebral palsy, there is challenges in mobility and being able to get to point A to point B. What I wanted to know is, what were some of the interventions or therapies that you've gone through that you found benefit from. Whether that be PT, whether that be maybe surgical procedures, medical management, whatever it is. PT was definitely a help, to stretch the limbs, the hamstrings get tight. The whole body is tight, all the time. I have a little hypertension now, because I think that is caused from the CP. I have aches and pains everyday and sometimes when I get up form a chair or the bed, it's like 'Oh!" the back. You have to really, I have to keep moving. You can't sit in one area too long. I try to do the exercises, I try to move as much as possible, I am even trying to, half the time I am trying to fidget in the chair because, to make sure I don't get too stiff. So, PT was pretty beneficial for you it seems, you did see a lot of benefit from that. Any other therapies that you saw a little bit more benefit from? Not really, there were therapy, there was a thing tried with Botox. But that was a dismal failure and the person that was doing it had no compassion, so it was like okay, if you're going to be that way I am not going to go through that crap again. On top of the botox, I had to wear these night splints and they were as heavy as they can be. And I had, if you were trying to turn to shift in bed, it's like: okay, the whole body has to go and I have to watch that I don't fall out of bed. Night splints- No! I have figured out ways like- I usually do a bath and I usually do warm water, to relax the muscles. I do exercising at home and I do several things. I am noticing that my left side is getting better, but my right side from the tightness is getting weaker so I try to focus on that more. I notice that sometimes I have a hard time moving my arm back and forth. Because my right side is weakest. One of the other things I think is a challenge, particularly with cerebral palsy is getting from point A to point B. Sometimes it requires particular devices, assistive devices to get you from point A to point B. What kind of devices do you use that you find most benefit to? If it's anything like if I am traveling anywhere long term, I have somebody push me in my wheelchair. I do have a power chair, but I do not use that, maybe someday I will use that more. I try to really, if it's nothing that's long distance or if I am at an event and I am in the wheelchair, I try to be out of it as much as possible. We all actually sometimes, if I am out anywhere we will ask for an extra seat. So, I can move from back to the chair to another seat. Sitting in the chair for hours, it's not comfortable. And it's not easy. If I am not traveling anywhere that's long, I use the walker. I only use the walker, pretty much when I am not being assisted with the crutches, because I do have Lofstrand crutches. But, I don't go anywhere that there is not somebody at arms reach, because I do fall a lot. So, that's another issue. I had a spill one time where I went backwards, I hit my head on the tub and I got knocked out. I do get concerned about falling so I have learned tricks to pivot in a way that I don't do as much damage. Because I have hit my head quite a bit- try to figure out okay, maybe this is how I should stop myself before I break anything. I know that mobility is definitely a challenge with cerebral palsy. My roommate in college had cerebral palsy and one of the things that he faced was having to walk from one end of the campus, all the way to the other end. But, one of the things that he just never complained. He always said that he doesn't want to be treated any differently, he wants to be thought of as everyone else, so he didn't make a thing about it, he didn't want any pity. He just wanted to do what he needed to do to be treated like everyone else. Right, and that's the way you have to be. You can't say, "Oh, whoah is me, I have this disability." No! Because you are not going to get anywhere if you think, Oh, I am disabled. So what, you're disabled. How are you going to get on with your life if you just are going to keep using those excuses. I mean honestly, I tip my hat to you for all of these things that you faced, especially with this. It is unbelievable how positive you are and how you don't let these things alter your quality of life, I commend that. And there are challenges, because the brain, I have a hard time reading. Reading sometimes is like torture. Sometimes, a lot of times I don't want to do it. Sometimes, what I prefer is audio. Because audio I can relax, I can hear it, I can get the information, I can really enjoy without screaming and wanting to throw the book across the room. Because sometimes it's like, okay you are stumbling on this word, stop it! And that leads me to my next question for you. One of the other things that people face with cerebral palsy that people face is not just the fact of mobility, but sometimes because it is a neurodevelopmental disorder, there can be issues with brain development- like cognitive functions and intellect. I know that some of the things that you told us about your life story is that people told you that you would never be educated, that you were mentally retarded or that you wouldn't be able to accomplish things that other people could in the educational realm. But, you went to prove everybody wrong. You came to America- you went from speaking Russian to learning how to speak English. Actually, right now I am trying to re-learn my Russian back. It's a challenge within itself because it's like, oh boy. Because, I know some of the words, but I don't know all of them. But, somebody told me once, a language expert said, you have it in there, you just have to reawaken the language. The thing with cerebral palsy is that you just need to find ways to accommodate. That's what I was going to ask you, with the cognitive challenges the intellect and stuff like that. Was there any particular educational support or advocacy on your part that helped to enhance your educational experience. Because you went, you graduated from high school, you went to college, you got your degree from Penn State, and what was it in again? Corporate communications. Yeah, it's unbelievable. And then on top of that you even went into, you became an eagle scout. That's pretty impressive not many people do that. That is an amazing feat. It is a challenging feat, it's only I think it's like 5% ever make it. Yeah, that's unbelievable. So did you have any educational support systems or people who advocated for you to help? My mom was a big advocate for me, she really helped- she was a school psychologist. She really helped me when the school district was saying: "No, we don't want to do this." And then my mom was like, "well, you have to." Having somebody that's an advocate and that cares for you, in my case, my mom loved me, she knew what I needed, she knew what I had to have. And that's crucial to anybody. And she had experience with kids with CP because she actually had intern with United Cerebral Palsy, she had volunteered with them, she had multiple experiences with kids with disabilities, so she knew what she was doing. Then, I really started coming into my own, really in College. I really started to feel like- there were a couple accommodations, like where I would take tests, who would give them to me. For the most part you were pretty independent right? And then I had a note taker that would take notes in class. But, none of the material was diminished, it was the same that the kids were getting, I would just have- for like testing, I would have a little bit more time. Right, and I think that just goes to show that just because you place this diagnosis of cerebral palsy, it doesn't mean that you can't go on to do things intellectually or educationally, like anybody else can. It's not going to change your quality of life and the things you go on to accomplish, as you're evidence of that. It's pretty amazing. The other question that I had for you is that people with cerebral palsy can struggle with speech difficulties. Kind of that dysarthric speech, and sometimes that can be related to the underlying developmental disorder of the brain. For you, did you receive any particular types of therapy or did you benefit from it? I didn't really take like any speech therapy. There are some words that are like, okay: I can't pronounce, but I try to work on that. On your own? Yeah. That's impressive, that's cool. Sometimes people say I talk too low, so I try to project more. Well, I think that you're doing great without really any other kind of outside assistance. I have a writing device called Dragon Naturally Speaking for writing papers and doing that other stuff for just what I had to do for my internship. I really consider myself pretty much normal, because I have done camping, I have done rock climbing, I have done numerous things. Some of them my mom was like, "what were you doing...?" Because some of the pictures you would get were like, "Ahh!" I wanted to try it! To see if I can do it! I canoed, I did it all. You didn't let your condition define you. I went in the woods with the walker, I fell, got up, brushed off, that was it. I think that leads me to another question, because like me personally, hearing your story it's difficult, it chokes me up a little bit, it brings tears to my eyes because you went through the things that no human should ever have to go through, and if they ever did- it would break, I feel like most people. How did you, did you ever face any issues with depression, or just felt like your diagnosis and the things that you went through? No! I never faced depression because I knew somebody was looking out for me, I really did. I knew that something was really looking out for me and I knew that God was really looking out for me. I was like okay, sometimes I tried to ask God for answers and sometimes I don't get them. Sometimes it's like okay, have patience. You can't get depressed because how are you going to move on to do what's next. To me, I don't have time to be depressed. I have to move onto my next project. You have to live your life as it is. Life is short. Live it to the best possible way that you can. You have limitations, figure them out. See how you are going to do it. See what can you do make it better. You can't be depressed all the time. I mean, it's unbelievable that you think that way, I think that it's amazing, I think that it's an inspiration. But, that's how I had to survive. I had to think positive, I couldn't be depressed. Trust me, my mom says to me, "how the heck do you do it? How the heck do you do it?!" Because she will look at something and say, "I am surprised you are not going nuts!" When she actually read the book, she was like, "how the heck did you survive that?" Exactly, that's exactly what I felt. Mom said to me, "okay, I know how you survived, through God's help." That's the thing that really helped for that. That's amazing, honestly that's so amazing. One of the things I think that is also important- You have this extremely positive attitude, you're not going to let anything hold you back from doing what you want to do and what you love to do. What are some of your goals and aspirations that you really want to accomplish in your life? I would like to, since I have a little more time now- to work on film projects. I would like to really start doing my own discovering on doing PR work for non-profits, trying to set that up myself. I know what the basics are, because of having communications degree and having some marketing ideas. I know how to do it, so I am going to try to do that a little bit more. Try to really make a niche for myself and how I can make myself really happy. That's amazing. Honestly, I think that is one of the most important things in life is to do what you love. If your job makes up most of your life and if you're doing what you believe is great work then it's the true meaning of happiness. I look at it this way, God will tell me what he wants me to do. I really look at that and God will guide me. I don't know what the next chapter is. God is providing me for now with a part-time job so I am just taking it one day at a time to really thank God and say, okay you want me at this level for right now. You got me here you're going to get me through the rest. That's really cool. I heard a little bit through the grapevine that you have a true love of baseball, right? Yeah. So you have a lot of. hobbies from what I hear, obviously eagle scout is the big one. What baseball team do you like? I like the New York Yankees. Ahhhh! That's okay, everybody has their team. Sorry! No, I like the Phillies, it's okay. Tell me a little bit about what made you truly love baseball, what about it? I really love the game, I love the simplicity of how American it was and how you could just enjoy watching something that people can unite together with. Pro football I can leave or take, I like college football more, I like the eagles, but I like college football. Yeah, Penn State? Penn State. We are Penn State! That's awesome. I'm excited to see where my next chapter will lead. So John, I think you know with coming to the end of the interview, because it has been an amazing opportunity to talk with you, you're extremely inspiring, you stay so positive. Thank you for asking me to do this, I am happy to do it. Oh, it was an absolute honor, I couldn't wait to meet you because hearing about your life story, it was truly inspiring. I just wanted to take the time to kind of pass off some wisdom, if you could, give the Ninja Nerd community, maybe there's people out there who are suffering with a condition like you, or have a similar condition, or maybe they just want to a little bit more about some advice that you could provide. If there was one piece of wisdom that you could impart on the Ninja Nerd community what would you say that could be? I would say that there are going to be challenges in life. You have to think positive, you have to have goals in your life to reach and to aspire to. Approach things with honesty, humility, and faith in yourself. I truly enjoyed talking with you. Ninja Nerds I want and I implore you guys, take the time to really go down in the description box below and we're going to have links to this book. I am telling you, it will change your life, it will give you just an idea of what the challenges that John faced and how he overcame them. So, please please go down and check that out. John, thanks for coming here with us today, we appreciate the time. Ninja Nerds we love you, we thank you, and as always, until next time!