What's up, ninja nerds? In this video today, we're going to be talking about how to perform a lower limb neurological exam. We have our patient here, Maddie, today, a gymnast enthusiast here. We're going to get started here in a second, but before we do, please go down in the description box below. We'll have links to our Patreon where we have comprehensive notes where you guys should go download those and follow along with this lecture. Also, if you guys do benefit from this video, you like it, it helps you, support us by subscribing, hitting that like button, and commenting down in the comment section. All right, engineers, let's get into it. All right, Maddie, we're going to go ahead and get started. Just get into a comfortable position here for me. Whoa. Okay, that's pretty cool, Maddie. But yeah, I meant comfortable and is laying in the bed, please. All right, Matt, that was some pretty cool stuff there. But, uh, let me show you how we do it engineered style. [music] All right, engineers. So, now that we have Maddie in a proper position, we're going to go ahead and start on our lower limb neurological exam. And the first thing I like to look for is symmetry between the two limbs. I like to see if one side is a little bit more atrophied than the other, or if they're symmetric in bulk. If there was atrophy on one side, there was weakness on this side, there was faciciculations on this side, and she had a decreased deep tendon reflex on this side, I'm thinking maybe there's a lower motor neuron lesion somewhere that I have to be thinking about in this situation. But again, I don't appreciate any atrophy or any asymmetry and bulk in this situation. The next thing I like to look for is I like to look for any abnormal movements. So, do I see any faciciculations present, any twitching of the muscles? I don't see any. I don't appreciate any faciciculations. The next thing is do I see any kind of really chaotic movements? And some of these things could be like Korea. So if she was like moving her leg very quickly involuntarily and it was very ahymic that could be something like Korea. If she was flailing her legs around it could be something like bismas and that could be sometimes seen with like a subthalamic nuclear lesion. The next thing I like to assess here is um not just any abnormal movements as well and any faciciculations or any asymmetry and bulk, but I just want to have her kind of lift her leg up. Can you go ahead and lift this right leg up here for me? And then again do the same thing for the other leg. And the other thing I like to do and you can put that down. The things the reason why I want to do that is I want to see how smooth the movement is and if she has any difficulty initiating that movement because if there is difficulty that could be indicative of like maybe some brady kynasia as well. So again on muscle appearance on Maddie I appreciate no atrophy no faciciculations no abnormal movements no trimmers and again no brady kynesia. So that concludes the appearance part of our lower limb neuroexam. The next thing we're going to do is a very important part of your uh neuroexam is assessing tone. Tone is very important because you want to know a couple things. Is there normal tone? So normal resistance to movement. Okay. Or is there hypotonia? Are the muscles really flaccid? Are they really floppy? Or is there hypertonia? There's a significant resistance to me trying to move her legs. If that's the case, I have to further think about why. Let's try to think really quickly. If she has hypotonia, the there's a lot of flaccidity in the movements when she's kind of just giving her leg to me. That could be indicative if combined with atrophy, hyper reflexia, as well as faciciculations, it may be indicative of a lower motor neuron lesion. If she has uh a hypertonia, then I have to further evaluate that. If her muscles are really really having a lot of resistance to me moving them, I want to know is it velocity dependent? In other words, if I move her leg really fast, I kind of lose a little bit of that resistance. That could be a sign of spasticity. Or if I move her legs fast or slow, it doesn't really matter. That resistance is the same throughout that movement. That could be indicative of rigidity. And those are big things to differentiate because spasticity is more indicative of upper motor neuron lesions whereas rigidity is more likely a symptom of something like uh Parkinson's disease. Okay. So, how do we assess tone? So, Maddie, I just want you to kind of just relax your legs. Don't worry about tightening them up. Just kind of let them relax. And what I like to do is very simple. I just kind of take here and just move the legs side to side. And I'm just assessing the tone there. I want to see if it's there should be a little bit. It shouldn't be super floppy, but it shouldn't be super resistant to me moving them. Then I'm going to do the same thing on the other side and just compare. You always want to compare one side from the other. And again, I don't notice I don't appreciate any hypertonia or any hypotonia. The next thing I like to do is is I just like to kind of flex and kind of extend the knee here just to assess any resistance to that there as well. And I didn't appreciate and I like to do this one a little bit slower. Okay. Just to see if there's anything there. So that's kind of giving me my velocity independent aspect of things. Then I again I just want her to nice and relax. I'm going to quickly flex and extend the leg. Okay. And I'm just seeing do I catch any resistance that again gives way as I really provide a quick movement there. And the same thing I'm just going to do the same thing. Kind of relax your legs here. I just want to assess the same thing here with the legs here in the lower extremities as well. And again I'm just kind of assessing any tone any hypotonia or hypertonia. So again to recap it, just kind of assessing here, moving side to side again, slow movement, slow movement, and then a little bit quicker to see if you catch any kind of resistance that you break through. Okay? And then again come down to lower extremity. Just provide some movements there and see if you catch any kind of rigidity or spasticity. Okay? None is appreciated there. The next thing I like to do is again tone is something that you can actually quantify. You can utilize it by what's called a modified Ashworth score or scale. And so that's another way that we can quantify or further assess tone. Um and so we're going to have that here in the the side of the video that you guys can follow along with. But the other thing I like to look at is while I'm already in this position and I'm already assessing the patient's tone, there's something else I like to do. So we're already kind of moving the legs around here. I like to just take here and I want to inspect something called clonus. This will go along with the reflexes. And we'll kind of further talk about this a little bit later. But what I like to do is I kind of like really kind of support the ankle joint here. I like to come down here just relax. And I like to really dorsif flex here. And what I'm looking for is if I dorsif flex really hard and she starts patting that foot quickly, that could be indicative of cloness. So as you see here, I just want her to relax, relax, relax. And I'm dorsif flexing. I don't see any clonus and you guys shouldn't either. Here, same thing. Relax. Relax. And I'm going to dorsif flex and I'm looking for any clonus. The reason why we want to do that, and again, we'll kind of recap it a little bit later, is going if she had something like hypertonia, she also had um some weakness on one side. And I also noticed that her reflexes are so intense that she could kick me in the face with them that I'm thinking, okay, maybe there's an upper motor neuron lesion. Something's going on there and I got to further evaluate that. So again, appearance good. Nothing abnormal appreciated. Tone, normal tone, no cloness present here on Maddie. Okay. After we've assessed tone, the next thing we're going to do is we're going to move on to power or strength, whichever one you want to assess in that situation. And there's different ways. There's a scale that we can use. Just like we can assess tone or quantify tone, we can quantify strength. And so the way that we do that is we use a power scale. or a strength scale and it goes from zero to five. Five being full strength, zero being none. So now what we're going to do is we're going to assess this from the proximal hip joint all the way down to the little piggies. Okay. So how do we start this off? First to assess hip flexion. There's a bunch of muscles that are involved in these processes. Some of the big ones is like the iliacis, the soass major, the pectinius muscle and they're supplied by the femoral nerve particularly root level is if you guys really want to know and it's important to remember this even though I'm giving a root level I'm using particular textbooks baits netters and consistent with the other videos that we've done on the lumbossacral plexus of what nerve root level you're going to have. Again, these can differ from book to book. So just keep that in mind. But for this situation here, hip flexion is primarily controlled by the femoral nerve, L2 to L4 uh nerve roots. So, how are we going to assess this? Well, we're going to try to get her to flex at the hip. So, you can do this a couple ways. You can do this at the extreme point of the movement, or you can just do that at at at the actual relaxing point. So, in this situation, I just want to go ahead and I want to stabilize this hip here. And what I'm going to have you do here, Maddie, is I'm going to have you try to lift this whole leg off the bed. Good. And I assess that that's definitely she has full strength against my full resistance. I'm going to do the same thing here. I'm going to hold down and stabilize this hip. Go ahead and lift up. Good. Full strength against my resistance. Hip flexion. Five out of five. Next thing we're going to do is we're going to assess hip extension. Hip extension. There's a bunch of muscles that are involved in this as well. The nerve that's actually responsible for this is the inferior glutial nerve. And the inferior glutial nerve has uh again its nerve root level is generally from L5 to about S2. And so what we're going to do here is I'm going to have her go ahead and lift her leg up, this whole leg. And what I'm going to do is I'm I'm going to stabilize this hip here again and push down as hard as you can. Good. And she has full strength against my full resistance. Same thing. Go ahead and lift this leg up here. I'm going to stabilize this hip. Push down as hard as you can. Good. Full strength against resistance on that extension. That's a five out of five. The next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to assess adduction. So hip adduction is controlled by a bunch of other muscles too. Your adductor muscles, magnus longus, brevis, your opterator externus, there's a graascilus, a ton of them, right? But it's primarily supplied by the opterator nerve and that's usually your L2 to L4 nerve root. So how do we assess this? So what I'm going to have her do is we're going to kind of just spread here a little bit. And I'm going to go ahead and put my fist in here. And I'm going to have her try to push against my fist there. Yep. Good. So, hip adduction, five out of five in this situation. So, we've assessed adduction. So, now we're going to do is we're going to assess abduction. Now, again, we're not we're not in a position we're kind of removing uh gravity here for her, but we'd want to have gravity kind of supporting us in this kind of action here. But when we're doing hip abduction, we're assessing a couple different muscles. There's the glutius medius, there's the glutius minimus. This is supplied primarily uh by the superior glutial nerve. And this is around your L4S1 nerve root. And so again, the way we're going to do this in this position here is is is going to be a little bit modified because we don't want her moving all around the table here. But what we're going to do is we're just going to have her push out against. Good. And that's assessing the abduction there. Five out of five strength in all uh this types of muscles there. Okay. So hip abduction, five out of five. We've assessed flexion at the hip, extension at the hip, hip adduction, hip abduction. Now we're going to do is we're going to move down to the next joint. We're going to move to the knees. So with the knees, we're going to assess knee flexion and we're going to assess knee extension. All right. So what we're going to do now is it's it's easier to assess the knee extension and knee flexion kind of with the legs hanging a little bit. It's a lot easier. It's also more the proper way to do these as well. So what we're going to do is now we're going to assess knee extension. So kicking her leg out, right? And so this is controlled by a bunch of the quadriceps muscles. And this is again primarily innervated by the femoral nerve L2 to L4 nerve roots. And so again, what you kind of want to do here is is I'm just going to go ahead and anchor here and I'm going to have her kick out against me. Good. Full strength against my full resistance on this side. We're going to compare it. Looking for any asymmetry. Go ahead and kick out against me there. Full strength against my resistance. So five out of five for the knee extension. Now we're going to do is we're going to assess knee flexion and again these are a lot of the hamstring muscles that are supplying uh that are responsible for this type of function. Now these muscles the hamstring muscles are primarily inervated by the sciatic nerve. Um that's your generally your L L5 to S3 kind of nerve roots and there is a kind of a mixture of these nerves. We'll talk about them a little bit later. The tibial nerve and you also have the common fibular nerve. But with the sciatic nerve supplying these hamstring muscles, we're going to test the knee flexion. So, what I'm going to have her do is I'm going to have her bring her leg out like this. And what I'm going to have her do is again pull her leg in towards the bed. Good. Good. Full strength against my resistance there. Same thing. I'm going to compare on this side. Go ahead and pull your leg in there. Again, full strength against my resistance. So, that in this situation, the actual knee flexion, five out of five. Okay. So now that we've done the knee extension and knee flexion, the next joint we'll go down to is the ankle joint. All right, ninj. So we talked about the knee joint. Let's now move on to the ankle joint. And what we're going to do now is we're going to assess some dorsif flexion, some plantar flexion, some inversion, and some eversion. And the reason why we should know again what these these actions are and also know the nerve that is supplying those is that if there is any injury to the nerve, if there's any compression of the nerve, if there's any demination of the nerve, those muscles that are performing those particular functions are not going to work properly and we'll see some obvious potentially asymmetry um in those movements when we're examining the patient. So we should be again just be thinking about the nerve and again what the function of that nerve is. All right. So now what we're going to do is we're going to assess some dorsif flexion. So dorsif flexion is bringing the toes backwards towards her. Right? And so there is going to be a particular nerve, the deep fibular nerve that supplies those muscles. And it's going to be primarily your L4 L5 nerve root. And so what we want to do is we're just going to go ahead and kind of isolate just this movement here at the ankle joint. And I'm going to have her kind of pull her toes towards her whole ankle. Yep. Good. Full strength against my resistance there. Same thing. Kind of just isolate this joint there. Go ahead and pull your toes back. Good. Full strength against my resistance. Bilaterally, same thing. Plantar flexion. I'm going to have uh test the muscles primarily in the posterior part of the calf. And this is going to be supplied by and in this case it's generally the tibial nerve S1 S2 nerve roots. And so what I'm going to do is again just isolate that ankle joint and have her push down like she's pushing on the gas pedal flying down the freeway. Same thing. Push down on this side. Again, no asymmetry, five out of five strength um bilaterally. The next thing we're going to do is we're going to assess inversion. And you can do this a couple different ways. One of the ways I like to do it is assessing at the extreme point of contraction of those muscles. Um and then trying to have her resist me pulling it out of that movement. And so the nerve that is supplying those particular muscles, the inverters, is the tibial nerve. Um and that's generally going to be your L4 to L5 nerve root levels. So what I'm going to do is have her kind of turn her the sole inwards here. Yep. And then again, what I'm going to do is just isolate that ankle joint. And then don't let me pull it outwards. Good. And she's able to have full strength against my resistance on this side. I'm not going to compare, but again, what you would do is compare this bilaterally to notice any asymmetry that you might have. Okay. Same thing. We're going to do the ankle. So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to have her kind of turn her sole of the foot outwards. Yep. And again, I'm going to isolate this and I'm going to tell her, "Don't let me pull her foot inwards." And again, she has full strength against my resistance trying to pull it inwards, which is going against the eversion. Eversion, there's a bunch of muscles that are responsible for this. A lot of the fibularis, brevis, and longus. There's a superficial fibular nerve that also is responsible for this. Um, and that's generally going to be around your um your L5 to S1 uh nerve root level. Okay. So, in this situation here, we've assessed from the proximal hip joint, the knee joint, the ankle joint. You could go even further if you wanted to um and assess the digits, especially the big toe as well. In this case, we're going to forgo that and defer that in this part of our exam. But on Maddie, I appreciate five out of five strength in the proximal hip joint, knee joint, and ankle joint. So, now that we've assessed power or strength, um we finished appearance, we finished tone, we've done power, strength, the next thing I like to do is go into reflexes. And since I kind of already have Maddie in this kind of position where her legs are perfectly in this position for you guys to see it, I like to just start off with doing what's called the Babinski reflex. This is very important reflex especially in patients who um have some type of upper motor neuron lesion like a stroke. Um and what happens with the Babensky reflex is the normal sign is you want the toes to curl, right? If someone has an upper motor neuron lesion, what will happen is their big toe will kind of dorsif flex. So, it'll come back towards her and then her toes will fan out and that could be a sign of an upper motor neuron lesion. So, what I like to do here is I just kind of like to take and I'm going to take the pointy end of my reflex hammer. I'm going to start here at the heel and I'm just going to kind of work my way inwards in this fashion here. And generally what should happen is she might not be that ticklish in this case situation but generally the toes will kind of curl down and that's this case she has a normal finding but again what would be abnormal and concerning is if we see that big toe dorsif flex and those toes span out and we don't appreciate anything there. So again the babensky reflex in this case is absent. Okay, same thing. We should compare bilaterally. Take here at the heel. Work our way upwards. And we're trying to again look for if you see curling of the toes. But again, what we don't want is that big toe to dorsif flex and those fan those toes to fan out. Okay. So this is a pathological reflex. You can assess this if you see some other abnormal reflexes. So for example, when I go and do her patellar and her ankle reflex, if I notice some hyper reflexia, if I noticed also um that she has some particular maybe weakness on one side, I might go down and do the babinsky reflex because I'm trying to see is this an upper motor neuron lesion? Because if they had hyper reflexia, they have weakness and they have a babinskys, I might be thinking I got to do some further examination and figure out what is the reason for this and what kind of upper motor neuron lesion do they have. All right. So, that kind of takes us into reflexes, right? So, we finished up strength and power, and we already started off with the pathological reflex just because it's convenient in this location, but now what we got to do is move on to the other reflexes, the patellar, and then the ankle reflex. So, let's go ahead and put her in a more comfortable position, not on her head, but with the legs kind of dangling down here, and we're going to go ahead and examine that. All right, NAR. So, now we're going to assess reflexes here on Maddie. Okay. So, we've already talked a little bit about the Babensky's reflex, the pathological reflex. Now, what we're going to do is we're going to assess the patella reflex and we're going to assess the ankle reflex in this situation here. So, the patella reflex is going to be L2 to L4 nerve root and then the ankle reflex is going to be your S1 to S2. Now, when we're assessing reflex, we we kind of use a scoring system or a scale in this situation. We grade it from 0 to four. So, we go 0 plus uh 1 plus uh 2 plus 3+ and 4 plus. Okay. And this scenario here, what I want us to do is is try to figure out what this would be if we're going through it on Maddie. So zero would be someone is uh a reflexic. They have no reflex. Okay? Or is very even difficult to see any reflex present. U one a one plus would be hypo reflexic. So it's very subtle, very maybe slight reflex that you see whenever you're tapping maybe on the patellar tendon. ways that I like to see if it really is a oneplus versus like a zero is I like to do what's called a gingrazic maneuver or a reinforcement maneuver. So say that I tapped on Maddiey's patellar tendon and I got a very very like small reflex. I'm still not sure if it was a good one or not. I can have her kind of take her fist and pull them apart as well as clinch down on her teeth. And sometimes that can really accentuate the reflex a little bit more and make it a little bit more noticeable when it's kind of subtle. A two plus is a normal reflex. So, in this case, hers are pretty normal. Um, and then the next one is a 3+ where they're hyper reflexic. Okay? They're coming out and really kicking at you. All right? And then a plus a 4 plus would be they have hyperrelexia with that term that I talked to you guys a little bit about before with clonus. Okay? And if you guys remember that was where I was taking kind of Mattiey's foot here. I was having a relax and then I was dorsif flexing and looking for those pats. Okay? So again zero a reflexic one plus hyporflexic that you can accentuate with a gendraic maneuver two plus normal 3 plus is hyper reflexia without clonus 4 plus is hyper reflexia with clonus okay so how do we assess that here on Maddie so we're going to go ahead and assess the patella reflex so again I'm just going to kind of isolate here look for that patellar tendon and give it a good whack there okay nice little reflex there two plus reflexes right and again same thing over here. Good reflex there for Maddie as well. Okay, so we're going to come down. Do the ankle reflex here. I like to just dorsif flex the foot a little bit. Come here behind and then tap. And again, you see that nice little reflex there as well. Do the same thing over here to compare bilaterally. And again, see nice little uh plantar flexion there as well. So again, normal patella reflex, two plus here, two plus for her uh her ankle reflexes as well. All right, so we've already assessed reflexes on Maddie. Now, what we're going to do is we're going to assess sensation. So, sensation, we can do this in a couple different ways. We can assess it via light touch. We can assess this via pain. We can assess it via temperature, vibration, and proprio reception. Those are pretty much our essential kind of sensory modalities. For the discriminative sensations that we did in the upper limb where we tested stereognosis, we tested graphesthesia, and we tested extinction. We're going to defer that on this exam, but again, you can kind of apply the same concept there as well. So, it's the same as what we did in the upper limbs. We can do that in the lower limbs. Let's focus primarily though on those essential modalities. Light touch being the first one. I like to just use a cotton swab. I want to identify what this should feel like. And so, I use a central location first. I'm going to have you close your eyes, Maddie. And can you feel this? Yes. Anytime you feel this sensation on your legs, just say yes. Okay. So, we're going to go ahead and start then. So, we're going to apply. We're going to try to apply the light touch sensation throughout all the dermatal patterns here. So, here we go. Yes. Yes. So, that's our L1. Did it feel the same? Did it feel the same? That was our L2. That was our L3. Did that feel the same? That's our L4. Did that feel the same? That's our L5. Did that feel the same? That's our S1. Did that feel the same? And again, we could even move a little bit more up the back of the calf for S1 and then into the hamstrings for the S2 dermatal areas. But again, in her situation, light touch is intact. So what does that mean? That means that her dorsal column of her spinal cord, the dorsal column media liniscus pathway is working properly. Now terminology that gets thrown around a lot with this one is the termsthesas. So if she had loss of sensation, she wasn't able to identify that, that would be called anesthesia. If she had decreased sensitivity to that sensation, that would be called hypothesia. If she had an increased sensitivity to that light touch sensation, that would be called hyperthesias. And if she felt like a numbness or a burning or a tingling type of sensation, that would be referred to as a paristhesias. Okay? Important to remember that especially in diabetic patients who maybe have decreased sensations in the distal limbs particularly in bilaterally we call that kind of a stocking glove neuropathy and you see that commonly in diabetics so important to be thinking about that but in this case light touch is intact bilaterally the next thing we can assess is pain now you can do this with a couple different there's different types of tools I just have a cotton tip applicator with a nice little pointy end and so again I want her to be able to know what this should feel like on her lower limbs So, I'm going to have you close your eyes and can you feel this? Yes. And anytime you feel that sensation on your limbs, just say yes. Okay. So, again, we're going to go ahead and start down the lower limbs. That's our L1. Did it feel the same? That's our L2. Did it feel the same? L3. Did that feel the same? L4? Yes. Did that feel the same? L5. Did that feel the same? That's S1. Did that feel the same? Good. And again, I could come back up through the calf a little bit more for S1. Come back to the hamstrings for S2 as well. So, no. Um, so there's no inability to identify pain stimuli. So, what does that tell me? That means that her lateral spinalic tract within the spinal cord is intact. There's no issues with that. So that is good. There's no problems there. There's no lesions. There's no spinal cord compression. No, no problems with that. And so there's terminology that likes to get thrown around for the pain pathway as well. And that's alesia. So if she had a decreased sensitivity to a painful stimulus, that'd be called hypoalesia. if she had an increased sensitivity to the pain stimulus that would be called hyperalesia. And so it's just things that we need to be aware of when people are throwing that terminology around. Okay. So pain intact. I could do the same exact thing that I did testing the same pathway but just a different sensory modality and that's temperature. I could use hot and cold temperatures and apply it over those dermatomes in the same way asking her to identify if she can feel hot and cold temperatures. If she is, that means that lateral spinal that lateral spinal tract is also intact. So it's the same kind of thing that we did with pain just a different sensory modality. Okay. So we've tested light touch, we've tested pain. We've explained the same thing that you would do with the temperature. The next thing we would do is vibration sense. So vibration is a very important one because if there is any lesions usually of the dorsal column, this is one of the s the first sensations to usually go. So with vibration sense you can use a tuning fork and you can apply this on a bony prominence. I like to start distal first. If they can't identify that distal sensation then I go up to a proximal point and see if they can identify it there. So what I want to do is I wanted to know what this vibration sense should feel like at a central location. So I'm going have you close your eyes Maddie and can you feel this? Yes. Anytime you feel this sensation just say yes. Okay. So, we're going to come down here to this distal point of this digit here at the bony prominence on the big toe. We're going to go ahead and hit on our tuning fork and place it there. Tell me when you can't feel the sensation. Can't feel it. Good. And I just dampen. I kind of remove the vibrations and she should be able to identify when the sensation is there and when it is gone. So, that means the vibration is intact on this side. Let's compare it bilaterally. Yes. Tell me when you can. Can't feel it. Good. So, vibration is intact bilaterally. What does that tell me? That tells me that there is no issues with that dorsal column pathway. Also, not just the dorsal column of the spinal cord, but the sensory nerves that are taking that information from that big toe all the way up to her spinal cord. There's no neuropathy as well. So, there's no neuropathy and there's also no problems with her dorsal column media miniscus pathway. Okay. vibration is beautiful. Again, if she wasn't able to identify that, I could further evaluate that at the ASIS, a more proximal joint. All right, so vibration is tested. Let's now test proprioception. It's another essential modality. Proprio reception is going to be again carried via your dorsal column pathway, but again your sensory nerves have to be functioning as well in order for that to be completely normal. So again, when we test propriception, just like we did with all the other sensations, we want to know what what the sensation should feel like. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to isolate her kind of her big toe here. I'm going to have you close your eyes, Maddie. Okay? So this is up. This is down. I'm going to move your toes around a couple times. I want you to tell me in what position it is. Okay? Up. Up. Down. Good. So, she's able to identify the position of her big toe in a three-dimensional space with her eyes closed. It's only depending now upon that sensory pathway because her eyes are closed. Now, we're going to compare this bilaterally. Okay? So, again, go ahead and isolate over here. Pull on the sides of the toes there. And again, Maddie, this is going to be up. This is going to be down. Okay? So, just tell me what position it's in. Up. Good. So she's able to identify the position of her big toes in the threedimensional space bilaterally. Proprioception is intact. What does that tell me? That tells me that the dorsal column medial meniscus pathway is intact and the nerves that are bringing that sensation to the spinal cord are also intact. Any inability to identify that could be indicative of a neuropathy or a dorsal column spinal cord lesion. Okay. So we've assessed our essential modalities. If we really wanted to, we could do a discriminative type in this situation. It could be very, very simple. Extinction, formerly known as neglect. Close your eyes, Maddie. Okay. Tell me which side I'm touching you. Good. So, I did double simultaneous stimulation. If she had, for example, the best type of example for this is strokes. If she had a right MCA stroke, for example, uh particularly maybe involving a little bit more of the lower extremities, she may neglect one side of her body. So, for example, she had a right MCA stroke. If I asked her to tell me which side I'm touching and I was touching both legs simultaneously, she would probably only say, "I can only feel you touching the right." Because she'll neglect the left side. Okay? So, that would be testing extinction, also formerly known as neglect. So, in this scenario, Maddie is able to identify all light touch, pain, we did forego temperature, vibration, propriception, and there is no extinguishing one side of the body. That would cover our sensation part of the upper the lower limb neuroexam. The last part of the lower limb neuroexam is going to be assessing coordination carried out by the cerebellum. So how do we do this? Well, when we were up in the upper limbs, one of the things that we did is we did what's called a finger to nose test. We can do somewhat of a similar type of test looking for what's called dysmetria uh in the same way. Okay. So, dysmetriia is having an inability to kind of really move the heel up and down the shin. There's a lot of ataxia that can be seen there. So, what I'm going to have her do is what's called the heel to shin test. So, Maddie, I'm going to have you take your heel, put it here on the top of your shin, run it down all the way, and back up. Do that one more time. Good. All right. And you can bring that one down. And you're going to do the same thing for the other side. And we're going to compare. So bring this heel up to the top and slide that down and go up and down two times there. One more. Good. And you can go ahead and lay that down there. So what am I doing when I'm assessing her heel going up and down the shin? I'm looking for the the rate. I want it to be a decent rate. I don't want her to be going super super slow, but I don't want her to actually be going too fast, right? I just I want a nice smooth rate. I want the rhythm. I want it to flow nicely. So, if she's like having a hard time where she's kind of catching at different points and she's sliding off and then she's can't keep it on her shin, that might be telling me something that something's going on maybe with the cerebellum. So, again, I look for the rate. I look for the rhythm of that. And I also look for the amplitude. Now, here's the thing that sometimes can be difficult with seeing heel to shin testing. If someone's naturally weak or they have lower limb weakness, it can be sometimes relatively difficult to distinguish between actually having some atexia or dysmetria present. Okay. So again, testing for uh dysmetria or any signs of abnormalities with the cerebellum, what would I do? I do the heel to shin. Any inability to to do that may indicate some dysmetria and potentially at taxia. Something is going on with the cerebellum. And if she has problems on one side more, for example, if she had problems moving her right leg up and down the left, that might tell me that something's wrong with her right cerebellum because again, cerebellum and the problems are usually ipspsy lateral. Okay. All right. So, that's how we would assess the heel to shin looking for any dysmetria, any type of limb ataxia in this situation. The next thing is, remember how we did this? We did it, you can do it a couple ways in the upper limbs, rapid movements, right? We did it in this way or we also did it kind of in this this pattern. We can do the same thing. I can just have her tap on my hands. And so what I can do here is I'll do one at a time. Uh Maddie, I'm just going to have you take your right foot and tap on my hand as quick as you can. Good. And the same thing with the left. Good. And I'm just looking at the rate. I'm looking at the rhythm. I'm looking at the amplitude of the movement. If she was really having difficulty doing that, it was very slow. The rhythm was really really out of whack. She was going like one and then she would take a long time and then maybe do two and then she was taking a long time and maybe she'd do three. It it just wasn't a consistent rhythm. It wasn't a normal rate. I might be thinking there's some disdocinesis present. Okay. So again, if there was a right cerebellar lesion, she may have difficulty with that rapid movement on the right side and that could be indicative of some disdocinesis. The last thing that I could test while we're already here, um, we talked about what's called a cerebellar drift with the upper extremities where they would have like a pronation and lifting their leg upward, lifting their arm upwards. We're not going to assess that here. What we would do is sometimes you can see what's called a pendulus kind of uh knee swinging after you do what's called a patella reflex. So really quickly, if I were to kind of just lower this down here for Maddie, if I were to do a patella reflex on Maddie and I I tapped her her patellar tendon and her leg after I did that, she just kept kind of like swinging like this afterwards on that right side, that could be indicative of a right cerebellar lesion. So sometimes they have what's called a pendulus type of movement or swinging after a knee-jerk reflex or a patella reflex and that also could be indicative of some type of cerebellar lesion. So to recap, what are the ways that we test coordination on the lower limbs? We can do the same thing heel to shin looking for any dismetria. We can do quick tapping of the foot on the person's on the the clinician's hands looking for disitoinesis. And then again, when you were doing that patella reflex, go back and think, was there legs swinging a lot afterwards after you did that reflex? Because that could also be indicative of a pendulus type of swinging after a knee-jerk reflex, which could be indicative of a cerebellar lesion. Okay, so that's how we would assess our coordination in this sense. And that would conclude our lower limb neurological exam. All right, ninja nerds. So in this video today, we talk about how to perform a lower limb neurological exam. I hope it made sense. I hope that you guys did enjoy it and learned a lot. Big thanks to our patient here, Maddie. Give her some big shout outs down in the comments section for being here for us today and helping us out with this exam. Ninjers, we thank you. We love you. And as always, until next time.