So if you look at the lumbar again, if you remember what we said, we eat breakfast at 7:00, lunch at 12:00, and dinner at 5. So we have seven cervical vertebrae, 12 thoracic vertebrae, and we're going to have five lumbar vertebrae. Lumbar is really, really weightbearing. And look at the centrum here. Look at that body. It's really, really thick body right there. Okay? So really, really thick body. These are going to be your transverse processes. Again, these right here, your superior articulating processes with facets right there. Superior articulating process with facets. And again, here's our spinus process right there. Spinus process. Again, vertebran. And then if you here's actually a better way. I would actually rather you look at the lamina and the pedacle on this one. If you look here, I were to take and wrap around that part right there. Again, it's that space between the spinus process and the trans actually go transverse process. This right here is actually called the lamina. Now, if I flip it around here, sorry guys, and I go in between the body and the transverse process. This chunk right there is actually called the pedacle. Okay? So, I just want to show you guys that it's better seen on that. And again, I'm going to flip it over here so you can see a couple of parts. Again, that's the body. And right here is your inferior articulating process with facets. And again, inferior articulating process with facets. All right? And then again, vertebral canal where the spinal cord runs through. All right. What I want to do real quick actually before I move on is if you notice here I have uh two uh lumbar vertebrae. And if you notice right here, what I wanted to show you is these little things here. These are actually called the intervertebral discs right here. And this is actually the one act as the cushion basically kind of like a shock absorber here. And they have this annulus fibrous tissue wrapping around it. It's kind of interweaved really really thick connective tissue. And then inside of it you have a little gel thing called the nucleololis papulsus. And these basically again are basically designed to be a shock absorber and act as a cushion. So whenever the actual vertebrae is being compressed, it helps to be able to allow for that compression to occur. And one other thing I wanted to show you right here is if you look here, this guy right there, this is actually going to be called the intervertebral fammen. Intervertebral fammen is where your spinal nerves run through. Make sure you don't get that confused with the vertebral fammen right there. So this is the vertebral frame and this is the intervertebral frame.