 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам On our website, we'll have things like notes, illustrations, quiz questions, so many things that we can offer you that will truly help you to understand that concept. So go check that out. Without further ado, down with my sales pitch, let's get right into the pathophys. All right, so let's discuss the pathophys and we'll discuss some causes when it comes to lung cancer. We discussed pathophys, the two big things that I want you guys to understand is the types. So there's the subtypes of lung cancer, we say small cell, non-small cell. And we really can define this, yes, based upon the actual histopathology. When you look at these cells, they look small, they look hyperchromatic, they're poorly differentiated. But the other really important thing for small versus non-small cell is very, very rapid, aggressive growth. This one, it's not going to be as rapid, it may be slower kind of progressive growth. That's the real big difference between these. Because again, yes, it is going to be small, oval, round, hyperchromatic cells, but these things proliferate like rabbits. This one, not as fast, not as proliferative and as rapid. Big key difference. Now, we talk about small cell and really any of these lung cancers, we got to know where they're locating or where they actually start to form. Because one is it actually helps us with the exam. If you read in the exam and you say, oh, there's a central mass, there's really only two types of lung cancers that most likely present within the central portion of the lung. If you think peripheral, then there's some other ones. That's really, really helpful for your exam and in the actual wards. Small cell lung cancer, it prefers the central airways. A central hyalur mass is going to be what you want to really be looking for. Central hyalur mass. For example, we'll represent this in a pink color. Let me get my pink marker here. We're going to say here is going to be a bronchus and we're going to have some cells that malignally transform and these things start growing like crazy. Here I have a big mass in the central part of my airways near the hyalur. Because the hyalur is that entryway where what? The primary bronchi, the pulmonary artery and veins kind of come in and out of the lung. That's going to be my central occasion. I'm going to zoom in on this one. So histopathology wise, when I take a biopsy, so this one I would do a bronchoscopy. I would take and I would biopsy this tissue. After I do a biopsy, what would you be looking for? You're probably like, Zach, why in the heck are we talking about diagnostics here? Well, I think it's crucial that we get some headway into actually having some identifiers or classifiers that things that when we look under the microscope, this is a little bit more of the initial step one stuff that you think about how would I see under the microscope the types of cells that represent small cell, adeno, large cell, etc. So for small cell, the cells that this actually derives from, if you took a piece of the epithelium, you'd have these blue cells, what are those? Pseudo stratified ciliate of the columnar. You'd have these green cells, those are your gobble cells that make a lot of mucin. You have these red cells, which are your basal cells, they're the progenitor cells and they can make really any of these. And then you got these little pink buggers, these little sons of guns. These little freckles right here are called the neuroendocrine cells. What are they called? They're called the neuroendocrine cells. Now we also give them what's called the colchitsky cells. Now these cells, the neuroendocrine cells, the happenst is, is these guys are really the problematic issue. They undergo malignant transformation, maybe you smoke, maybe you have some radon exposure, some asbestos, whatever it is, they undergo some mutations. When they mutate, they gain that capacity to either shut off tumor suppressor genes or turn on proto-oncogenes and guess what starts happening, man? These things start rapidly, rapidly proliferating. And that's the really important thing to consider with this one. So again, I want you to know which of the cells that are really going to be the problematic issue here and it's those neuroendocrine cells or the colchitsky cells that undergo this malignant transformation and make this big mass that we see. So when you look at these, they're going to be the colchitsky cells, which when you look at these cells under microscopy, they're small, round, kind of like hyperchromatic cells. That's a really important thing. Now the other thing is that when you take these cells and you do what's called immunohistochemistry, you try to look in tag specific types of molecules that are present in this one. It's almost always positive for a very specific type of molecule called Chromogranin A. All right, Chromogranin A. Now, here's what I want you guys to think about. When we got this small cell, what do I want you to take away from it? Central mass. If I take an Ibiopsy, that thing, what am I going to see? I'm going to see those neuroendocrine colchitsky cells. If I stain them, what is going to come up? Chromogranin A. This is a really big thing to take away from this. All right. Now, you're probably going to start asking the question, Zach, I'm really kind of confused as to how these cells actually proliferate. Well, we'll talk about it. Oftentimes, there's some type of carcinogen. And then therefore, that carcinogen causes damage to the DNA, which leads to a mutation. That mutation then leads to a loss of function or gain of function of a particular type of gene, and that will cause this proliferation. We'll talk about that in a little bit. But before we do that, let's move on to the next component here, which is the non-small cell lung cancer. So with this one, we have adenocarcinoid, squamous, and large cell. So there's four different subtypes to this one. How am I supposed to remember this, bro? Don't worry. I got you. Adenocarcinoma, most common. It is the most common lung cancer in general. And actually, when you compare non-small cell and small cell, non-small cell is significantly more common. Maybe 15, this accounts for maybe around 85%. Now, adenocarcinoma location, this one loves the peripheral locations. So what happens with this puppy is it loves to really involve more of the bronchoalveolar tree. And so you're going to get a tumor that's most likely going to form within the periphery. So this is going to give you more of your peripheral tumors or masses. All right? Now, if I took that tissue, zoomed in on it to take a look at it, what would I see? All right? If I took that tissue and I zoomed in on it, what we're actually looking at is we're looking at this bronchoalveolar tree. So here you're going to have like a respiratory bronchial. And then here, you're going to have the alveoli. Right? These are my alveoli. When I take these and I zoom in on it, you guys remember what are the primary cells that make up an alveoli, right? It's your blue squamous ones, which is the type one. And one of these little black, you would want the type two. This is called my type two pneumocytes or my type two alveolar cells. Should we play a little game, my friends? And say, hey, what do these cells do? Do you guys remember? They make, what is it? They make surfactant. In this case, they're going to jack everything up because they're going to make something else. Now, type two alveolar cells in this disease, they get hit usually with a mutation. It's not oftentimes smoking, which is interesting with this one. They have a spontaneous mutation that occurs that causes these cells to just rapidly proliferate. Now when they do, they kind of proliferate and then they kind of differentiate. And what they do is it's very interesting. They make somewhat, because these are simple cuboidal, they make somewhat of a glandular type of structure. And then these cells, they gain the capacity to actually produce a lot of mucin, which can actually increase the risk for pneumonia in certain scenarios, funny enough. But yeah, these guys are going to be alveolar cells that start to do what? They start to proliferate and they give off this glandular look. So this is going to give off this glandular appearance. And then the other thing is that these glandular cells, these cuboidal cells, they actually start to secrete what? They secrete mucin. How should we represent mucin? Green. And it releases all this mucin. And sometimes the mucin, you can actually stain it when you do immunohistochemistry. It actually could be in these cells too. But it's going to have a lot of mucin. It's going to have an increased amount of mucin. So you guys get the point here. We take these type 2 alveolar cells, they start making like a glandular type of appearance, and then they can contain and secrete mucin. Now when I look at this histopathology, I kind of already hit you with some of the introductions here that this is going to have a glandular type of appearance of those type 2 alveolar cells. So let's write down here, that's going to be a glandular appearance. Now let's add on to this. If I did immunohistochemistry and I stained, mucin technically is a protein that I could tag for. So they'll have positive mucin staining. And you know what else is another protein or another kind of marker actually I should say for adenocarcinoma which is actually kind of high yield. It's called TTF1. TTF1. If a patient comes here and you see this, you see the mucin or you see the TTF1. You think adenocarcinoma. Now I don't want to go crazy on this, but there is a subtype of adenocarcinoma called bronchial alveolar carcinoma in situ. I mean it kind of stays within this kind of alveolar area. It doesn't invade the basement membrane and spread. So that's when it can have a kind of a decent prognosis, but one of the problems is it produces tons and tons of mucin in the airways and it can cause a lot of pneumonia. But that's something to just keep in mind is bronchial alveolar carcinoma in situ. It's kind of like a little tweener where it's about to become adeno, but it's again it's not breaking through the basement membrane. Alright, so next one is carcinoma tumors. Now carcinoma tumors usually with these they're not super common. They're very I'd say relatively rare. But one of the things about these is they are also a central mass, but they're usually kind of endobronchial. They don't usually get too big. So it's going to be more of a central kind of endobronchial mass. With these masses, one of the things I want you guys to remember is again not super, super common as compared to things like squamous and adeno and large cell. But when we actually take this one, this is going to sound kind of familiar. If we take and we were to actually biopsy this tissue. And if we did the biopsy, we would see again, pseudotratified cilidic alumina. These ones are your basal cells, the progenitor ones. This is going to be the ones that are making a lot of our mucus production. So goblet cells. And then this guy, neuroendocrine cells. So it's funny because this is the tumor. This is the one that actually makes this mass. It undergoes a malignant transformation and it makes this tumor right here that you see. And you're like, wait a second, weren't these the cells for small cell? Yeah. The difference here is that these become a little bit more well differentiated. They don't get super, super aggressive. So this is actually going to be, again, our neuroendocrine cells. What are these cells called again? They're called the colchitsky. The colchitsky cells. With this, if we took the histopathology, we would find these colchitsky cells are the neuroendocrine cells. So you'd find these colchitsky cells that'd be positive for them. The big difference between this one and this one is that this one is very well differentiated. And so well differentiated means it's not going to be as severe of a prognosis. Poorly differentiated means it's a little bit more aggressive. Now the other thing is immune-histochemistry-wise, this is going to come up similarly. What kind of stain will we find in neuroendocrine cells? Chromograndon A. So we would actually stain this and we would see what's called chromograndon, a positive staining. And again, I need you guys to really remember something super important. For the colchitsky cells, what's the big difference with these? These ones I need you to remember are well differentiated. So let's actually remember an important distinction. So when we say carcinoid versus small cell lung cancer, the big thing here is that this is going to be what? For carcinoid, it is well differentiated cells. That is a pretty high yield thing to take away from this. Now carcinoid tumors, again, you'll see this a little bit later, they have a very distinct presentation where sometimes they can present with this classic triad that we'll talk about a little bit later. That's carcinoid tumors. So when I say, okay, location so far, central hyalur mass, you say small cell. If I say peripheral tumor, you're saying I say adenov, I say central endobronchial tumor, you're going to say carcinoid. If I say which ones are neuroendocrine cells, you'd say small cell and carcinoid. If I say which ones are really well differentiated, you would say carcinoid. If I say they stain chromograndon A positive, you would say carcinoid and small cell. If I say they stain positive for mucin or TTF1, you would say adenov. Now we come down to this son of a gun here, the good old squamous cell. Squamous cell is a nasty one too. It's pretty bad. This one is a central mass. So this is going to give you a central, but here's the big term that you want to see. So central cavitary. It's a cavitary mass. So it likes to cavitate. And when we see this one, again, it's actually kind of important to remember that this one is usually going to be, again, pretty nasty looking mass here in the central portion. So here we'll draw a decent central sized mass, but what's the big difference? What do I have to have in the center of it? I'm going to have a little cavity. So I'm going to have a little bit of a cavitary mass. So that's a really, really important thing to remember. Now I'm drawing these things color coordinated. Do you guys notice how adenocarcinone was black and how neuroendocrine and carcinomy cells were pink? This one's red. So if I actually did a biopsy of this one, and I took a look at this biopsy, I see pseudor stratified cilidic aluminar. I see my basal cells or the progenitor cells. I see the cells that are making a lot of my mucous, right? My goblet cells. And I see the neuroendocrine cells. Which cell out of this do you think is malignantly transformed? The basal cells. That's the one that gets affected here is it's going to be our basal cells. These are the progenitor cells. They make some of these cells here a part of our epithelium. So it's the progenitor cell, essentially. These ones undergo malignant transformation. And what they transform into is squamous cells, like the tissue that's on our skin or in our esophagus. Can you imagine that? And you know what squamous cells? They're kind of unique in that they make a very significant amount of a protein that kind of makes our skin or maybe even parts of our esophagus really resistant to abrasion. It makes it tough. Do you remember what that protein is called? Keratin. Keratin. So this is going to transform, man. And what you're going to get is you're going to get a lot of squamous cells and they are going to be filled with keratin. All right? We call them keratin pearls sometimes. It's actually kind of interesting. So here, I would represent this. Let's do it like a little bit of orange, maybe a little bit of contrast here. You're going to see all these like things here. There's going to be these like little keratin pearls. And this is just chunks of keratin that these cells are meant to actually secrete. But they should not be secreting this in the lungs. You see why that's a problem? They also have something else here called intracellular bridges. They're kind of like these little desmosomes that stick them together to hold them nice and tight. But here's the thing. If I were to look for a tag, so if I said TTF1, mucin, adenote. If I said the chromogranin A, you'd say carcinoid and small cell. For P40, P40, that squamous cell. So this is going to come up with a P40 positive staining. I know this is a lot. I know, but we will recap this when we get into the diagnostic section. But again, really important thing to remember here is that when you look at these squamous cells and you look at them, they're going to be filled with what? Let's just remind ourselves here. What are they going to be filled with? What is this orange structure here? These are keratin pearls. And then they're going to have little connections between them. What are these little guys here? Are desmosomes. So when you look at these, the key thing to remember is these squamous cells are going to have lots of what's called keratin pearls. And they're also going to have intercellular bridges, which are basically just these desmosomes. And that's some characteristic findings that you want to be aware of when they talk about this. Sometimes they'll bring step one questions into this, but you want to be aware of this on your step two exam, especially in the diagnostic section. All right, squamous cell. Boom, roasted. Let's go over here to the large cell. Large cell is a son of a gun because when we think about this one, location-wise, it can occur really most often in the periphery. So it's most often going to be in the periphery. Now when we get this lesion, here's the thing that's weird about this one. It don't look like nothing. It don't look like nothing. I don't know where the heck this thing came from. And so when you actually take a look at this, again, it's going to be more of a peripheral tumor, a peripheral tumor or mass. But when you take and you biopsy this thing, you're like, dude, it doesn't look like anything I've seen so far. That's the key. Looks nothing like it. You're like, I don't know what in the Sam heck this tumor is. I really, really don't. It doesn't look like anything I've really ever seen. And it doesn't stain with any of the other things that I've seen. So I'm not even kidding. Within the name, these are large, poorly differentiated cells. So on histopathology, you're going to see large, poorly differentiated cells. And here's the key thing. When they tag this thing, it doesn't tag for a chat. All right? That means that you're going to get negative P40. So it's not going to come up with a squamous. You're going to get negative TTF1, which means it's not going to show anything for. Adeno. You're going to get negative for the musin. You're going to get negative for what else? I can't fit it, so I'm going to bring it down here. You'll get negative for Chromogranin A. That's the key, big kind of takeaway. For this son of a gun here, is it's not going to have any kind of markers. It doesn't look like any of the cells. So what I want you to take away from this is, when I tell you central tumors, I want you to think of S, squamous and small cell. They like to be central. They want to be near the smoke. They want all the smoke, right? Because usually they're smoking associated. Your peripheral is going to be adeno and large. The one that's kind of a funky one that we kind of just find a way to fit in there is carcinoid. Carcinoid technically likes to be an endobronchial central tumor. All right, we've hit the path of Fizz, but we've got to really kind of talk now what in the Sam heck is causing these cells to just start replicating and proliferating undesirably? All right, so causes of lung cancer, what's really making these cells? Again, the neuroendocrine cells, the type 2 alveolar cells, the basal cells. What's triggering, per se, them to go from being a normal cell to all dying. I'm going to jack this lung tissue up kind of thing. So what's triggering this malignant transformation? That's what we need to really know. And oftentimes what makes this endocrine cell kind of become very poorly differentiated called chisely cells that grow or the type 2 alveolar cells or the basal cells to grow is going to be carcinogens. These are the real reasons and these basically are kind of coming here and triggering these cells to undergo mutations. The mutations cause loss of function of specific types of tumor suppressor genes and then these cancers grow. Sometimes it can't even be pertoanco genes too. But what are these carcinogens? So there's a couple of them, but I think there's three primary ones. So obviously smoking is going to be accounting for the bulk of it. All right? So if you're out there taking down three sigs at a time, you probably should stop, bro, because 80 to 90% of lung cancers is due to smoking. Now the other one is radon. Radon will probably come in as a close second. So make sure that you're kind of monitoring those, like Toby in the office. And then the other one is asbestos. All right? Now with this kind of thing, you'd see this more in like insulation and ship builders and things like that. Smoking radon and asbestos are going to be carcinogens, meaning that what happens is that these guys get exposed and they kind of damage the DNA in these cells. When they damage the DNA, they can cause a mutation. That mutation may potentially lead to these cells proliferating. So when I say that mutations are present, carcinogens can actually cause mutations. So that's what I want you to remember is carcinogens have the capability of triggering mutations. When I talk about mutations on its own though, it's really, really crucial that you can remember that mutations don't always have to be triggered by a carcinogen. They can happen spontaneously and we have no control over that. When I talk about mutations in general, these things can also individually cause this. But these could be, and I want to be a little bit more careful. When I say mutations, it could be spontaneous. So let's say for example, I take a patient who is a non-smoker, a non-smoker. So if I take a non-smoker or they don't have any type of true exposure from radon or asbestos, but this is going to be the most common one. This is oftentimes associated with adenu. Adenu carcinoma. So usually small cells, squamous cells, large cells, they're almost always inclusively associated with carcinogens like smoking. Adenu carcinoma can be seen in non-smokers. And the reason behind this is they may have specific acquired mutations in certain types of proliferative pathways. And so there's a lot of these, man. I don't want to go through all of them. Please, for the love of goodness, don't memorize these. There's only a couple, but there's things like the eGFR mutation. That's really an important one because this probably counts for most of the mutations that we see. Another one could be the KRAS. So there's a KRAS mutation. This one, not as, you know, probably as high yield, but something to consider. And there's also the alkary arrangement that sometimes can be asked about. But I'd say that, again, that eGFR is going to be the really, really important one. I'd say that this is going to be the key one here, the eGFR mutation. This is also a potential one. This is also a potential one. But the question that you're probably going to start asking is, okay, carcinogens can cause mutations. What are the difference in the mutations from these as compared to the carcinogens causing these other spontaneous mutations? Well, here, I'll quickly remind you guys that if it's smoking, are carcinogen related. So this is non-smoker. If I bring this back up and I bring this to the smoker, if I bring this to the smoker, which is really almost all the other ones, this is associated with other distinct mutations. So this is going to be ones like your P53, your RB, your retinoblastoma protein. It also can be associated with another one called CMYC. So CMIC, this one's heavily associated with small cell lung cancer. But really, any of these mutations where there is a loss of function here or a gain of function, these things can cause the cells to rapidly proliferate. So if they're a non-smoker associated with these, if they're a smoker associated with these, that's the key difference here. Non-smoker here, smoker here. These are the ones that we can target. We can't really target these as well. That's the big difference. When I think about carcinogens causing malignant transformation or mutations causing malignant transformation or carcinogens causing mutations that lead to this malignant transformation, the big thing to remember here is when we talk about these mutations, what are they really affecting? These guys here are causing abnormalities within the tyrosine kinase pathway. So here I'm going to have what's called a tyrosine kinase receptor. And you guys remember that this receptor, it can trigger so many different pathways. You can have some type of ligand bind to this receptor, and it can trigger multiple different intracellular pathways. I don't think it's worth mentioning all of them. There is the RAZ, there's the PI3KAKT pathway, there's the jack stat pathway. Another way that's not really relevant here, they send signals to the nucleus and this will tell the cell to undergo intense cell proliferation. So it'll increase your cell proliferation. And so the abnormalities really exist in some point in this pathway. These guys here. So these mutations alter maybe a component of the receptor or some of the signal transducers. So it's at some point here of this receptor or along this pathway that these things are triggering this, which is causing an increase in cell proliferation. It's causing the receptor to be constituently activated. So imagine this thing is just like, oh baby, I'm stimulated as can be. And because of that, it's going to cause a massive kind of increase in this pathway. And that's where we see this. So these types of mutations here are associated with an abnormality in the tyrosine kinase receptor. So again, let's just quickly recap to make sure. When you take these cells and transform them, what's the reason why? It's a carcinogen. Most of the time, these carcinogens will cause the malignant transformation. But just remember, the way that they truly do that is they cause mutations. Usually if you're a smoker, it's in these genes. And when these genes get hit, that causes this malignant transformation. You can also have mutations that occur, nothing to do with smoking. These mutations would alter the tyrosine kinase receptor. If that happens, this triggers cell proliferation and these cells will malignantly transform and you'll get this big tumor. That's the big thing to remember. So what I want you to take away from it, smokers, they have these mutations. Non-smokers, they have mutations that they have no control over, even if they didn't smoke one cigarette their entire life, they still have a risk of lung cancer. And that's an adenote. That's the one I can't let you forget. All right. Now, I move on and talk about, I got a tumor, how would I present and what are the complications? All right. So we're going to get to the part of complications. You got to get this goober in your lungs, right? Unfortunately, and this thing is compressing things. Or it's kind of obstructing airways. We got to think about how would this potentially present. Oftentimes, we probably don't really have a truly symptomatic patient. So they may come in with some classic findings of cough and wheezing and dyspnea. But there's a lot of diseases that can come in with cough, wheezing and dyspnea. That could be asthma. That could be COPD. And tuberculosis. How do you know? In some ways, if they present on the exam, this is where I want you to listen. You listening? If they have cough, wheezing, dyspnea and an unintentional weight loss, it may have you have a stronger suspicion for malignancy than other kinds of conditions, especially if they're a heavy smoker. So yes, in a classic patient on the exam, they may come in, been smoking 50 siggies, you know, packier history, coming in now all of a sudden with cough, wheezing, dyspnea and maybe even some unintentional weight loss. That should make you have a suspicion of malignancy. But that's not always the case. Sometimes they come in with complications and then you find it incidentally on imaging. So what are some of those things? So one is if a tumor is central, it's going to obstruct bronchi. And bronchi are really, really important to airflow and mucus flow and getting bacteria out of the lungs, etc. So one of the big things here is if let's say I have endobronchial tumors, let's say the first off, I got a tumor and it's starting right here. Here's the tumor. It's kind of an endobronchial tumor. It's somewhere within the central airway. Ooh, what's our central ones? Come on, think about it. Squamous and small cell, you got it. Now if I take these puppies here and what happens is we have bronchial arteries, which are high pressure arteries that are kind of supplying some of these.  and the other two cells, if this tumor invades, this thing invades into those arteries, it's game over. So that's what I want you to remember, is does the tumor, tumor invasion, so tumor invasion into bronchial arteries, if so, watch out, man, because you could actually have these guys erode. So let's say here I kind of zoom in on it, right? And then this patient can get hemoptysis. The reason why is here's the tumor. Here's the bronchial artery. If this thing kind of starts invading out here to that bronchial artery, guess what can start happening? Blood can start leaking into the bronchus. And then what can happen is that could be coughed up. So that's the big thing here, is hemoptysis could be a presentation. Now clinically, hemoptysis is coughing up blood. So it's different from hematemicis, which is vomiting up blood, but it's gonna be coughing up blood. Now it is rare for this to be massive, and that can help somewhat in the differential. If you have a little bit of streaking of blood on your hand or a Kleenex or a napkin or something like that when you cough into it, that's definitely gonna be more likely a presentation. It's a very mild type of hemoptysis, because it's a slow, gradual tumor invasion into the bronchial arteries that's causing this type of presentation, because it erodes into the vessels, and that's gonna lead to this blood leaking into the bronchial tree. If it was massive, large amounts of hemoptysis, you think about tuberculosis, you think about bronchiectasis, you think about an anchovascularitis, you don't think about malignancy. All right, now, if a tumor is pretty big, man, and I've actually seen this in the ICU a lot, maybe not necessarily from tumors, but from mucus plugs, it can kinda act the same way. Here you have a tumor that may be almost partially or completely obstructs that bronchial tree. Now, you know that if I do that, we naturally are supposed to move mucus through this to be spit out. Now, in this scenario, what did we just do? This thing was bleeding, this one, it was bleeding because the tumor invaded into the bronchial arteries. So this patient is gonna be coughing up some blood. But what if I had a patient who wasn't coughing up blood for you, homoptysis, what if, in this scenario, I have so much bacteria and mucus that can't be mobilized here because this tumor is obstructing it. Then what happens is this mucus and bacteria, this thing's just stay, man. And as they stay, they really kinda colonize and eventually they start to cause infection and inflammation. And then before you know it, what just started off is just a tumor there, blocked all this bacteria and mucus and you end up with an infection of the lung tissue. If this tumor happens right here, it basically obstructs mucus flow. And that mucus flow, if I'm obstructing, so normally you have cilia, right? So let's say that I wanna move this big mucus chunk right here. And you know mucus and you know, come on, think about it. Bacteria is present in pretty much any lining of the tissue. It's supposed to be a natural committal relationship. So there's gonna be some bacteria that are present here, which I'll represent in kind of this maroon color. But if I can't move the bacteria this way, because of why, because I got this goober here that's occluding it, this is gonna start building up. Mucous bacteria are gonna build up just past this or post to where this obstruction is. And you got a recipe for pneumonia, dude. And so post-obstructive pneumonia is a pretty scary one. And funny enough, this actually tends to be one of the most common presentations, especially in your textbooks. But you wanna look for this in a patient who comes in with like fever. You wanna look for it in like cough or dyspnea. Now, that cough is usually productive. So most of the time in this scenario, I want you to think about this illustration as someone hacking up kind of a purulent type of material. All right? The other thing here is, I only do that fever, cough, and dyspnea, but here's the other thing. If you get a chest x-ray on this patient because they come in with features of pneumonia, they'll have pneumonia in the same lobe, right? So you're gonna see oftentimes recurrent pneumonia. And that recurrent pneumonia is gonna be in the same location. So for example, let's say I had a patient, I just found, I diagnosed them with pneumonia. And it's in their left lower lobe. They come back a couple months later. They got an infection in that left lower lobe again. And then an infection in that left lower lobe again. That should have a high degree of suspicion of malignancy. So when I say recurrent pneumonia in same location, what should you start to have, like little pings going off in your brain? Location, you think malignancy. And then you start kind of investigating this. So recurrent pneumonia in the same location, malignancy. You gotta figure out what in the heck is obstructing this. Because oftentimes what happens in ICU is we get patients, we get mucus plugs. And the mucus plug, you can't get air flow in. So what do you think happens to this portion of the lung? It shrivels up, right? And that's called atolectasis. So post obstructive atolectasis is also something that you could see with these tumors. And if you have the atolectasis, guess what? That also is a potential risk for infection occurring there. So post obstructive atolectasis and post obstructive pneumonia are very common presentations of patients coming in with these central endobronchial tumors. So peripheral tumors, you wouldn't think about adenocarcinoma, you wouldn't think about large cell carcinoma. As compared to central tumors, you think about squamous and you think about small cell. Now, if I got a peripheral tumor, come on, let's just think about this a little bit, guys. We got a tumor hanging out here near the periphery. What is it next to? Come on, it's next to the pleura. So I can get some pleural invasion. And if I invade the pleura, then I'm gonna start getting effusions and that's oftentimes a pretty scary one. So if this tumor starts to invade the pleura, that's when you can get these malignant pleural effusions. So again, we were worrying about pleural invasion. So that's a concerning feature. Now let's say here we kind of zoom in a little bit on this area. So here's the blood vessel. Here's the alveolar kind of like, or the perincoma of the lung. And then here is the visceral pleura. Here is the parietal pleura. And here's the pleural cavity. You see this tumor was supposed to be confined to the lung perincoma, but it invaded here into that visceral pleura. At that point, you cause injury. That's injury. And also, these tumors, they also are capable of producing small amounts of cytokines. And so what they'll do is, whenever there's kind of injury, it will release different things like interleukin-1, it'll release things like tumor necrotic factor alpha, it can even release things like interleukin-6. And just in general, it's gonna cause localized injury. But either way, this tumor can gain the capacity to secrete these cytokines. These cytokines can go and act on the vessels and do what? Make them leaky as a son of a gun. If I make this thing leaky, so I increase the permeability, I increase the permeability of these capillaries that are sitting near the pleura, what do you think is gonna happen? Things are gonna start leaking out. And I'm gonna get things like proteins, which can actually fit through these big spaces now. I'm gonna get things like LDH that can sit fit within these spaces. And so you're gonna get things like lots of LDH and lots of proteins that are gonna really, really accumulate out here. And it's gonna be a recipe for making fluid build up in the pleural cavity. And what's that call whenever you got lots and lots of fluid in the pleural cavity? A pleural effusion. And if it continues to keep happening over and over and over again, that's what we call a malignant pleural effusion. Now, malignant pleural effusions, once this happens, it's very important to remember that this point, we have stage four lung cancer, which regardless of which type it is, this is stage four lung cancer. All right, so that's a really important thing to remember. Once we get to this point, it's stage four. Just like when I told you guys inflammatory breast cancer, inflammatory breast cancer, when usually when it presents, it's oftentimes stage three. If you have a malignant pleural effusion, this patient's already stage four. So that's pretty sad. Now, the other thing is that you can also have a lot of these malignant cells that flake off. So you see how these malignant cells are kind of like here? What if they flaked off? They could also be in here. And so sometimes they can even invade this vessel too, and you can even get blood. So when I think about clinical presentation for these patients, oftentimes, think about how a pleural effusion would present. It's not always super obvious, but you may have some dullness to percussion, right? What else? What else is another potential presentation? If I were to go and I would actually listen to that side, what would I hear if I have a lot of fluid that's kind of between the pleura and the lung? I would have decreased breath sounds. So there may also be some decreased breath sounds. So that's the other thing I would want you guys to remember is that they can present with this, but oftentimes that's not very specific. There's a lot of things that could do this. So then what you'd have to do is you'd have to get some type of chest x-ray. And this chest x-ray would likely reveal a large pleural effusion, and probably an associated lung mass. But either way, we're gonna see a pretty decent pleural effusion. When you get pleural effusions, what do you have to do to determine the type of it? You have to do a thoracic enthesis. Do you guys remember that from the pleural disease? I know you do. And then in terms of its transudative or exudative. So in order for me to truly figure out what this is, I would need to do a thoracenthesis. And the thoracenthesis, you use something, come on spit it out, the light's criteria. And the light's criteria in simplicity tells me, what's the LDH? What's the protein? All right, and if I got a lot of LDH and a lot of protein in this pleural fluid, it tells me a permeability problem, a leaky problem, not a pressure problem. So if I have lots of LDH and lots of protein, usually LDH greater than 0.5 protein, greater than 0.6 when you compare it to the serum, and there's two thirds the upper limit of normal of the LDH in the pleural fluid as compared to the serum, this is really, really high yield for an exudative effusion. This is exudative, man. This is exudative. That's where we use the light's criteria, because if it was low LDH, low protein, that would say transitive. You think about CHF, cirrhosis, nephrodic syndrome. But what's the key thing that I would need to do? I'd need to send a psychology. If I sent and I actually looked for cells, what kind of cells would I find here? Would I find white cells and bacteria and stuff like that that would suggest a parenomonic effusion? No, I would get cancer cells. So I would do psychology, and the psychology would show malignant cells. So this is kind of a nice little recap here of when we talked about pleural diseases. So when a patient comes in and they have a pleural effusion, you definitely can't always rule out that it could be malignancy related. If it's recurrent, if it's continuously happening, you should do a thoracentesis and figure out how it's actually gonna be presenting. All right? Now, you'll see this with adenome, you'll see this with large cell. For the central tumors, you're gonna see squamous and small cell. All right, what if these tumors are near the apex? You see, you know, cancer, malignant tumors, they're usually more upper lobe, whereas more of like benign nodule kind of appearances are usually middle lower lobe. So if you get tumors up here near the upper lobe, especially near the thoracic outlet, what can I mash on? Oh, there's a bunch of nerves and vessels. Let's talk about that. Compressive effects of these tumors are sometimes classic exam questions and things that'll tip you off to really think about a tumor that's a little bit more apical. So a lot of the times we think about upper lobe tumors, especially if they're near the superior sulcus, we call those pencoast tumors, right? And these tumors can mash on a lot of different nerves. And so let's think about some of these. The first way that this can happen is if you compress what's called the sympathetic chain ganglia. So let's say here's an apical tumor. And again, we can call these apical tumors, we can call them apical, or we can call them pencoast tumors. Now, I ask you the question, my friends, which types of tumors would you associate an apical or a pencoast tumor with? I want you to write them down, please pay attention. It's used to be squamous, which was the primary one. Nowadays, we're seeing an uptick in ADNO. Squamous, ADNO, squamous, ADNO, associated with apical, pencoast tumors. Now, this apical, pencoast tumor, look at this thing. Look at this son of a gun. It's just mashing on this thing right here. What the heck is this thing? This is our sympathetic chain ganglia. This is again, what is this called? This is called the sympathetic chain ganglia. Gang, gang, gang. So we got this thing here. When these guys come up, you have some ganglia here that they'll synapse on, but this one, this nerve, this is your sympathetic nerves. Now imagine, if I have some nerves running up through this thing, it actually goes to your face. So just for now, I promise, I'll make it a little bit more detailed, but this is gonna give sympathetic supply. So this is the sympathetic supply, SNS supply to the face. And there's specific structures, right? There's this hole on. If I mash on this puppy here, I'm going to decrease the flow to the face. I'm gonna decrease that sympathetic nervous system supply to the face. How is this going to present? Well, let's think about it here for a second. If I have this thing mashing, and here I'm gonna have a nerve, and this nerve actually runs through here, and it goes and supplies the iris, the pupil. It's supposed to control the pupil. And then there's another one here that's gonna go and supply a muscle. So let's say here I have a muscle. This is for the levator palpiparous superiors. And then here I'm gonna have a muscle, which is gonna be for the iris, for us to have pupillary constriction or dilation. When I have damage or compression of this nerve and this nerve, what's gonna happen? If this is supposed to elevate my eyelid, I know it looks freaky right now, but it doesn't do that anymore because it supplies damage to what's gonna happen. I think it's gonna droop. And so because of this, this is actually gonna cause injury to the sympathetic nervous supplies, the levator palpiparous superiors. What's gonna happen? This is gonna cause ptosis. It's gonna cause ptosis of the upper eyelid. From this component here, this is also supplying sympathetic supply to the pupil. Now sympathetic dilates, parasympathetic usually is going to constrict. But in this scenario, what happens if you lose the sympathetic supply? Will you be able to dilate now? No, so what will start happening is it'll start kind of constricting and getting smaller. So in this scenario, what's gonna happen if I lose my sympathetic supply? I'll get meiosis, which is pupillary constriction. Again, not supplying the levator palpiparous superiors, not causing dilation of the pupil, leads to ptosis and meiosis respectively. You know what else? The sympathetic nerves are also supposed to supply, let's represent this in blue here, you're supposed to be able to control the sweat glands. So here is going to be some sweating. On this side, what are you gonna have? No sweating. There will be no sweating that occurs here because the sympathetic supply that's supposed to go to the sweat glands is lost. So you get what's called anhydrosis. Anhydrosis. So if a patient comes in with PAM, PAM, PAM, PAM, right? Tosis, meiosis and anhydrosis, you need to be thinking about Horner syndrome. Horner syndrome could be due to a lot of different things. There could be some kind of compression of this nerve and there's a lot of things that could do that. Dissections can do that. But if I think about a tumor, a pancoast tumor near the upper parts of the lobe, that can definitely smash on that. So Horner syndrome, think about that and patients with apical lung tumors. Okay, we got this one done, right? So we mashed on the sympathetic chain. What if we mash on the frenic nerve? What happens then? Well, let's think about this. I got a tumor again. This could be apical, it could even be central. So it doesn't have to just be apical. Again, the frenic nerve comes down through the thoracic outlet, but it also moves down through the medius diatom. So if there's compression at any one of these points, you can get frenic nerve paralysis. It doesn't just have to be at the apex. But usually these tumors are gonna be a little bit more within the central or again, usually the apical portion where they're gonna mash on the frenic nerve. Now, frenic nerve comes from what roots? C3 to C5 nerve roots. Comes down, moves through the thoracic outlet into what? Into the superior medius diatom and then it goes into the middle medius diatom and goes down and supplies the diaphragm. So what's it supposed to do? This is your right hemi diaphragm. Diaphragm is such an annoying word to spell, right guys? Come on, I have to spell like Fragum from a, don't know if for me to do this thing. So right hemi diaphragm and over here is gonna be the left hemi diaphragm. In this scenario, I have a tumor that's compressing on the right frenic nerve. If it's compressing on the right frenic nerve, I'm going to get decreased supply to the right hemi diaphragm. I want you to think about this for a second. What does the diaphragm do whenever it contracts? Come on, domes down so that you can increase the cavity of your thoracic, your increase the volume of your thoracic cavity. In this situation, will the right hemi diaphragm go down? No, will this one go down? Yes. So the common clinical presentation is when you get a chest X, right? You'll see an elevated hemi diaphragm on the chest X, right? So you'll have a elevated hemi diaphragm. Now, you're probably like, okay, that's good to know, but there's a lot of things that can cause a elevated hemi diaphragm. Is that, can't atylactasis do that? Yeah, so how do we really confirm this? We actually have to do something called a sniff test. So they have what's called a positive sniff test. You're probably like, okay, cool, what's this mean, bro? Come on, hit me. A positive sniff test is kind of more of like a fluoro study where you actually see things happening live. You literally take them, have them take a sniff. If you take a sniff, your diaphragm should contract enough to domed down and open up your volume for your thoracic cavity. If the right's paralyzed, the right friend of nerve is paralyzed, is that right diaphragm going to depress? No, it remains elevated during the sniff test. Other ways that these patients present is dyspnea, especially when they're flat. So think about that as well. And the patient who presents with dyspnea and a elevated hemi diaphragm on the affected side, think about phrenic nerve paralysis. All right, come down here. Brachial Plexopathy, this one is apical. So remember, apical, apical, apical, apical, 100%. This one could be apical or central. So here, let's right over here. We got it apical, or what else? Can we call it, come on? Pencoast tumor. And this is near that superior sulcus, right? This thing is, oh my gosh, look at this. You see this? These are nerve roots, C8, T1, T2, usually that level. And so what you do is, these things are just, oh my gosh, look at this. They're just mashing on these nerve roots. So this is your brachial plexus, which is going to come down and supply the arm, right? If I compress some of these things, the arm, right? If I compress some of the nerve roots, I can get a bunch of different symptoms. And so usually what happens here is you compress, as there is compression, I'd say oftentimes more than not, compression of C8 to T2, all right, of the brachial plexus. Now, when you compress this, this area is most often going to cause referred neurologic pain to the shoulder, all right? So you're going to get some shoulder and arm pain. It's usually going to refer to the shoulder and the arm, some pain there. But then remember, what distribution often comes from this portion of the brachial plexus? And it comes down to the pinky side, the ulnar distribution. So you can get some palsy effect here. So if I get some ulnar nerve palsy, what could happen here? I could have some weakness, I could have some atrophy, and I could even have some sensory deficits of that ulnar nerve distribution. So you could even get some ulnar nerve palsy. This is really important. So again, think about some weakness and atrophy, potentially of the muscles here in the forearm, or even within the hypothermogenase, or some of the digits. And think about sensory distribution. You may get some numbness, some tingling, some peristeges that could also present. And patients who have Pancos tumors, oftentimes they present with a combination of these two. It's called Pancos syndrome. Pancos syndrome is oftentimes a combination of brachial plexopathy and Horner syndrome. All right, the last nerve is the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Now this one is kind of an interesting one. You got, they're coming from the vagus, right? So here is your right vagus. Here is your left vagus. And with these, they come down. So the right vagus comes down and swoops right underneath the right subclavian artery, and then comes back as the right, and I'm gonna abbreviate this because I don't have enough speech, right recurrent laryngeal nerve, right? This one here, then that goes up to the cricothyroid of the larynx, right? And then this one, left vagus, and here, let me actually do this so we can kind of really identify. You see how I swoop it? Swoop it there. Swoop it, and then we'll swoop this one here. This is going to be which one? Comes down, left vagus, swoops underneath the aortic arch, and comes up. This is the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Textbooks will say that you're oftentimes gonna get more likely compression of the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. It doesn't really matter too much, I just want you to know. They usually, these apical tumors, they're gonna compress one of these recurrent laryngeal nerves. The recurrent laryngeal nerves is they come back, they supply the vocal cords, really the cricothyroid, and that controls your vocal cords, right? To control your speech. What can happen here is, if I have compression of these dang things, look, I'm mashing this son of a gun here, mashing it. Am I gonna get good supply to this actual, what? The voice box, no. So what can happen here is you can actually get what's called vocal cord paralysis. Now, it's usually, since you're most often the tumors in the right lung, it's gonna be unilateral. So it's ipsilateral vocal cord paralysis. The most often way, or common way, that these patients will present is one of two ways. So let's actually do this. With vocal cord paralysis, they may present with hoarseness of the voice and very rare scenarios they can aspirate. Because again, your vocal cords are supposed to close when you're swallowing. But if this one's paralyzed, can it actually close properly? No. So you have the risk of food and fluids getting down there. Nasty recipe for pneumonia. So it increases the risk of a hoarse voice, but also increases, I don't know how to happen there, aspiration. And aspiration breeds a ground for pneumonitis or pneumonia. So that's something you really wanna be thinking about. So if a patient comes in, they're saying, man, cough, wheezing, dyspnea. I got some unintentional weight loss. And then now, they say, oh, I've noticed a change in my voice. It's really hoarse. I've been aspirating when I eat food or drinking liquids. I've also noticed that I have some dyspnea. And particularly when I got my chest x-ray last time, they said that my hemidifera was elevated. They probably wouldn't say that, but you can give them a say. And they also endorse other potential features like ptosis, meiosis, and hydrosis. And then lastly, maybe they also endorse some pain running into the shoulder, the arm, and some weakness of the ulnar nerve distribution. Those are things to start thinking about as compressive symptoms. This is gonna come up in the exam, I promise, one way or the other. So really commit this to memory. The four nerves that are gonna be potentially pinched is going to be which ones again? The sympathetic chain, the phrenic nerve, the brachial plexus, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. What else can be compressed? Let's talk about that next, and that's the superior vena cava. All right, my friends, let's move on now to talk about the compressive effects, particularly the vascular compression. So we talked a lot about the nerve compression. The vascular compression, this is a really, really scary one. So SVC syndrome is basically when a patient has extrinsic compression of the SVC. So what is it again? They have extrinsic, so usually a tumor compressing on the SVC. Let's write that out. Now the question that arises here is what is actually doing it? So remember I talked to you a little bit about how usually apical tumors will compress things like the brachial plexus, they'll compress things like the sympathetic chain, and then you can get something like a panko syndrome with that. We also talked about phrenic nerve compression, recurrent laryngeal nerve compression, so things like that. In this scenario, again, it's more of a central mass, and usually these things have to grow pretty darn big. This is usually seen with small cell lung cancer and squamous cell carcinoma. So again, which types of tumors will be causing something like this? This is something that you would usually see with a central mass, and usually these central masses, the most common are going to be which two? Small cell lung cancer, which will abbreviate as SCLC, and squamous cell carcinoma, which will abbreviate SCC. So with this, we got this big old honker here, and look at this puppy, just straight mashing on the SVC. Can you get a drop of blood down through that puppy? No, sirree. And so what happens is blood wants to rush this way, but it's blocked. And what happens is it starts to move upwards and backflow via the internal jugular vein, or it also starts to backflow via the subclavian vein. And what happens is you're gonna start getting some symptoms, and so you're gonna get a lot of edema or a backflow, so you're gonna get backflow through the internal jugular vein, and you're also gonna get backflow via the subclavian vein. And we'll talk about what that looks like, though, which you can get backflow through subclavian vein. Now, if you get all of this backflow, what's this gonna present as? Well, clinical presentation is, if I get backflow via the internal jugular vein, it's gonna cause swelling, and a lot of types of distention, particularly of the jugular vein. So one way that this will actually present, let's say that this is via backflow, so let's abbreviate this as the internal jugular vein is the one that's being affected here. And that scenario, this patient will get what's called a JVD, jugular venous distention. That jugular vein will be popping. The other thing that will also happen is, is they'll get a lot of face and neck swelling. So they'll get a lot of face and neck edema. The other thing that can really be scary with these, and we'll talk about it, is sometimes, as blood starts to back up via the internal jugular vein, it can start to fill these small venous collaterals near the larynx, and that can get super ademinacy, it can cause laryngeal edema as well. That's a very scary complication. If it backs up via the subclavian vein, where will this one go? It'll go to the arms, the upper extremities. And so with this, the patient can start having arm and chest swelling. So this will cause arm and upper chest swelling. And sometimes, this can even produce more of like a bluish, like hue to it, it actually looks a little bit like this. So if you have a patient who looks like this, what is the biggest concern? Like what could actually cause this patient to potentially die? Well, the emergent component, because this is kind of like, I'd say an urgency, the emergent component of this, the scary, scary stuff, so scary complications, is if this swelling occurs enough, that I told you it backs up via the venous collaterals near the neck, it can cause laryngeal edema. And that can cause a lot of respiratory distress. So laryngeal edema is the thing that you gotta be careful of. This is the scary one. The other thing here is the internal jug of the vein. What else does it drain? Come on, think about this. You have your cerebral veins, right? So you have your sigmoid, your transversal,  synosis, they all dump in and they go via the internal jug of the vein. If you have a back flow in the internal jug of the vein, you can't drain those synoses. What happens if you keep a lot of blood inside of the brain? The pressure goes up, of course, according to the monorekeli doctrine. So another thing that can happen is this can definitely increase people's intracranial pressure. One of the things that when I worked in the ICU is we never wanted to plug up or put a central venous catheter in the internal jug of the vein if they have high intracranial pressure because you're impeding that drainage. Same thing here. If you have a big, big pressure dam because of this compression, you're not able to drain that vein. And because of that, that sounds really funny, drain the vein. But if you can't, you can't release the pressure from the brain. That can really be disastrous in certain patients. All right. SVC syndrome, we've got it. Compressing SVC, blood backflows. That's where the issue exists is right here. You're compressing on this area and blood can't move through. So it backs up. Looks like this. Real quick, let's do a quick, quick, quick recap because I know we talk about a lot of stuff and I know it can sometimes be really, really stressful. When you're a student, you have to learn all this stuff and you've got to take it for an exam, it stings. I get it. Let's remind ourselves though. If we have compression and we compress the nerves, what were the nerves? Well, the first one we talked about was the, what? We talked about the sympathetic chain, right? That was a big one. So we'll say the sympathetic chain. What else did we compress? We compressed the recurrent laryngeal nerve. So we compressed the recurrent laryngeal. What else did we compress? The phrenic nerve was another really, really important one. And then what was the last one? The brachial plexus. So again, it's really important to remember that with these, you're compressing these and usually what type of scenario? The sympathetic chain, the brachial plexus are usually apical tumors. With this, these are usually central tumors or more hyalur tumors. All right. With this one, you get Horner syndrome. With this one, you get voice paral, or vocal paral, cord paralysis. With this one, you get a asymmetric elevation of the hemidiaphragm. And this one, you can get arm, shoulder pain, and then peristegias in the ulnar distribution. With the vessels, what are you compressing? The superior vena cava. Where would this one be? More of a central hyalur mass. Small cell lung cancer is the most common, but also considered squamous cell. All right. We've compressed the vessels. We compressed the nerves. That's the last type of complications that we have to be worried about with a tumor, besides them spreading. Another thing is that these tumors, some of them gain the capacity to make hormones. What? Yeah. And if they can make hormones, they can cause a lot of different perineoplastic syndrome. Let's talk about that. All right. So perineoplastic syndrome are basically whenever a tumor gains the capacity to produce hormones. That's where it's kind of nerve wrecking. And this is really, really high yield. So if you're taking your exams, there's at least 100% chance that one of these are going to come up. This is the time it's going to be focusing on small cell carcinoma or small cell lung cancer. So really, really pay attention here. But again, perineoplastic syndrome is very, very common board questions that are going to come up. Now, how will they look? Well, again, the patients will come in, and usually in the vignettes, they're going to come in with some type of like non-specific symptoms. Maybe a cough, maybe shortness of breath, maybe some wheezing due to the endobronchial kind of obstruction, or they could come in with some other complications like pneumonia, right? So post obstructive pneumonia, hemoptysis. They could come in with compressive symptoms, compressing specific nerves, compressing specific vessels. But another way that you want to look for them to present is potentially with a perineoplastic syndrome. How will that look? All right. Let's say you have small cell lung cancer. Now, small cell lung cancer is the most aggressive lung cancer. When this is present, what this thing has the capability of doing is producing hormones. Now one of them, and again, it's because they're neuroendocrine cells. Remember the Cluchitzky cells? The Cluchitzky cells, they are neuroendocrine cells. They have the ability to produce hormones. And what they can gain the capacity to do is make a hormone. One of them is ADH. Now if they produce too much ADH, this ectopic ADH is a problematic thing. The reason why is if you guys remember, ADH will then circulate through the bloodstream. And what it'll do is it'll go over here and it'll bind onto this ADH receptor. You guys remember what kind of receptor this is, right? This is a vaso2 receptor, vasopressin2 receptor. This ADH will bind to the vasopressin2 receptor and stimulate it. When it stimulates it, it sends signals that activate aquaporins. And aquaporins will open up, and when you open up this aquaporin, it's going to allow water that's moving through the collecting duct to start flowing through these puppies. So now water that's rushing through this area, here's going to be the water. It's normally not supposed to be able to go through here. It's kind of impermeable or dependent upon hormones. If ADH is present, it's going to open up that aquaporin and it's going to flush that guy in. And when the water moves here, what's going to happen? We're going to end up getting a lot more water into the bloodstream. And so you get more water into the bloodstream and less of the water goes into the urine. So you're going to get more water in the blood and you get less water that goes into the urine. Less of this is going to, look, it'll have a little bit of drippiness here. A little bit of drippiness here. And you're going to have less water in the urine, more water in the bloodstream. What this does is this makes a super, super concentrated urine. And when we look at concentrated urines on specific tests, is we look at what's called urine osmolality, which I'll talk about a little bit later because this is, you know, something that we just need to focus on the SADH. Another thing that happens is when water gets into the bloodstream, that will actually do what to the bloodstream? Well, if you get lots of water, it actually kind of reduces the osmolality of the actual blood, the serum. And that's one thing. But the other thing that happens here is there's two things. One is going to reduce the serum osmolality. But the other thing is it's going to dilute down the amount of sodium that's present within the bloodstream. And so it can drop the sodium, but it can also decrease the serum osmolality. So it decreases the osmolality and it also is going to decrease the serum sodium. So here's what I want you guys to remember. If a patient comes in and they have a history of lung cancer and all of a sudden they present with hyponatremia, all right, which is a sodium that is less than one 35 mL equivalence per liter, then you say, okay, they got hyponatremia. How do I know if it's SADH? I send off a serum osmolality. What would my serum osmolality be? It'll be low, less than 300 usually. So they're going to have a low and I'm going to abbreviate the serum osmolality. Then what you're going to do is you're going to then say, okay, I have a hypotonic hyponatremia. The next thing I need to do is look at the urine. What's the urine tell me? It's very concentrated and that tells me that the urine osmolality is going to be pretty, really high. So I'm going to have a high urine osmolality, usually greater than at least 100 to 300. It's definitely going to be high. If that's the case, then I have right here a hypotonic hyponatremia, which is ADH dependent. Then what do I do? I look at volume status. What's the volume status of this patient? Uvolemic. Look at their history. They have lung cancer. That's how it proved that this is SADH. All right. Next component here. It also can make other hormones. What are the hormones you say? All right. This can also make what's called ACTH. Now this is kind of problematic because ACTH is normally supposed to be produced by the antipotuitary. This is supposed to be produced by the what? The posterior pituitary. So when ACTH is released in large amounts, ACTH will go to the adrenal glands, the zona fasciculata. It'll act on the zona fasciculata and tell the zona fasciculata cells to make what? It'll tell it to make another hormone here called cortisol. And cortisol levels will go up. And when cortisol goes up, what does it do? I don't want to focus too much because we talk about this in the Cushing's Disease and Cushing Syndrome lecture. But what we know about cortisol is it has so many different multifactorial effects. It causes what? It causes lipolysis and distribution. So they get the moon face, the buffalo hump. They get abdominal obesity with Shri-A. They also get a lot of muscle wasting. It also causes hyperglycemia. And what else? It can cause a lot of sympathetic activation. So it can cause patients to have a lot of hypertension. And so you're going to see a lot of these features with patients who have a Cushing's type of picture. The key thing here is when you have Cushing's, you always want to know is it coming from the adrenal gland or is it coming from the pituitary or somewhere else? And so what you'll do is, is the patient will have a high cortisol. And then you'll also check their ACTH. What would their ACTH levels be? That'll be high. Problem is, is you don't know if this is coming from the pituitary or if it's coming from a lung tumor. How do you determine this? You have to do what's called a high dose dexamethasone suppression test. And this will not suppress. So if you do what's called a high dose dexamethasone suppression test, you'll still have cortisol that's elevated despite that. So cortisol will still be increased, ooh son of a gun, will be increased despite high dose dexamethasone suppression. That's usually a telltale sign. All right. So if a patient comes in and they have Cushing's like features, check their cortisol, check their ACTH. And then from there, you may have a high dose dexamethasone. And then you may have a high dose dexamethasone. So if you have a high dose dexamethasone, check their ACTH. And then from there, you may have to do a dexamethasone suppression test, high dose to see if it suppresses. If it suppresses the pituitary, cool. Then it's definitely from the cancer, the lung cancer. All right. What's one more? Another potential picture here is that this tumor, it doesn't make hormones or make, I mean it doesn't make an antibody. What happens is, your immune system, on this, you have what's called tumor antigens. So let's say here is a tumor antigen. And this tumor antigen is viewed as foreign. And when it's viewed as foreign, the problem with that is, is that our immune system will produce antibodies against that tumor antigen. So here, it's going to pump out a couple different antibodies. Here's one, this is an ugly blue, let's get a different blue here. This is going to be a better blue. So here, that's a dark color there, my friends. We're going to have here some antibodies. When we produce these antibodies, these antibodies are going to be made and directed against these tumor antigens. So they're going to like this. And what they're going to do is they're going to try to go and bind to this tumor antigen, because you know, you don't want this to be there. So it'll activate your immune system cells, your immune system cells will come and try to fight this off. Here's the problem. Sometimes these antibodies can look like other proteins. There's a protein that's present on our synaptic neurons that go to our muscles of the neuromuscular junction. So here, this is all a part of our neuromuscular, this is part of our neuromuscular junction. This part here, all right? Now, at the neuromuscular junction, there is a channel here. And this channel is called a voltage-gated calcium channel. We actually give it a specific name. We give it a PQ voltage-gated calcium channel. The point of this is that it opens up, brings calcium in, and helps to trigger the release of acetylcholine onto the muscle. These patients produce antibodies, and unfortunately, these are supposed to go here. They're supposed to go and interact. But sometimes they may go rogue. And they say, oh, I'm in meander over here. And that's what it may do. And it may bind onto this PQ voltage-gated calcium channel. If you do that, you block the channel. If you block this channel, it doesn't work. I can't get calcium in. If I don't get calcium in here, then this fusion here, where I take this vesicle and I fuse it to release the acetylcholine, doesn't happen. If that doesn't happen, I don't make these neurotransmitters. If I don't make these neurotransmitters, this neurotransmitter will not bind onto, the acetylcholine will not bind onto this protein here. If it doesn't bind onto the protein, so it's supposed to come here and bind. It's supposed to come right here and bind to this puppy. Guess what? It's not going to. I'm going to block it because I'm not going to allow the acetylcholine to get released. If it can't do that, it can't take this channel because you know what it's supposed to do. It's supposed to sit in here like a seesaw and whip it up. It's not going to. It's going to stay closed. And if it stays closed, can I bring sodium into the cell and depolarize it? No. And so the sodium won't be able to do that. And so because of that, I don't get any positive ions here. So there's going to be no depolarization. Let's actually just do this. Let's do it. There's no depolarization. We'll do this simple here. No depolarization. Now, if there's no depolarization of the muscle, it's going to be able to contract. No. And so what happens with this is if I can't depolarize the muscle, you're not going to get muscle contraction. And if I don't get muscle contraction, what's going to happen to them? They're going to be super, super weak. So oftentimes what this does is this causes weakness in these patients. And it's called Lambert Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome. All right. It's very interesting. So for this one, they'll have proximal muscle weakness. Usually at the it's usually upper and lower extremities. Lower extremities is a little bit more predominant. But proximal muscle weakness. So it's going to affect more the shoulder girdle and the pelvic girdle. Here's the big difference. With Lambert Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome, the patient's weakness gets better with exertion. Myasthenia gravis, it gets worse with exertion. So that's a really, really important thing to remember here. So if it gets better. So if weakness improves with exertion, that suggests more of the Lambert Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome rather than Myasthenia gravis. Another thing is that both of these can also present with some of the bulbar stuff. So they can present with the diplopia. They can also present with dysphagia and dysarthria. So also remember that. But again, the biggest thing is weakness at the proximal extremities that improves with exertion is Lambert Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome. Whereas Myasthenia gravis is it gets worse with exertion. It usually gets worse throughout the day. You can also check for this type of channel antibody. So this antibody is being directed against this antibody, against this protein. You could actually check for that. You could check for the antibody against the PQ voltage Gidecalsim channels. But that is small cell lung cancer. Now we come to the next one. Now again, if you're going to get tested on one, it's going to be these three slides. Really wanted you to focus on these and think about it. Okay? Adenocarcinoma doesn't come up as much. This one is actually not as high yield, but I want to quickly talk about it. Adenocarcinoma, this one does have the ability to produce different types of procoagulants. These are usually tissue factor. So tissue factor is probably going to be one of the big ones, but there is other different types of procoagulants. Now, when you make tissue factor, what we know is the tissue factor is a part of the extrinsic pathway. It activates factor 7. Factor 7 helps to activate factor 10. Factor 10 in the combination with factor 5 helps to be able to convert what? Prothroman and the thrombot. Thrombot activates eventually fibrin and fibrin helps with forming a clot. So what's going to happen here? These patients will lead to the formation of clots. So this is going to cause more of a hypercoagulable state. Right? And this can induce basically a higher risk of thrombosis. Now this thrombosis you would think, oh, it's going to cause DVTs and PEs. It can. But it's actually more likely to cause superficial venous thrombus and it causes the vessels to get pretty inflamed. So it can cause something called superficial, superficial, venous, thrombo, phlebitis. Okay? And it actually looks a little bit like this. So you can see there that the patient has these hard, tender, red kind of cords. That's where the clots occur in the superficial veins. They get really blocked and then cause inflammation of that vein. Other things that, yeah, you definitely have to be considering is that any kind of patient with cancer or malignancy carries that risk of thrombosis of a lower leg vein that can then spread and cause a PE. There's one other one that can sometimes be tested and you want to think about it. If a patient comes in and they have endocarditis and you have negative cultures and your echo is showing that you have some type of small vegetation there, you want to think about what's called non-bacterial thrombotic endocarditis. Sometimes they call this morantic endocarditis. So MBTE, it's non-bacterial thrombotic endocarditis, also known as a morantic endocarditis. Now this is one that I actually would take into consideration and remember here. Another thing that can happen is this tumor can make something called Transforming Growth Factor Beta. So Transforming Growth Factor Beta is a kind of like a weird cytokine that can act on periosteal cells and different types of osteoclasts. So it's going to come over here and it's going to act on different bone cells and different types of periosteal cells. And what it's going to do is it's going to cause these cells to start depositing calcium and collagen like matrix into the bone. So what it will do is it will tell these cells to start depositing calcium and collagen into the bone. Now when it starts to do that right, so you're going to activate different bone cells and you're going to also activate different types of fibroblasts and this is going to start producing lots of, again collagen and lots of calcium. So you're going to produce lots of calcium and lots of collagen, a lot of different types of extracellular matrix here and what's going to happen is all of this stuff is going to start just depositing into the bone tissue. When it deposits into the bone tissue what you're going to get is you're going to get a thickening of the bone tissue. That bone tissue is going to really, really thicken. And what happens is when you get thickened bone tissue so thickened bone tissue, it tends to happen most often around the digits. And what it will look like is it will produce something called finger clubbing. So it's called finger clubbing. And I'm not even kidding, they're walking around with spoons for fingers, right? They can dip into their pesto or all their different stuff with their fingernails. And I'm not even kidding, if you take a look at this, it's actually pretty sad they have significant finger clubbing and it's usually due to a lot of this process here where they're producing lots of transforming growth factor beta that's causing different types of periosteal bone cells and fibroblasts to produce lots of calcium and collagen that gets deposited into the bone. Really thickens the bone up, usually around the digits. So that covers adenocarcinoma now let's move on to the next component which is squamous cell. Alright my friends, so now we go into the next one which is squamous cell. This one is a nasty cancer and I think the biggest thing that you could be tested on is actually this one too. So small cell lung cancer there's almost always a question on something like you know, cushions or SADH or potentially even that Lambert eating myosinic syndrome. But another one that's really high yield for the perineal plastic syndrome is definitely the squamous cell carcinoma. It can cause hypercalcemia malignancy. Now the reason why this happens is this tumor it actually gains the capacity to produce something called PTHRP. So this is called parathyroid hormone related peptide. Now this son of a gun right here it's kind of like parathyroid hormone. It just it doesn't really act too much on the kidneys to hydroxylate, increase the activity of the one alpha hydroxylase enzyme. But this one right here what it's going to do is is it's going to go to the bones and it's going to act on these osteoclasts right? And so when you activate these osteoclasts what do osteoclasts do? Come on you know this right? Scream it out just at home you're like I know it breaks down the bone! So osteoclasts they're going to release things different types of acid phosphatases and things like that that are going to start breaking and eating away at the bone. And so as I start kind of chewing away at the bone what's going to happen? Well if I cause bone resorption right? I'm going to start kind of liberating calcium and phosphates and stuff like that from the bone. So this is going to lead to a lot of like bone kind of resorption. And when you increase your bone resorption the whole point of that bone resorption is to liberate calcium from the bone. Now that calcium once it's kind of resorbed and removed it's going to start getting into the bloodstream. And if we mobilize this into the bloodstream what's going to happen to the amount of calcium inside of the blood it's going to go up and that's one of the ways that we can get hypercalcemia right? So osteoclasts definitely going to start kind of triggering this bone destruction. The other thing here is pthrp also can act here on the kidneys really at the distal convoluted tubular receptors that act like you know just like pth they can act on this and they can increase calcium reabsorption. So what they'll do is is they'll stimulate calcium reabsorption in the distal convoluted tubular. And if I increase calcium reabsorption that's where we kind of get a problem here because now we got a two-fold problem here. We're reabsorbing calcium across the kidneys and then we're removing calcium from the bone. By doing that I bring calcium into the bloodstream and I really really pump this dude up. Now when calcium is high obviously there's a lot of different ways that this can present. It could be completely asymptomatic but it could also present potentially with the stones, bones, groans, thorns, psychiatric overtone presentation right? We talked about that in the calcium disorder lecture. But the other thing that you have to remember is when you have high pthrp that's liberating this calcium high calcium does what to your pth levels? Well you have to remember that high calcium is going to inhibit the parathyroid gland from producing pth. And so what will happen is this will shut down the parathyroid gland and tell the parathyroid glands to not make parathyroid hormone because the calcium is high. And that's really really important. So one of the things that we'll see here is we'll have a patient who comes in, they may have symptoms, they may not, they may get a workup and on their chemistry we find that they have a high calcium level right? Then we check the pth because we always want to make sure O is their calcium really high because of pth. And what we'll do is, is we'll check the pth. And we'll find that their pth is low. And you should also check other things, you should check their vitamin D levels as well because their vitamin D would have no contribution in this whatsoever. Because remember pthrp doesn't hydroxylate that it doesn't increase the expression of 1F hydroxylate so it doesn't actually increase the vitamin D. So if their vitamin D will also probably be like low or normal, that won't be the issue. This is not the one that's high, right? So it could either be low or it could be normal. But the whole point is that it's not going to be high and this one's not going to be high. What you would have to check is the pthrp. And so if you see that this patient has a very high pthrp that is going to suggest that this is a hypercalcium malignancy due to likely a squamous cell carcinoma. You'd also have to check to see if they have any metastasis as well. So check for any kind of lytic lesions of the bone that could also be something to consider. But this is kind of a really, really big one to remember. Alright. Boom! Shaka Laka. Let's move on to the next one. Large cell carcinoma. Large cell carcinoma isn't really known too well for causing a lot of these different types of problems like perineoplastic syndrome. But what it has been shown is that it actually may release things like beta-HCG. And beta-HCG potentially can cause a couple different issues. One is it may increase the patient's estrogen levels. And what that may do is this elevated beta-HCG may cause potential, you know, sexual dysfunction. Right? And so what happens is this may cause things like gynecomastia. Right? And gynecomastia, usually what we would see here as you would see that these patients, if you check, you may check and say, okay, what could be other reasons of why they would have this? Now, when we check large cell carcinoma, one of the things that you would do is you would say, okay, they have this, let me check the prolactin. And the prolactin shouldn't be the problem. This one should be kind of like normal. Right? That's not going to be the issue. The other thing that you would do is you would check their FSH and LH to make sure that there's nothing kind of going on weird there. And this should be appropriately like normal or it should be kind of like low or should be normal or suppressed appropriately. The thing that you would check is you would say, oh, let's check the beta-HCG. The beta-HCG is the one that's going to be potentially high. And that's also going to be associated with an increase in estrogen. So these patients will have increased beta-HCG and this beta-HCG is going to increase their estrogen production. That's going to cause things like gynecomastia and males. Right? So they're going to have this in large breast tissue. The other thing is it also can cause certain changes potentially within the testes. So it may cause potentially like infertility as well. But here, another thing that we would want to remember is the beta-HCG, again, it's also going to go here and it's going to cause changes within the testes. So it may cause certain types of infertility issues or difficulty in being able to get a woman pregnant. Right? So they may cause the patient to become more sterile. And reduction in libido. Alright? So it may cause sterility and it may also reduce, again, their testosterone production because you're increasing their estrogen production. This may also cause a reduction in libido. Alright, sweet. So large cell carcinoma, again, remember, it's a pump up in the beta-HCG. That's going to cause their granicomast. And when a patient presents with large breast tissue, you should always check to see if their prolactin is high, their FSH and LH is high, or if the beta-HCG is high. If their esthion is high, okay, cool. Figure out if it's from FSH and LH. If that's normal, cool. Check the beta-HCG. The other thing is watch for other types of secondary sex effects such as are there problems with fertility or libido changes? Alright. The last perineal plastic syndrome is carcinoid tumors. Now, carcinoid tumors are interesting in the sense that they have the capability of producing a hormone called 5-hydroxy tryptamine. And 5-hydroxy tryptamine can actually be converted into serotonin pretty easily, actually. And so these things can pump out a decent amount of serotonin. Now, again, it's important to remember carcinoid tumors can occur in the lungs and they can occur in the GIT. Which one's more common? GIT, lung less common. But 5-hydroxy tryptamine it actually gets metabolized. And one of the things that can happen is with 5-hydroxy tryptamine is this can act in a bunch of different ways because it can actually increase your serotonin. So it's going to actually get converted eventually into what's called serotonin. And so serotonin is really where the problem exists because increased serotonin can produce specific effects on the body. One of the things that can happen is serotonin can produce some changes. So it can act on a couple of different tissues. One is it can act in the lungs it can act in the GIT it can also act on the skin and it's going to produce a very classic triad. Let's remember this triad. The triad if it acts on the lungs is it's going to precipitate wheezing. So it'll precipitate a wheezing effect. If it acts on the GIT it's going to produce diarrhea. It'll produce more of a secretory diarrhea it's going to cause a lot of secretion. And the last thing is it can actually act on the skin and this may be the niacin reactant. And the last thing is it can actually act on the skin and this may be the niacin reaction. It can also cause flushing. So this is a very common triad like picture. Now carcinoid syndrome with this also is really important that you pick up something else. Serotonin gets metabolized via the liver. And when it gets metabolized via the liver it gets metabolized via what's called monoamine oxidases. And the monoamine oxidase is convert this serotonin so here we'll put like a little cute little enzyme. This is called a mono amine oxidase. Mono amine oxidase enzyme. It's going to catalyze this conversion. When it does that it converts this into what's called 5 hydroxy indole acetic acid. And this poppy is going to go right to the kidneys where it gets urinated out. So it goes into the urine. So you'll have high what's called 5 hydroxy indole acetic acid in the urine. In the urine. That's actually really helpful because this should not normally be that high. So when a patient comes in with wheezing, diarrhea, flushing, endobronchial obstruction, you think they have a carcinoid tumor, what could you check? Check this level. And if they have an increased 5 hydroxy indole acetic acid, you can do further testing. There's a bunch of other tests. We'll talk about that more in another lecture. Particularly when we get into the gastrointestinal stuff like cancers. But this one is a really really important thing to remember. So check this and if it's elevated in the urine, that can kind of be like a little initial test to see what's the  likelihood of them having carcinoid syndrome. All right, cool. That's our perineal plastics. The last thing that I wanna talk about here with complications of lung cancer is the ability of this cancer to have the little cells, those little cancer cells, break off, get into the bloodstream ortholomphatic system and cause tumors to settle in other organs of the body. Let's talk about that last. All right, so now metastasis. This is really, really important that you have to remember this. So when a patient has lung cancer and they come in and you potentially see that they have features of lung cancer, you get potential imaging. So you start off maybe with a chest x-ray, you say, oh, there's a weird opacity there. Then you get a CT scan of the chest and you get a better characterization. You say, oh, wow, there's a big honkin' master. Maybe even see some lymphenopathy. The next concern is, is do I start ordering tests for other potential areas that spread? You can, however, a lot of the guidelines say that you should order that test based upon potential symptomatology. A lot of the times we're gonna do a PET CT scan to look and see the degree of metastasis. Anyway, but again, it kinda just depends on the degree of what their chest CT shows us. And the nodes really have a lot to do with a lot of that. So when a patient has cancer of the lung, it can definitely spread. And so the things that we worry about is that these cancer cells, you have so many lymph nodes nearby. So you have so many different lymph nodes. And if these things just happen to spread enough that they get into a lymph node, this can spread via the lymphatic vessels, right? And so this can cause these lymph nodes to get really, really enlarged because they can get contained with tumor cells. And so let's just say, for example, that these cancers, they spread via the lymph nodes. Where could they go? Well, you have a lot of lymph nodes that are kind of located along these peribronchial tree, right? So a lot of these are near the hyalum that we have a lot of these lymph nodes. They're near the hyalum. And so if you see a lot of these, these are definitely the ones that are gonna get hit the first, right? So when the patient has a lot of hyalur lymph nodes that are involved, that's what we define as what's called N1 stage. So N1 stage is when you have a lot of hyalur nodes that are positive. So you have positive hyalur nodes. And these things are pretty, pretty filled with cancerous material. Now, if this spreads, so let's say it starts off here, let's say you have a tumor right here. And that tumor, again, it's spread to these hyalur lymph nodes, right? So the spread to the hyalur lymph nodes, that's gonna be N1. Now, if it then spread from the hyalur lymph nodes into the medial stynum. So now it's still on the same side. So we'll kinda cut this in half. Let's say that I cut this right here in half. Here's the tumor, spread to the ipsilateral hyalur nodes. If it then spread into the nodes here that sit in the medial stynum, right? Then it goes here, spreads to this one. That's N2, all right? So N2 is your involving the medial stynum. So the medial stynum nodes. But it's still ipsilateral. So it's on the same side as the tumor. What happens is when we start moving. So here we have N1, here we have N2. The point where it spreads to the lymph nodes on the other side, so it's contralateral. So it moves over here. It spreads to this medial stynum node, or spreads here to these paratracheal or hyalur nodes. Then we have N3. Another thing that could happen is it could spread up above the clavicle. And so if it spreads up above the clavicle, then we have something called supraclavicular nodes. And so the way that we define the last one is N3. And N3 is its supraclavicular nodes are positive. Or you have contralateral. Doesn't matter which one, but the contralateral nodes are positive. So if you have supraclavicular nodes that are filled with cancerous material, or your contralateral nodes, medial stynum, hyalur, are positive, then you're N3. So it's really, really important to remember, because it helps us determine the stage of the patient's lung cancer. So it can spread via the lymphatics. Via the lymphatics. And if it does, it can cause a lot of lymph adenopathy. Now, if it spreads via the bloodstream hematogenus, so then it's hematogenus, this is where we get a lot of other scary things. So let's say that this thing goes and it spreads over here to the brain. Or it spreads to the liver. Or it spreads to the adrenal glands. Or it potentially goes and spreads to the bone. This is the most common organs or sites of metastasis. You remember this via the mnemonic blab. So blab is for the brain, the liver, the adrenals, and the bone. Now, how would this potentially look? Brain mats, if these cancerous tumors get here, they typically like to involve the gray-white junction. They can kind of be scattered, they can be all over the place. And so this can present a bunch of different ways. This could actually hit an area and cause focal deficits. This could also potentially cause like just generalized symptoms like headache. Or in some scenarios, which I've seen in the neuro ICU, it can cause seizures like a new onset. So you really wanna be careful of this. As a patient's coming in with focal deficits and headache and seizures, they may have metastasis to the brain. And you probably have to go and get a brain MRI with and without contrast to really see those ring-enhancing lesions. The liver, it can deposit here. And if it does deposit here, oftentimes it doesn't really cause a lot of symptoms. You may get a light increase in the LFTs. So you may have a slight LFT bump, that you wanna take into consideration, just like in breast cancer, you'd have to check for them. And especially alkyphos, that may be a little bit bumped. But oftentimes it's pretty much asymptomatic. The adrenal glands, this is another one though. When these go, usually it involves bilateral. So it can cause bilateral mets, right? Bilateral metastasis. And usually this doesn't cause any symptoms. But if it's enough that enough of the mets have incorporated into about 90% of the adrenal cortex, it can happen, it's relatively rare, but you do have to watch out for what's called adrenal insufficiency. Also known as Addison's disease. That's rare, but you wanna watch out for that. So the patient can start having a drop in their cortisol, a drop in their aldosterone, right? They can have hypotremia, hyperkalemia, they can have hypoglycemia, they can have hypotension, hypovolemia. It's a really, really nasty disease. The last one is bone mets. If the cancer actually does have the ability to get into the bones, the problem with this is that this metastasis, it can activate, they release things like osteoclastic activating factor and a bunch of other things that cause the activation of our bone cells. And what's gonna happen is the bone cells, your osteoclasts are gonna get activated and they're gonna start chewing through the bone. And you're gonna get all these nasty lytic lesions, right? And these lytic lesions are gonna start chewing through the bone. When they chew through the bone, this is gonna cause a couple of different types of symptoms. One is it can cause pain. The other thing is it can cause fractures, right? Pathological fractures where they have undesirable fractures that occur and it doesn't usually make sense. And the last one is that sometimes with these lytic lesions, they can chew enough of the bone up that they can liberate calcium from the bone. Especially if you chew enough of this bone up, you can definitely liberate calcium from the bone. So you also wanna watch out for elevated calcium or hypercalcemia. So these are the things that you definitely would wanna consider and I'd even consider checking like an alkaline phosphatase as well. So when a patient has metastasis from the lung to other different areas, what are you looking for? Lymphadenopathy is one. Oftentimes, this is not something that's usually gonna be easily found like we wouldn't breast cancer where we can palpate a node. This is something that you'd probably pick up on a chest CT. And if it was missed on a chest CT, you could pick up on a PET CT scan, right? The other thing is the other organs. This is usually symptom driven. Now with these, you may not have a lot of symptoms, but with these, you may have a lot of symptoms. So oftentimes what we look for, because some of them can be completely asymptomatic, is doing PET CTs to see if the tumor lights up in the liver, lights up in the adrenals, or lights up in the bone. The brain is a little bit more specific. This is the one where unless the patient presents with symptoms, we may not go getting a brain MRI unless we have good reason, meaning they're presenting with neuro deficits, neurological symptoms, or they were diagnosed with small cell lung cancer, which can easily spread to the brain, all right? My friends, that covers the complications. I know it's a lot, but hang in with me, because now what I wanna do is I wanna take you down through the most proper diagnostic framework to think about how would a patient who comes in with, what I think may have some symptomatology of lung cancer, how do I diagnose it? But also, it is crucial for us as clinicians to know how to screen those patients who are at high risk, and to know what are the different modalities that we use to screen for pulmonary nodules or lung cancer, and catch it before it's too late. Let's talk about that now. All right, so let's now move into the diagnostic approach. So we wanna first start off with the concept of pulmonary nodules. So whenever a patient comes in, and they have a smoking history, obviously we determine that smoking history based upon the past per year, and it really also considers their age too. When we think about that, we can put these patients into a higher risk category, saying that these patients who smoke, who are older, they have a higher risk of lung cancer, and I may identify a beginning stages of it, like a nodule, or maybe it's a little bit more of an identifier of a mass, and so we have to always consider this as a way of being able to catch lung cancer before it's too late, not picking it up when it's stage three, stage four. So this is what we're gonna talk a little bit about the approach to pulmonary nodules, and then considering what happens if these nodules are low risk, intermediate risk, high risk, what do we do? So the first thing is you have to know which patients you actually screen to look for these dang coin lesions and nodules that are in their lungs. So what would that be? So this is A-50 to 80 year old patient with a 20 plus pack year smoking history. That is the way that I want you guys to consider that. If they got a 20 plus year pack year smoking history, 50 to 80 years of age, you need to start considering doing low-dose CT scans annually. Now the other thing that's gonna be important to remember is you do this even if they're a current smoker or they quit within the past 15 years. So that's also really important. So this could be a current, or if they quit within the past 15 years, you still need to consider pushing these patients to get an annual low-dose CT scan of the chest, because this is gonna help me, it's gonna be lower dose, you're not exposing them to as much radiation, which is also beneficial. And it's gonna help us to see if we see any masses or lung nodules. Now if I do this and I find a mass, usually we kind of define that as the irregularity of the mass, the size of the mass, the kind of the overall look of the mass, the contents of it, that would actually help me to be very, very considerate. So if I had a greater than three centimeter of pairing mass, and maybe it appeared irregular, maybe it was speculated or scalloped, maybe it had some heterogeneous kind of component, or it was very, very high density kind of opacity, then I'm gonna be concerned with the lung mass, right? An example of that is if we look here, this is gonna be a CT scan, I'm taking axial kind of section, you can see here in the right lung, look at this. This thing is like speculated, and it's a very, very homogenous kind of like appearing tissue. And so this is definitely very, very considerate of a, I'd say a malignant kind of like presentation. This is definitely, definitely high risk. And I would say that this is a patient who likely has a right lung cancer, all right? Now, in the other hand, if I see a mass that appears like it's less than or equal to three centimeters, that could be considered of a pulmonary nodule. And so here you can see the same kind of situation here, here's the left lung, here's the right lung, you can appreciate right there, there is this well circumscribed kind of round opacity in the right lung. And that really would suggest more pulmonary nodule, where this one that's really kind of like large, speculated, this would definitely be concerning of like a carcinoma, especially something like adenocarcinoma, or depending upon overall, I don't have a complete look at the location, but this would definitely be a little bit more peripheral. So I would definitely be concerned with something like adenocarcinoma. The next thing is we wanna know, is this a new or known pulmonary nodule? The reason why is if it's new, this is something that we have to start kind of maybe tracking a little bit sooner, being a little bit more careful with. If it's a known nodule, then we just wanna know, has it gotten any bigger or has it stayed the same? Because if it's gotten bigger, we need to be a little bit more aggressive. If it hasn't gotten any bigger, it hasn't changed, then we can probably just continue to go with their normal annual low-dose CT scans. And so it's important to know, is it new, or has it gotten bigger if we have a prior chest x-ray or CT scan to compare it to? So that's the first thing is knowing, is there any prior imaging available? If it's not, then we have to treat this as though this is a new pulmonary nodule. If there is prior imaging, again, I just wanna know, has it gotten any bigger within the past two years? If there has been no growth, that's okay. That's a little bit more of a benign appearing nodule, and I can just kind of go back to doing my annual low-dose CT scans. If there is growth and it's gotten bigger over the past two years, well then I need to start being a little bit more aggressive. This is a suspicious nodule that's getting a little bit bigger. So with these two, we kind of treat them somewhat the same, which is then from there, we got to let's get a standard dose CT scan of the chest, and we get really, really thin slices. Get a good look at this, and also consider their malignancy risk, because now these patients I have to fit into, are they low risk, are they intermediate risk, are they high risk? Because if it's low risk, I can continue the low-dose CT scans. But if it's more intermediate or high risk, I may have to go to the route of a PET CT, I may have to go to the route of a biopsy. And so that's what we wanna do next. So let's say that we get the standard dose CT scan of the chest, and we start looking at the actual nodule that's gotten bigger, or it's a new one, we can then use that as a way of looking at the size of it, the overall kind of like appearance of it, the location of it, and combine that with their history. So we have three categories, low risk, intermediate risk, and high risk. The patient history is obviously key. We wanna know age, we wanna know smoking, those are really gonna be the big things. So age, we wanna know if they're less than 40, that puts them at a lower risk. The older you get towards that 50 to 80 year old range, you get more of that higher risk kind of category. Smoking is we're looking at have they ever smoked? If they haven't, that puts them at a lower risk. You can still get adenocarcinoma, even when you don't smoke. But again, it is really important to know that smoking is a very, very strong risk factor. So for those who are a current or former, meaning within the past 15 years, and they have a 20 pack your smoking history, it puts them at a pretty decent risk, intermediate and high risk. Now the last thing is now we're gonna use that CT scan to the chest. And we're gonna start looking at the overall size, because size plays a big role. I always say size don't matter, in this case it actually does, because it helps us to stratify them. So we would say if I saw a nodule, and here I have this one, and let's say that it's smaller, it's like less than eight millimeters, that would make me think it's more of a lower risk pulmonary nodule. If I got one that's a little bit bigger, you can pair this one to this one. They definitely look different, and also size-wise it's a little bit bigger. And then this one's a pretty nasty looking pairing one, and it's a big goober here. This is definitely gonna be a high risk nodule. Now it's not just size, it's also just the general kind of location as well. So we've found that usually in the lower lobes, those are gonna be more of the lower risk. They're more likely to be potentially benign, and even if it involves like the middle lobes as well. But if you look here, these are gonna be involving the upper lobes, and so the upper lobes tend to be more of a potential from malignancy. So if you see small and lower middle lobes, you're thinking more benign appearing, lower risk. If you think more upper lobes and bigger, you're gonna be thinking potentially more of the intermediate and high risk. And the last thing is also just kind of the overall appearance of that kind of like mass or nodule, I should say. So what does the margins look like, meaning the edge of the tumor? So this one's pretty round, and rounded always is a good thing. If it looks more scalloped, like a scalloped potato here, this would be more consistent with an intermediate risk. And if you see this one, which has all these like little divots, and kind of looks like a little amoeba, the speculated appearance, that's always pretty concerning for a high risk kind of nodule. So these are the ways that we'd like to stratify and put these patients into categories. So if I said, hey, I have a patient, they are 40 to 60 years of age, they're a current smoker, 25 pack your history, we have that they also have a decent size nodule, maybe it's 15 millimeters, it's in the upper lobe, and it appears scalloped. And that would fit them into that intermediate risk category. And so that's kind of how we would do that, kind of determining what we would do next. So now that we've categorized them, we can then figure out what we want to do with them. So if it's usually the less than eight millimeter, they're in that low to intermediate risk kind of category, we can just do a low dose CT scan. You can still do it in a year, or you can do it a little bit earlier, maybe six months, and then again at 12 months, all right? So that's something that we could do just to make sure that we get a just a quick little interval in between, and then we can go back to just our low dose annual CT scans if everything's normal. And so again, that's what we're gonna try to do here, right? The next thing is that we have, it's a little bit bigger. So maybe it's eight millimeters or greater, and they're low to intermediate risk. So that size is a little bit bigger. In this scenario, what I would say is this patient should probably be getting a PET CT scan. The PET CT is always gonna be great because it's gonna help us to really, really look for any kind of like look of that lesion, and particularly look to see if there's a lot of uptake of that FDG, and the FDG uptake is really concerning. If it's a pretty decent size one, and they really have all the high risk features, they're greater than 60, it's speculated, it's greater than eight, so maybe it's a greater than 20 millimeters, it's in the upper lobes. They have a current 20, a packier smoking history or a greater. These are all things that really put them at risk of having a malignant kind of disease. And so for them, we should just go straight to a biopsy. Now what I wanna say is that sometimes you can get a PET CT, and if you get that PET CT and it shows, look, oh my gosh, here's these like nodules that I have, and they're really taking up all of that tracer. That's really concerning, that means it's a super hyper metabolic type of tissue, and that usually screams cancer. And so for them, I would go straight to a biopsy if I had something like that. So that's really, really important to remember. You get a positive PET CT that shows this kind of like presentation, a very significant uptake in these nodules. You should probably just get a biopsy because there's a high chance it's malignancy. All right, so that's kinda how I want you guys to think about this. The biggest thing to take away out of this is that you need to know when you scream. If it's 50 to 80, 20 pack, year, history, or greater, current or they quit within the past 15 years, you need to do annual low dose CT scans. Look at prior imaging if they have it. If it's new or it's gotten bigger, you get a standard CT, and then look at the risk stratification. If it's low risk and it's a small one, you just keep doing your skeet CT scans, maybe just a little bit sooner, six months. If it's a little bit bigger, low intermediate, you should get a pet CT scan. If that comes back positive, you get a biopsy. If it's high risk and greater than or equal to eight millimeters, then you should be going straight to a biopsy. If you have the pictures and they don't look like they're any different, they haven't grown, just continue with your normal annual low dose CT scans. It's all a way of being able to make sure that we determine which ones we should go and really be aggressive with and which ones we should just hold back and keep monitoring so that we don't catch this when it's too late. Now let's say that we have a patient that we unfortunately we caught this too late. We don't have a patient who's asymptomatic and we're trying to screen. They unfortunately come in with some symptoms. A lot of the times with lung cancer, it can be relatively nonspecific. They can come in with things like cough, because of an endobronchial kind of obstruction, wheezing and dyspnea. And these are sometimes that when a patient has something like this, you think that they have something else going on. Maybe they have pneumonia. That's something you could definitely think about. Maybe they have COPD because they're a smoker. And so oftentimes what ends up happening is with these nonspecific symptoms, you're looking for something going on with the lungs. And so you end up getting a chest x-ray. It's a common initial test. It is not a diagnostic in the sense it's first line. You may pick up something. Oftentimes what happens, this is something that's really, really important to remember, is patients can get recurrent kind of like post-obstructive pneumonia. And that's really, really important. Whenever a patient has recurrent pneumonia in the same lobe, something we talked about on the whiteboard, recurrent pneumonia in the same lobe, especially upper lobes. And maybe they have some type of hazy opacity. So you can appreciate here on this chest x-ray, you can see that there's kind of like this opacity here. And it may be obstructing a part of the bronchus, which is supposed to be getting secretions and bacteria moving and spit out. If it's not, it's obstructing that leading to fluid, leading to bacteria becoming static, colonizing. Eventually that can really lead to an infection. And so you can get recurrent pneumonia in the same lobe. That really screams some type of like endobronchial tumor, like adenocarcinoma or like a bronchogenic carcinoma. So that's something I would definitely, definitely consider here, so we can definitely appreciate that. Now if you see a suspicious lesion, it's always important to consider, do they fit the bill? In other words, you can have a patient who has, maybe something else that looks like that could be a mass, but you have to consider their history. And so for these patients, you want to know, no, do they have a heavy smoking history? Are they 50 to 80 years of age? These are gonna be patients who are more in that high risk category. So you always want to look at their history. We want to know, are they a heavy smoker? Do they have some of these classic findings that we talked about? And then also be a really good investigator. The things that we talked about on the whiteboard are like the complications. Are they presenting with post-substructive pneumonia in the same lobe? That recurrent pneumonia in the same lobe really screams lung cancer, especially adenome. Do they have any homoptysis? This can sometimes present if you have a pretty nasty tumor. Usually it's got to be a bronchogenic, so it's got to be somewhere within that lumen. So you can definitely see this in things like squamous cell or small cell, maybe an adenome. Compressive symptoms is another really important one. Do they have compression of the recurrent laryngeal nerve causing hoarseness of the voice? Do they have compression of the brachial plexus, causing brachial plexopathy? Do they have compression of the phrenic nerve leading to a asymmetric in a movement of the diaphragm? Right, that kind of problem where you can see it on chest X-ray where they have an elevated hemidiaphragm and maybe some shortness of breath when laying flat. Do they have compression of the sympathetic changanglia causing Horner syndrome? So they have meiosis and ptosis and anhydrosis. Do they have compression of the superior vena cava causing SVC syndrome, causing distention of the jugular vein, causing swelling of the face, the neck and the arms with that bluish hue to it? These are all things that you want to think about that could be consistent with compressive symptoms from a large tumor. Usually things that are going to be in this scenario you think about, they're going to be a little bit more centrally and more apically located, which you can see with squamous cell, with small cell with adenocarcinoma. Now recurrent pleural effusions are something that you can definitely also see with peripheral lesions. Things like large cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma can also cause peripheral involvement of the lung tissue and that can lead to again, a lot of exudative properties, fluid leaking out, proteins leaking out, LDH leaking out into the exudative fluid or the pleural cavity that's leading to these recurrent pleural effusions. Oftentimes you'll tap these, you'll get maybe a bloody aspirate, you'll send it off for cytology and you'll send it off for the LICE criteria that will suggest exudative and your cytology will come back and you'll show some evidence of some malignant cells. And lastly is perineoplastic syndrome. This is a classic one you have to remember. Again, it's talking about that patient with small cell who comes in with SIADH. That's a really, really big one. You can't forget that. The Lambert Eaton syndrome is another one that they can present with as well, which is the kind of the weird presentation of the myasthenia gravis. You can even present with like a Cushing's type of appearance because they can present with a lot of high ACTH levels. So those are definitely things to think about. Whereas, you know, the squamous cell, they present with the hypercalcemia. And so these are definitely things I would kind of try to put together. If you have a patient who comes in, there's a heavy, heavy smoker. They have some of these non-specific symptoms. They've had recurrent pneumonia in the same lobe. They have now also, you see on their BMP, a low sodium. And you also notice they have Cushing-like features. And then on top of that, they also have maybe some compressive symptoms like recurrent laryngeal nerve or maybe some phrenic nerve. That would make me start thinking about a tumor that's in the lungs that's causing a lot of these problems. And then from there, I gotta get one of the best tests to really determine that. A chest X-ray is not gonna be the one. Chest X-ray may show me an abnormal, like opacity, but the CT scan's gonna be the best. And what it's gonna really do is it's gonna help me to elucidate the overall look of it. Look at this nasty-looking mass here in the right upper lobe. This is a really, really nasty-looking mass. And it's definitely a decent-sized one. It definitely has an irregular type of appearance. It's super decent-sized. And it's likely causing some obstruction here, because you can definitely lead to pneumonia in a lot of these patients as well. But this is pretty, pretty concerning. That's a pretty scary-looking one right there. So that's definitely a lung mass. Another thing that you can sometimes see on the CT scan is you may be able to see if there's any lymph nodes involved, like any hyalurlymph nodes involved, or other associated lymph nodes, because that can help you to determine if there's a significant amount of beginning of some local spread or metastasis. Now, once I see this, it's straight to a biopsy. You gotta get a biopsy, but the biopsy, the way that we do a biopsy on a viscera like this, kinda depends upon where the lesion is. So if it's centrally located, like this one is, I'd probably just do a bronchoscopy. And then you can go down there and you can do a biopsy of that tumor, especially if it's in the lumen. And so you're basically taking a bronchoscopy, you're gonna run that thing down into these bronchi. And you can't get super far. You can probably maybe get to the secondary, maybe tertiary bronchi, but that's pretty far down. You're gonna get down there and you're gonna see if you can find that tumor indoluminately and you're gonna help to take a piece of it out and then send that off to pathology. That's what I would say is the best thing to do for a centrally located lesion is a bronchoscopy with a biopsy. Now, if it's more peripherally, so it's towards the wall, towards the chest wall, then running that bronchoscope, you're not gonna be able to get that thing far enough down to the level of where you want it. You need to go from the outside. And so we can do CT guided finding laspirations where we use things like CT scans to locate and pinpoint that and then use real time we can stick a needle down through the chest wall and then help to pull that actual sample out with the biopsy needle. So that's something that we can try to do there. Another one that's pretty aggressive, we don't really do this unless it's truly something that you can't do with a CT guided FNA, but you'll do a VATS, a video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery. And you'll go in literally and you'll try to utilize a different source where you can visualize the mass and you'll take four steps and take a piece of that actual tissue out. This one's pretty aggressive, but you can do this for decent size. I'd say a little bit more complicated cases. It should be a CT guided FNA first. This would probably be a little bit more of the latter one in a complicated patient. All right. Now for the pleural effusion, which is still kind of peripheral, but they don't have maybe a obvious peripheral lesion or maybe they do, but you have maybe a peripheral lesion with a malignant associated pleural effusion, you can tap that and you can pull it off. And if it comes back positive with a bloody aspirate, which show a little bit of more of that malignant cells, that's immediately that's stage four lung cancer. So you definitely can do that with a thoracentesis. And so again, let's say that they had a tumor here, they had associated pleural effusion that was kind of accumulating some bloody cells. You could take your needle, pop right in, take some of that sample off and then send it and if it comes back positive with any kind of malignant cells, so you have right there, you have cancer. And so from there, we then say, okay, let's take all of these different samples, whether it's the bronchoscopy or biopsy from the central lesion, the CT guided FNA or the VATS from the peripheral lesion, the cytology from the thoracentesis from the pleural effusion. Let's send it off to the pathologist, have them take a look at it, figure out what type of cancer it is. Is it large cell, is it small cell, is it squamous cell, is it adeno, is it carcinoid, all of those things. And sometimes we even throw in immunohistochemistry. This is a little bit more for your step one. I wouldn't say that you're gonna get as heavily tested in this in the step two, but I'm gonna briefly kind of recap it in the sense that when we think about carcinoid tumors, they're really well differentiated. It's a neuroendocrine type of tumor. Neuroendocrine tumors usually present with a, on a stain, they have a chromogranin A that comes up positive. And there's another tumor that's kind of similar to carcinoid tumors called small cell. They're also neuroendocrine tumors, but they're very, very poorly differentiated as compared to the carcinoid tumors. But if you look, it'll still have that chromogranin A stain. Then we have squamous cell carcinoid. Squamous cell carcinoid is gonna be squamous cells. They're gonna have these carotimple, these bright pink kind of appearing, kind of like lesions that you'll see on the actual histology. Again, that's gonna be more step one. What I do want you to know is that if you test the immunohistochemistry, it'll come back positive for a specific molecule called P40 that'll be positive there. Now with adenocarcinoma, this is gonna be glandular cells. They're gonna have tons and tons of mucin staining. And when you check the immunohistochemistry, it should be for the TTF1. And lastly, there's large cell carcinoma. These will have these poorly differentiated large cells. And you shouldn't have any  chromogranin-a, you shouldn't have any P40 that comes positive on this one, or even any TTF1. So from there, we've said, okay, we took the actual sample, we send it off to pathologists, they'll give me the diagnosis of the type of lung cancer. And then from there, I just need to determine, has this lung cancer, and you should sometimes be able to pick it up from your CT scan, is it involved other areas? Sometimes you can see it, sometimes you can't, and you've got to start extending your CT scan parameters to get a little bit more of the chest, maybe get more of the abdomen, get other imaging if needed to see if this thing has spread. So a CT abdomen and pelvis is pretty good. The literature is actually starting to suggest that the PET CT is even better, because you can still do the CT chest abdomen and pelvis, and then if it really doesn't give you anything, sometimes PET CT is good for picking up some things that you couldn't see, it's a little bit more occult, it's a little bit harder to see. So the PET CT scan would probably have the better sensitivity, but oftentimes we just go with the CT abdomen and pelvis first. Now if you did that CT abdomen and pelvis, and you don't find any distant meds, or you want to then go the next step, you can do a PET CT after that if you still have a high degree of suspicion for meds, but if there's no distant meds, then we say that that's usually stage one to stage three, non-small cell lung cancer. So that really only includes the ones that we talked about, which is going to be, again in this case, it's going to be your adenocarcinoma, your large cell, and then your large unsquamma cell. Those are going to be the primary ones that I want you to remember for your non-small cell lung cancer. The limited small cell lung cancer, and that's going to be small cell, and that means that it probably hasn't spread very much beyond one side of the lung, and we'll define this, right? But at this point, if they don't have distant meds, it could be anywhere from stage one to stage three non-small cell, or limited small cell. To give you a little bit more on that, so let's say that a patient has non-small cell lung cancer. We want to determine if it is stage one to stage three. Well, we know it's not based off distant meds. How do we determine it then? Well, then it's to paste upon the tumor size, and if there's multiple different types of lymph nodes involved. So for example, if I have a tumor here, and there is some nodes, but none of the nodes are involved, it's just the tumor itself, that's more likely to be stage one, all right? Now, if the tumors may be a little bit bigger, and it's starting to involve other nodes that are in the same side, so like these peribronchial nodes, that's going to be stage two. If it's stage three A, you're getting a decent size tumor, but now what's starting to happen is we're starting to go from peribronchial, and we're starting to venture our way outwards here into the mediastinum. So then what I would probably start seeing is more of the mediastinal lymph nodes being involved, on the FC lateral side, all right? Stage three B is you have now the problem is that some of these nodes can start spreading over to the contralateral lung. So now, if you had a tumor in the left lung with all the nodes in the left lung that are getting involved, because this tumor is spreading into these lymph nodes, right? Now, if it starts to spread to the other side, or it goes upwards into the clavicular nodes, now you have stage three B, all right? So that covers your stages one to stage three. We don't determine it based upon if it's spread to the other areas of the body, like the brain, the bones, the liver, things like that. We determine it based upon the size of the tumor, and more particularly the nodes that are being involved, all right? With small cell lung cancer, it's actually very simple because there's only two stages. It's limited and extensive, and limited is simple. It's just that tumor in the nodes, it's only in one side of the lung. So you could have a tumor that's gargantuous, and you could have nodes that are involved in that entire lung, but as long as it hasn't, tumor hasn't gone to the other lung, the nodes haven't spread to the other lung, it hasn't distantly metastasized, you have limited stage small cell lung cancer, all right? Now, when we have distant meds, now we're talking about a potential problem here. So that means that this tumor has gotten into the bloodstream and it's spread to other organs. A very common one is the bilateral adrenal glands. Look at these, look at these, they're gargantuous. So your adrenal glands are like just cantaloupes down there. This is very, very consistent with metastasis, especially if it's bilateral. If you get adrenal megalin, it's bilateral, you should always be concerned about this kind of presentation about a metastasis, right? Another one is hepatic metastasis. As you can see, all these like hypodense kind of lesions here on CT scan, they're super scattered. This is pretty consistent with hepatic metastasis as well. And then here we got a bone scan, because it loves the bones, it loves the liver, loves the adrenal glands, loves the bones. You're going to see here there is a primary tumor. Look at all these areas that this thing is spread to. So it's involved a lot of different types of bones, some of the pelvis, some of the vertebrae. So they're probably going to have some bone pain, some increased alfalfa. Those are definitely things that I would say this is distant metastasis. So when you got distant meds, now it's stage four or it's extensive. It's that's pretty much how we kind of get to this point. So we got stage four or we got extensive small cell lung cancer. Well, let's say how do we determine stage four? It's usually if it's distant meds, there is other ways. And so I just need you to know that we don't always just base it on distant meds. Sometimes the exam will say distant meds is the biggest reason, but it also could be due to let's say here, I consider that I have a tumor, right? And it started to spread to other nodes, but I'd say the biggest one here is it started to distantly metastasize. But what if this tumor broke off, went through these nodes and went to the other side? Oh, tumor in the contralateral lobe, that also a stage four. So if you have a tumor in one side and it then it's spread to the other side, that stage four lung cancer. The other one is if it broke through, if it broke through and got into the pleural cavity, so you got pleural invasion, dude, that is stage four non small cell lung cancer. All right. So we got an idea of the stage four now that it's distant meds, but it's also the tumor went to the other lobe or if it went to the pleura. For extensive, we had a tumor that was here and it was a big honker. And if it distantly metastasized, that was one reason we said it could be stage four. But it's the same concept if these nodes go beyond or you get a tumor in the contralateral lobe. Now this one usually small cell doesn't get close enough to the pleura to ever cause pleural effusions, but it is going to be one that it can spread to the contralateral lobe or involve nodes of the contralateral lung. So if you got a contralateral tumor or you have nodes in the other lung, it's beyond the hemithorax. We now have extensive small cell lung cancer. All right. So those are the ways I want you to think about it. So it's not just this it's meds. It's if the tumor is in the other lobe or if the pleura got invaded. That's the big thing to remember. For extensive, we just say did the nodes go also to the other side as well. All right, cool. Now that we've hit that, my friends, we've covered a decent chunk here of staging. The next thing is also important to remember when it comes to staging is we determine how we're going to kind of treat these and we're going to get into it a little bit. But we just say how likely these patients already get surgery depends upon their stage. Stage one to three a we can say pretty decently that with stage one, stage two, you could go straight to surgery for these patients. With stage three a we may have to shrink the tumor down a little bit, give them some neo-adjuvant chemotherapy and then do surgery. But there's always a chance of resecting those, especially if they do well to the chemo and the radiation. With these, it's not often likely that they're going to respond well to chemo and radiation. They're probably going to chemo radiation, immunotherapy, different types of targeted therapy as well. So these are not usually resectable. All right. Now one other thing that's really important to remember is the brain is a very common area for the lung to spread to. So if they have small cell lung cancer, you should always have a high degree of suspicion of it spreading to the brain. That's probably the biggest one. So small cell lung cancer, you should probably consider checking these patients for a brain MRI. If they got stage four, that's also a risk, but definitely not as high as small cell lung cancer. But the biggest one is if they present with neurological symptoms, you should definitely get a brain MRI. If you see something like this where they got all these different lesions everywhere, that's definitely metastatic disease. And so this thing has spread to the brain as well. And that would consider them to be an extensive case. So you can have a patient come in, you don't know that they have distimates, but they have lung cancer. All of a sudden they come in with neurological symptoms, you get a brain MRI, boom, you got distimates. They're now stage four. All right. But if they have small cell, they have stage four, you should consider getting a brain MRI to see if it is present there, because this is a very, very high risk one. All right. Now, last thing is if a patient has stage four, not small cell lung cancer, it's also really important at this point, because they're not resectable. We need to know what's the best kind of targeted therapy or immunotherapy that I can use for this patient, because that's really when we talked about the eGFR, the Alkrea arrangement. And there's another one that we'll discuss a little bit called the PDL1, which is the Program Death Ligan, which is really, really important in determining how T cells are either going to be, you know, not to be weird, but like turned on or turned off, and that determines if they're going to kill the tumor cell or not. These are really, really, really important things to remember. So we should always get these like molecular genetic testing to see which one should we actually treat these patients with. So for example, if they have the eGFR mutation or the Alkrea arrangement, those are going to respond well to targeted therapies, like the receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Those are going to be really, really good ones that we'll talk about, osometinib, electanib. Those are going to be best for those scenarios. If they have the PDL1 kind of like involvement, and it's a little bit higher, these are patients where I should target, I should target their PD1 on the T cells. And that's something where Pembrolizumab is really, really good, and they're going to respond to immunotherapy. So depending upon these, determine which type of drugs we'll give, we're going to target the receptor tyrosine kinase, or we're going to target the PD1 protein that's on the actual T cells. So these are definitely really, really important things to remember. Whew, that was a lot, right? All right, so that's really taking into consideration a patient who presents with symptoms, and maybe it's nonspecific, but you find a mass, you get to that point, you say, what do I do? How do I biopsy it? Okay, I have biopsy, I found the type of tumor, how do I stage it? Okay, I found that they have no distant meds. Well, how do I know if it's stage one, two, three, A3B are limited? Okay, I've done that based upon the lymph node involvement, and if, you know, that's the primary thing. And then, okay, they have distant meds that tells me if it's stage four, if it's extensive. But there's also other things like pleural invasion and contralateral lobe tumors and nodes in the other one that could make me think that it could also be stage four extensive. And then from there, I got to say, if it is non small cell lung cancer, how do I know if it's going to respond to targeted therapy or immunotherapy? Lots of stuff, right? Let's move into the treatment of lung cancer. So we're going to dig into non small cell lung cancer first. With non small cell lung cancer, there's obviously different stages, stage one, two, two, three A3B and four. We need to have an idea of what is the goal in treating these dependent upon that stage. So stage one, again, you're talking about you're having a tumor, usually no kind of like nodes are involved. What is the primary way that we treat this is surgery. And there's different ways that we can surgically remove this tumor. We can do like a wedge resection, we could do a segmental resection, we could do a lobectomy where you remove the right upper lobe in this case, or you could remove the entire lung. So that's pretty aggressive to do in stage one. Oftentimes, just a wedge or segmental resection may be just the way to go with the stage one non small cell lung cancer. Now, another thing that's also really important is you can consider in patients who maybe aren't surgically fit because what you have to do is you always have to see if these patients are medically able to survive, I'd say, or do well with a surgical resection. And oftentimes it depends upon what their pulmonary reserve is. You're removing lung tissue so you can take away some of their pulmonary reserve. So oftentimes we'll do pre-surgical PFTs to see where they're at. And based upon those PFTs, they're multiple kind of like if they have multiple comorbidities and how well they'll do, we'll determine if we do a surgery or if it's really not a good idea and they're not really about doing a surgery. Maybe they want to go the non-surgical option. You can do a stereotactic ablative radiation therapy where you literally target on that tumor and you hit it with radiation to try to be able to shrink and kill some of those tumor cells. So that definitely is an ideal way if you don't want to go the operating route. You don't have maybe that PFT reserve, then they won't do that. They'll usually go to an SABR. All right. Now, stage two is you got the tumor. You got some peri-bronchial kind of nodes that are involved now. And so this one, again, surgery is going to be the best way to go. And I would say that's going to be preferable. The other thing is that afterwards you can hit them with some adjuvant chemotherapy. Now, the chemotherapy agents of choice in this scenario is usually going to be cisplatin and otoposide. And again, you can use it adjuvantly, meaning that you use it after they get the surgical procedure. So after you get like a wedge resection, a segmental resection, a lebecdomy, depending upon the severity of the tumor, how invasive it is, you will then follow it up with a couple different cycles of cisplatin and otoposide. All right. Now, stage three A is we got a tumor. It's a decent size. It's starting to involve mediastinal lymph nodes on the same side, some peri-bronchial nodes. It's getting a little bit more aggressive at this point. You can still do surgery, but at this point, we want to start shrinking that tumor. And so we hit them with neo-adjuvant chemotherapy and oftentimes radiation therapy as well. You're going to, goals to get the tumor to shrink down, get a little bit better, get them to the point where we can do surgery. See if it's receptable. So you're going to do your best, shrink the tumor down, see if you can get them to be a receptable candidate, then send them to get the surgery. After the surgery, follow up with a couple different cycles of the same chemotherapy occasion. So you'll hit them with chemo, radiation, cisplatin, otoposide, radiation therapy, shrink the tumor, cut it if able, and then follow up with adjuvant chemotherapy. If they're stage three B, these are patients that are not going to be really be medically operable. That's just, they're going to have a huge tumor. It's going to be involving nodes on the same side and the opposite side. So it's going to be pretty extensive at this point. So surgery really isn't going to be the way to go for them. You're going to do the same thing that you would do with stage three A, except it's not neo-adjuvant chemotherapy. It's just definitive chemo-radiation therapy. And then afterwards, you're going to see if you can do some consolidation with immunotherapy to kind of really reduce the growth and the development of that tumor. And so oftentimes we'll do that with Durvalamab. Now, stage four on the other hand, surgery is not really an option. You got either distan-met. You got a tumor in the contralateral lobe. You got pleural invasion. You got multiple nodes involved. It's just trying to go in a resect. That's going to be a nightmare. It's not going to be very, very helpful. Sometimes it can be for palliative reasons if there's very, very specific reasons like significant pain or recurrent pneumonia, things like that. You can go after some of them. But usually surgery is not an option. And so with these patients, we oftentimes just do targeted therapy. And so we tried that's when that kind of the discussion of knowing if they have the eGFR, the Alkary arrangement, the PDL-1 is really the key thing. So again, if they have the eGFR mutation, OsomitNib is going to be the way to go. That's going to be the way to go where you're going to be targeting this type of pathway. And this is really, really important on this one. So OsomitNib is going to be helping with that. Electinib is going to be for the Alkary arrangement mutations. And so these are both receptor tyrosine kinases, just knowing which one of these they have that can help. But overall, the targeted chemotherapy agents is going to be receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. So you can think about like this here, as in cancer cells, you're going to have different types of growth factors binding on to these receptor tyrosine kinases. They're going to be activating this pathway, the PI3K, the AKT, the mTOR pathway, that's going to help to stimulate genes to increase your cellular proliferation, survival, increase blood flow to that tumor, and helping it to be able to unfortunately metastasize. So all of these things are what's happening when you have the receptor tyrosine kinase firing in that cancer cell. If I target this receptor to reduce its autophosphorylation, reduce this pathway, then I'm going to then inhibit all of these processes. I'm going to shut down cell proliferation, cell survival, increase blood flow to the tumor, and it being able to metastasize. So this goal is preventing the progression of the disease, not necessarily curing it or removing it. It's just trying to reduce the progression. All right. This is a pathway that's really, really heavily involved in eGFR because what happens is in eGFR mutations are out rearrangement. This pathway is firing like crazy because you have some type of receptor abnormality where it's auto-activating or in out rearrangements you maybe have an abnormality in that kind of receptor where again, it's just auto-activating. If you can try to shut that pathway down, that will definitely be helpful. All right. Now immunotherapy is really good if the PDL1 percentage is greater than or equal to 50%. That means that you have a really, really strong chance to target the PD1 because if that percentage is pretty high, I can give anti-PD1 antibodies and they're going to like Pembrolizumab and that's going to nail that PD1 and it's not going to allow it to interact with the PD1. So let me show you what I mean. Here we have a tumor cell when they express lots of the PDL1 because your T cell expresses PD1 protein and this is a program death receptor. You have a T cell receptor on the tumor cell. It's going to have an MHC2 complex which connects with an antigen but here the PD1 is supposed to interact with the PDL1 and this is a way of the tumor cell. It increases the expression to shut down the T cell, turns it off so it can't kill it. If I give a drug that binds the PD1, it can't bind to the PDL1. If it can't bind to the PDL1, you lose that ability to turn the T cell off. This thing's active. It's ramping up. It's like, all right baby and it starts ripping the T cells. That's when we would do this is when you have a high degree of PDL1 expression. If your PDL1 expression is on the lower end, you're unfortunately going to need to kickstart it and give it some more help. You can still do the Pembrolizumab but you're probably going to have to add on some chemotherapy like the cisplatin and the atopicide to really help with that process. All right, that's a crap ton of information and I get it. I'd be overloaded too. Let's put this together. If you got a receptable tumor, we're thinking stage one, stage two. Could even be stage three as well, right? Especially stage three A. But in stage one to two, you want to first determine what's their PFTs. Are they a good surgical candidate? If they aren't, they don't have good PFTs. They just don't want to get the surgery. The SABR is the best way to go. If they're stage two, you're going to have to follow up with adjuvant chemotherapy. If they're medically operable, they're a good candidate, good PFTs, they want the surgery, you'll then go the surgical route. Whether it's the segmental, the wedge resection, the lepectomy, the pneumonectomy, that's pretty aggressive, but we would do those and then follow it up with adjuvant chemotherapy if they're stage two. Now again, if a patient's stage two, oftentimes they're going to get surgery more likely than the SABR but just still can get this in stage two. All right, it's just it's going to be more common to get the surgical procedure. Now, if they're theoretically unresectable initially, that doesn't mean that stage three, stage three A can be resectable but you have to see if it is. Let's say that it's theoretically unresectable. Then all we want to know is is it metastatic or not because if it's metastatic, I can't do any kind of surgery whatsoever. If it's not, okay, there is a chance. This could be stage three but I don't know if it's stage three A, stage three B. If there's medial steinal nodes, that's the stage three A. If it's starting to really get to the point where it's getting to the contralateral, the clavicular nodes that we're getting into stage three B. Stage three A, you can hit them with neo-adjuvant chemotherapy, cis-platinotiposide radiation therapy, shrink that puppy down. If it gets to the point where they are a surgical candidate and you get a good response, you can do surgery. All right, and then you can follow up with some adjuvant chemo as well. For stage three B, though, that's the problem. No, sorry. Now, if you don't get a good response, we're not going to be going the route of surgery. That's why theoretically, stage three A is receptable. But if you don't get a good response here, you're not going to be going to a surgical procedure. If you didn't shrink it, if you didn't actually get that thing down and they still are in too. So you didn't get rid of any of the nodes. Unfortunately, at this point, you really just got to say we're just going to stick with the immunotherapy, the consolidated immunotherapy like develop map. All right. Now, stage three B is you got contralateral nodes. You got the supraclavicular nodes you're hitting. That's stage three B, right? At this point, we don't have any option of surgery. It's just you're hitting them with definitive chemo radiation therapy. And then you're going to follow up with some call it, consolidated therapy. Now, here we got metastasis, right? We got it spreading. This poppy is spread to the bones, maybe it's spread to the adrenal glands, maybe it's spread to the liver, maybe it's spread to the brain. At this point, you're stage four. With stage four, we don't do surgery. We don't do definitive in the sense of chemotherapy and radiation. It really comes down to what type of targeted therapy would we go for. If they got the eGFR, the alkyree arrangement, it's the receptor tyrosine kinases. Osometinib for the eGFR, electinib for the ALK. If they got the PDL1 with the heavy expression, brother, the pembrolizumab is the way to go. But if the PDL1 expression isn't high, it's going to need a little bit of help. That's where you're going to get the pembrolizumab and the chemotherapy as an additive effect. This is a way of kind of taking and looking at everything we talked about in the table, the images, and just giving you more of a straightforward, hopefully a systematic way of thinking about it. I really hope this helped. All right, small cell lung cancer, thank goodness, is so much simpler. When we think about this one, it comes down to if it's limited or extensive. There's not stage one, two, three, four, all these different things. It's limited. It's in the one hemithorax. This one's chemo and radiation. It's really the only way that we go about this one. There is a big goal here, all right, where with small cell lung cancer, you can try to prevent the brain metastasis. That's why you try to get, if you have the diagnosis of small cell, you should get a brain MRI as a baseline. Because if they get neurological symptoms, oh, shoot, they got metastasis. It's extensive. You can't do this anymore. If you check it and they don't have any brain metastasis, you can do prophylactic cranial radiation. You literally are radiating the brain to prevent some of the micro metastasis from the lungs to the brain. This is a very, very, very high yield to remember that for limited stage, always try to consider prophylactic cranial radiation with the goal of trying to mitigate and prevent to a degree brain metastasis. Now, extensive is chemo. Radiation therapy isn't really going to help at this point. What can be considered as immunotherapy? Immunotherapy, a tessellism ab is very interesting. It's a PDL1, an anti-PDL1 antibody. Remember, the PDL1 is the one where it's on the tumor cell, right? So you get your t-cell expressing the PDL1, the t-cell receptor. You get the tumor cell expressing the MHC with the antigen, and you get it also expressing the PDL1. From here, if I give a drug now that blocks the PDL1 on the tumor cell, now the PDL1 can't interact, that still activates the t-cell, starts getting ready, it's getting cooking, and it kills that tumor cell. Boom, baby! That can help. That can help to reduce the growth of the tumor, reduce the kind of extensive growth and nastiness of that small cell lung cancer. My friends, this was a monster lecture, and I really hope that it helped. I really mean that. I really hope that you guys enjoyed these videos. I hope it made sense. I hope that when you guys get an exam and you see anything on lung cancer, you feel confident that whenever there's any question, nothing can stand in your way. Man, I love you guys. Thank you guys for being so supportive and just love you. As always, until next time, my friends.