What's up, ninja nerds? In this video today, we're going to be talking about lymphoma. That includes non-hodkin and also Hchin lymphoma. Now, again, this is part of a clinical medicine section. If you guys like these videos, they make sense to you. Please support us. You can do that hitting the like button, pounding down the comment section, and subscribing. Also, down in the description box below, there's a link to our website. If you go there, you can access notes, illustrations, quiz questions by becoming a premium member. and I think it'll truly benefit you. Go check it out. All right, let's get into the pathophys. All right, my friends. So, we're going to talk about the pathophys. When we talk about lymphoma, it's an abnormality of lymphocytes. But if you guys go back to leukemia, leukemia was basically there was the acute and the acronics, but there was the lymphoid and the myoid kind of abnormalities. Those were problems where the abnormalities existed in the bone marrow and they just happened to get squirted out into the bloodstream and go and deposit into different organs. Right? In this scenario, you're not having that issue. the bone marrow is actually working properly and it's making proper lymphoblasts and prolymphocytes and naive lymphocytes right so when you think about hodkin lymphoma the abnormality really exists when you get into the lymph node so when we think about this let's say here we have our bone marrow and here is going to be our lymphoid stem cell and it goes through turns into a lymphoblast lymphoblast then differentiate into prolymphocytes and then eventually you get your lymphocytes and this will be your tlymph phosite here and this would be your belymphosy here. From that point the Tlymphosytes will then go where? Well, they go to the thymus because you know the thymus is where we take the naive tea cells. We undergo the selection process, positive, negative selection, everything else. And then from there we allow these to leave the thymus as primarily there's a couple other ones but primarily are they going to leave as a CD8 positive lymphocy or are they going to leave as a CD4 positive lymphocy and the importance of remembering that is that these will turn into your cytotoxic tea cells and these will turn into your helper tea cells and then you have other ones that could be T- regulatory cells but the big point here is that from the bone marrow you generate these these naive te-c cells they go to the thymus and at the thymus they undergo maturation where they turn into the CD8 or the CD4 lymphosytes and then from there we have a pretty good idea so again these I'll just abbreviate these these are your cytotoxic tea cells and these are going to be your T- helpper cells now the belymphosytes they from here go to the lymph node and you know that at the lymph node there's this the eerant lymphatic vessels all the aerent lymphatic vessels And then here in the center there's a there's literally that's what it's called. It's called a germinal center. This is really where the B cells go. And whenever they get into this germinal center they undergo their maturation process. And then some of these some of these B cells they may go and they may differentiate into which type of cells? They may become memory B cells or they may become plasma cells where they are designed to produce antibodies. So that's the whole point here. So when we think about the normal lymphocy pathway, we start at the bone marrow, we get our naive cells, we go to their respective organs, thymus to mature into these cells or we go to the lymph node to mature into these cells for the belymphosytes. It's important to remember Hodkins lymphoma is primarily belymphosy mediated. So really when we think about hodkins lymphoma, this is the cell line that is primarily affected. We don't see this fairly with the tlymphosytes. And so really where the disease process is occurring is it's occurring right here in the lymph node in the germinal center. So here's our germinal center that we're just kind of zooming in on. And so here again, we'll write up here. This is our germinal center. And the germinal center, if you will, is divided into a couple different zones. You know this. So the outer zone, which I want to abbreviate over here, this is called your marginal zone. This is called your marginal zone. That's going to be this layer right here. The next one on the inner side is going to be called your mantle zone. So this is going to be called your mantle zone. And then the most inner zone here is going to be called the germinal zone. This is called your germinal zone. So there's these are all distinct and I'll talk about them a little bit more when we get to the non-hodkin lymphoma. Funny enough, it's actually relatively important to talk about them there. But we'll have a little intro here in the Hodgekin lymphoma pathophysiology. But these are three important zones because different processes occur here. Let's pretend we take this belymphosy, right? And the belmphosy here is going to start moving through this germinal center. We're just blowing it up here. So here's our belymphosy. The first area that it's going to move to where it has an interaction is this zone. What's this one again? The mantle zone. In the mantle zone, we may have exposure to specific antigens, which I'm going to represent like this. You see these like little maroon dots? These are antigens. So we're going to say that this is the zone where antigen exposure occurs. What is this? What's called? This is called antigen exposure will occur here. So what we're going to do is we're going to take this B cell and I'm gonna kind of make it look like this here. We're going to take this B cell and on that naive B cell it should have these different types of B cell receptors which will allow for it to interact if you will with these antigens. And so it's going to interact here. when it interacts with the antigen, it should endoccytos. It should take it inside of the cell and then it should express a piece of it on its MHC2 complex. That's what should happen. So then from here after it has the antigen exposure, it should should then actually make this specialized lymphosy here where it'll express a piece of that antigen on its MHC2 complex. And then from here it may actually vary a little bit on certain types of structures and it may undergo a process in this stage here called sematic hypermutation hyper mutation where it kind of just changes some structures. It moves a little bit of the structures on its receptors. All right, that's really important. So the first step is here antigen exposure that occurs in the mantle zone. Then we get into this the germinal zone where we undergo sematic hypermutation. Once you undergo sematic hyper mutation you change the receptors where they're really good at being able to have certain binding affinity for antigens. We've now entered a stage here called the centroblast. So this is called a centro blast. Now what happens is that these centroblasts are supposed to undergo lots of proliferation. Once you've they've undergone the sematic hypo mutation, you should make a bunch of them. Once you've made a bunch of them, you've then primed a bunch of these cells who now have the proper receptors to bind onto these different antigens. From here, it should make a decision. What we're going to do is we're going to undergo a selection process. And we're gonna say, okay, let's say that this has a high affinity for an antigen. If this cell has high affinity for the antigen, it will survive. It'll bind the antigen. It's doing its job. And if it does its job, we'll then want it to differentiate and turn into what's called a centroite. We want it to turn into a centroy. And it's done a good job. We've allowed for it to be able to identify the proper antigens that it needs to. So that means that these little receptors are working very well. All right. And we'll represent it. It has good binding to the antigen. That means that we have really allowed for this to work well. All right. Now, if we decide to say, okay, I'm going to take this central blast here and I'm going to have him have a poor affinity. This is going to have a decreased affinity for the antigen. Is that a kind of B cell that you would want in your body? No. You don't want a B cell who's designed to identify antigens and then help your your immune system to produce antibodies or have your immune system attack those antigens. And so if you have a poor affinity for it, would you want that one to survive? No. And so what should you do? In that scenario, the cell should undergo apoptosis. Let's draw like a cell here that's getting all kinds of jacked up. Look at this cell. It's getting all jacked up. So you'd want this cell to undergo apoptosis. What is this process called here again? That's called apoptosis. Now let's say this is a normal process right and then technically what should happen remember I told you once you get done with the lymph node it goes through it gets exposed it under goes so this is the first step antigen exposure right here then you go sematic hypermutation here then you undergo the selection process then you have the central site what happens here then it goes all the way out into this outer zone and when it enters into the outer zone there's other cells here I'm just going to draw a couple of them you know what they are they're called tlymphosytes and there is some dendritic cells You know what they do? They interact with the centric site. They can release cytoines. They can interact with our CD4 proteins. And then what should happen is it should undergo a class switching process. What's this called here? It should undergo class switching. And all this means is is I'm going to allow for my B cells at this point to determine what type of antibodies are we going to make. I'm going to make IGG, IGA, IG, and I'm going to get rid of. I'm going to switch them from IGM and the IGD. And so it can switch the antibodies that it expresses on its surface or that it produces by the plasma cells. And then from here, it will fully differentiate and it'll become the types of cells that we wanted. This could become a memory B cell. And what kind of things will it express? It'll have the specific antibodies that we wanted to express. the IG A, the IGG, the Ig or we can have it become a plasma cell and this plasma cell will have the capabilities of producing the proper antibodies like which ones the IGG, the IgA, the Ig. So you get the point here. It's dependent that class switching is what determines their antibbody isoype that occurs right here. And this is mediated by the centroytes and the what are these cells here? I'll just write them right here real quick. What are these called? Your teac cells. These are called your T- cells. All right. Now, this is the normal process by which we take a B cell and we make these cells. Where in the heck, Zach, are you trying to get with this? The process by where this starts to go ary is right here. cells should want to go this way, right? Normally, and you should want it to go this way. But what happens if I evade apoptosis? What happens if instead this central blast who has poor affinity for the antigen, instead of it going this way, I start to go this way and I make these cells. So in this process, what's actually happening is I'm evading apoptosis. So, in this Hodkins lymphoma, I'm going to evade apoptosis. And you're probably like, how in the heck could you evade apoptosis and then make these weird looking, you know, Frankenstein cells? A lot of different reasons. We'll get into that. But what I want you to know is is what actually are these cells? So, they're technically centroblasts, but they transform. They have malignant transformation. So they undergo evasion of apoptosis and then they transform into two different types of cells. One is the super high yield one that you can't forget. This is called a Reed Sternberg cell. This is a Reed Sternberg cell. This is a identifier. It is a strong identifier of classical Hodgekkins lymphoma. So this there's two different subtypes of Hodkdins lymphoma. One is classical which is about 95% of the cases and non-class which accounts for about 5% of cases. So this is the extremely most common one. So the presence of Reed Sternberg cells tells me I took a belymphocy and when it was supposed to undergo apoptosis I evaded that and made a reader cell and I transformed into this weird looking owl eye cell. Now you have to remember when we look at these cells we identify them because they have this boil nucleus which we say are owl eyes. So when you see these it I'm not even kidding it's weird. It actually looks like that. But then also when you malignantly transform these cells, some of them lose their normal B cell markers and express abnormal B cell markers and that is these. That's super important. So they'll have these little surface receptors which are really really different. They will express what's called CD 15 and CD 30. So they will be positive for these markers and they'll be negative for your normal B cell markers which I'll I'll tell you here in a second. Those normal B cell markers would be what? Let's see if we can fit it right here. This would be CD20. That's the big one. There is CD45 but CD20 is the main one. So it'll be negative for CD20 and positive for CD5 and 30. So if I have a patient who I think has Hodkins lymphoma, one of the big things is identifying Reed Sternberg cells. If I see those, I need to know, do they have the abnormal B cell markers? If they do, that tells me it's definitely a Reed Sternberg cell. Why am I saying I need to identify the markers? Well, look at this one. This is actually called a popcorn cell. And if you look at the nucleus, it looks like it could be a popcorn. All right? And so these are a Reed Sternberg variant. I'm going to abbreviate this Reed Sternberg variant. It looks like a Reed Sternberg cell, but it's not. The other thing here is when you look at its B cell markers, you don't see any blue ones. You see pink ones. These are CD 20 and CD45 positive, but they are CD5 and CD 30 negative. That is important to remember. So you can differentiate the subtype not just based upon the morphology of the cells. You can differentiate them based upon their cluster differentiation proteins which is important when we get to that in the diagnostic section. All right. And these popcorn cells tell me which kind. They tell me you have non-classical Hodkins lymphoma. Now from here it's important to remember that once we've determined if we have classical or non-class based upon the type of cells right they both evade apoptosis but the types of cells in their cluster differentiation it's important to know the subtype. So for example, if we come over here to classical Hodkins lymphoma, one of the big things to remember is that the Reed Zernberg cells, they accumulate in these lymph nodes, right? Because they they don't die. They're immortal cells. So they just keep populating like bunnies. The thing with Reed Zernberg cells is they secrete cytoines. And those cytoines attract in other types of immune cells. And the types of immune cells that gets attracted in determines the subtype. So the first one is nodulous sclerosis. This one accounts for it is the most common. It's somewhere around I'd say 60 to 70%, but we'll go right now for about 60%. That's how much it accounts for. It's a significant proportion. This one, when you look at it, is you have the Reed Sternberg cells, which I'm going to abbreviate RS. All right? But you're also going to have other inflammatory cytoines that are released such as transforming growth factor beta. They love to release transforming growth factor beta as an example. That transforming growth factor beta will bring in lots of fiberblasts. So what are these cells? These are your fiberblasts. Question for you. What do fibroblasts like to do? They like to secrete fibrous tissue. And so that's what they'll do. They'll secrete a fibrous tissue that'll turn this into more of a nodular type of appearance. So then you're going to have all of this fibrous tissue that's going to be occurring. And this is why we get that nodular sclerosis type of look. All right. So all of that orange stuff is your fibrous tissue. Now you may be asking yourself the question, is it really really important that I know these? Not all of them, but I'd say this is the most important one to remember because it's the most common. The other thing about this one is that this likes to really work in lymph nodes and it causes like imagine this all of this process occurring right here. So if you think about this, all of these guys are going to be affecting this right here. And what you're going to do is you're going to get this enlarging area filled with Reed Sternberg cells and fiberblast and fibrous tissue. What is that going to do to this lymph node? It's going to enlarge it and you're going to get lympadinopathy. And that is the hallmark presentation of lymphoma is enlarged lymph nodes. Now there's different lymph nodes that are more commonly affected in these subtypes than others. The one thing I would like you to remember, we'll talk about it more in the complications is that nodular scerosis loves to attack the lymph nodes in the mediainum. Loves them. And so you're going to see more likely mediainal lympadinopathy with nodular sclerosis than you would see with any of these other ones. All right. So the next component here is your mixed cellularity. Now, we won't go too crazy on these because this is the primary emphasis, but this may make up somewhere around 30%. And then while we're at it, this may make up 5% and then somewhere around 5%. So, these are your less common ones. Mixed cellularity. The big thing that you need to remember, and this is what I want you to think about, is you're going to have the Reed Sternberg cells, right? That's going to be the big one. You're going to have some other lymphocytes, bunch of different types. you're going to have some plasma cells, but here's the primary one that you want to look for in the exam, the einaphils, because that's the one where you don't really see this in the other subtypes. So, having the presence of a lot of like, look at the word mixed cellularity, that's really where this disease process is going to be kind of highlighting. And so, you have all of these different types of cells and this is going to cause a lot of inflammation. And what is it going to do? It's going to accumulate in that germinal center and it's going to cause the lymph node to get enlarged. Now the other one are these two here, the lymphosy rich and lymphosy depleted. They're within the name. I don't think we need to really go crazy here. They had lots of Reed Sternberg cells and tons of lymphosytes. The big thing to remember about this one is that this is a great prognosis. It has the best prognosis out of all of them. You can remember lymphosy rich. It's the best if you're rich. I don't know if that's great thing, but think about it. If you could get any of these, this is the one that you want to get has the best prognosis. Lymphosy depleted. Look at the name. Lots of Reed Sternberg cells, very little lymphocytes. And again, this is going to contribute to the lympodinopathy. But remember good prognosis good prognosis this is a good prognosis probably the best out of all of them and this has the worst prognosis. So that is the big thing to remember for these is so if there is a question that comes up and asks okay out of Hodkkins lymphoma which subtype would have the worst prognosis you would think lymphosy depleted which one has the best lymphosy rich that is what I want you to take away from this this has best prognosis this one has the worst prognosis and then for the nodular sclerosis it is the most common and primarily likes to hit the mediainal lymph nodes mixed cellularity rich in eosinaphils that's really what I want you to take away from all of these different subtypes. But what I also want you to take away is that the reed zerberg cell is the central focus. It's releasing cytoines that are causing inflammatory cells to come to the area and helping it to survive. Believe it or not, they all these different cells are secretreting cytoines to help the reader cells to continue to keep going and then eventually they build up in that lymph node in the germinal center and they enlarge that lymph node and then you get lympodopathy. All right. So then we get to the non-classical Hodkins lymphoma. With this one again remember this is 5%. This is 95%. With the classical, you have all these different subtypes. With non-class, it's really just one. It's nodule lymphosy predominant. And it's nothing crazy to remember here. It's just to remember that they have the popcorn cells. The popcorn cells also do release lots of cytoines, but they draw in tons and tons and tons of lymphocytes that really aggregate around these popcorn cells in a nodular fashion. And again, this is the key thing to take away from that. But whenever these cells kind of really acrue and accumulate inside of that lymph node and they really like to get into that germinal center, what's going to happen? It's going to cause it to get pretty enlarged. And what's the disease process that'll occur? You'll get enlargement of the lymph nodes which is called lympadenopathy. That's really the problematic issue that exists in this disease. All right. So what have we taken away from the pathofizz? The things to take away from the pathophys here is that the primary cell that is affected in hodkins lymphoma is the belymphosy not really the tly llymphosy. Where is it occurring? It's occurring in the lymph node. Where exactly is this process breaking down the germinal center? What was the process that occurred here originally? It was the antigen exposure in the mantle zone. Sematic hypermutation. That's where we kind of change a little bit of the actual receptors on the B cell surface. We go through the affinity selection process. If they don't have an affinity, they're supposed to die. But what if we don't allow them to die and they keep surviving? That's where we get these types of cells. If we have positive normal cell markers and absence of abnormal cell markers, it's popcorn cells. Then you have this type. If it's the presence of abnormal cell markers and the absence of normal cell markers and it has the allies, it's the Reed Sternberg cells. From there, look at the inflammatory background to look. If I said has lots of fibroblast and fibrous tissue, you would say nodular sclerosis. If I said it doesn't have a lot of lymphosytes, you would say lymphosy depleted has lots of lymphosytes, lymphosy rich. And if I said there's eocinophils and a bunch of other cells, mixed cellularity, all of them accumulate in the germinal center, enlarge it, and eventually lymphopathy. That's the key thing to take away. But the question that you have to start asking yourself here is what in the heck is making these cells not die? Why are they evading apoptosis? All right. So, what causes this, you know, evasion or decreasing of apoptosis when it's supposed to happen? There's not a lot of great reasons. What we think and has been associated about 50% of the cases we see in Hodkins lymphoma is EBV. So Epstein bar virus. This is maybe somewhere around 50% um of cases. So that's pretty significant, right? There's other potential eeteologies here. Um and I think it's just important to consider it, but believe it or not, it's kind of the same eeologies that we see to a degree in Hodkins that can cause nonhodkins. So it's not really a great thing of having a a complete distinction between the two. But another reason could be amunosuppression. So amunosuppress suppression could definitely be driving this process and we see this a lot in patients who have HIV you know AIDS. Now why exactly there could be some type of effect of these viruses on these B cells and causing mutations that help them to evade. It also could be because if you think about it, immunosuppressed patients, they have less tea cells. TE- cells are supposed to mitigate this process of helping us to kill cells that we don't really want around. And so, could that be a factor? It's hard to say. There's even a suggestion that there could be a family history. And so, patients who have siblings who have Hodkins lymphoma likely have a very high risk of having hotkin lymphoma as well. And so, there's a lot of different things, but I think these are the two big things to remember. Now, when we think about this, what could be the reason? It could be that these things are in some way, shape, or form. Let's just represent this. Let's say here I have these viruses. Let's say here I have these viruses. Could they be in some way, shape or form causing some type of mutation to occur? Right? Somehow they're causing an abnormality here. So here's my mutation. And these mutations in some way, shape or form are leading to the increased production of a very specific transcription factor which one we think it may be nuclear factor cappa beta. Now nuclear factor cappa beta is a transcription factor that is involved in regulating apoptosis. And if this is high, believe it or not, it actually tends to do what? Shut down apoptosis. And so this transcription factor may have the ability to do what? To actually inhibit apoptosis. And this is where we might start seeing this process occurring. Could there be other things that are really important to take away from this? Yes, what is kind of important is that Epstein bar virus it has been associated a little bit more with mixed cellularity and lymphosy depleted. And so that's one thing to take away. I'm not going to write that down because I don't think it's as high yield, but I think it might be something to consider that one of the big things that we see with Epstein bar virus is that this tends to really predominate within the mixed cellularity subtype as well as the lymphosy depleted subtype. But that's the big thing to take away from this is that there's a decrease in apoptosis. Why? It may be due to viruses. Epstein bar is the big one. Immun suppression is another one. And somehow this may be increasing the nuclear factor capabis. And this will just allow the cells to continue to survive. All right. From here, let's move on to the next point. The next point here is we have to start talking about what about non-hodkins lymphoma? What's different about with this one? What's the pathophysiology here? We'll talk about that now. So now we're going to talk about non-hodkkins lymphoma. So non-hodkkins, believe it or not, when we to compare uh hodgekin versus non-hodkin, the one that you would want to get is Hodgekin, but also non-hodkkins makes up a significant proportion. So probably somewhere around 60% of cases when a patient has lymphoma, it's more likely non-hodkin. Now non-hodkin can also have a little bit more of a poor prognosis though. All right, so depending upon which type they have, they could have a very aggressive type of lymphoma. So let's now say, okay, we've we've come to a situation. A patient comes in, they got lymphonopathy. They got a really big lymph node. You take a piece of that lymph node, you biopsy it. You see Reed Sternberg cells. It's the classical. You can also determine if it's popcorn cells. It's the non-class one. I can determine based upon the look of it as well as the cluster differentiation which one is classical and non-class. And if I do say it's classical, it could be the subtypes nodular scosis lymphosy rich lymphosy depleted. And then I can say if it's the popcorn cells that prize a very lymphosy predominant background, which would be that nodule lymphosy predominant. And I also told you that the reason why we see this is more likely in cases of Epstein bar virus infection amunosuppressed patients. What about non-hodkin? Non-hodkin it's kind of a similar concept where if you remember in hodkin it really only involved the belymphosytes and that's still the case here 85% of them are usually belymphosy related uh malignancy transformation but small cases 15% may be T- cell. So if you remember we take our lymphoid stem cell turn into a lymphoblast turn into a prolymphosy and then eventually make lymphosytes. So this could be our T lymphosy and this could be our belymphosy. Now from here when we've actually taken our our lymphoblast and eventually turned it into these types of cells. What happens? Well we already talked about a little bit. It'll go to the thymus if it's a tlymphosy. When it goes to the thymus it's supposed to mature. And when it mature it should pop out specific types of cells. Maybe it becomes a CD8 positive cell. Maybe it becomes a CD4 positive cell. Either way, you've made a relatively mature cell. In this case, we're not going to talk about the cytotoxic tea cells. We're going to talk about the more prevalent one, which is the CD4 positive cell. Now, in T- cell lymphoma, when I pop out these types of CD4 positive cells, they really undergo malignant transformation at different parts of the body. So, it's not really in the thymus that they undergo their malignant transformation. they can undergo malignant transformation in the skin or in the peripheral tissues and that's kind of how we really determine the type of T- cell lymphoma. Now let's say here I have this CD4 cell and it underos malignant transformation. When we do that and we actually were to biopsy this tissue of where it's affecting and we take it out of the blood or we take it out of the tissue and we look at the cell one of the big things about this is that the nucleus has a very characteristic look to it and it's actually kind of high yield to know this. So when I look at these son of Agon, when I look at these cells, the type of cell that I really want to look for on these CD4 positive cells is I want to see what's called a cerebraform nuclei. I want to look for this cerebraform nucleus. And if I see that, that definitely tells me it's more likely a cutaneous TE-C cell lymphoma. Let me explain what I mean. These CD4 positive cells with the cerebr nucleus, they love the skin. They tend to hone in the skin. And so here this guy is going to go and deposit in the skin. And when it deposits in the skin, it can actually cause this malignant process where it can form like little poutri microabscesses and cause a lot of skin lesions. If it does that where it leads to skin lesions only. So you only get skin lesions and it really deposits here and causes these nasty plaques that we'll show you guys a little bit later and the complications. Then we're talking about a T- cell lymphoma that's primarily staying in the skin and this is called micosis fungi. So if the primary TE-C cell that we're taking has the cerebroform nucleus and it's only causing disease in the skin and it's not dissimated into the bloodstream yet it's called micosis fungi. When that TE-C cell decides to leave the skin and enter into the bloodstream and become more of a leukemic type that's a different one. So now this one is it disseminates. Now once this disseminates and this gets into the bloodstream we're then called a different type of cutaneous T cell lymphoma. Believe it or not, it's called Cesari. So it's this is from a French dermatologist, but we found that this cutaneous type of T cell lymphoma starts off with skin lesions disseminates into the bloodstream and now it's actually kind of a more disseminated cutaneous T- cell lymphoma. So if I say it stays in the skin, the abnormal malignant tea cells which have the cerebrucleus, you would say micosis fungi. If I said it got into the bloodstream, it can still cause skin lesions, but now it's in the blood and it goes to other organs. You say cesari. All right, I like that little cesar. Now from here the next point is what if I have another type of malignant transformation but this type of T- cell it really only malignaturely transforms when it's infected. You know there's a type of infection that's really high yield here. It's called HTLV1. It's the human T- cell lymphotropic virus. Usually you see this in like the Japan time uh usually in the Japan area. I like to remember this with um the HTLV T for Tokyo. It's a type of T- cell lymphoma that we see more within the Japanese culture and even in the Caribbean. But this type of infection, what it does is it'll infect these CD4 cells and it'll make them become malignant. It'll malignantly transform them. And when you actually look at their nuclei, one of the big ways of telling them apart from this one is they have a flower-like nuclei. Now what happens is these CD4 cells once they've been malignantly transformed by this infection, they get into the bloodstream and they can go all over the place. They can they can go to the skin, they can go to the lymph nodes, they can go to the bone, they can go to the liver, they can go to the spleen. They can cause a lot of problems. But this type is called adult TE-C cell leukemia/ymphoma. So when a patient has T- cell lymphoma remember it's a small percentage maybe 15% of cases who have non-hodkin lymphoma is going to be T- cell lymphoma mediated the two types is does it have a flower-like nucleus it could be a peripheral one especially if there's an infection or does it have the cerebopform nucleus that's more of a cutaneous telmphoma is it in the skin it's micosis fungi is it disseminated from the skin in the blood that's cesari syndrome does it have the flower-like nuclei and it's in the blood it's actually has that history of an HTLV1 one infection that's adult T- cell leukemia/ymphoma. Now big thing to remember here is once we actually have these cells especially cesari and a acute t adult T- cell leukemia/ymphoma these cells like to go to the lymph nodes. So that's one of the things you can actually remember there's a triad for cesari syndrome which is you have these disseminated in the bloodstream they have lympadenopathy and they have a cerebraform nucleus and they have these skin lesions too. So adult Tilukemia/ymphoma is you're going to have these malignant tea cells who have the infection of HDLV1 but they're going to go to the lymph nodes and they're going to cause the enlargement of these lymph nodes and you're going to get as a result here lymphadenopathy. So from here we've discussed the T-C cell type all right that's a small percentage the big percentage here is the belymphosy type. So here you guys probably remember I told you the blymphosytes will go to the germinal center to undergo their proliferation process maturation process and from here we'll either make two types of cells one is we'll make the plasma cells who will design to produce antibodies or we'll make the memory B cells well and you guys remember where that process really actually occurs. Well, if you guys remember, we have the different zones. We're not going to go super crazy because we've already worked hard on this, but the first outer zone is going to be the marginal zone. What was this zone really, really important for? And don't say absolutely nothing. Say it was really, really important because this was where you had the class switching where you determined it to become a centracy to a memory B cell or a plasma cell. What was this one? This was called the mantle zone. And what was the mantle zone good for? This was for the antigen exposure. So this is where you took the actual naive B cell, exposed it to an antigen and allowed for it to say, okay, I'm going to move into the germinal center and under or germinal zone and undergo sematic hypermutation. And what was this most inner portion here? This is called the germinal zone. And this is where we had the centro blast undergoing sematic hypermutation and undergoing the process of selection where they determine if you want them to have an affinity for an antigen or no affinity for an antigen. Right? That was really really important. So when we take this B cell, it's really important to remember that this guy is going to go where? It's going to first go here. Just let's quick remind ourselves. I'm going to abbreviate it A. So antigen exposure at this point. What do we use? We use this little color here. Here's all our little antigens for this B cell. It'll then interact at this point. Come out, express it. Here's our central blast. The central blast will have all of these different types of B cell receptors. It'll undergo sematic hypermutation. When it under goes the sematic hypermutation, it changes its structure so it can identify different types of antigens. From here then what happens after we undergo sematic hyper mutation? It then becomes a what? It'll then undergo proliferation and turn into the central blast. And the central blast will then go through the selection process. When it goes through the selection process, it'll either go to become a centro site or it will die. And that was called apoptosis. And how was that dependent? It was dependent upon the antigen exposure. If you have a strong affinity, you go here. If you have a low affinity, you go here. Right? So we'll put here a very low affinity, a very high affinity for the antigen. This means that you did a good job with the sematic hyper mutation. This means that you did a poor job and this is not a cell that I would want to have around. Then from here the centroite will have to go undergo this process where we'll come out here in the marginal zone. What kind of cells are out here which are going to help it with that process. Do you guys remember these were our T- cells? Especially the CD4 type the centroite. Now that it's undergone this process where it's really good at identifying antigens, I need it to switch its antibodies. So then from here, where should it go? It should go into the marginal zone where it'll interact here with the CD4 cells. And after it does that, it should switch all of its antibodies and determine which one we want to be. Do we want to become a cell that expresses those antibodies on its surface or do we want to be a cell that secretes those antibodies outwards? and makes these different types of antibodies or express them on the surface. And do you guys remember what this was? This was a memory B cell and this was a plasma cell. Now, I just wanted to show you guys something of why this is actually kind of cool to think about this with heem. There's so many ways that you can kind of tie things together. Do you guys remember what was the disorder when we have malignancies of plasma cells? Multiple myoma, right? And then sometimes you can have one in between where it's actually kind of still lymphosy but it's becoming a plasma cell. What was that one called? Walden's macro global anemia. So you can have malignancies that are extending beyond lymphoma that can actually occur in the lymph node. That's why it's kind of important to talk about this stuff. All right. But here what was this process here where we undergo this? This was called class switching. Now, you're probably like, "Okay, Zach, we already did a lot of this stuff. Why did you repeat it?" I want to repeat it a little bit because it's good to remind yourself, but also more importantly, malignancies occur in specific zones and that determines the type of non-hodma. If I say that the malignancy occurred in the antigen exposure zone, what was that zone again? It was the mantle zone. And if that malignancy occurs here and I get a abnormal cell. So here's my malignant transformation. Here's where the malignancy occurs. So the malignant transformation occurs here in the mantle zone. What kind of uh lymphoma would I get? Well, we're going to give it the name based upon the zone. This is called mantal cell lymphoma. It's called mantle cell lymphoma. Now from here mantle cell lymphoma we'll see how this actually happens. It's usually due to a genetic mutation that causes a chromosomeal transllocation. So we're switching genetic material from one chromosome to the other making the cell able to proliferate very very aggressively and rapidly in the mantle zone. That's the big thing to remember. Now what if it happens here in the germinal zone? So if the actual abnormality is occurring here in the germinal zone, what's this one called? Well, there's not a specific name for the majority of them. Uh malignant transformation here. This is going to make a bunch of different types. So if you have this malignant transformation and it makes these cells, this could be a couple different types. One is if it occurs in the germinal zone, it could become follicular lymphoma. If it occurs in the germinal zone, it could be diffuse large bell lymphoma. If it occurs in the germinal zone, it could be burket lymphoma. Now, you're probably asking the question, how would I identify the difference between these two? There is hisytological differences. This one causes a big big chunky nodules to form in the follicle. This makes really large atypical B cells. And this one gives a starry sky appearance. But there's other things that we can use to identify that such as chromosomeal transllocations. This has a different chromosomal transllocation from this one and this one and this one. So we'll talk about these things but again it's really really important to remember that you can identify these based upon the zone. So if it have mantle zone mantle cell lymphoma if it affects the germinal zone it could be any of these. One really important thing to remember is that with follicular lymphoma is that this we'll talk about this a little bit later in the lympadenopathy section but this can cause a very indolent course where the patient doesn't really get as an aggressive form but it has the capability of transforming into a diffuse large B cell. So I want to highlight what is that called when I have the capability of this one transforming into this one. Do you guys remember we talked about a little bit in the leukemia lecture? It was called a recctor transformation. So it was called a recctor. It was particularly with CLLL. It's called a recctor transformation where you can have a patient who has felicular lymphoma. One of the characteristic things about u follicular lymphoma is that it has more of a kind of a waxing waning lymphopathy that's not super severe and then all of a sudden lymph nodes get huge. Get all lymph nodes all over getting big. They get worse B symptoms. They get super high LDH and it converted from a follicular lymphoma to a diffused large B celloma. This is the most common type of non-hodkin lymphoma. So we talk about commonality here. This is the most common when in B cells in general. B celloma in general is about how much? 85% of the cases of non-hotkinoma 15% for T- cell. But when we talk about the most common of all, it's this one. All right, last zone. If I have a malignancy that's occurring in this zone, what's happening here? Class switching. What would this one become? It's dependent upon that zone. You'd love if this whole thing was called germinal like zone lymphoma, but it's not. So, we get different names for the germinal zones, but this one is called marginal zone lymphoma. This one is the only one that really doesn't depend upon a chromosomal transllocation. You can have that present, but it's not the primary one. This one is actually very interesting. It could be due to chronic antigen stimulation and we'll talk about what that looks like a little bit later. This is usually we see in autoimmune diseases or in a patient who has H pylori infections. Now real quick when we think about these B cell and T- cell I told you for Hodgekin you could identify if it's pretty much always B cell in this case it could be B cell or it could be T- cell. How do I identify if it's a B cell lymphoma versus a T- cell? And don't just say, "Oh, I can look at the microscope." You can, but there's other testing. You notice there's orange proteins on these cells and then pink proteins on these cells. That tells me something. For these cells, for T- cell lymphoma, it's almost always CD3 and CD4 positive. They're almost always positive for these. It could be any from CD2 to CD8, but this is going to be the most common ones that would really highlight if it's a T- cell lymphoma. So, if I have a patient who comes in lympodinopathy, I get a biopsy, I look at the cells, it's hard to tell. I throw them through the aminotochemistry and it comes up CD3 CD4 positive, I know it's a T- cell lymphoma. But if it comes back and I see these proteins here where it could be CD, sorry, positive 4, CD19 or CD20. That's my B cell markers. CD19 and CD 20. Same thing over here. Positive 4 CD 19 CD 20. So if these are both having if I see that that's the case. This would tell me if I have a B cell lymphoma or a T- cell lymphoma. All right. So right away lymphodenopathy look at the imunohistochemistry. If it comes up CD1920 positive it's B cell. If it comes up CD3 and 4 it's T- cell. From there you determine okay is it skin or is it disseminated? Is there infection and multiorgan involvement? From here I take a look I have CD1920. I know it's a B cell lymphoma but which type? I'd have to look at microscopy. I'd have to look at all the different types of transllocations. And that's where it can get kind of tough. So here's what I want you guys to do. This one's easy because we can differentiate it based upon clinical presentation. This one's not always easy to differentiate based upon clinical presentation. We have to differentiate these based upon causes. With that being said, all of these can again really really hit that lymph node hard, man. And it can really cause a lot of enlargement of the lymph node. So again, this one more the mantle zone. These are all going to be in that germinal zone that they're going to be enlarging in. And this is going to be primarily in the marginal zone. And if these all occur or some of them occur here, what are we going to get? We're going to get a real significant enlargement of that germinal center regardless. And that's going to cause an enlargement to the lymph node as a whole. And what is that called? That is called lympadenopathy. So you're getting the point here is that the big picture to take away from this is that all of them can cause lympadenopathy. It may depend upon the particular areas that it occurs and the characteristics of how it actually spreads, but they're all going to have lympadenopathy. From here, now let's do this. Let's actually say what are the ways that we could differentiate all of these different types of non-hodkin lymphoma subtypes, particularly within the B cell lymphoma category. All right. So, we have to ask ourselves the question, what in the world caused these T- cells or B cells to malignantly transform? Whether that's in the cutaneous tissue, whether that's in the periphery, whether that's in the germinal zone, the mantle zone, the marginal zone. Really, what a lot of it comes down to is their transllocations or mutations, whatever it may be, that's causing a decrease in apoptosis in certain types and an increased proliferation in the other types. Now, here's the big thing to remember when you think about causes of decreased apoptosis. This is going to lead to what? Well, there's a couple different things. One is this is usually people who express lots of what's called BCL2. So, this is the primary like kind of like apoptoic gene if you really want to think about this one or the anti-apoptic gene. And patients who express lots of this BCL2 that really decreases your apoptosis. All right. Other ones that could be relevant to a degree could be notched too, but I'm not going to go too crazy on that one. Um, but this is the big one. This is the big one. Now, in this scenario, there could be other scenarios, but this is going to lead to your indolent. This is going to lead to your indolent lymphas. And what I mean by that is indolent lymphas can be broken down into two types. One is follicular lymphoma and the other one is called marginal zone lymphoma. With the marginal zone, we don't really think that this is due to the BCL2. I'll talk about a little bit later. There could be other mutations involved in this one. There could be like a malt gene that's abnormal. I'll just write that down. and there could be an abnormality in what's called a malt one gene. But it also is probably more related to autoimmune diseases. But either way, in these scenarios, if you have these types of problems where there's a decrease in apoptosis, these cells, they don't proliferate a lot. They just don't die. And so they can continue to grow slowly and over time and gradually they'll cause enlargement, but they're not going to be super aggressive and super high-grade really quickly. So that's really important to remember. This is going to be your two less severe types of lymphoma. If that's causing lots of proliferation, these cells are proliferating like like dang rabbits in the in the lymph node. That's where you're going to get problems. This could be due to things like CYC overexpression. It could be due to BCL 6 overexpression. It could be due to Cycl D overexpression. There could be so many different things, but it's likely that these are the ones that are overexpressed. And what these are doing is they're causing your cells to proliferate and continue to grow and grow and grow. This is going to lead to super aggressive highgrade lymphas. Aggressive lymphoma. These are the ones that are going to, you know, cause the patient to get higher chance of them not like having survival, right? What would these ones be? This would be your mantle cell. This one is very very aggressive. probably out of all of them, this is probably the most aggressive one. And then after that, you have your diffuse large B cell lymphoma and then you have your burket lymphoma. These are going to be the most aggressive types. And so they have a chance to not only involve lymph nodes, but to spread in the bloodstream and go and infect other go and infect other organs, the bone, the central nervous system, the bone marrow, the git, all over the place. and they can really wreak havoc. So when you have non-hodkin lymphoma, you really kind of want the ones where you have a slow growing process, not a highgrade replicating process. Now let's say here is the genes that are going to be doing this process. Again, it could be the BCL2, there could be notch 2, there could be malt one, all these different things. This is going to be the genes who you're trying to do what you're shutting down. So this is your apoptosis genes. And this is going to be your proliferation genes. Technically, we have what's called like tumor suppressor and protoonco genes. I'm just really simplifying it here. In this scenario, we're trying to inhibit these and stimulate these. And then these will help to make transcription factors that will help to drive that process. You have to figure out in this thing here is what's really kind of causing this. And it's usually genetic. All right? It's usually genetic. And so this is where I think most students get super stressed out and they're like, "Oh my gosh, how am I supposed to remember all of these? A lot of the time 14 is involved in some way, shape, or form." And I'm going to help you guys to come up with a little interesting way to remember these. So most of the time there's something being swapped. And usually on chromosome number 14 is the big one. On chromosome number 14, what I want you to remember is there's what's called the amunog globulin heavy chain like enhancer gene. And that's really particular to our B cells. A lot of the times what we're doing is we're swapping genetic material from one other chromosome to that amunoglobulin heavy chain. And what happens is when you swap it to the IG gene, it really enhances that process and you proliferate. We just have to figure out what thing are we passing over to the imunogloabbulin heavy chain to form this fusion gene. And this fusion gene is what's then regulating the apoptosis process or the proliferation process. So, let's go through that. The first one is if I see 314. So, I'm going to go down the order here. 3 8 114 and this little random one. I don't want to go too crazy on this one. I just want to briefly, and I mean briefly, mention it because it really doesn't belong in this group, but sometimes you can get tested on it, but it's rare. 3 8114. I'm going to go down. All right. So, 314 is I'm going to translate transllocate a specific gene on chromosome 3 to chromosome 14. I'm actually transferring the BCL6. So what this does is is this actually transllocates the BCL6 and so I upregulate the Bcl6 gene. And this was doing what? It was increasing proliferation. If I increase proliferation, guess which one this one leads me to? This one leads to the most common type of non-hodkin lymphoma. What is that one? Diffuse large B cell lymphoma. That's how we would differentiate. So if I, for example, lymphadenopathy, take a biopsy. You take that biopsy, you look at them, you're like, "Okay, I can kind of tell which one it is, but let me figure out if it's B or T." How do I do that? I look at the CDs. If the CD 1920, it's B cell. If it's CD34, it's T- cell. From there, I say, okay, it's B cell. How do I know if it's mantle? How do I know if it's in the germanal zone or how do I know if it's in the marginal zone? I can kind of take a look at it, but what's another way? Look at the transllocation. If I have 314 and an increase in the BCL6 and I have really large atypical B cells on biopsy, it's the few large B celluloma. If I see this one 814, this one is going to increase the expression of what's called C uh MYC gene. This is the MC gene. This one is a super proliferative gene. And in that case, I will get which one? Burket lymphoma. This is called burket lymphoma. Now I'll add this up on the top a little bit later but diffuse large visel lymphoma and burka lymphoma are both highly highly associated with HIV and Epstein bar virus. So I want to add that here because both of these super super highly associated with Epstein bar virus and HIV/ AIDS. All right. Now there is for burket lymphoma there's actually two types there's a sporadic form where you just get this mutation and you don't have any driving factor and that's what we see in the US but in other areas of endemic processes such as in Africa or maybe South America we may see the Epstein bar the HIV AIDS actually contributing to this transllocation so remember if it's the sporadic form it's not really associated with this but if it's the endemic form for bergal lymphoma it's definitely associated with these but again these are probably in some way shape or form contributing to these transllocations. All right. Now 11:114 this is mantle. It's going to be me. So this one's going to be the mantle cell. This one actually increases the cycl D gene. So the cycl D gene is really really powerful protoonco gene and you're going to get an excessive amount of proliferation. You're probably going to get one of the most aggressive forms of non-hodklly lymphoma. So this is called mantal cell lymphoma. mental celloma really doesn't have any association with EBV HIV AIDS only these two big ones have that association the 1418 I remember 14 follicular so this one is going to increase the expression of what did I tell you was follicular the BCL2 so you'll have an increased expression of BCL2 and that BCL2 will lead to which one follicular lymphoma now all of these were protoonos they're going to cause proliferation this one is going to do what it's going to evade apops are it's going to help to decrease apoptosis so you just keep surviving you get those zombie cells this is follicular lymphoma and again not really associated with HIV AIDS EBV anything like that all right so the last one is 1118 I box it off because it's not as high yield as these other ones this is one that you can see it but it's not as high yield as these this could be associated with uh there's like a malt one gene that I was talking about it can actually cause a burke 3 malt one gene fusion protein is not super high yield. I don't think it's really worth remembering just to know that it can be associated with marginal zoloma. I'm going to abbreviate this M ZL. Now, the big thing I want you to remember with marginal zolyoma is that it's highly associated with autoimmune diseases. That's what I want you really to take away from this. Not as much so with the the the transllocations. So, for example, if a patient has chronic antigen stimulation, especially like let's say in the thyroid. So in Hashimoto's thyroiditis, this causes chronic inflammation of what? Of the thyroid. Remember, you're going to have the antibodies that are attacking the thyroid, right? You're going to have all the anti-TPO and antiyrogal antibodies that are destroying this thing. And what happens is it gets chronic inflammation. That chronic inflammation can then lead to the nearby tissue like the lymphatic tissue around the thyroid gland causing the B cells in that lymphatic tissue to become chronically activated and over that chronic inflammation they eventually can undergo mutations. Another one is salivary glands. So this one's called shogrin syndrome. So shrin syndrome is primarily affecting your salivary glands like your parotted your submandibular salivary glands. And this one again you're having auto antibodies. So different types of auto antibodies are attacking the salivary glands especially the parotted glands and they're getting inflamed and the nearby lymphatic tissue where the belymphosytes reside can get activated and they can undergo mutations. This can activate those B cells to undergo malignant transformation in the marginal zone and become marginal zone lymphoma. But this is the most important one. and patients who have peptic ulcer disease due to H pylori positive peptic ulcer disease or gastritis. It could be pepic ulcer disease or gastritis either one. But they have this H pylori that's causing constant inflammation of the stomach. There is associated lymphatic tissue malt tissue is what we call it. Mucosa associated lymphatic tissue that's around the stomach. If this H pylori causes that chronic antigen stimulation, it can activate those B cells in the marginal zone nearby cause them to become inflamed and eventually this can turn into a lymphoma. These are technically called malttoomas. All right? So they're called malttoomas. And so that's really what's associated with marginaliz malto. So they have presence of maltoas. The most important one to take away from this is the h pylori because this is one of those where you could actually have a patient who has lymphoma and if it is due to this type of process, guess what you can do? You can give them quadruple therapy. the PPI, the bismouth sub salicyellate. You can give them a moxicil and a metroniditool and they'll get better. You don't really have to maybe treat them with chemotherapy. That's why this is really really important to remember this. All these other ones you're probably going to have to go undergo pretty aggressive chemotherapy, but this is one where you could actually treat them for this and they don't need to undergo that. That's why it's so important to remember. All right. So, taking away from all of this before we move into the complications is a non-hodkin lymphoma can be T or B. you differentiate that based upon the cluster differentiation proteins. Again, also really important to remember is they have these different lymph uh mutations that occur in certain areas of the lymph node. Depending upon the area determines the type of B cell lymphoma and then again the reason that they undergo malignant transformation and turn into all these different types of bell lymphomas is dependent upon the chromosomal transllocations. Remember 314 diffuse 814 burket 1114 mantle 1418 follicular can have it associated don't think about it autoimmune diseases especially h pylori for marginal lymphoma again indolant is the ones with apoptoic genes being underexpressed the aggressive ones are where you have the protooncoins heavily expressed all right let's now go into the complications all right my friends so we now talked about a patient coming in with lymphodonopathy and we can obviously get to the point where we think that they probably have lymphoma um we just have to differentiate if Hodgekin versus non-hodkkins, right? And again, once you determine if it is Hodgekin versus nonhodkins, you then can kind of start branching into the subtypes. But I think that's the biggest thing is to determine if it's Hodgekin versus nonhodkins. And not only would you be able to tell that based upon the presence of Reed Sternberg cells who are, guess what? CD1530 positive, CD 2045 negative. Guess what these cells are for non-hodkins? Do you guys remember? They were CD1920 positive and they would be CD1530 negative. And so that's one easy way is the presence of Reed Sternberg cells or not can really determine if it's Hodkdin versus nonhodkins. But there's other clinical features on your exams that you have to be able to recognize. One of the big things here is when we think about lympodinopathy is that for um Hodkin lymphoma it's really important to remember that this is more localized. All right it's more localized and it's also not diffuse. Right? Whereas non-hodkkins lymphoma is extremely diffuse. It's widespread. And the other thing that's also really important about the lympodinopathy is that with hot lymphoma it tends to really love specific lymph nodes and it's really the cervical that is going to be by far the most common whereas nonhotkin lymphoma it can really hit any of them. I mean it definitely involves a cervical but it's going to go everywhere. That's the other thing with hodkin lymphoma it's more predictable and contiguous. This is non-ontiguous. Now you're probably like I mean may maybe you don't but you're probably like what does that mean to be contiguous versus non-ontiguous and all that means is is that when you look at the the the predictable or non-predictable fashion in which they spread so let's say for example here I start with hodgekin lymphoma it loves to involve the cervical lymph nodes that's the most common all right non-hodkkins can definitely involve the cervical lymph nodes but here's where it's going to be different with hodkin lymphoma It spreads in a predictable manner. So where would it go from here? Well, it would probably move here to the superclavicular or it could move down here into the mediainal lymph nodes. Then from the superclavicular it could move to the axillary. From here from the medastinal it could move down into the abdominal and then into the inguinal. So the predictability is what's the key. So it can move from cervical, superclavicular, axillary, medastinal, then you get into all the abdominal lymph nodes and then here and the lymph nodes. It's not like that with nonh hotkins. You could have cervical, you could have inguinal, you could have abdominal, and you could have mediastinal all at the same time. So it doesn't move in a predictable fashion. That's the key differences here. Diffuse meaning you could have cervical and ingueninal and they're like wait where's the in between? It's supposed to move in a predictable fashion. That's the key. So let's pretend here that I have medastininal and I don't have any I don't have it um I go cervical medastinal all of a sudden I'm here in the ual region. You see the point here? This always moves in a predictable fashion. This can start one place and go completely different or I could have it over here in the cervical and it go straight to the axillary. So you get the point. It's non-ontiguous. The other thing that's really really important here is that when you actually take a patient, let's say it has cervical lympanopathy and you have them drink alcohol, there's a big difference here. This is weird. It only happens maybe 10% but and it's highly specific for Hodgkin is if you have a patient who uh drinks alcohol and they have lympodopathy, it'll cause pain. So there's alcohol induced lymph node pain and if that is present it's a rare finding but it's highly specific for hodkin lymphoma. So that's one thing to definitely think about whereas a non-hodkins lymphoma they don't have that alcohol induced lymph node pain. So when you think about this here's the way I want you to think about lympadenopathy. It's enlargement of the lymph nodes. And usually this enlargement when you think about these they're painless. It's rubbery and it's usually going to have a patient who if it's hodgekin it's localized to the cervical region and it will spread contiguously. It'll go down through those lymph node chains. If it's non-hodkin it can occur in the cervical but you could have cervical and you could have inguinal be like how the heck did I get from here to here? Or you could be cervical and it could all go all the way to the axillary. So you're trying to see how there's no connection between the two. The other one is if you drink alcohol and it produces pain lymph node, it's more specific for hodgekin. It's not specific for non-hodkin. That's the way I want you to think about this one. Let's come to the mediainal mass because that's another presentation. It kind of just comes down to the mediainal lymph nodes. It's nothing really to do with the thymus as we talked about in acute link lymphoplastic leukemia. This scenario you have lymph nodes that are present in your anterior your middle mediainum. And so in Hodgekin lymphoma, do you remember this is a good test. What was the subtype of classical Hodgekin lymphoma that loves the mediainal lymph nodes? It was nodular sclerosis. So this is most seen in nodular sclerosis. All right, that's one big thing. Non-Hodgkins, we don't really see this being that bad unless it's pretty aggressive. So we see this more in the aggressive or highgrade non-hodkin lymphoma. That's really the big difference here. So you'd see this more in the diffused large B cell lymphoma, the mantle cell lymphoma, the burket lymphoma. You wouldn't really see this as much in the follicular and you wouldn't really see this as much in the marginal zone. For Hodkin lymphoma, it's usually incidental finding. It's usually an incidental finding. It's not too common for this one to cause too many symptoms. So 50% of the time your patient's going and getting a chest X-ray or a CT scan, right? So EG is meaning that what's the example of this? They're getting a chest X-ray. They're getting a CT scan for something else. And all of a sudden we say, oh wow, they got they got some medinal mass. Their lymph nodes are really really big in the media that we we might work that up, biopsy it, and say, "Oh, they have Hodkin lymphoma, nodular scerosis subtype." non-hodkin it can actually cause pretty severe symptoms because they can get pretty big and they can cause pretty severe compressive symptoms and this is usually due to the mass effect. All right, so this is due to the mass effect of that medastinal mass. So think about this for a sec a second. Let's say that you have these medastinal lymph nodes. They get pretty big and as you have this we're going to call this medastinal lympadinopathy. it gets big enough that it can actually start compressing on nearby structures. So let's say here it compresses into the trachea. If you compress on the trachea, what's that going to do? So if you have tracheal compression, this could cause disna. It may be hard to take air in. So it can cause dysnia. And if it's a little bit higher, sometimes it can even cause a whistling sound during inspiration. What's that called? Strider. So it can also maybe cause strider. What if um in this scenario it's big enough that it starts compressing on the esophagus? So here we see it compressing on the trachea. What if it's big enough that it's compressing on the esophagus? What could that do? Well, if we compress on the esophagus, this may cause dysphasia. So you really want to watch out for that. So if there's compression of the esophagus, it may cause dysphasia. If it's compression of the trachea, it may cause disnia or strider. Here's the scary one. if it starts to compress on the super vennea. Now the super vennea is supposed to bring blood back to the right atrium. But if it doesn't, what could that lead to? This could lead to superior vennea syndrome. So this could lead to superior vennea syndrome. Now superior vennea syndrome can look a couple different ways. Let's imagine for a second here. Let's say that you compress the superior vennea. The blood can't go from the super vennea to the right atrium. So what's it going to do? It's going to backflow. If it backflows, it's going to backflow into two channels because you have the super vennea made up of the brachioalics. Brachioalics are made up of the internal jugular and the subclavian vein joining. So if there's increased backflow of the internal jugular vein or there is backflow of the subclavian vein, what's that going to look like? Well, if you get this backflow of the internal jugular vein, it's going to cause the neck to get distended, the face to get enlarged. So, this can lead to neck and face distension and it may even cause some of the neck veins to become a little bit more bulged out. All right, so that's one thing to consider. The other thing is for the backflow of the superior uh the subclavian vein. If it backflows from the subclavian vein, this may cause arm and chest distension and swelling. So here let's actually say neck face swelling and the associated veins that may be in these areas. You may have some jugular vein distension. You may have some um some uh syphalic or maybe even some basillic vein popping. And the other thing is that they have a bluish hue. So they may have like a slight bluish hue to the skin. This is usually what we would see in a classic case of super venneava syndrome. It actually looks a little bit like this. So we see in this patient who has super venneava syndrome, they'll have a lot of swelling from compression of that super vennea. What's the biggest concern? What I would actually be worried about and this is what I would really dedicate as an emergency because technically we consider supervoca syndrome an oncologic emergency. I would say it's truly only an emergency under certain circumstances. One is that you have a increase in the ICP. Think about this guys. Think about it. The jugular vein is going to drain the cerebral venus sinuses in the brain. bring the blood down eventually to the super venicave in the right heart. What if a patient already has higher intraanial pressure and you clog off their jugular vein? You can impede that jugular venous transient, increase their ICP more. That's an emergency and I got to deal with that quick. Another one is hypotension. So low blood pressure. Think about this. What's the super vennea supposed to do? Supposed to bring blood venus return to the right heart. If you compress it enough that you don't get venus return, that could be a problem. But also if the mediastinal adenopathy is big enough that it's compressing on the heart you can get kind of like a cardiac tamponod picture that needs to be addressed. And then lastly is if you have luringial edema. This is because in a patient who has this internal jugular vein backflowing, it can actually kind of go backwards into some of these actual like anastmosis around the veins around the neck and they can actually leak out and cause the larynx to become super super swollen and a patient go into respiratory distress. These are the things that I need you guys to consider. This is more of an urgency. This is an emergency. Again, what are you going to see meinal masses more common in? You'll probably see them more often to be honest with you in Hodgekin lymphoma. That's going to be the more common one, but it's really important to remember it's only in the subtype and oftent times they're pretty much asymptomatic. If they do, they may get a little bit of this dysnia, they may get a little bit of dysphasia, but they often times don't have the true superior vennea syndrome. In nonhot lymphoma, it's not as common, but you're going to see it in the aggressive subtypes. And if they do have it, it usually presents with more severe symptoms. That's the difference to take away from it. All right. Lymphonopathy is different between these two. Mediaininal lymphonopathy is different between these two. What else is another thing to differentiate between the two? Let's go to the next part. All right. So, B symptoms is another potential presentation that we can think about in like lymphoma. So, it's important to distinguish these from uh each other. So, again, particularly Hodgkins lymphoma. This one will be B symptoms that are going to be way more common. You just tend to see this a little bit more commonly with Hodkin lymphoma. So, it's definitely going to be more common. Now, non-hod lymphoma, it can occur, but it's usually more in the aggressive subtypes. With Hodkin lymphoma, one of the big things that you have to remember is B symptoms is usually classified as like fevers, night sweats, and weight loss. Usually, it's like greater than 10% of your weight within like a 6 to 12 month period is how we would consider that. One of the other things are really important to remember here is that Hodily can actually have more of a periodic or cyclical type of presentation. We call that a Pelp Epstein fever. Whereas you will not see any type of cyclical or you know fluctuating types of like B symptoms in a patient with non-hodkin lymphoma. So there will not be any presence of this pel Epstein fever. So that's ways that we could potentially differentiate these two. Now with B symptoms, the concept behind this is that either you have Reed Sternberg cells or malignant lymphocytes and they're producing particular cytoines they could be making things like interlucan one tumor necrotic factor alpha uh interlucan 6 and they're pumping these things out man. So these cells here that are formed within the lymph nodes are pumping out these potential cytoines. What we know is that some of these cytoines are pyrogenic and so they love to go to the hypothalamus, especially these. They're going to go target the hypothalamus and they're going to tell the hypothalamus to reset its thermostat. And this is going to lead to fevers and night sweats. And it's also going to target the hypothalamus hunger center. and it's going to change the patient's satiety to be having a early satiety or they're not going to want to have the desire to eat and this can lead to weight loss. This is the way that we often times see this type of presentation is the hypothalamic activation that leads to the fevers and night sweats from the body's thorac being upregulated and then weight loss due to early satiation. So, we're going to activate the satiety centers. Another thing here is when a patient has fevers and night sweats and weight loss, we get worried potentially could there be an underlying like infection or an inflammatory process going on. One of the other things that we see with uh this is that interlucan 6 also is a very strong stimulator of the liver and it can act on the liver and increases the liver's production of acute phase reactant proteins. And so another thing that you actually may see in these diseases, it's not really critical that you test for it, but you may see an increase in their CRP. And since there's a lot more proteins, they can bind onto the red cells and weigh the red cells down during the sedimentation rate. And so you may see an elevated CRP and elevated ESR. So these are indications of acute phase reactant proteins. That's what's really important to remember is that you can have fevers, night sweats, weight loss, elevated acute phase reactant proteins, and this could suggest B symptoms that we can see in patients with lymphoma. It's more common in hodgekin, less common in non-hodkin unless it's the aggressive subtype. One can be cyclical where you can have two weeks on where you have these symptoms and then two weeks off and then back on to two weeks and you could see that potentially with hodgekin. You will not see that with a non-hodkkins. It's more continuous. All right, that covers the B symptoms. Let's move into the next thing which we are really really need to talk about which is the extra nodal disease. So it's when these actual malignant lymphosytes or reern cells invade tissues beyond the lymph nodes such as the CNS, the skin, the git etc. All right. So now let's move on to extra nodal disease. This is very very common in non-hodkkins lymphoma. So that's what I really want you to take away from this. So kind of as we continue to build and build upon our differentiating factors, we know that non-hodkkins lymphoma is usually diffuse lymphodenopathy. It's not contiguous. There's usually no alcohol induced pain associated with that. They have B symptoms that are usually in the aggressive subtypes. They can have mediainal masses. If they do, it's going to cause definite symptomatic presentation and they have extra nodal disease. While that is being said for Hodgekin lymphoma, it's extremely rare. It's not common for Hodgekin lymphoma to involve extra nodal tissues that will cause again more of the localized ad lympopathy. That is a predictable fashion in which it spreads. It is associated with alcohol-induced pain. They do have B symptoms that are going to be more common and they can potentially be cyclical. they can have mediainal masses that we may never know about and it may be incidental findings but if we look for extra nodal disease we aren't often going to find that now with that being said it still can happen so let's think about the extra nodal tissues that are most commonly affected with a couple other little perks that I need to discuss along the way now let's say here I have this malignant tissue that's consist of tons and tons of lymphosytes these things can go and spread and let's say it spreads to the central nervous system and invades the meningis and invades the brain brain. What are the potential complications that can arise here? Well, one is if it invades the central nervous system, you can sometimes get like masses. I'm talking like you can actually get like a big mass that can form inside of the brain. It's it's like a tumor. I'm not even kidding. It's called primary CNS lymphoma. This is very very common in non-hodkkins lymphoma. Um and we oftentimes, just a little sub thing to talk about it, it's actually often times extremely associated with HIV AIDS. Believe it or not, this is a AIDS defining illness. So if a patient has a mass inside of their central nervous system, brain, spinal cord, usually it's the brain, and we go ahead and we see that they have HIV AIDS, there's no we do a biopsy and we see that this is actually lymph lymphoma related tissues. That's going to be associated with primary CNS lymphoma. Again, this can also be associated with, you know, usually any of the aggressive subtypes. So we can see this pretty often actually in diffuse large B cell lymphoma. That's one thing. And again it can actually look like this on uh imaging. Another thing that can happen here and it's really important is it can invade the meningi. So it can cause a mass but it can also invade the meningis. And if it invades the meningis you can literally I'm not even kidding you can get menitis. So these patients can also get menitis. Watch out for that. Another thing that can happen here is that that sometimes you can actually have lymphoma tissue accumulate around the actual epidural space and in the actual uh spaces around the spinal cord. And so sometimes you can get masses that form around the spinal cord and they start compressing on the spinal cord. And so you can get compressive symptoms and so this could potentially lead to what's called spinal cord compression. How is this relevant? Let's say that I I tell you for example I have a patient who has non-hodkinoma, right? They've been diagnosed. They come into the hospital now and they they have it in their medical chart that they have a history of non-hotical. Let's say it's aggressive type like diffused large B cell which is the most common and all of a sudden they come in with lower extremity weakness and sensation loss and bowel and bladder dysfunction and you get some imaging and you find a mass around their spinal cord that could be indicative of spinal cord compression. That's a that's an oncologic emergency. We need to give them steroids and try to potentially see if we can do radiation therapy to try to shrink that mass so it's not compressing the spinal cord. If a patient comes in, they have a a defined uh history of potentially uh non-hotkin lymphoma all of a sudden they come in with like headaches and nausea and vomiting and they come in with phototohobia and symptoms that are similar to menitis that could be the reason we'd have to do a lumbar puncture take off some of the cytologology and see if we can find those lymphoma related cells and again if a patient comes in and they have a mass inside of their brain and they have a history of HIV 8 they have a history of diffused large bell lymphoma it could be primary CNS lymphoma which this actually formed now here's a little thing to remember sometimes a primary CNS lymphoma it doesn't have to involve it doesn't actually have to involve a um a lymph node prior it can actually just develop in the brain on its own that's often times the definition of primary CNS lymphoma so if it's a mass in the brain this one can be affected if it's a mass around the spinal cord spinal cord compression can occur if it affects the meningis you can get menitis now where else can it affect it can actually go down here to the git so it can it can actually involve the git particularly the stomach and can even involve the illium when it goes to the stomach stomach, there's actually important areas. There's some mucosa associated lymphatic tissue around the stomach called the malt. And so sometimes what can happen is you can actually get some what's called a gastric malt lymphoma. And so this is often times seen associated with which one? Which one? Marginal zone lymphoma. So you can see this with I'll abbreviate this one marginal zone lymphoma. Another thing that can happen is sometimes you can have the lymphoma tissue can actually become um the the lymphosytes invade the lymphatic tissue around the illium and it can actually cause enlargement of that ilial tissue and it can start to narrow the illium and as it starts to narrow that illium here. So let's say here it gets a little bit narrowed. Now what can happen if I have inflammation here that actually starts compressing and narrowing the lumen of the small bowel. What could you get? You get a small bowel obstruction. So, we want to watch out for things like a small bowel obstruction. Which one is this one seen with? This is seen with what's called burket lymphoma. This is seen with burket lymphoma. All we're looking at is where these actual lymphoma cells are invading. If they're invading the illium around that malt tissue, this can cause a small bell obstruction or even into sception. If it's invading the gastric malt tissue, this can lead to gastric malt lymphoma. It's only seen a marginal lymphoma. What else? Let's say that it actually invades the bone. If it invades the bone, when it invades the bone, sometimes what can happen is is you can have a couple different things. One is you could actually have these osteoclass, they could be activated. So sometimes we have certain types of uh malignancies. And I would say the biggest one to remember is if a patient has what's called adult TE-C cell leukemia/ymphoma and that type of disease let's say here we have these lymphoma cells all right they've infiltrated if they've infiltrated into the bone marrow they can release cytoines and these are called PTHrP and that PTHrP will hit these osteoclast so here's my osteoclast and this will cause the osteoclass to break down the bone. And when it breaks down the bone, you can get two things that can occur. Litic lesions and then what are you actually releasing from the bone or liberating from it? Calcium. So I can get litic lesions that could form and I could also get an uptick in my serum calcium. And so that's really really important to remember that if you see an in if you see the presence of litic lesions and hypercalcemia and you have to be thinking about this that flower-like nuclei where they had the HTLV1 infection that's a adult T- cell leukemia/form that's almost always associated with this litic lesions hypercalcemia and the flower-like nuclei and again that's a really really important one remember that you see these more in that Japanese uh Caribbean culture now other types of lymphoma can just direct directly go into the bone and they could just cause direct activation of osteoclass. So other malignancies can also do this especially like diffuse large bol lymphoma. Another big concern though with infiltrating the bone is when you infiltrate the bone with these kind of lymphocytes and you crowd out the space in the bone marrow. Let's say that you crowd out the marrow. So now you have all these lymphocytes, they're crowding out that marrow. If you crowd out the marrow, you leave less space for allowing for the production of other blood cell lines. And so then now you're going to decrease the production of red blood cells. And so you're going to inhibit the production of red blood cells, inhibit the production of platelets, inhibit the production of white blood cells. What's this called? Now, if you decrease the production of all of these cell lines, this can lead to what's called pansytoenia. So what I'm trying to tell you is that if a patient comes in with non-hodi lymphoma and all of a sudden they have pansyenia what are you worried about? I think that this could have infiltrated the bone marrow. If they come in with hypercalcemia and lytic lesions I'm worried that it could have infiltrated the bone. This can happen in ATLL the adult T- cell lymphoma or it can occur in any of the other types of lymphas the non-hodkin lymphomaomas and it could just literally be activating osteoclass directly. But this is something to think about that that's invading the bone. If a patient comes in, they have non-hodkin lymphoma, and all of a sudden they're developing a lot of abdominal pain and distension and decreased bowel sounds, and maybe they're having some rigidity, some guarding, and I'm worried that they're starting to have potential signs of a bowel obstruction, that could be due to burkus lymphoma. If they're coming in, they have a recurrent history of peptic ulcer disease or gastritis, and I look and I get an EGD, and I see that they have a big mass inside of their stomach, that could be a gastric malt lymphoma, which is seen in marginal zone. What else should we be considering? Well, what if there's invasion? of these lymphosytes into the liver and the spleen. Well, this could lead to hpatospenomegaly hpatopenomegali and you can see this in really any of them. You can see this in almost any of them. All right, this would potentially lead to that early satiety, the na nausea, the potential um anorexia, the weight loss, maybe even a palpable left upper and right upper quadrant. But this is the big thing because as you get a bigger liver and spleen, it's compressing on the stomach and making less room. The other thing that's really really important is what if some of these actual malignant cells infiltrate the skin? You can get skin lesions, dude. And this is really important to remember. So let's say I start off with these puritic like big papular lesions. Puritic papules is what we're going to define them as. This one is almost if you see these periodic papules that look like this, it's almost always associated with micosis fungi. Micosis funguides that is really really important to remember. Now if I see that a patient has ariththroerma arythroma which is just a diffuse really really really nasty red rash almost over their entire body. This one is almost always seen with cesari. All right cesar cesari syndrome. Now with that being said, if I see puritic papules micosis funguidities, if I see ariththroma which looks like this, it's associated with cesari syndrome. So if I start to see potentially a patient with has a history of Hashimoto thyroiditis and they have a let's say a thyroid mass, I would be thinking potentially about a marginal zone lymphoma. So that's one thing to think about. If they have a history of what? history of Hashimoto thyroiditis and now they're presenting with a thyroid mass. Think about marginal lymphoma. If they have a history of shogran syndrome and all of a sudden they present with a submandibular parotted mass. So it's often times the parotted is going to be the big one that gets affected. A parotted mass you may be thinking about marginal zone lymphoma. And again these are your maltoas that are actually forming here. So you get the point man that extraal disease can be pretty tough where a patient can come in with lymphodonopathy they can come in with B symptoms. They may have a mediainal mass, but what's really critical to know is is it uh basically infiltrating other organs. If I say that a patient has neurological symptoms, you could think about potentially if they have a headache, if they have nausea, if they have behavioral changes, you may think about CNS lymphoma. If I say that they're coming in with weakness and sensory losses and bowel and bladder dysfunction, you may think about potentially spinal cord compression. If I say that they're coming in and they're presenting with abdominal pain and maybe it's in uh potentially associated with nausea and vomiting, then you may be thinking about a bowel obstruction or maybe even a gastric malt lymphoma. If I'm saying that they're coming in with potential litic lesions and bone pain and fractures and hypercalcemma, you may be thinking about adult T- cell leukemia/ymphoma. If I'm saying that they're coming in with pansyenia, that means we've infiltrated the bone marrow and we've actually affected the production of other cell lines. If I say I'm affecting the skin or the actual spleen in the liver, you would definitely be considering that. Especially if I said periodic papills associated with micosis fungalites or if I said that there's actually ariththoderma associated with cesari syndrome and if I say that there's a thyroid mass or salivary gland mass especially the parotted you're thinking about those marginal zone lymphas so there's a lot of different extra nodal tissues and believe it or not knowing particularly the specific ones that I kind of pointed out or what I really want you to take away from this but oftentimes the most important thing to take away from extraal disease is if it's present or not and the way that we can do that as we'll talk about later, we do what's called PET CT scans. And so you do posetron emission CT scan where you actually give a patient um glucose with a radial lababeled fluoride 18 on it. It goes to cells that are eating them up, cancer cells. So if we have cancer in these tissues, guess what's going to happen? They're going to light up like a Christmas tree on that actual scan. And depending upon where they're involved or if they're involved determines if there's extra disease. What's the point of that? It tells us what's the treatment that we're going to be going with and what kind of stage of lymphoma do they have. All right, let's finish off with the last part here, which is basically tumor lis syndrome. Now, we've talked about this a lot in acute leukemas. Do you remember which one it's more common in ALLL? You can see it in AML, but it's definitely more common in ALL. For tumor lis syndrome, it's pretty much never happening in Hodgekkins lymphoma. It is extremely rare. for non-hodkin lymphoma. This is common only in the aggressive subtypes. All right? So for example, burket lymphoma, diffused large bell lymphoma, you can definitely see this because they have some heavy heavy cell turnover and heavy tumor burden. And so if these patients have this and let's say that they have lots of cell turnover, right? Or they get hit with chemotherapy because remember that's the big thing. You get a patient who gets hit with chemotherapy. What's the big problem with that? Well, it's going to kill these cells. If you kill these cells, what's that going to do? That's going to stimulate these cells to start popping open and you're going to trigger this lis. All right? So, you're going to have increased lis of the tumor cells. If you lice these tumor cells, what are they going to do? They're going to spill out their intracellular contents. When they spill out their intracellular contents, they're going to spill out potassium. So, they're going to spill out tons of potassium and this is going to cause hypercalemia. How does hypercalemia oftentimes present? It presents with cardiac arhythmias or it can present with ECG changes. Again, we've talked about this a couple different times, but do you guys remember what the arhythmias that are most commonly associated with this are bred cardia, cardiac arrest or it can present with PT waves. It can present with a prolonged PR interval. It can present with a flattened P wave. It can present with a wide QRS complex that can break down to a sine wave and develop VTAC vibally. They can pop open and release another potential molecule. What's this one called? Uric acid. And you guys remember when you have lots of uric acid, what's this guy doing? That hyperurasemia, this is a nasty little molecule. Remember, represented with these little blue dots. And what are they going to do? They're going to get filtered across the glomemeilus. As they get filtered across the glomemeilus, what are these? These are nephrotoxic, my man. Right? And so they're going to get into these tubular cells and they're going to do what? They're going to cause damage to the tubular cells. As they cause damage to the tubular cells, this is going to cause acute tubular necrosis. acute tubular necrosis will then progress to a acute kidney injury. The problem with this is that yes, you lose these cells and they stop functioning. So they lose the ability to secrete chemicals. That's one problem. But the other thing is as these cells die, what do they do? They sloth off. And as they slo off, they release these dead epithelial cells that form these casts that block up and obstruct the tubule. This is called an obstructive uropathy. And what we know about obstructive uropathies is that you impede the normal flow. So if you impede the normal flow, which is you're supposed to filter things off, what's that called? GFR. And this is supposed to move down this way, but it doesn't. It goes this way. That's the big problem here. So obstructive neuropathies, they drop your GFR. And if you drop your GFR, that leads to an abrupt rise in the creatinine. And that's what leads to this process. Because think about this, you're supposed to filter off waste products. You're supposed to secrete waste products. If I can't filter them to get them out into the urine and I can't secrete them because the cells are dead, what am I going to do? I'm not going to be able to get rid of all these waste products. And so my creatinine goes up, my potassium goes up, my water goes up, my protons go up, my ura goes up, and what do I end up with? A bunch of dang complications of AKI. Like what? I can have an increase in creatinine, which is what defines an AKI. I can have a uremia, which is the BU, and if it starts causing symptoms, that's called uremia. I can have an increase in potassium which can cause hypermia, an increase in water which can cause hypervalemia and an increase in protons which can cause a non-anine gap metabolic acidosis. You get the point. This is a problematic issue. So that's why it's really really important to identify this. We don't want the uric acid to be causing that damage. That's why we actually keep a very close eye on these electrolytes. And last thing to remember here is I can also pop out phosphate. Now whenever you have high levels of phosphate, the problem with this one is is it loves to bind up your calcium. And when you bind up calcium, what's the problem with that? Well, if I bind up my calcium, especially the free calcium, that'll lower my serum calcium levels. And so, if I do that, what's going to happen to my serum calcium? It's going to go down. When you drop your serum calcium, what does that do? Well, remember on the actual cell membrane of neurons, I'll represent this here in blue. We have sodium channels. Calcium is normally supposed to block the sodium channels. If you have less calcium, will it block the sodium channels? No. So, what happens? Sodium rushes in. If sodium rushes in because it has no calcium to block it, what's that going to do? It's going to neuron this nerve is going to fire like a son of a gun. This is going to generate crazy action potentials. And these action potentials are usually going to present in what's called tetany or neuromuscular type of dysfunction. And so that will present with the tetany presentation. What does that look like? Well, they could present with peroral paristhesas. They could present with truss sign or which is basically whenever you try to inflate the blood pressure cuff right they get that carpaled spasm or you try to tap on their facial nerve and they cause shaft stack sign. These are potential presentations that you have to consider. So again we can see this tumoris syndrome really only in the non-hodkin lymphoma as they have heavy tumor cell burdens and the initiation of chemotherapy. That's a lot of complications a lot of things to talk about with lymphoma. Let's put it all together in the diagnostic approach. If you have a patient who comes in and they have a painless, rubbery, enlarged lymph node, right, that's one thing to start thinking about lymphoma. On top of that, if they got B symptoms that's associated with it, maybe it's periodic, but they have fevers, night sweats, chills, weight loss, definitely concerned about lymphoma. you happen to get a chest X-ray or a CT scan and incidentally find some enlarged mediainal lymph nodes or a patient came in symptomatic with superior venneava syndrome, disna, strider, uh dysphasia and you happen to find that upon imaging because of those symptoms that should be concerning for lymphoma. Extra nodal disease, whether they come in with simply a jaw mass, which is pretty obvious, symptoms of a bowel obstruction, a thyroid mass, a salivary gland mass, hypercalcemia, pain from litic lesions, periodic papules, arythroma. They come in with confusion, headaches, neurode deficits. They come in with fevers, neck pain, uh vision changes. They come in with weakness of the extremities and and sensory deficits and reflex loss and urine retention. These are all things that are suggesting a potential disease process. It's a lot harder to identify this lymphoma based upon extra nodal disease unless it's screaming in your face on the actual vignettes. But oftent times it's about piecing these together. If we have these, the first thing to do is to target the enlarged lymph node. do an excisional lymph node biopsy and take a piece of this tissue or pretty much this whole lymph node. And then what you need to do is examine it under the microscope and really get an idea of what the heck it looks like. If you look at under the microscope and you see these oh here's our friends the Reeds Thurberg cells that definitely screams hos screams Hodkins lymphoma. Another one is if I see the popcorn nucleus that still screams Hodkins lymphoma. So that's what I'm starting to think about is could this be Hodgkins? If I don't see Reed Sternberg cells, but I see these weird appearing B cells or T- cells with a cerebraform nucleus, a flower nucleus, they got weird patterns on their hisystologology, then it could be nonhodkins. How do I further go along this path? All right. Well, let's take a second and say like we get the aminoistochemistry that looks at the CD4s, that looks at the CD3, it looks at the CD5, 30, 20, 40, all those to really help me to delineate between the two. So, if I say CD15 and 30, oh, that's the ones which shouldn't normally be present on B cells, especially if they don't have the other ones, that's Reed Sternberg cells. That's classical, baby. If I see CD15 and 30 is negative, but they got oh CD20 and 45 that could be non-classical then especially if we're coming from this Reed Sternberg cells or popcorn cells. All right, cool. CD3 and four that's T- cell baby that's T- cell lymphoma. And if I see needy CD19 and 20, that's that could be a B cell lymphoma, especially if there's no Reed Sternberg cells or popcorn cells and it looks kind of really atypical appearing lymphocytes. All right, so we've kind of gone down that route. Well, then if I say, okay, I have the Hodgkins. I want to kind of reassess these and look at them a little bit more to determine the subtype. How do I do that? Well, let's say I do that and I say I see nodular sclerosis and I characterize that just by if you guys remember, there's the Reed Sternberg cells and they're going to have fibroblast, but what's the key thing that's all the way around them? That fibrous tissue. You see how there's fibrous tissue here? That's classic, man. That's usually pretty consistent with nodulous scosis. 60% of the cases. If I say mixed cellularity, it's going to be again what's the big thing here. I'm going to have a lot of these Reed Sternberg cells, which you can kind of see right here, right there, and right there. But what's around them? That's the key thing. Do you see these like little red cells with like the the sunglasses that are kind of popping here? But these kind of like red, this one's a perfect example. You see this guy right here? That's an einaphil. And that eosinaphil is characteristic of mixed cellularity in 30% of cases. If I see this one and I got the Reed Sternberg cells and this is just loaded with lymphosytes that's lymphosy rich. Well, how do I know if it's loaded? Take a look at this one. This is lymphosy depleted. You see how there's barely here's the reberg cells. Do you see the lymphosytes? There's not very many. That's one of the key ways that we can differentiate these. And then if I wanted to go the route of the nodular lymphosy predominant all I need to do is find those popcorn cells. If I see the popcorn cells, I'm good to go. And I got myself that that 5% decay is the nodular lymphosy predominant. So there we go. We've covered all the Hodgkins lymphoma. This one's a little bit more challenging though. So then what we do is is with T- cell lymphoma and B cell lymphoma, you want to reassess that look of it. See which kind of nucleus it has. Look at the surrounding tissue around those weird lymphocytes. But also remember I told you about chromosomeal transllocations like 314, 814, 114, 14, 18, all those. I need to see if those are present because that can correlate with which type of B cell lymphoma. So let's say for example I do that I want to find the cutaneous T- cell lymphas. So if I want to do that I'll look I'll say okay that's my cerebopform nucleus. So here it is. That's the cerebopform nucleus. I'm at this point going to say it's either micosis or it's which one? It's cesari. If I say that this is arythroma, oh that's usually and it's in the blood that says ar syndrome. If I say that there's puritic papules and these things are not in the blood, that's micosis funggoides. All right, cool. Next thing is I don't see a cerebraform nucleus. I see a flower-like nucleus. Tell me that doesn't look like it. That's pretty cool, right? That right there is indicative of adult T- cell leukemia/ymphoma. So what would I be looking for to attain testing on this right here, the HTLV1? And if that came back positive, boom, I have nailed the diagnosis because I found the lymph node, I found the cell, I found the CD34, and I confirmed it with the HDLV1 testing. Slam dunk diagnosis. The next part, and then you remember I told you the extra nodal spread. If you're really thinking about it, what other things would I be looking for? The litic lesions, the hypercalcemia. So that's another thing you can add on the extra nodal spread. It's a little bit more tough to just pick it up right away with that follicular lymphoma. With this one, I'm looking at them and again, I see these like nodules of just clusters, just follicles packed with all these neoplastic cells. But what's the key thing? Remember I told you F 1418 transllocation that would come up on the cytogenetics and they would have an increased expression of BCL2. All right, that's really where we kind of leave that one. Uh diffuse large B cell. This one, it looks really atypical. I'm not kidding. The cells are huge. So, you see how these cells are like really, really large. Their nucleus, you can see it, but then around them, they just got a really large amount of cytoplasm. That's usually pretty consistent with diffused RBG B cell. Remember, it's 314. And this one has lots of BCL6. All right. It also can have a 1418 transllocation as well. But the real big thing here is lots of BCL6 and also lots of BCL2. All right. Burket lymphoma. This is the classic one you will see on the exam. It's a starry sky appearance. All right. So when you look at this one, you see the starry sky appearance, you automatically think Burke gets lymphoma. This one super aggressive. You want to remember B looks like an 8. That's an 814 transllocation with lots of CMIC expression. All right. And then next is the mantle cell lymphoma. This one is hard to pick off off histology. It's usually these lymphocytes that look like they're kind of condensed and they have like these cleaved looking appearances. Um, this is what we would see here. But the real key thing for mantle cell is a which one is it? Come on. 1114 transllocation with an increased expression of cycl D. All right. And lastly is your marginal zone lymphoma. This one it literally like look you'll see this like lymphoepithelial lesion that kind of appears here. Um, and that's really one of the characteristic things, but also when you look at these, you're usually pulling these tissues from the stomach, from the malt malttoma, so the gastric malt lymphoma or from a thyroid or from a salivary gland. So yes, you can have the 1118, but this is the one that we see with usually the H pylori disease most commonly. So a patient will have a gastric tumor. We'll take a piece of it, we'll find this lympho epithelial lesion and then when we look on it under our gm stain and all those we'll see the h pylori. So that's usually what we'll see as the most common association. Sometimes you can see it with autoimmune disease as well um from the thyroid or from the salivary gland. But this is the big thing to remember. All right, dude. That's insane, right? We covered a lot. But now we're not done because unfortunately these these cells these malignant cells can spread. And what we get scared about is these certain areas that they spread. And so if a patient comes in and we diagnose them with lymphoma, especially non-hodgkins lymphoma, that thing can spread. And the areas that we worry about, is it getting into the bone marrow causing pansyenia? Is it getting into the brain or the spinal cord causing a brain mass, menitis? Is it somewhere else? the bowels, other nodes, the liver, the spleen, all over the place. We want to know. And so sometimes what we'll do is we'll get a PET CT scan and that's really the best way, not sometimes, we always get a PET CT scan and lymphoma because we want to know where has this thing spread because that determines how aggressive will be it determines our treatment. It determines everything. We'll get bone marrow biopsies if they have really a pansyenia. Uh and we'll get a lumbar puncture usually if they're presenting with like very severe symptoms. Uh maybe they have a brain mass, the ring enhancing lesion, maybe they're having menitis symptoms, maybe they're having some spinal cord involvement. Then we'll do a lumbar puncture. All right, the PET CT is the key thing here. And the reason why is you're going to see these images that pop up here. And you see how we see these kind of black dots. This is really what we're looking for to say these like black dots are kind of hot spots. It's indication of a lot of malignant belymphosytes um that are kind of circulating around in these lymph nodes or kind of chocked up in these lymph nodes. And this helps us to identify it staging based upon what's called the lugano classification used to be the Ann Arbor. The bone marrow biopsy just tells me if I tap into the bone because the patient has pansyenia and I take that and I examine it am I going to find these malignant lymphosytes present in that bone tissue and that's causing them to crowd out the marrow the lumbar puncture I'm tapping into the cerebral spinal fluid to see is this causing menitis symptoms is this potentially causing some of the spinal cord involvement that's when I would be doing that to see if it's spread to the brain or to the spinal cord all right I want to see those malignant lymphosy that's there. Now, after we've done the PET CT scan primarily and it showed us some extra nodal disease, if we've done the bone marrow biopsy to show that it's the reason for their panzyia, if we've done the LP to show that that's the reason for some of their brain and spinal cord manifestations, then what we can do is we can use the lugano classification to determine what stage they fall in. So, if I see on the PET CT scan, most important one, PET CT, I see, oh, I see this hot spot right there. All right. If that hot spot is getting hit, that's one single lymph node region. That is stage one. If I look at this one and I'm like, "Oh, shoot. Okay, I see that they got a hot spot here and they got a hot spot here." All right, that's that's two or more lymph node regions on the same side of the diaphragm. And all that means is here's the diaphragm. We're going to go kind of above it. If you look here, and this is above the diaphragm, you have two of these hot spots on the on the same side, which is above the diaphragm. That's stage two. If I go over here, and I find a hot spot here, a hot spot here, and a hot spot there. And oh, shoot, there's another hot spot. If I look at the diaphragm, I got three hot spots up here, and one down here. I have lymph node regions on both sides, up and above and below the diaphragm. That's stage three. And lastly is if I do this and I see, oh my goodness, it's everywhere. It's in the liver. It's in the spleen. It's all over the dang place. Or I get a LP and it shows that there's involvement of the CNS. Or I get the bone marrow biopsy and it shows that it's in the bone marrow. It's all over the place. That's stage four. All right. And that's kind of how we go about determining this. All right. And a systematic approach. Now, one of the things that you'll see sometimes maybe in the vignettes is you'll see the patient has listed, hey, we have a patient with non-hodkins lymphoma and they have stage three BX. You want to know what that B or A or X means. A means that they don't have B symptoms. B means that they do have B symptoms. And X means that they have really bulky and large lymph nodes, usually greater than 10 cm. And this is things that we just add on to add extra classification there. And sometimes we'll even put like E. You'll potentially put like a little E portion, but I think that is usually explained within the stages and they'll kind of explain that a little bit further sometimes. All right, like extra nodal involvement, especially for the spleen and the liver. All right, my friends. This is crazy that we just covered all this that pat yourself on the back. We really investigated lymphoma to the to the top level. The question now is all right, I diagnose it. How do I treat it? With Hodgkins lymphoma, usually it's got a better prognosis than non-hodgkins. And usually the therapy is pretty consistent. You you usually do radiation therapy if it's very localized, small areas of lymph node involvement. So stage one and two, maybe you got like a a lymph node here, maybe another one here, or maybe one here, one over here. You don't have it too dissipated. So you can use radiation to localize it on those two areas or one or two areas. Okay? And that would be beneficial for that. Usually another thing that we'll do in combination with radiation therapy is we'll add on chemo. So we'll hit the radiation to those lymph nodes and then we'll add on chemo to really kill some of those other remaining cancer cells that the radiation misses. And the ABD regimen is adriomy which is also known as doc rubicon. B is bleomy vinlastine and decarbazine. This is usually a combo that we'll give in conjunction with their radiation therapy. We don't do this as much unless it's super super aggressive. Oftent times we'll just do multiple cycles of ABVD instead of doing bacop regiment but you can do this. It's bleomy, it's etopicide, it's adriomy, it's cyclophosphomide ankavin, broccarbazine and predinazone. And we'll do this in really really refractory cases or stage three and four. But oftent times what most people will get is they'll just do an extended cycle of a ABVD. So just remember that, write that down, that you can do multiple cycles of ABVD or the be a cop regimen. It kind of just depends. So putting this all together, stage one, two, hit them with the radiation therapy and combine on the ABVD. For stage three, and four, you can either just do multiple cycles of ABVD or do the B uh be a cop regimen. All right. Now, non-Hodgkins is a little bit more advanced because this is super aggressive in some of them and they can spread. So we get a lot of other kind of like little miscellaneous things that we have to manage. So rettoximab is usually a good one for any type of bell lymphoma that presents with a CD20 CD20 positive. So you have to have a positive CD20 on immunistic chemistry to give them retoximab and so we really only give this in the indolent non-hensy. So that was your follicular and your marginal zone. So the retoximab antibbody you need the CD20 protein. And the reason why is retoximab binds to the CD20 on the B cells. So if you don't have it, it's not going to work. When it binds to that, all it does is it kind of signals your immune system to kill these malignant B cells. It's kind of cool. And so you'll have these antibodies binding to the CD20 and then macrofasages, tea cells, natural killer cells can come there and then induce killing of that cell. or they can bind to the uh CD20 and tell uh complement protein C3, four, five, six, 7, 89 come and make a membrane attack complex and boom, kill it. Um, another thing it can do is it can actually trigger a direct mechanism um of apoptosis. And so these are cool things because essentially you're trying to kill these uh malignant B cells that are causing these diseases. And so it's really good I'd say in the follicular and and in the marginal zone lymphoma. Now our chop regimen is a classic one that we give to our patients. It's usually rtoximab, cyclophosamide, hydroxy donor rubicon which is dxar rubicon and predinazone. It's a common regimen given in non-hodkkins lymphoma especially if it's very very the aggressive types diffuse large bell burketss and mantle cell. So retoximab usually can be given on its own in maybe follicular and marginal zone and then archop which is retoximab plus all these other ones we need in the more aggressive types. Now one other thing is if a patient has marginal zone lymphoma and they have H pylori oftent times you may not even need to give an extended regimen you can potentially just treat their H pylori and so that's also something to remember especially if it's marginal zone lymphoma that's occurring in the actual gastric malt you could potentially just treat the H pylori and they'll get better um intratheal chemotherapy is something that we also do think about it diffuse large B cell it can spread to the brain and give you a tumor tumor. You can also get this to spread to the meningis. It can spread into the cerebral spinal fluid. Um it can even get into the spinal cord and make extra dural tumors. I mean this stuff is pretty important that we don't let that happen. And so in diffuse RB cell lymphoma and maybe even burkits lymphoma we can put in an omia reservoir as giving them this medication um and preventing that spread right into the cerebral spinal fluid or we can just do lumbar punctures where we squirt it in right there. Either way, we do this in usually very very aggressive non-hodkkins lymphoma. Diffuse large B cell is the primary one. Um, if they're HIV positive or they have AIDS, that's another one you better be giving this intratheal chemotherapy. And the last one is if they have, and I mean very very extensive extraodal involvement. It's all over the place. It's involving sinuses. It's involving the testicles. It's involving weird areas that we'll talk about in a second. you should probably take the chance and say if it's going all over the place I got to be concerned that it can get to the brain and that's when we do intratheal chemotherapy. So you either do it right away if they have diffused large B cell or if they have another type of non-hodgans lymphoma with HIV or they have a lot of extra nodal involvement that's when I would be doing that one. Um radiation therapy is really only reserved for certain cases like if a lymph node is only like one or two lymph nodes are involved and that doesn't happen too often with non-hodkins. Um, if you got a a bulky medastinal mass, that may be another one uh that's causing like SVC syndrome, that would be a really really important one. Um, and if you have spinal cord compression, oftentimes if you have an extra dural tumor that's pressing on the spinal cord, the first thing we'll do is we'll hit them with IV dexamethasone to really bring down some of the vasogenic edema and then we'll reach out to radiation oncology or reach out to a neurosurgeon and say, "Hey, I got this patient. They have spinal cord compression. I gave them dexamethasone. confirmed on the MRI that they have this tumor present, would you want to do surgery or radiation oncology? Would you want to do a uh external beam radiation therapy to really kind of help out with that that that that reduction in size quickly? And so those are usually what we would do is radiation therapy or we may even go and debulk the tumor or um maybe do a stabilization. So those are things that can be considered. All right, my friends. So I know that this is a lot when you're kind of thinking about all right, when do I give retuxmab? I kind of know some scenarios. When do I do the archop? Okay, when do I add on the quadruple therapy? Who do I give the intratheal chemotherapy to? And when is radiation therapy kind of good? I I kind of got an idea, but let's really put it all together. So, if I told you that I got a patient who has felicular lymphoma or they have um marginal lymphoma, these are your indolent ones. Indolent ones respond well to retoximab especially if they're CD20 positive because you have to have that protein for the um the antibbody to bind on to the rtoximab which is monoconal antibbody. Now if they have H pylori that's really important to remember because in H pylori you can treat these patients with quadruple therapy to eradicate the bacteria so that they develop they prevent a recurrence and so sometimes you don't even need retoximab right for the aggressive non-hodkins lymphas burketts diffuse large and mantle cell lymphoma it's all about being aggressive so rettoximab is great especially if they're CD20 positive but you also have to add on other therapies and So that's where we'll add on the cycloposomide, the doc rubicon, the ankavven, the steroid such as predinazone. And by doing that, you're really targeting these super aggressive non-hodkin lymphomas. Now from here, if the patient has high risk of CNS infiltration, other words you diagnose them with diffuse large B cell, you diagnose them with burket lymphoma, you got to give intratheal chemotherapy. If they have HIV AIDS, they are super super susceptible to primary cenus lymphoma. You have to give intratheal chemotherapy. If they already have multiple extensive extraal involvement, the testes, the paranasal sinuses, the bone marrow, the epidural space, it's only a matter of time until this extends to the CNS. And so from there, you need to give intratheal chemotherapy and that's usually with methtoate. All right. For the patient who has localized lympadinopathy, they got mediainal masses causing superior venneava syndrome or they have an extra mass that's compressing the spinal cord. In those scenarios, we could actually give them some steroids, especially for spinal cord compression, maybe even SVC syndrome. Um, but what you're going to be doing is doing that to reduce some of the edema. you're going to reach out to radiation oncology and see if they can get some direct external beam radiation therapy right onto the tumor to shrink it down to minimize the compression of the SVC or minimize the compression of the spinal cord. All right, so that's the way that I would want you guys to think about that with approaching the treatment of non-hodkins lymphoma. My friends, this was a monster of a lecture and I really hope that you learned a lot. I hope that you enjoyed it. I hope it made sense and uh man, I love you guys. Thank you guys and as always, until next time.