

=== FILE: Amyloidosis ｜ Clinical Medicine [wkd8YsaTlWI].txt ===

 and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, and great quiz questions to truly test your knowledge. And you guys can become a member on our website. If you go down in the description box below, click on that link to our website. You guys would have access to all of these things. So go check that out. But without further ado, let's get into the pathophys of amyloidosis. All right, my friends, let's start talking about the pathophys of amyloidosis. Now this is a disease where basically it's a buildup of amyloid proteins. These are misfolded proteins that when they accumulate in specific tissues, they trigger the apoptosis of those tissues. And that'll lead to tissue damage. There's a lot of tissues that can be affected in amyloidosis. It's oftentimes a multi-system disease. But the big thing to remember is that amyloidosis can actually be broken down into a couple of different subtypes. And so I want you guys to remember that as AL. And oftentimes the A in front of it is for the amyloid. And then the misfolded type of protein is what falls afterwards. And that's L. L is for the light chains. So it's important to remember that this is a disease that is oftentimes seen in what's called plasmacel disorders. So sometimes they call them plasmacel disorders. Something they call them plasmacel discratios. It's the same thing. We talked about it in our initial video. What did that encompass? That encompassed things like multiple myeloma, monoclonal gamopathy of undetermined significance. And to a small degree, Walden-Strum's macroglobulinemia. So again, AL amyloidosis is primarily gonna be multiple myeloma in MGUS. So with these diseases, when you have a plasmacel disorder, there's a malignancy or a premalignant condition of those plasmacels. So here are our plasmacels. What's happening with these plasmacels? Well, if you guys go back, these abnormal malignant plasmacels are producing an undesirable amount of antibodies. And these are called immunoglobulins. And they could be IgG, they could be IgA. More often than not, they're immunoglobulin G, but they're gonna be producing these antibodies. And if you guys remember, antibodies have different types of heavy chains, and then they have these like little things off the side, like light chains. Well, in certain types of plasmacel disorders, especially multiple myeloma and MGUS, they produce an excess amount of these light chains. So there's a lot of light chains. And so that's what you're really gonna see is a lot of these light chains. So let's say here we have plasmacels, they're producing a lot of immunoglobulins, but they're specific components of those immunoglobulins that they're producing a lot more of. And again, what are these? These are your light chains. Let's highlight that. So there's an increased number of light chains. These light chains, per se, do have specific types of names. So sometimes we refer to them as the Kappa and Lambda light chains. But I don't want you guys to focus too much on that, because that's what we discussed in plasmacel disorders. What I want you to know is, these plasmacels are just pumping out these light chains. When you produce too many of these proteins, they have a normal morphology. What happens is in certain large quantities, they can misfold. And then they can clog up tissues, right? And that's where we get problems. So these light chains, they undergo a misfolding process, and they become more of like sheets, beta-plated sheets. That's where we get the disease process. So here's our light chains. And then all I'm going to annotate here is, let's take this normal structure, and now let's make them really misfolded. And then what they kind of do is, they take on this beta-plated sheet pattern. The problem with beta-plated sheets is they're really hard to break down by proteasomes. And a lot of proteolysis can't really work well against these. And so they build up. Now, this misfolded light chains is really what we call amyloid light chains. So again, what are these now? These are the misfolded light chains. OK, so now we've generated a lot of these abnormal, misfolded light chains. They can't be broken down. They're unable to be completely broken down, so they build up. Remember I told you, these amyloid proteins, when they build up in tissues, they clog up these tissues like a pooper, these tissues start to undergo damage because it undergoes apoptosis within that tissue. So now here, these guys are going to go, and they're going to start depositing into tissues. And when they do that, this is going to lead to our undesirable tissue damage. Now, you may be asking, what are these tissues that are oftentimes affected? It really depends upon the subtype. But alamyloidosis is like the Mac Daddy of all the amyloidosis. It likes to jack up all these tissues. So these patients could get GI involvement. They could get CNS involvement and peripheral nervous system involvement. They could get cardiac involvement, real involvement, musculoskeletal, cutaneous involvement. But they're going to trigger this tissue damage that we see here. And that's the problem is because when these things accumulate in these tissues, they trigger apoptosis of the tissue. Now, this is one way of thinking about these. The next one is AA amyloidosis. Now, this one's the most common. So when you see these, this is the most common. This one right here, I'd say it's the second most common. And this one is oftentimes seen in states of chronic inflammation. What are diseases that you have chronic inflammation? Autoimmune diseases. What are the two big ones that we see a lot? RA, SLE. What about a disease where your immune system is attacking the intestinal tissue, especially in the colon or in the small intestine? Inflammatory bowel disease. So these are really, really big ones to remember. So again, remember, RA, SLE. And also don't forget inflammatory bowel disease. Now, it also could be due to chronic infections like tuberculosis, but how common is tuberculosis? It's not super. It could be chronic osteomyelitis. We could see these in not something I want you to think about. I want you to think about these. Another one that's kind of like, they like to test it on the exam. It's a fickle one. It's a weird one, but the exam sometimes, they like to ask things that are super rare. But it's called familial Mediterranean fever. And so FMF is something that we see in patients who have a family history. They're usually somewhere in that Mediterranean part of the geographical parts of the world. And they present with fever. And here's the other thing, serosal inflammation. What the stink is serosal inflammation? They get pleuritis, pericarditis, peritonitis. Mechanism-wise, we don't know. It may have something to do with neutrophilus triggering a lot of inflammation undesirably, but we know it's a familial aspect. We know it's in a specific Mediterranean belt of the geography within the world. And then also we know that they have fevers that are kind of coming on cyclically. And then also they have serosal inflammation. So again, which one would that be associated with? Familial Mediterranean fever. Also sometimes called FMF. Now, in familial Mediterranean fever, one of the big things that I want you guys to remember is again, don't forget this, serosal inflammation. So in the vignette, you'll come in, you'll have a patient who maybe has some of these tissues that are involved, but they'll come in with fevers and they'll come in with complaints of maybe pericarditis such as chest pain, pleuritis, such as shortness of breath, and maybe they could also come in with a pleuritic chest pain as well. But on top of that, they may also come in with perititis, so abdominal pain. So look for those vague symptoms, look for a family history, look for that Mediterranean ancestry, and it may cue you in to think about this type of AA amyloidosis. All right, either way, in all of these scenarios, these guys are triggering inflammation. What's your trigger for a lot of the cytokines? I've probably rid them on the board like a million times, but do you guys remember it's always like interleukin one is a big one. It's best friend, tumor necrotic factor alpha also likes to throw its jabs in there, but another really big one is interleukin six, right? And all of these are released in pretty significant amounts, especially in inflammation. So all of these are causing inflammation, systemically. When that happens, these guys like to go and bind on to the liver receptors, especially interleukin six. They hit the liver and the liver responds by producing what's called acute phase reactant protein. So that's what it's gonna make. It's gonna make these things that again, a lot of them, it's gonna increase the production of acute phase reactants. And there's a lot of these. If you guys are out there listening, what are some of them that we always test for? ESR, CRP is probably the most prominent ones clinically that we utilize, but there's another one. And we don't often test for this one. I can't say I've ever seen it in clinical practice, but there's a very specific one that I want you guys to know. So the common ones, I'll actually, I'll bring over here, common that we test for and the non-common that we test for. So here's gonna be, we'll say commonly tested in practice. And then here is not commonly tested in practice, but relevant to the actual disease process. Again, what are those? We would see a bump in their ESR, a bump in their CRP. And there's even another one like ferritin, which we also can check, but these are oftentimes your inflammatory markers that we test for clinically. The one that we don't test for that's actually pertinent to this disease, it's called serum amyloid A. Sometimes we abbreviate this SAA. Now let's kind of, let's actually make this protein pink. So here's this pink protein, and we're gonna just draw it like this. So here's our pink protein, and maybe it has a globular structure to it. And you're producing a lot of this protein in the scenario of this inflammation that's occurring. Well, when you have lots of these proteins, guess what they can do? Unfortunately, if this is persistent chronic inflammation, they can misfold. And let's make these big globular proteins, let's make them now these big globular beta-plated sheets. What's the problem with this? Can they be broken down easily? No. Because they can't be broken down easily, what can they do? They can build up in tissues, cause apoptosis of those tissues and lead to tissue damage. So here, what we're gonna have, is we're gonna have an increase in the misfolded SAA. I'm gonna write it down. SAA, increase misfolded SAA, which is the serum amyloid A. This is gonna go deposit into the tissues, and again, that's gonna lead to that undesirable tissue damage that we see. And this one, believe it or not, I'll talk about it later. It really doesn't like to affect the heart. It favors the kidneys. This one, it can hit almost every single organ. But this one, it loves to attack the kidneys, and we'll talk about that. All right, so this one, you're looking for a plasma cell disorder. Real quick, what would be another thing? If I'm thinking plasma cell disorders like MM, what's another thing that I would look for? What is the classic, we use it, crab criteria. So look for a patient who has multiple myeloma, and if they have hypercalcemia, renal failure, they have anemia, they have bone pain from those lytic lesions, and they're also having some tissue damage from this kind of amyloid deposits. You definitely wanna think about this as the cause. But patients coming in with joint pain, some type of history of frequent bowel alterations and bloody diarrhea and malabsorption. You maybe think about inflammatory bowel disease. If you have a child, a younger person coming in with fevers and serosal inflammation, you'll think about this one. So use your history to your advantage. This one's an interesting one. I'd say it's a small proportion, but it's something to think about on the exams. And so there is two types. And so, again, it's always amyloid, serum amyloid A. So amyloid SAA, amyloid TTR transthyritin. And there's two things that I want you to remember for this. There's two types. One is it is mutated TTR. In other words, this is one type. This one usually likes to target the heart and the nerves. You don't see this in older individuals, all right? This one has a familial aspect to it. So you'll be looking for someone who is a little bit younger and you'll be looking for a family history, all right? So again, which one do we call this one? There's two names. I would just call them, according to what we're gonna talk about later, you can do familial, you can do hereditary. I think I just prefer to do the familial. Just don't confuse it with this one, though, all right? This is a familial amyloid transthyritin amyloidosis. This one loves the kidneys. This one loves the heart. And also, you'll notice the difference of these later when we get into the diagnosis on how we differentiate the type of protein. Now, the other one is, it's a normal, so it's weird. This one is you have a normal TTR protein. But the problem with this is that over time that protein builds up. So if you're living 80, 90 years of age and you're building up this protein, it can cause some damage. So we call this senile, all right? Because you see this more in the older age range. So senile, ATTR, which is the amyloid transthyritin, this is the one that we would see in older individuals, greater than 70 years of age. They probably don't have that familial aspect to it. And it's primarily only the heart. That's what you have to look for in the history. So what happens here is in both of these to a degree, there is this TTR protein. It's just when we look at this, let's say here I have the TTR protein and here I have the mutated one. So in this one, let's you represent the TTR protein. Let's do it here in this maroonish color here. So here I'm gonna represent the TTR like this. Let's say this is a normal TTR. And then over here, I'm gonna represent this other one and I'm gonna draw this one kind of like funky like this. So here's the mutated TTR. Now, the difference here is if I have, in this scenario, I have the mutated, let's say TTR, and then here I have the normal TTR protein. How do these cause tissue damage? Well really what happens is, in this scenario, the normal TTR protein, over time, consistent, consistent damage. That's what I want you to remember, is it's going to be over time. And I'm talking a person who is really old. So over time, so over time, that deposition of the normal TTR protein will cause tissue damage. The difference from this one is that this mutated TTR is now going to actually do what? It can easily misfold. And when it misfolds, it becomes resistant to being broken down. So that's what I want you to represent here, is that now this guy will undergo misfolding. And it'll turn from maybe a globular protein like this to becoming more beta pleated. So now, in this scenario, what happens? In this scenario, you're getting this weird protein here. And then what I'm gonna do here is I'm gonna have this puppy go over here, and it's gonna precipitate the same thing, that tissue damage. So for this one, I'm getting an increase in the misfolded TTR. So increase in, misfolded TTR. That becomes resistant to breakdown and loves to deposit in tissues. The preferable tissues is the cardiac tissue and the neural tissue. So you're seeing how a lot of these can deposit in the tissue and really we differentiate them based upon the type of protein. You're probably already asking Zach, how am I supposed to differentiate the type of protein? Is there a specific test? Yeah, it's kind of like the Maury show whenever they're like, you know, who's the father kind of thing. We have mass spectroscopy or mass spectrometry that we can actually utilize to tell us which one of these proteins are actually the problem. And we do that from like a tissue biopsy sample. But we'll get to that. It's just utilizing history that's gonna be more critical for the step two. Now, this last one here is probably the one that you can see, but there's only a certain amount of things that we can test often on this one. And it's called amyloid beta two microglobulin amyloidosis. Now, this one we really only see in two scenarios. And I'd say the first one is the more common one. And this is what you're gonna wanna look for. So we kind of see a theme. Plasmicellular disorders look for the crab criteria. Here, look for features of joint kind of like inflammatory diseases, GI complaints, fevers that are within the Mediterranean ancestry and seroso inflammation. Here, you're looking for a family history of nerve and cardiac problems. Here, you're looking for a person who's really old with just cardiac amyloidosis. What are you looking for here? You're looking for a patient who's been on dialysis for a long time. When I say a long time, how long? Oftentimes in the exam, what you wanna see is a patient on it for more than 10 years. That's a decent amount of time. And so therefore, you probably have a patient who also has underlying end stage renal disease. Why is this pertinent? Well, the kidneys are supposed to clear a protein. So there's a protein that our body normally makes and it's called beta-2 microglobulin. And it's supposed to clear it. So what if you have bad kidneys? Well, dialysis hopefully would clear this, but dialysis isn't great at clearing it over time. You actually need what's called high cutoff, or high flux dialysis, really. So the kidneys aren't doing a good job and dialysis may not be doing as well of a job as you want at clearing that beta-2 microglobulin. So it's not being lost into the urine sadly, because it's supposed to be excreted, or it's not being lost from dialysis. And so because of that, if you have damaged kidneys, you're supposed to be putting this thing out. But if you're not putting this out in the urine, what's gonna happen? Because it's supposed to run through here and then get filtered. If it's not, it's going to build up. So then as a result, we're going to do what? I'm gonna have a lot of this protein. So we've done a lot of different colors. Let's actually just make this one green. So here, let's say, put some of these markers down here. Let's say here I have my beta-2 microglobulin, and we're just gonna show it like this. Here's my globular protein right here. And it's supposed to be excreted, but you're not excreting it. What happens? It's going to build up. So then you're gonna have an increase in this beta-2 microglobulin protein. You get the point that as proteins potentially build up, they can undergo transformational changes in their structure. So what if this protein that was nice and globular like this decides to misfold? I think you guys get the point. What's gonna happen? It's gonna become more beta-pleated. And when it becomes more beta-pleated, is it easy to break down? No. If it's not easy to break down, then what happens? It'll start to build up. If it starts to build up around tissues, what's it gonna do? It's gonna cause a lot of apoptosis of that tissue. And if it causes the apoptosis of that tissue, what's gonna happen to the tissue? It's gonna become damaged. And it's gonna cause a lot of systemic effects. And that's what we're gonna see is this type of similar process. So you see how all of these lead to the same thing. We just have to really utilize our clinical gestalt to say, what in the history tells me the type it could be? And then also, what kind of diagnostic tests would be helpful in telling me which one of these is the problem? Before we do that, I want us to talk about this tissue damage and what are the most common organs? Because you're gonna have a patient coming into you and saying, hey doc, I got cardiac problems? No. They're gonna come in with some complaints. You have to then diagnose them with that and say, huh, what was the reason for this? I wonder if it's because of amyloidosis. Let's do that now. So when a patient comes in with amyloidosis, it's not like a patient with appendicitis, where it's kind of easier where they come in with localized pain within the appendix area. He's like, oh man, oh, my right lower quadrant, bro. That's a little bit more obvious for me to say, oh, they probably have appendicitis. Let me figure out the test that I need to find that inflammation and go from there. It's a little bit more challenging with things like this amyloidosis, because it's not a strict they present the same way. Oftentimes they'll present with very, very specific things that are tested on the exam, but they have a lot of multifactorial involvement. It's like thyroid disorders. They have a lot of different systemic involvement. You have to kind of just think about it and certain types of those systems, though, when it pops up, it's not normal for that disease. And so you gotta think, okay, what would trigger this? And that may lead you down the road of amyloidosis. And if I were to leave you with any of these and you say, okay, I'm done with the video, the two biggest ones are gonna be your cardiac and renal involvement. So when a patient comes in with features of restrictive cardiomyopathy or features of nephrodic syndrome, that should make you think about amyloidosis. The other ones, they are important and they help with the whole clinical picture, but they're not gonna be the most common way that you'll see them on the exam. It's gonna be cardiomyopathy and it's gonna be nephrodic syndrome. So let's discuss that. Cardiac involvement, out of all of those subtypes, it is kind of important to know which one is gonna be more likely to hit the heart, right? Because it could help out on your diagnostic schema. And so if we go through these and we write AL, A-A-A-T-T-R, and A-beta-2 microglobulin, I want you to kind of list out of these which ones are the most likely to involve the heart. And I'll do it with a plus symbol and a minus symbol. This one loves to attack the heart. This one doesn't really involve the heart. So that should be helpful when you think about this. This one loves the heart and this one doesn't involve the heart. So with that being said, these two are the ones that we see the problems in. So whenever a patient comes in with restrictive cardiomyopathy, we have to know what does that look like. Well, these guys, they deposit proteins. This is light chains, this is the TTR. So let's say here, I deposit those. Let's see what color. It was baby blue for the amyloid, so let's kind of deposit some here for the A-L. And then the transthyretin was this maroon color. So let's just kind of use that respectively, I suppose, and deposit some of these maroon TTR proteins here. Well, when they deposit, they oftentimes love to deposit into the ventricles along the septum. What kind of issues would I get with that? Well, it really likes to hit both ventricles, but you're going to see more systemic involvement in the right heart. So the ventricles are going to become very, very stiff, and they're going to become a little bit more thick. So thick ventricles. And the problem with that is that when you have this, it definitely is biventricular, but you see more systemic involvement from that right side. And so this is what you see in a picture of a patient developing what's called restrictive cardiomyopathy. That's usually going to be the most common picture is they're going to get this thing called restrictive cardiomyopathy. So basically, imagine you have these like super thick, ventricles that aren't very, very compliant. They're not as desirable to, whenever blood is filling into them, to expand. Well, that's a problem because if you can't have good preload, you can't get good cardiac output. And oftentimes the most common way that this will present is congestive heart failure. But it's more often than not right-sided heart failure. So what does right side heart failure symptoms oftentimes look like? So let's say here, I would have a patient with a restrictive cardiomyopathy. If I see that, what would be some potential presentation? So I'd say restrictive cardiomyopathy. I would look for the jugular venous distension. That would definitely be one. And do you guys remember when a patient has jugular venous distention, that sign, whenever you take a deep breath in, you should have a good drop where blood, you know, usually would flush down into the heart, right? But in patients who have poor filling, that may stay elevated. And it was a very paradoxical presentation. It was called the COOS small sign, right? So look for a COOS small sign, which is kind of that distended jugular vein during inspiration, which is kind of a paradoxical presentation. The other thing is you're gonna see edema, but the edema is oftentimes more right-sided. And so you can see things like a Patomagole in a Cites and you can see peripheral edema. And so I'd watch out for that. So watching for any kind of peripheral edema as a potential presentation, you're gonna see this more in the legs than you would see it anywhere else, but it's something to think about. Sometimes you can see a Cites, it is possible, and that's something to consider as well. But that's one way that I would think about this. There's another thing that can happen though. And you know, when a patient has a restrictive cardiomyopathy, we gotta go, we gotta get an echo. You see that they would have the thickened ventricles. You'd see that they have bi-hatrial enlargement. You'd have to then probably go a little bit step further and get like a cardiac MRI. And then look to see that they have like late enhancement on the gadolinium and the cardiac MRI. You have to go and do a Technitium 99 scan to look to see if that they would have this amyloid deposits that would kind of light up on that nuclear scan. But there's one other thing that can happen. Imagine that these things deposit so along parts of your conduction system. I don't know what could happen there. If I deposit these things along the AV node, I could get AV blocks, dude. So that's another thing is watch for any kind of like conduction blocks. So conduction blocks is a really, really big one. Cause if I deposit along this conduction system, you can get conduction blocks. What's the most common types of conduction block? That would be an AV node block, right? So I'd be looking for an AV blockade. So this is where whenever we have this patient, we would get an ECG, we may find some AV blocks, we may get an echo and see these stiff thick ventricles. They have a preserved EF. That's another thing is if you get an echo for these patients, they'll have a preserved EF. But if you get that cardiac MRI, that Technician 99 tracer, you'll see that that patient will have features that should support more of a aneloid picture. So that's something I want you guys to be thinking about for this kind of case, all right? So if a patient comes in, the things that we oftentimes will do to check and kind of look at these things for screening them is you'll oftentimes get an ECG, you'll get an echo and you'll follow up based upon that, maybe with other testing such as a cardiac MRI and Technician 99 scan. All right, let's come down. The next thing that I also want to be thinking about for this patient is with renal involvement, it's a real big one. And remember I told you when we talked about nephrodic syndrome, how's the topic, there was the primary glomerular disorders like minimal change disease and membranous nephropathy and focal segmental glomerular sclerosis. But there was the secondary ones, like diabetes and then amyloid. Amyloid was a part of that group. So in this patient, you would have to say which one of these is most likely to have that renal involvement? And let's go through it, AL, A, A, A-T-T-R, and then A-beta-2 microclabula. It's really only gonna be two. It's gonna be the light chain and the amyloid, the serum amyloid A one. These ones do not have any kind of renal involvement. So the question is, is how do these do that? Well, the light chains and the serum amyloid A deposit here. So what color? I had pink and I had blue. So here, you're gonna have all of these weird proteins here. I'll just make them as though we had them, which was, they were zigzaggy, right? They were the beta pleated. And then let's do the pink over here to represent the serum amyloid A that got like that. And what are they gonna do? They're gonna deposit into that basement membrane, baby. They're gonna go over here and clog this thing up. And now, when they deposit into this membrane, it's going to go and it's gonna really mess up the membrane. It's gonna cause some podocytes to get injured. Now, when you injure podocytes, these things are, as you guys remember this, come on, I know you do from the renal, right? I know that learning is stressful sometimes. I do, but sometimes it's good to connect things. Do you guys remember what happens if these kind of deposits get in here and they jack up the podocytes? Let's kind of annotate that here. So what would they do here just so you know, so you can refer to this later, is they do cause podocyte injury. Now, when you injure your podocytes, what's the problem with that? They're supposed to control protein leakage, bro. Protein's gonna be sifting through this thing. And so now what's gonna happen? I'm gonna start dumping proteins. And unfortunately, the biggest protein that you oftentimes dump into the urine is albumin. And so guess what? These patients are gonna start losing into their urine. They're gonna lose a lot of albumin. And so they'll get a lot of what's called, what do we call?  all this, we call this albuminuria, right? We call this albuminuria. Now, this is one, but you can also dump other proteins here. So, oftentimes, we say that it's, yeah, it's albuminuria, but really, it's protein. We dump albumin, that's probably the most abundant, but you can dump immunoglobulins and other kinds of proteins in there as well. So, one thing that we'll do is, as we like to take a look and check their urine-albumin-creatinine ratio or their urine-protein-creatinine ratio, and so, if they have lots of albumin, that's going to cause problems. One thing it can do is, if you have lots of albumin in the urine, guess what that does? So, you guys remember nephrodic syndrome, there's oftentimes a certain criteria that we talked about in Reno that you have to meet to truly have this diagnosis. Do you guys remember what it was? There's a couple things. One is, you have to have the albumin in the urine that's so high that it lowers the albumin in your blood. So you have low, so you have what's called hypoalbuminemia. Do you guys remember what albumin does in the blood? It keeps water and things like that in the bloodstream. So, if you don't have it, what happens? The water leaks out. What does that do if it gets into the tissue spaces? It causes edema. Because you dump not just albumin, but also other proteins. Let's say other proteins. What's another thing that you're going to see a lot of? Proteinuria. And that's the key thing is that these patients have like wicked, it's like wicked smack, you know, wicked high proteins in the urine, bruh. It's going to be crazy high. And how do we usually define that? We say it's got to be at least more than 3 grams in a 24 hour period, right? So they'll have really high proteinuria. And then, again, we got to really take a look at that. That's the most helpful diagnostic tool so we can monitor this. Like I can monitor EKGs and ECHOs and MRIs and things like that. Here, I got to check the protein in the urine. Another thing that also has to be checked is their lipids because you dump so much protein that the liver has to compensate and produce lots of lipid proteins, especially the VLDL and LDL. And so your lipids go up. And so you end up having what's called hyperlipidemia. These are oftentimes what we need to truly fit the definition of a patient having nephrodic syndrome. And so it's really good to remember that if a patient comes in with heavy proteinuria and edema and low albumin, oh, I wonder if it's amyloidosis. And you got to think about these two. All right. I think we got that down. These are the really big ones. And again, I take away from this that screening for this would be a urine protein creatinine ratio. Screening for this would be ECHO and ECG and maybe an MRI, depending upon the results. What about the neural involvement? I think it's worthy to talk about this because there is some things that will come up on your exam. And something I would want you guys to think about for these is, you know, when we have all of these, AL, right, AA, ATTR and A beta 2 microglobulin. It's kind of interesting because AL has a lot of neural involvement. All right. So this one's definitely going to get some neural involvement. Serum amyloid A, it's not that much. It's really, really not that much. ATTR, we got to be really, really careful. And it does have it, but I want to specify that it truly is because we got to be careful. This really only is the familial type, the hereditary type. All right. So it's only the familial. And then A beta 2 microglobulin, this one also has it as well. Now, here's what I want to be super, super careful with. AL loves to present with autonomic neuropathy. All right. So I'm going to write these down later, but this is autonomic neuropathy. Remember that. ATTR is peripheral neuropathy, usually multiple nerve lesions. And A beta 2 is carpal tunnel surgeon, which is a type of peripheral neuropathy if it hits the median nerve. So we'll go through these. But if you have this amyloid deposition, and let's say that it's somewhere within the vicinity of the autonomic nerves, what's going to happen? You have decreased autonomic supply via sympathetic and parasympathetic. So now if I have a decreased autonomic nervous system, you know, nerve function, this is going to lead me to think that this patient could have a autonomic nervous system neuropathy. This nerve ain't firing, bro. And if this nerve ain't firing, bro, we got some problems. So A&S neuropathy. I think this is worthy to talk about, right? How would these patients oftentimes present? It's usually a couple of things. One is orthostasis, bro. You know, you're sitting down, you stand up and back down, you go. Orthostatic hypotension. So look for that in the vitals. That's one thing. The second thing is, they, unfortunately, they struggle with the, they can't get that thing up. All right? That thing's limp. So unfortunately, there's a struggle with impotence or erectile dysfunction. All right? The other thing is the stomach. They can't get that food out of the stomach, unfortunately, and into the small intestine. Things just stay in there, sloshing around causing a lot of nausea and vomiting. That's called gastroparesis. So these are a couple different things that can happen in this scenario. All right? And so again, I really want you to emphasize this thing here that autonomic nervous system neuropathy is pretty common in this one. So let's actually write that out just so that you guys can understand the involvement here. That this one, it really targets more often than not the autonomic nervous system neuropathy. A, A, nothing. A, A wrong. But A, TTR, the familial type. This is polyneuropathy. So this is usually a polyneuropathy. So here, we'll, we'll, we'll squeeze this mother sucker right here. Polyneuropathy. And oftentimes it's sensory motor, but you know, we, we know sensory usually goes first, motor comes later. So what happens with this one, TTR, that was maroon, right? Yeah. So we're going to deposit these somewhere around these nerves. And this is going to cause sensory motor deficits. If you deposit these, can they function? No. So you can't send signals. You're able to step on a Lego and not know what the heck is going on. You know? And so this is going to cause sensory deficits. So this is going to be your, your peripheral neuropathy, your peripheral neuropathy. And this can involve one or it can involve multiple different nerves. But this is the big one to remember here. And usually what's the deficits? It's usually sensory first, motor later. I don't think that's too hard to imagine that if you have the numbness, tingling, parasigias of the lower extremities, that could tell you about a potential peripheral neuropathy. Again, think about this dude walking on Legos and it's just like nothing's going on. All right. You should, it should hurt like a son of a gun. You ever step on a Lego? It's painful. But that's something to think about. This one's the weird one where these beta two microglobulins for some weird reason have an affinity for the carpal tunnel. What color did I make? I made that green. These poppies deposit right in here. More of that distal kind of like neuropathy there, right around that median nerve. When it does that, can you send signals down this median nerve division? No. This is going to cause maybe some numbness and tingling, some parasigias of that division. Usually of the thumb, the pointer finger, the middle finger, and then some parts of the ring finger, right? And then on the backside, on the back of the digits. And then sometimes the muscles here can become a little bit weaker. So you lose some grip strength and, you know, the worst case scenario is the thenar eminence becomes a little bit more atrophied. What's that called? Carpal tunnel syndrome. So this can lead to carpal tunnel syndrome. Here's the weird part. You ever see people walking around with a fracking bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome? Probably not often. Amylidosis is like that weird clinical picture. So it's usually bilateral. And again, what do they oftentimes look like? Well, again, depending upon that division, they could have pain, numbness, tingling within that division of the thumb, the pointer finger, the middle finger, parts of the ring finger, back here, they could have decreased grip strength and they could have some theanarytrophy. How do we determine if these are not working? Well, if a patient comes in with symptoms of neuropathy, guess what the most, according to the exam, guess what the best diagnostic test is? An EMG in the nerve conduction study. That would help us to say, oh, there's an actual neuropathic process. And then maybe from there we go to an MRI. Same thing like this one, we would start off with an ECG and an ECHO. We would start off with a urine protein-crating ratio. And then from there we may go further to cardiac MRIs, radio tracers, renal biopsies, etc. All right, gastrointestinal involvement. I don't want to go too crazy with this one. I only want to pick up really one big thing. And that's within these. It's funny. So ALAA, ATTR and A-beta-2, microglobulin. It's really just these two. Some textbooks say all of them. And that may be true, but it's very minuscule for these two. It's primarily these two. What happens is that in these they cause the tongue to get gargantuous. I might have to do well if I'm running with a big tongue. Big ol' tongue, all right? Things the size of Texas. What is that called? Macroglossia. Now, macroglossia is a common clinical picture here for amyloidosis, especially if it's combined with the restrictive cardiomyopathy and an aphrotic syndrome. Always be thinking about that. Problems with macroglossia is not just that it looks very, very unpleasant. It's also, can you get airflow through that tiny little area when you're sleeping? No. So these patients are super high risk for, oh, do I know this problem? Obstructive sleep apnea. So that may be a way that they could potentially clinically present. The next component here is there is other GI involvement. I'd say they're relatively minuscule and it's not like a super big diagnostic. People don't come in with like, hey, I think my liver is like way too big. Nobody comes in and tells you that. I don't say, dude, my spleen's too big. It's the size of, I can't even imagine, it's the size of Texas in there. They don't do that. And so it's not oftentimes a common kind of complaint. It's just something you may see on the exam that that amyloid protein can deposit into these potential tissues. And so it can deposit into the liver. Sometimes you can get a little bit of cholestasis with that. It can deposit in the spleen. It gets a little bit big, but it's nothing crazy. Oftentimes the real big thing here is you're looking for that hepatosplenomegaly. And I know that this kind of is a tough thing because we've seen here in heme how many diseases can cause hepatosplenomegaly, right? I think the big thing that I want you guys to take away is this one. So I want to actually make this one red because it's the most important one is this one, the macroglossia. This is that exam thing where you see this, you should think amyloidosis. The other one here, and they do say that textbook-wise that it is kind of important to remember, is that these amyloid proteins, funny enough, they can deposit onto these intestinal villi. Now what are the villi for? If you have all of these proteins depositing onto the intestinal villi, they're supposed to increase the absorptive surface area, right? So they're really supposed to help with absorption. Well, if you have this villi, whoops, I don't want the blue, I want to stick to the color here, a black, that if you have this villi deposition, then what's that going to do to your absorption process? It's going to decrease the absorption. And so when you do that, you take away the structures that are supposed to increase the absorptive surface area. And then if you can't have that, what happens to your absorption? That becomes impaired. And what do we call that when you're limiting your absorption? Malabsorption. And so you could see people with weight loss and diarrhea, nutritional deficiencies of sorts. But this is something to definitely consider. I wouldn't say it's a super, super common one that you're going to see on your exams, but it is something to potentially consider. But I'd say GI1, definitely don't forget this. Cutaneous involvement is something to consider in patients with amylidosis. And it could just be easy bruising. Could be a lot of different reasons for that, such as bone marrow invasion. Because sometimes these proteins can invade the bone marrow. I'd say it's less common. But anemia is pretty common in this disease because you can see it, whether it be due to bone marrow invasion or whether it just be due to a lot of just tissue damage causing inflammation. But cutaneous involvement, it really kind of comes down to the classic picture, which is the racoon eyes, the periorbital ecomosis. And that's what you want to look for. But when we talk about this and how it's presenting in patients with amylidosis, so you have, for example, AL, you have AA, you have ATTR, and you also have A beta 2 microglobulin. Really the one that I want you guys to remember is going to be this one. These ones don't really have any significant cutaneous involvement. This is the primary one that I want you to consider. And again, the concept here is that you're going to get this kind of bruising, but it's going to kind of stay to the periorbital area that it's going to be the classic kind of look. And so it's called periorbital ecomosis, but we give it another name. We call this racoon, the racoon eyes. And racoon eyes are also again known as periorbital ecomosis. And it's cool because it looks a little bit like this. So when we see this type of clinical picture with the combination of restrictive cardiomyopathy and nephrodic syndrome, we also see that they have macroglossia. We maybe even pick up some neural signs and then you see racoon eyes. Definitely think about amylidosis. All right, we come to the last one here. And this is the musculoskeletal system involvement. And again, we kind of list our types, AL, AA, ATTR, and A beta 2 microglobulin. Really, any of them can involve the musculoskeletal system. I'd say the most prominent are going to be this one, this one, and this one. You don't see as much of it from this. And so what's going to happen here is that they love to go, any of these, I'm going to represent it here. Maybe I'll put some blue. Maybe I'll put some pink or maroon. And I'll just represent all of these different types of proteins really heavily depositing into these joints. And what happens is it'll produce tissue damage or produce inflammation. And so you're going to get this picture of arthritis. So they're arthralgias, but arthritis would be a really big one. Now, oftentimes it loves to really go after the shoulder joint for some reason. And so I would kind of think about this in a patient with some type of shoulder arthritis as a big one. And even adding to that, sometimes they can get so much deposition and inflammation and periscabular, humoral arthritis that they literally look like they're wearing football pads. I'm not even kidding. I'm not making this up. A classic sign of this is called the shoulder pad sign. It looks a little bit like this. So the patient comes in with a shoulder pad sign, chronic history of arthritis, definitely be considering the possibility of amyloidosis. So there's a lot of key takeaways from this so far. But I think we'll establish that when we get into our diagnostic approach. Let's do so now. All right, let's move into the diagnostic approach of amyloidosis. And when we think about this, what is the most common way that these patients with amyloidosis will present? To make you even have a suspicion of this, because this is not an easy disease. Oftentimes in the clinical vignettes, and sometimes in clinical reality, we see nephrodic syndrome as the most common presentation. So nephrodic syndrome is usually that patient who comes in with heavy amounts of protein area, right? So a very, very large amount, greater than usually, I mean, we'd say three grams within a 24 hour period is very, very concerning. Another thing that we would also see is potentially hypoabium anemia, a very, very low albumin in the bloodstream. They would have also hyperlipidemia, and they would have some evidence of edema within the body. Those are things that would make you curious. And what would happen is you'd work them up for nephrodic syndrome, you develop a differential diagnosis. That's when you start thinking about minimal change disease. You start thinking about focal segmental glomerular sclerosis, membranous nephropathy, diabetic nephropathy, and amyloid nephropathy. Unfortunately, a lot of these patients, you would have to probably go the route of considering some type of biopsy to really elucidate which type it is. And that's how you may end up with the diagnosis of amyloidosis. Another common presentation is restrictive cardiomyopathy. So you may have a patient coming in with symptoms of right heart failure. So they may have jugular venous distension, and they may have potentially some lower extremity edema. They may have that paradoxical rise of the jugular venous pressure during inspiration called COOSMALL sign. They may have other evidence that when they get an echocardiogram, they show a bilateral kind of stiffening and restricted movement of the ventricles with a little bit of thickening there and biatrial enlargement that also could be concerning. They may even get further testing that yields that they have a restrictive cardiomyopathy. And then upon that, you would diagnose this because what would happen is you'll probably get further imaging like a cardiac MRI. You may even go the routes of getting like a biopsy and find that they have amyloid deposits. Other less conspicuous ways, and I'd say less common is things like macroglossy, enlargement of the tongue, neuropathy, especially if it's autonomic or peripheral, or a really, really high yield one that we see is bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome, and racoon eyes. This can usually suspect potentially a basilar skull fracture or systemic disease like amyloidosis. But I'd say oftentimes more than not, nephrodic syndrome and restrictive cardiomyopathy, you should definitely have amyloidosis as a part of your differential in that diagnosis. So once we say, okay, this patient came in with nephrodic syndrome, they came in with restrictive cardiomyopathy, what makes me think that it could be amyloidosis? Well, the reason why I would start thinking that is maybe they would have other kind of multi-system involvement. One of the easiest way is to do a tissue biopsy. Now, we can do this a couple different ways. One is we can do an abdominal fat pad biopsy because that's going to be the less kind of like super invasive option. It's also really decent. It's like pretty good tests, and you can get pretty good diagnosis just off of that. A lot of the times that we prefer organ-specific. So in other words, if they have nephrodic syndrome, I prefer a renal biopsy. If they have some type of restrictive cardiomyopathy, I may prefer a biopsy of the myocardium. So these are all things that we potentially could do, but an abdominal fat pad biopsy is usually going to be the best and least invasive way of being able to get a diagnosis. So once we do that, we take the tissue, what we do is we use a Congo red stain. And if that Congo red stain upon that shows an apple green biorefringence, that is highly, highly, highly suggestive of amyloidosis. You can see here, you see all that kind of apple green kind of biorefringence there. That is highly, highly suggestive of amyloidosis. From there, we've really diagnosed that the patient has amyloidosis that's either caused in this case, this is a patient who has nephrodic syndrome because this is a glomerulus. So you're seeing a lot of the amyloid deposits occurring in the glomerulus. But once we've diagnosed that, we know, okay, they have amyloidosis that's caused their nephrodic syndrome. Well, which type of amyloidosis is AL? AA? ATTR? Is it A Beta 2? Well, really, I know that oftentimes more than not, it's AL amyloidosis in this case, but I got to go a little bit further and really elucidate that type. So we do that oftentimes. You can do mass spectrometry or you can do immunohistochemistry to really look at these a little bit better. And we can kind of get specific weights and ideas of what types of proteins are usually built up. So if I see a lot of Kappa lambda chains that are coming up on mass spec, that may help me to think about AL amyloidosis. So what we do with AL is we think that this is usually plasma cell disorders. Multiple myeloma is a really big one. So we'll do a S-PAP, a U-PAP, and we'll immunofixate for free light chains to see if those are super elevated. What do we know about patients who have multiple myeloma? Well, we know that their S-PAP would show that they would have an M spike, a U-PAP would show that they have a Bench-Jones proteins, and then their free light chain ratio would show that they would have lots and lots and lots of light chains that have grown. And so these are things that would really, really help to tell us that this patient probably has multiple myeloma that's caused their AL amyloidosis. Another way that we can confirm that it's multiple myelomas, usually they have lots of these plasma cytomas that are occurring in the bone marrow. So if I see things like that, that really, really is suggestive of multiple myeloma, in this case, AL amyloidosis. If I said that there was lots of serum amyloid A that came up on mass spec, that would suggest the AA amyloidosis. And then you have to start thinking, could it be due to familial Mediterranean fever, R-A, S-L-E, inflammatory bowel disease? The best way to do that is to think about what? Get the ESR, CRP levels, because usually if those are super elevated, it suggests more of a systemic inflammation and a chronic inflammatory disease of such. And that's where you start thinking about AA amyloidosis, right? Now the transthyretin is going to be, again, thinking that this could be the normal one that's built up in an old person, so C-N-L, or it's familial. There was a mutation that caused this misfolding of the transthyretin protein. So how do we really determine that? Well, we have to do genetic testing for that TTR mutation. If they have the TTR mutation, it's familial, especially if they're associated with cardiomyopathy and polyneuropathy. But if it comes up where they don't have the TTR mutation, but they do have some cardiomyopathy, again, usually no significant amounts of polyneuropathy, that suggests the C-N-L-A-T-T-R amyloidosis. And then lastly, you can bet that if there's lots of beta-2-migraglobulin, that would be a possible A-beta-2. So how do we really determine that? There's a couple different ways, but oftentimes we just check a beta-2-migraglobulin level. And what would we think? Well, it's probably going to be built up, and that would usually suggest, especially in a patient with long-term immunomaniacalysis, greater than 10 years, or in-stage renal disease, that would likely suggest A-beta-2 amyloidosis. All right, that puts everything together to think about this. And again, thinking about it in this way, that most often it's these two presentations that make you think about amyloid. The only way that you make a diagnosis is you need the tissue. Get the tissue biopsy. Abdominal fat pad, very optional, a very good option, less invasive, but preferred if you had to go with the best gold standard to be organ-specific. You see this, it's amyloid. We can further divvy this out to think about which one it is based upon mass, back or immunohistochemistry, and then figuring out based upon that, we can go a little bit further to elucidate specifically these specific subtypes of amyloidosis. All right. Now, the next component here is whenever a patient has amyloidosis, whether it's AL, AA, ATTR, or A-beta-2, we always want to consider the possibility of associated complications. We know that the most common is nephrodic syndrome, but don't count out other things like restrictive cardiomyopathy. So whenever we think about this, it's easy to always consider that if a patient has amyloidosis or you suspect them to have amyloidosis, always consider the urinal-vumine-cratonine ratio. That's going to tell you if they have heavy amounts of protein area. So if a patient has a very, very high urinal-vumine-cratonine ratio, where we can really say that they're putting out more than three grams of protein within a 24-hour period, we may have that suspicion, okay, this patient may have nephrodic syndrome, and you may be able to catch that, and then say from there, do I go to the lengths of saying this could be amyloidosis, right? And even as you're treating these patients, if they have nephrodic syndrome, you should be continuously monitoring that. Now, we also know that this can cause cardiomyopathy, but it also, if these amyloidosis get inside of the bundle system near the AV bundle, the AV node, you can cause AV blocks. So you definitely want to be watching out in the EKG for any AV blocks. Then this could be a first degree, this could be a second degree, or it could be even a third degree AV block. Next one is ECHOS. So again, ECHOS, I told you are really good for being able to pick up if there's any restrictive cardiomyopathy here. You can see that this patient has a very, very thick and very less elastic, I'd say, and less kind of distensible myocardium, and that's definitely concerning. But again, we would be able to pick it up here. Another way that we can do these is we can do cardiac MRIs, and we look for like gadolinium enhancement. And if it's late, that means that some of that gadolinium is getting trapped inside of all this amyloid and fibrous deposits. And so it's harder for that gadolinium to actually exit out of the actual myocardium. And so it remains to be enhanced even later in that phase when it shouldn't be in normal patients. You should not have late gadolinium enhancement. If you do, you're thinking about something that's kind of restricting the gadolinium from getting out of there. And that would be something to think about, especially in amyloidosis. Another thing that we can do is we can do a TC99 scan, and it looks potentially for radiotracer uptake. And all we try to do is we actually try to compare the ribs, the uptake of the rib to the uptake of the myocardium. And if the uptake of the actual myocardium is bigger or greater than the uptake of the ribs, that's highly, highly suggestive of a patient having an increased uptake of that radiotracer, which we can see in patients who have amyloidosis. All right. And then lastly, EMG's nerve conduction studies are great because neuropathy is a very common presentation. If you pick up neuropathy, again, it could be something to think about as a patient having amyloidosis, but it's not going to be at the top of your differential. Oftentimes, the best ways of being able to pick these things up is you're not buming, cratting, or ratio in an echo. All right, let's talk about the treatment of amyloidosis. So when we think about this, there is different types. So we're going to start off with AL amyloidosis. That's one that's actually high yield. But again, we talked about this in multiple myeloma, the plasma cell disorders. So we think about AL amyloidosis as usually secondary to plasma cell disorders with multiple myeloma being the most common. EMGUS, or monoclonal glomopathy of undetermined significance, we don't usually treat. We just monitor. And then if they happen to develop multiple myeloma, we treat accordingly. So how do we treat this? Well, oftentimes, you start off with the VRD therapy. So this is usually like the Bortezomib, the linolytomide, and usually some type of steroid, maybe like a dexamethasone of some sort. The other thing is that if we're trying to condition them for a bone marrow transplant to kind of like help them have proper plasma cells, they're not producing these abnormal amounts of Kappa and Lambda light chains, we'll do high dose mouthland. This will condition them, usually get the bone marrow ready to properly accept a bone marrow transplant. So that's kind of the way that we do that is again, you start off with the VRD therapy, and then from there we'll condition them if they are eligible for a hematopoietic stem cell transplant, but we give them high dose mouthland and then follow it up with that stem cell transplant. Now, a AMYLidosis could be the RA. It could be due to inflammatory bowel disease, could be due to SLE, could be due to familial Mediterranean fever. Depending upon if it is all those things or familial Mediterranean fever determines the way that we'll treat. So obviously you have to treat the underlying cause and for RA, SLE, inflammatory bowel disease, all of those things come down to usually D-Mards or some type of biological agent, whereas familial Mediterranean fever, you need to know this my friends, it will likely come up on the exam at some way, shape, or form, it is culturizing. So again, how do we remember this? If it's usually those patients who have RA, SLE, inflammatory bowel disease, you're treating them with D-Mards or some type of biologic. If it is familial Mediterranean fever, it is culturizing. Don't forget that. All right, ATTR AMYLidosis depends upon if it's the mutated, the familiar, or the non-mutated, the senile ATTR AMYLidosis. Well, depending upon that determines if we use a drug that binds to the transthyretin and prevents it from accumulating over time, prevents it from actually leading to this tissue deposition. And that would be tafomitis. So that's going to be the one for the senile or the non-familiar ATTR AMYLidosis, which we see a lot with the cardiac involvement. The other option is we replace the organ that's abnormally producing or producing the abnormal ATTR protein. And in that mutated form, that's the issue. If we get rid of the organ or we switch the organ to a proper organ able to produce that protein, we might be okay. And so that's where liver transplant is best for those who produce that mutated form, since it's the source of ATTR. All right, or that in this case, the mutated transthyretin protein. So again, we kind of go off of this if it's non-mutated, it's tafomitis. If it is mutated, we do the liver transplant. This kind of gives us an overall look at how we treat AMYLidosis to paste on if it's AL, the plasma cell disorders, chemo, very high conditioning chemo, and then stem cell transplant, underlying disease needs to be treated. If it's the RA, SLE, inflammatory bowel disease, it is usually DMARDS, biologic steroids. If it's familial Mediterranean fever, colchicine. ATTR, which have the cardiac AMYLidosis, the most common presentation, usually the polyneuropathies and the familial type. It's tafomitis, if it's the not mutated or the senile form, and it's a liver transplant for those who have the familial form. All right, my friends, that really is a big topic on AMYLidosis, and I really hope that it made sense. I hope that you guys enjoyed it, learned a lot, and I hope that if a question comes up on it, you'll be able to crush it the Ninja Nerd way. We love you. We thank you so much for being so awesome, and as always...  until next time.

=== FILE: Anatomy of the Heart and Coronary Circulation [7ERVxf5eD7k].txt ===

 and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, the heart. So let's actually go ahead, dig into the illustrations and after that, let's go ahead and dig into the heart and then start actually talking about every single piece, going through identifying things and pretending we're a little red blood cell moving along the way. All right, so let's talk now about the anatomy of the heart, the coronary circulation. We'll dig into this, go through the illustrations step by step and then we'll kind of review with just an overall kind of like view looking at the anatomized table. So let's kind of step into this. So first things first, I'm going to take and look at the actual heart wall. So I want you guys to think about this in slightly a morbid way, but imagine I have like a knife and I'm going to penetrate it through the person's chest wall and I want to talk about what layer the knife is going through from superficial to deep sequentially. And so you can imagine that by just zooming in on this whole heart wall layer and we're going to go through this from superficial to deep. The first layer that we have highlighted is the fibrous pericardium of the heart, really dense irregular connective tissue. When we think about this, what is the overall function? Well, if you can imagine because it's super hardy, it's going to protect the heart from a lot of external forces. And on top of that, it's since it's a really strong connective tissue, it can anchor the heart down to the surrounding structures associated with it. Another thing is that because it's a little bit more rigid, we don't want the heart to always overfill. And so this is going to only allow for a certain degree of stretch, if you will, and it's going to prevent that heart from overfilling with blood. So three primary functions is again, protect it, anchor it, and then prevent it from overfilling with blood. The next one just deep to that is called the cirrus pericardium. So the fibrous pericardium. And then you have another layer called the cirrus pericardium. And there's a parietal layer, and then we'll talk a little bit later. There's a visceral layer. So the parietal layer of the cirrus pericardium is kind of like a mesothelial tissue. It's a simple squamous epithelial tissue with a little bit of areolar connective tissue. And so it lines that inner surface of the fibrous pericardium. And some of those cells are responsible for producing the pericardial fluid that lies within what? The pericardial cavity that we have here highlighted in blue. The pericardial cavity holds on to what's called pericardial fluid. And that pericardial fluid basically whenever the heart contracts and relaxes, we don't want those two layers, the parietal layer and the visceral layer to rub up against one another and get kind of like inflamed. And so we allow for them to have some fluid there to allow it to glide easily and keeping it really smooth. The next one, just deep to that, is called the visceral layer of the cirrus pericardium. You can appreciate in this pinkish color. And we also give it another terminology as you see here called the epicardium. All right, meaning it just clings to the outer wall of the actual heart tissue itself. Now, the visceral layer of the cirrus pericardium, again, it's going to line that kind of surface of the heart and we know that the cells are responsible for producing some of that pericardial fluid. And that's going to again allow for that gliding of the heart. All right, the next one is the myocardium. The myocardium is a thick tissue made of cardiac muscle. And that cardiac muscle is critical to the contraction of the heart. So it's obviously responsible for being able to expel blood out of the heart. So it's critical to contraction and relaxation of the heart that helps us to either move blood out of the heart or to relax to allow for us to fill or have a proper venous return as well. All right, then we come to the most inner layer called the endocardium. So it's an endothelial tissue. And so it's just simple squamous epithelial tissue, a little bit of loose connective tissue, and it lines the walls of the heart. So it lines the atria, lines the ventricles, and believe it or not, it even lines the valves. And so it's a very important structure. And then it's continuous. One of the beautiful things is that this continues into the arteries, the pulmonary artery in the aorta. So it's a pretty cool thing that we can talk about with this. So we can appreciate the layers of the heart wall. So again, to go from superficial to deep, it is which ones? The fibrous pericardium, the parietal layer of the serous pericardium, the pericardial cavity, the visceral layer of the serous pericardium, the myocardium, the endocardium, and then you're into the actual cavities of the heart. In this case, this would be like the left ventricle. All right, that's what I want you to take away from this. Okay, now that we talked about the layers of the heart, let's actually go through step by step and as one of the team members here who helped me make this, get into the chamber of secrets. All right, that is the left atrium, the right atrium, the right ventricle, the left ventricle, and go through maybe some specific structures that you could have to identify on the exam. So the first one that we'll do is we'll take an overall kind of holistic view of the right atrium. And again, you can see the right atrium here, and you can see that there's a structure here called the oracle, the right oracle that kind of sits over it. Let's kind of take and slice it open and take a better look at it to appreciate some definitive structures. And we kind of peel that right atrium muffin cap back blue. All right, we can appreciate a couple different things. What are those things? Well, one thing is you have three things that empty into the right atrium. So they bring deoxygenated blood back to the right side of the heart. That is the supervena cava. We'll talk later, brings blood from deoxygenated blood from above the diaphragm. All right, that's one. The next one is the inferior vena cava. That's going to empty into the right atrium. It's bringing blood, deoxygenated blood from structures below the diaphragm. And then there's another one, and you can sometimes call the opening or the osteum of the coronary sinus, but that's going to be right here. And that's going to be bringing deoxygenated blood from the myocardium. So three areas of blood and deoxygenated blood are going to empty into the right atrium. That is the superior inferior vena cava and that osteum or opening of the coronary sinus. Another structure that we have here is called the phosphovalus. You might remember this is kind of a scar tissue remnant that is the result of something in a pediatric patient that exists called the foramen oval. And that was a hole that allowed for blood to be able to shunt between atria. And again, we know this because whenever the baby is in these stages, whereas growing, it's not breathing in air. And so the lungs, they're kind of like within the amniotic fluid, right? So there's no ability to breathe air. So we need to have that shunting structure so that we can move blood from the right side of the heart as much of it to the left side of the heart so we can send it out to the systemic circulation, to the placenta, for the placenta to do that function. But eventually, that has to close off. We don't want it to be patent. So it becomes what's called the fossa oval, which is a nice scar tissue between that. And generally, that's what then a structure called the interatrial septum. So there is usually a hole during the normal kind of developmental process that should close and become a fibrous remnant when you get older. You don't want that to stay open. The next thing is we have, if we peeled that muffin cap back blue, we got this kind of like part of the wall. It's more of the anterior wall of the right atrium. And it's made up of a muscle called the pectinate muscles. And they may play a role a little bit with kind of like overall helping with expansion and increasing the size maybe of the right atrium. But it's more just an anatomical structure that you may have to identify in the exam. And then there's kind of like this separation point that you may see here called the crista terminalis. And that's just one of those demarcation points that we may see and you may have to identify. All right. Another thing is again, you're kind of, you saw it from that first view, which you saw this kind of structure sitting over on top of the right atrium. And that is called the right oracle. And we can appreciate that structure as well. It's just more of a fatty kind of tissue. All right. That is the right atrium. So we can appreciate the right atrium and the structures that are kind of there. And the reason why we kind of talked about them in great detail is because whenever a patient has pathological processes that occur, such as right heart failure, or they have some type of issue where they have a patent for amino valley, those things are critical to know how these things normally function their normal structure. Because whenever there's a breakdown in that normal structure, a breakdown in that normal function, that's when we see things like pathology. And so it's really, really critical to know that. To just give you an example, if you could imagine that the right atrium couldn't receive blood from the superior inferior vena cava, what would happen? And we see this in right heart failure. Blood would back up and it would cause jugular venous distension. It would back down the inferior vena cava and that would cause more of that lower extremity edema, hepatomegaly, maybe even ascites. And that's why it's critical. If we didn't close off that phosovallus and it remained patent, you would end up with an asianotic heart defect in these babies they may experience severe hypoxia and other complications as well. So that's why it's important to talk about it. Let's then move down. Because we know that the right atrium is connected to the right ventricle, but it's usually via a space, which we have a valve to prevent backflow. And we'll talk about that valve in a second. And that's called your tricuspid valve, right? But we're going to enter our way into the right ventricle through that tricuspid valve. Let's kind of open it up and take a better appreciation. So you can see here we got a couple of different things that we need to talk about. The first one is all of these kind of rigid, kind of like bundled up pieces of muscle. And they're all over the place, but it's called the trabiculae carnaine. They tend to be, they can be in all of the walls, but if you ever open up a heart and a model or a true cadaver, you'll see and appreciate it more in the anterior portion of that ventricle. But either way, it's more of these obvious, kind of like rigid spindly type of muscle fibers that are presented there. All right. The next thing is we have another kind of like muscle tissue that's kind of critical because the prokengi fibers actually run through this. And it acts as kind of a way of being able to connect some of the papillary muscles so that they can receive that proper prokengi signal. And that's called the septomarginal trabiculae. I like to call it the moderator band, but you can appreciate that here. And it's really just kind of like, you can see how it kind of acts as like a little kind of bridging point between the papillary muscles and the prokengi fiber should run through there. Another structure, kind of just knowing it in general, we have what's called the pulmonary trunk. And it's not to be confused with kind of like an area where blood is getting ready. It's kind of like a little, it's like it's moving onto a deck, essentially, that's going to then move through these like little valves and then go into the pulmonary trunk. This little area here, this little deck, if you will, is called the conus arteriosus. But then again, we'll talk about this later. It kind of provides the gateway of moving towards the pulmonary trunk through the pulmonary semilunar valve. Another thing is we have papillary muscles and we have a bunch of them. This is a little overkill, but I still think it's important, especially when you start getting into infarcts. Whenever you have infarcts, different areas control different papillary muscles, so different parts of the heart wall. And so if you have, for example, an infarction somewhere along the septum or on the lateral wall, it may affect those papillary muscles, which then may cause particular valvular insufficiencies. And again, we'll get into that a little bit later. But papillary muscles, let's kind of identify them. The first one is called the anterior papillary muscles. And then you have the posterior papillary muscles right here. So imagine these are just coming out, the anterior is a little bit more, and then going deeper, if you're punching into the actual camera, you're going to have the posterior papillary muscles. They're going to be deeper into that right ventricle. And then you can imagine here's the septum, so what would you imagine these are? That's the septal papillary muscles. So these are your papillary muscles and their job is to be able to contract and kind of tighten up these little strings that are called what? The cordae tendinae. And the cordae tendinae is basically a very critical structure that whenever it kind of, what it does is it connects to what's called your valve cusps or the leaflets, if you will. And what happens is the cordae tendinae, if they're kind of pulled top by the papillary muscles, they really help those valve cusps to kind of like approximate together nicely, so that you get a good closure of that valve. So if a papillary muscle is infarcted or dies, it can't contract. It can't hold the cordae tendinae taut. And then those valve leaflets or cusps are more mobile. And this can cause things like rigor, agitation, or prolapse of that structure into the appropriate atrium. So that's why it's important to know that. But again, papillary muscles connect to the cordae tendinae, which are then kind of anchoring down specific cusps, if you will. It's harder to point these out, but I'm going to use this as an understanding here that here's our anterior cusps. It's really just this portion here. These we already pointed out of the cordae tendinae, but they're connecting to that anterior cusp. And then you have another one. This is called your posterior cusp. And that's, again, it's going to be connecting to the cordae tendinae, which connected the posterior papillary muscles. And then you have your septal cusps, which are connecting to the cordae tendinae, which are connecting to the septal papillary muscles. So again, you can appreciate all of these structures and how they make up a really profound valvular apparatus. With that, we talked about the right ventricle. We covered the valvular apparatus. We covered the trabiculate carnae, the conus arteriosis, which are, I think, the big things to really identify. All right? Let's now kind of take and turn around and get into the left atrium. When we kind of open up the left atrium and peel that muffin cap back blue, you can appreciate at least some important structures that are critical to knowing that way. If there is disease, you can understand kind of, again, the normal anatomy, normal physiology. If you break it down, what the pathology may look like. All right. So the first thing that I want you guys to identify is, again, it's the same concept. It's just, it's homologous to the right atrium. If you peeled it back, there's a muscle in the anterior wall called the pectinate muscles. This is just muscular pectinate, which is, again, it's a more fancy way of saying pectinate muscles. But again, it's the same concept, same structure, same function. What I want you to remember is if I remove that, we can get a better appreciation for things that empty into the left atrium. So if you guys remember, what were the structures that emptied into the right atrium? The supravenia cava, inferior vena cava, coronary sinus. What empties into the left atrium? The pulmonary veins. If I asked you to take a next step, how many I want you to say four? Two from the right and two from the left. All right? These empty in to the left atrium, they're supposed to bring oxygenated blood back to the left atrium. All right? Really important that you know that. Now, there's another structure which we can kind of appreciate here, and it was a hole that was actually between the right atrium and the left atrium when you were a very small baby in your mother's womb. What was that called? The foramen ovale. When you're born, it should close up, become a fibrous remnant called the fossa ovale. So you're just appreciating it on the other side of that interatrial septum. Again, we see the mitral valve apparatus, kind of parts of it, and we'll get in, we'll talk about the anterior and the posterior cusps, because the tricuspid valve at three cusp, this one's only going to have two cusps, so another name for the mitral valve is called the bicuspid valve. All right? And then we have what's called the left oracle, and the reason why I want to mention the left oracle is the left oracle has a small little space in it called the left atrial appendage. And this is something that's important to know, because what happens is, in patients who suffer from something called atrial fibrillation, where their heart, atria, isn't contracting very properly. It's kind of actually shivering or quivering, if you want to say it like that. It doesn't get a good atrial kick. What happens is because of that, it gets stagnation, it gets stasis of blood, and it tends to sit right here in this little pocket. And if blood sits for a long time, it can form a thrombus, and that thrombus that forms there can then get flicked off. So left atrial thrombi and atrial fibrillation, they actually love to sit here. And so sometimes what we may do is, we'll put them on anticoagulants, but sometimes if we can't or they're not responding well, we may actually have to occlude that space that they can actually allow thrombi to form there. So that's why I wanted to mention that one. All right, that's our left atrium. The big things that we wanted to hit there was that left atrial appendage and the pulmonary veins, seeing the other side of that fossa ovalis, and then you're kind of seeing the entryway via the mitral valve. But let's now move into the bottom part where we're going to move from the left atrium, if we could imagine, where a little red blood cell, we're moving down from the left atrium with the left ventricle through the bicuspid, through the mitral valve, one of those two into the left ventricle. We take a piece off, and we can see inside. You can again appreciate some of those rigidity spindly structures called the tripliculae carnae. You can also appreciate your papillary muscles. If you can imagine, this is the anterior, this side is the anterior portion of that heart, and this is the posterior portion of the heart. You're just looking at it from kind of a lateral view. So here's going to be the anterior papillary muscle, and what would this one be? The posterior papillary muscle. And we can appreciate that these are controlled by different blood circuits, and we'll kind of get into that more in the kind of arterial distribution. But I want you to talk about that more in the pathology section. So when we get into myocardial infarctions, it's kind of critical because again, papillary muscle rupture is a pretty nasty thing, and it can cause a lot of mitral valve regurgitation, acute heart failures. So that's why it's important to kind of remember that. Nonetheless, these are two structures that are going to be holding on to what? That cordae tendinae, which are then connected to the valve cusp or leaflets. And you should have an anterior cusp, which again, you're kind of appreciating the top part of it. This is the cordae tendinae, and then what's this one? This is the posterior cusp, and it's just this portion here. It's connected via the cordae tendinae to the papillary muscles. That makes up your valvular apparatus. All right, that really gets you. I think the big things that you need to know about the left ventricle. And then we've covered the chamber of secrets. Let's now move into the next part here. The next thing I want us to discuss is the valves. The valves are really important, and you're probably like, didn't we already kind of do that? Yes, we did. But we didn't really talk about two other valves that I want to talk about for a second. So if I'm taking a slice of the heart, so again, you can kind of appreciate if I'm kind of taking a slice through the heart, I'm going to try and get all four valves in one view. So we're going to do that now, and we're going to appreciate we're looking from like the top down at these valves. And there are some critical things to talk about. So the first one is the tricuspid valve, and you can appreciate the three cusps, right? As we talked about the anterior, the posterior, and the septal. Then we have the bicuspid or the mitral valve, and it just has the anterior and the posterior cusp. Then the semilunar valves. So we didn't talk about these, but if you can imagine, we kind of saw the pulmonary semilunar valve when we were looking from the right ventricle up through the conus arteriosus. It's hard to see the aortic semilunar valve, but it's tucked deeper and a little bit more posteriorly into the left ventricle. But again, nonetheless, they're going to be the entryways into the arteries, the aorta and the pulmonary artery. So we have to have valves to prevent that backflow. And so what will we have? Well, the first one is the aortic semilunar valve, and this is going to have three of those cusps. And then the pulmonary semilunar valve, which is going to have three of those cusps. One thing I think that's critical to remember about valves in general is that they're preventing backflow. AV valves, which are also referred to as your atrio ventricular valves, which are which ones? Your tricuspid and your bicuspid, those prevent backflow into the atria. That's their job. It's not to promote flow into direction. That happens passively. Their job is that whenever the papillary muscles contract, they pull the cordae tendinate, the cordae tendinate, bring the cusp closer together that you don't push blood back into the area that it just came from. Same thing, semilunar valves, which you can appreciate here, their job is they're going to open up whenever the heart goes into systole, the pressure gradients will push blood from the ventricles into the arteries. But there will be a drop in pressure during diastole, where it'll want to flow back. We don't want that to backflow into the ventricles, and that's the purpose of these valves. Another beautiful thing that you can see here, and I love from this diagram, is that off of the pulmonary artery, at least the pulmonary trunk, it'll bifurcate into the right and left pulmonary artery. The aorta itself, which is going to come after the aortic valve, it's going to then have a couple different things. One is it'll move up via the aortic arch. But there's also two branches that come right off of the base of the aorta, and they're very important to talk about. Because we're going to move into this next, and that is your coronary arteries. These are the structures that supply oxygenated blood to the myocardium, which we need. The myocardium is such a hungry workhorse, it needs oxygen, it needs nutrients to be able to perform its job. So we need to give it its own blood supply. And the same way your biceps, your triceps, your quadriceps, your brain, all these other organs are depending upon systemic blood flow from the aorta, so is the myocardium. So you can appreciate that these are just right off the base, and so they get a good amount of blood flow that moves into them. And here's a question that you'll probably be asked, when? During diastole. During relaxation of the heart, whenever blood gets pushed out into the aorta, the heart relaxes, and it creates a pressure gradient that wants to cause the blood to move backwards towards the ventricles. What should close? The semilunar valves, when they close, blood is then redirected into the right and left coronary artery. So that's why it's important. Alright, so with that being said, let's kind of talk a little bit about more of this blood flow. And we're going to talk about it in two different ways. We may have a couple other views, but we're going to be able to appreciate a lot in the sternal cost of view. This is the normal way that you would look at the heart. If I was looking at a person in front of me, this is generally the way that the heart is. It's usually kind of sitting within the mediastinum, and it's shifted two thirds to the left of the midline of that sternum. And we can appreciate the apex, and we can appreciate the base. This is looking at it more in a dorsal kind of caudal view. And so you're looking at the heart. I'd be looking at a person from the back, and I'd be able to appreciate that this is what it would kind of look like from the back, where it shifted two thirds to the left of the midsternal line, but I'm able to appreciate the posterior wall, some of the left atrium, and a little bit of the right atrium. So that's again some views that I want you guys to appreciate, because now what we're going to do is we're going to use those to really talk about some vessels that run along this surface. The first one is the right coronary artery. So you have two coronary arteries, the right and the left. The right coronary artery we can appreciate right here. Left coronary artery we can see poking behind the pulmonary trunk right here. But let's kind of focus on the right coronary artery. So here we can see the aorta. It's going to give off this little branch, and that's called your right coronary. Now a beautiful thing about the right coronary is we can see it moving kind of down, down, down, and then it moves back. I can kind of appreciate it here, but instead of me doing that, look, you can see it's kind of wrapping around that right atrium. The reason why I say that is there's some branches that are given off along the way. The first one that is critical is the SA nodal branch. Supplies the SA node that's the pacemaker of the heart, bro. Definitely need to know that one. Another one is the right marginal artery. Some people call it the acute marginal artery, but I like to call it the marginal artery, the right marginal, and it's going to come off here, and you'll appreciate that it can apply a decent amount of that lateral wall of the right ventricle. And so that's pretty critical to know. So if there's kind of an occlusion here, you may kind of experience a lateral wall infarction. All right, that's another branch. Another one that you can appreciate, we can kind of see it here, but we can better appreciate it from this kind of dorsal caudal view here, which is your posterior descending artery. I want you to remember there is two names for the posterior descending artery, the PDA. There's the posterior descending artery. And the other one is called the posterior interventricular artery because it runs in a little fat-filled groove called the posterior interventricular sulcus. So just do remember there is two names for this vessel. But I'll talk about this later. Not all patients have blood flow. I'd say most of them. Probably 80% of their patients probably have what's called right dominant PDAs, meaning that their PDA comes off of the right coronary artery. Some people, it comes off the left, and we'll talk about that. It's usually like the left circ. It's not a lot of people, and some people actually have their PDA fed by both, the right side and the left side. But we'll get into that. All right. Again, the reason why I mentioned all of these branches is that if you have an occlusion of the right coronary artery, pretty proximal, you can lose the lateral wall. You may lose some of the posterior wall of that right ventricle, and you may even lose some flow to the SA node. And that's pretty bad. Right? So you can experience some pretty nasty complications. The left coronary, we can appreciate this one pretty nicely here. It's really, this is the main, and it's going to give off some branches along the way. And so let's talk about those. So the first one, again, it's going to be that we give it a lot of different names, but the left anterior descending artery, we call it theoretically, you call it the widowmaker. But the only reason we call it the widowmaker is if there's a clot in this because it supplies so much of your left ventricle, your intraventricular septum, that if you knock that out, there's a strong chance of experiencing sudden cardiac arrest, going into acute heart failure. It's a pretty nasty one that you don't want to clot this up. Either way, the LAD is one term, another one just to be aware of. You're probably going to be like, oh yeah, well this is the posterior descending. And they call that the posterior interventricular artery. Oh, I can call this the anterior interventricular artery. Why? Because there is a fat-filled groove called the anterior interventricular sulcus that it runs down. The other vessel is called the left circumflex. And this is that left circuit, sometimes you have the left circus, kind of like a little slang for maybe interventional cardiologists and stuff. But it's the left circumflex artery. It's kind of kind of move around that left oracle. And it can give off some branches as well. But what I want you to know is that it kind of loops around. And you can kind of see it looping and then swooping right over here. And it'll give off some branches that supply more of that lateral wall of the left ventricle as well. And even a little bit of that posterior portion, as you can appreciate here from that dorsal caudal view. So that's what I want you guys to be able to take into consideration. They do have branches that come off, but these are probably the main ones that you'll kind of be tested on most often. All right. Again, the perfusion regions are critical when it comes to pathology. Because you can see here what the right coronary artery supplies. It's a pretty good chunk, dude. It can supply a very large portion of the right side of the heart, some of the septum. And even we can even appreciate in those patients who have a pretty dominant right coronary supply. It can even give some supply to the posterior portion. All right. And again, that's just considering it as the whole thing. If you go off the branches, that right marginal, which is still kind of a branch off the right coronary. So if you block the right coronary, you're going to lose supply to this one as well. That's going to supply more of that kind of lateral wall of the right ventricle. And again, again, applying that constant concept to the PDA, it's still a branch off the right coronary. So if you occlude that, you're again, you're going to lose that posterior wall. So you can appreciate the right coronary supplies a very significant amount of the heart, more of that right heart, more of the posterior heart. And that's why you clawed it off. You can experience a pretty nasty right ventricular myocardial infarction, right heart failure. And these patients often don't do very good. All right. The LAD, again, coming off of that left coronary, the left coronary gives the LAD, which supplies a very good portion of the left ventricle, supplies a good amount of the free wall, supplies the septum, supplies the anterior portion of the left ventricle. So really, really critical structure here. And again, coming off is that left circ. It's going to supply more of that high lateral wall, if you will, of the left ventricle. And it even gets into that posterior portion of the left ventricle as well, right, especially on the left side. So that's some perfusion regions that I think just points to the overall significance that if you clot these vessels, you can appreciate what would happen if you were to kind of imagine that you had what's called an echocardiogram. It kind of tells you the contraction of the heart. And that contraction of the heart may actually be, you may have an area that's not contracting very well, because it's not getting enough oxygen, it's infarcting. And so sometimes we can appreciate wall motion abnormalities. And those can be made worse during drug in trials, or we can give them certain medications. And that's a little bit beyond the scope of this, or we can do stress tests to see if we can kind of trigger that area to act abnormally on an EKG, or act abnormally on an echocardiogram. So that's why it's kind of really important to know the particular areas. And then we'll apply this when we get into more of the medical aspect to when we read EKGs. EKGs can theoretically point to a particular area that is infarcting, and the likely vessel to consider when you're  snaking, acatheter through these areas. But that's what makes interventional cardiologists so great, is that they can find that out when they're kind of going through the process. All right, so last thing I wanna kind of talk about is just giving another kind of really quick recap and appreciation to the dominant supply to the PDA. This is something that if you're an avid desirable cardiologist, you really wanna know the nitty gritty that sometimes you may get hit with a question about this, it's kind of important to know. So the right coronary, I'd say probably 85% of the time, it's gonna be the primary supply to the PDA. So it's gonna supply that posterior ventricle for most of the scenarios. And so that's something I think that's probably the most often, right? So if you can kind of imagine, I think a cross-section of the actual ventricles, and we can see here the right ventricle, here's the left ventricle. What we're going to appreciate is you're gonna have some blood supply. And this is looking at your kind of your interventricular arteries, like the anterior descending, which is either the left or the posterior. And so what you can appreciate here is that the right coronary is gonna give most of the supply to the right ventricle, right? It's gonna supply most of it. But in certain scenarios, that right coronary will then supply the PDA, 85% of the time. So it'll give most of the supply of that posterior wall of the right ventricle to the interventricular septum, and as you can see, even a small piece of that posterior wall to the left ventricle. So that's 85% of the time, right? Small cases, we can appreciate that it's not coming off. Look, it just, it disappeared. Now it's coming off of the left circ. So in that scenario, we can appreciate that it's left dominant. This is now left anterior descending, giving a branch like left circ. Left circ is the supply most of that lateral wall. But then it gives the PDA, which supplies the posterior wall, all of that left ventricle, septum, and then on top of that, even goes into that right posterior wall a little bit of the right ventricle. So you can appreciate that about 8% of cases, right? And then small cases like 7% of the time, it may, oh wow, look, it came off of both of them. And that's kind of a co-dominance, if you will, in that scenario where you may have the right coronary and the left circ both supplying that particular area. And so you can kind of appreciate that here with this purple, which is the overlap, all right? So those is just a little thing that if you wanna know the nitty gritty, or if by chance you see this as a question, or you're looking through the cadaver, you're like, oh dude, this is, I'm following this. This is coming off the left circ. Well, that might be one of those left dominant. Oh wow, it's coming from both. That's the co-dominance. Most of the time, you're probably gonna see it following off the right coronary to feed the PDA. All right, now, we hit the arterial circulation, which is supplying oxygenated, rich blood to the myocardium. What about whenever you perform gas exchange, you need to get blood out of the myocardium and then take it back to the right heart, where it opens up via the coronary sinus into the right atrium so it can go back to the lungs at oxygen and then go back to the left ventricle, or to fill the coronaries again. So we gotta talk about those. So the veins here, I actually like to do these in a way, it's a little bit different, where I like to think about the blood flowing along an artery, or this vessel, this vein flowing along with the big arteries. So the first one is the coronary sinus. You can see this is a big fat structure in the dorsal caudal view, it's the best way to see it. And what I like about this view is that where is it going? To the right atrium, where it's gonna empty in. So now what I wanna do is I wanna think about this tributaries, the things that are feeding into it. So let's go through that. The first one is the great cardiac vein. Some people call this the anterior interventricular vein, some people kind of make it actually separate from it. A lot of the times you can kind of consider them relatively synonymous and interchangeable. It's just where they may differ is at a point where they're kind of moving. So for example, if we really wanted to be particular, we could call this right here, the anterior interventricular vein, and as it kind of gets ready to move up here, we could call it the great cardiac. I think for simplicity's sake, most of this is the great cardiac vein. And I like to do it that way because I know that it runs with which artery? The left anterior descending artery. So that's what I prefer to call the great cardiac vein. And this is gonna take a lot of venous blood and move this wear to the coronary sinus. So it's eventually gonna take that blood from the myocardium, take it and empty it into the coronary sinus, which empties it into the right atrium. All right, that's an easy way to remember this one. What's an easy way to remember the other ones? That's kind of a similar concept here. The next thing is the small cardiac vein. The small cardiac vein you can appreciate that runs along which vessel right here, the right coronary. And so if it runs with the right coronary artery, it's gonna be kind of bringing most of the blood from that right side of the heart. And then what it's gonna do is it's gonna swoop around. So here, I'm gonna follow it and I'm gonna come back over here. Here's my small cardiac. Where is it gonna empty? Right into the coronary sinus. So we can appreciate that there. And again, it runs along the right coronary, swoops around back. And that's what I want you to think about. The middle cardiac veins, you can't see it from the ventral view, but you can see it from that dorsal caudal view. Here's the middle cardiac vein. I bet you can't guess what it runs with. You cheated. It's the posterior descending artery. And so it's gonna bring blood from that posterior portion of the heart. It's gonna run its way up, kind of combined with the small cardiac vein and empty into the coronary sinus. These are the ones I really want you to remember because these are the ones that you're probably gonna get tested on in some way shape or form. There's a lot of other small veins that you, if you wanted to go the extra mile, you could know, but these are the big ones that I want you guys to think about. There's also other ones that we can't even see. And these are called the thebesian veins. They're small little veins that if you actually look at like a picture of a myocardium and you actually pull up the thebesian veins, they're basically connecting within the myocardium. They're a small kind of like network. And what they do is, they kind of just, they don't actually run via this circuit, the small, the great, the middle, into the coronary sinus. They actually just empty blood from a myocardial circuit directly into the actual like cavity, the left ventricular chamber, the right ventricular chamber, the lumen. And so those are small structures. I don't wanna go into that right here, but just do remember there is some small little veins. If they ever ask you, hey, what are the veins that don't actually directly, what are the veins that directly empty into the actual heart chambers? I want you to remember thebesian veins. All right, cool. Let's now talk about the conduction system. The only way that the heart actually truly is able to contract is if we can send electrical signals from the top of the heart to the bottom of the heart and it has to work in a nice sequence. So we should know that sequence. The first thing is the SA node. And that's why it gets a good blood supply. And if it's not, it's gonna start actually having dysfunction and then it's not gonna be able to send those paces that we want. So really important structure. It sends a lot of electrical signals. It can send it to the left atrium via a bundle called the Bachmann's bundle. So that's how it gets signals to the left atrium. It also then travels through all of these like little interconnecting pathways into the AV node. The AV node is the electrical window, if you will, between the atria and the ventricle. How does it connect to the ventricle? It connects to the ventricles by going and running through the septum and what's called the bundle of hiss. The bundle of hiss then sends the electrical signals down the interventricular septum where it then has to get ready to move into the right ventricle and into the left ventricle. So then we have to split that bundle up into the right bundle branch and then to the left bundle branch, also called the towarah branches. I like right and left. Then from here, we need to get this then go and then deliver it to different parts of the myocardium and projections like the papillary muscles, et cetera. So what do we need to deliver that final signal? That's your Purkinje fibers. So this is the normal way that the electrical signal should flow from the atria down into the ventricle. So then we can have everything kind of working as a syncytium. We want it to all contract properly. Now we can appreciate with this electrical signal if it's being sent in a very proper way and it's following a normal flow. The benefit of that is that the atria should then generate the signal to depolarize and then contract and that will give you a wave called the P wave. Then what happens, the electrical signal then sit in the AV node for a very small short time and that's gonna be this kind of PR interval, the timeframe where it's kind of just sitting there and it's getting ready to go down into the ventricles. Then the electrical signal will move down into the ventricles and it'll cause the ventricles to depolarize and that's called the QRS complex. And then what happens is usually during the QRS complex the atria should be kind of like repolarizing but you can't see it. It's hidden within the QRS complex. But we can see the ventricles repolarize and that's when it goes into what's called the T wave. So we can appreciate these electrical signals and sequences because they give us real time electrical activity of the heart that we can use to interpret if there's any pathology. So you can appreciate here that P wave, the QRS complex and the T wave. It's the electrical signal of the heart. That's such a great thing because we can identify if there is any pathology along the way. And again, without going too far in detail, if you see some abnormalities in the P wave you start thinking about something going on within the atria. If you think about some abnormalities in the QRS complex you think about something going on with the ventricles and then depolarizing. If you see the T wave abnormalities you start thinking about something going on with the ventricles repolarizing. That's what I want you to start thinking about. Let's now move into the innervation of the heart. Let's talk about the nerves that are also gonna supply the heart extrinsically. What does that mean? Well, these nerves aren't necessary. If I cut these nerves that we're gonna talk about the supplies the heart, it's not gonna change the way the heart beats intrinsically. That intrinsic activity of the heart is dependent upon what we just talked about. The SA node, the AV node, the bundle of his, the bundle branches of the Brickinji system. It's such a cool system that that structure can supply the heart on its own. It has the ability to intrinsically depolarize the heart and then cause the heart to contract. But let's say that you in certain scenarios where you needed to be able to change the way that the heart depolarizes faster or slower and you needed to increase the contractility of the heart, that's critical. And so that's why we have innervation that is autonomic in origin, meaning that it can be parasympathetic and sympathetically controlled. So when I talk about this, let's kinda get into the two divisions. You have what's called the sympathetic division and this is gonna be via what's called that cardiac plexus. We need to know which area of the cord is controlling the heart. And that's usually gonna be T1 to T5. So what happens is your sympathetic nervous system is really modulated by your medulla. There's something called the cardiac acceleratory center and that cardiac acceleratory center, it's sending signals down. And it sends signals down to the spinal cord where it kinda synapses in like the lateral gray horn via T1 to T5. And then those pre-synaptic neurons move out into the ganglia. And there's a bunch of different ganglia, like the superior, the middle, and the inferior cervical ganglia that then send these signals out via these sympathetic cardiac nerves, we call the cardiac plexus, if you will, that then goes to particular areas of the heart. It can supply the assay node, as you can see here. It can supply the AV node, as you see here, and it can supply the ventricular myocardium, the part of the myocardium that doesn't send signals. It's the parts that contract, that's all they do. They don't depolarize intrinsically. And so if you think about that, if it can control the assay node, the AV node, and the myocardium that contracts, what do you think could happen? Well, sympathetic likes to speed everything up and just make everything more intense. So it's going to increase the heart rate and it's going to increase contractility. All of these things are designed to be able to increase your stroke volume, your cardiac output, your blood pressure, and that is why it's really critical to know that, all right? The parasympathetic, on the other hand, it wants to slow things down. It doesn't intrinsically control contractility, but we have in the medulla what's called the dorsal nucleus of vagus, and that's controlled by this cardiac inhibitory center. The cardiac inhibitory center really, really controls that dorsal motor nucleus of vagus, which then, this nerve, it can send really long preganglionic motor neurons out, where it then synapses on these actual kind of cell bodies, which these are going to be your postganglionic motor neurons. These are really, really short, and they primarily only terminate in the SA node, the AV node. Can you appreciate how it doesn't really work on the myocardium? So because of that, what's the primary thing you would expect it to do? Parasympathetics like, chill, bro, I want to slow things down. So it's going to decrease heart rate. It really shouldn't affect contractility. And so I think that's a cool thing to remember because what we'll talk about as you get into medicine is drugs that can augment the activity, or if there's disease processes that occur that increase the activity of the sympathetic, and or increase the activity of the parasympathetic, or vice versa. So it's critical to know how drugs or pathology can alter these pathways. But also know that the heart isn't completely dependent upon the extrinsic innervation to allow for it to modulate the activity of the heart. All right, one other thing that I think is just kind of good knowledge to have an appreciation of is that visceral fibers, so visceral apharons, they basically pick up sensation from, as you know, visceral organs. So for example, if a patient had an MI and that MI causes necrosis of tissue, visceral apharons that are kind of around this will pick up the signal. And then it travels along the sympathetic pathway. And so what happens is the reason why I say this is this may cause something called referred pain. So if a patient develops a myocardial infarction, sometimes they can have referred pain. It may refer to like their jaw, it may refer to their neck, it may refer to their arm, and I think that's an important thing to remember. And with that, the myocardium is supplied by a lot of these structures that we talked about. But the pericardium has a nice good supply that comes from the phrenic nerve. And that's why when patients experience something like pericarditis, it's actually really important to remember this, it can cause that shoulder pain. So the phrenic nerve is supposed to supply the diaphragm, that's its primary function, but its nerves do run through the pericardium, so it gives off branches to the pericardium. And so sometimes that's important that if you develop pericarditis, it can irritate the phrenic nerve, which may cause some referred type of pain, particularly to the shoulder or the trapezius areas, what we kind of like to say. All right, now I wanna kind of finish this up with appreciating how blood flows through the heart, because I think it's a nice way of kind of ending off and appreciating how this amazing little organ can do so much. So let's start by kind of recapping with the deoxygenated circuit. Do you guys remember the three vessels? I know you do. The supravenicava, infirvenicava, coronary sinus, those are the three guys, or grouse, that empty into the right atrium. It's just they bring blood from different areas. Superior vena cava is above the diaphragm, infirvenicava below the diaphragm, coronary sinus from the myocardium. They all empty into the right atrium. Woo wee! Now from the right atrium, where does it gotta go? It's only gonna move one way. And from here, we're gonna move it down into the right ventricle through the tricuspid valve. Once we're in the right ventricle, we then are gonna contract the right ventricle. And then we're gonna send that blood up via the conus arteriosus up through what's this valve, the pulmonary semilunar valve, up into the pulmonary trunk. From the pulmonary trunk, it's then gonna divert into the right and left pulmonary arteries. From there, it's gonna go to the capillaries, undergo gas exchange at the alveoli, and come back to the left heart via the, which structure? The pulmonary veins. The pulmonary veins are then going to empty the blood. How many? Four. Two right, two left. Empty the blood into the left atrium. The left atrium is then gonna have blood move down through, what's the structure? The bicuspid or the mitral valve into the left ventricle. From the left ventricle, the left ventricle will contract and push blood up through the aortic semilunar valve into the aorta. And then from the aorta, there's two circuits. One goes to blood all over the place to your head and all the way down to your little toe. But then the other one is it's gotta go to the coronary circulation. So we're gonna have the systemic circulation, which supplies blood if we'll go via these vessels. You see these here, which is your brachiosophallic, your left comic carotid, your left sublaving. This is gonna supply most of the structures of the head, the neck, the upper extremities. And then what's gonna happen is we're gonna move down via the descending that's gonna give blood to the thorax. You're gonna have structures in the abdomen with the abdomally aorta. It's then gonna bifurcate, move down to the lower extremities. It's gonna supply so many areas, but we can't forget about those little vessels that come right off of the base. And what are those? You got it, the coronary arteries and they're gonna supply the myocardium. You see how we kind of brought this full circle. And the last thing that you can appreciate is that sometimes we're gonna get chest x-rays a lot as clinicians. And as we look at the heart, there's always something that you wanna do as you go through a systematic read. And that's for another video. I won't go through that. But I think that the nice appreciation of a chest x-ray is you can see here a lot of the times what kind of identifies maybe potential abnormalities. So we can see here what's called the right heart border. And we can see the left heart border. The reason why we mention that is that whenever you have a pacification or a loss of distinction of those borders, it could mean something is going on in the lung, sometimes pneumonia, masses, et cetera. On top of that, if that right border is bulging out more, it might mean right atrial enlargement. If the left ventricle is bulging out here, it could be left ventricular hypertrophy. There's a lot of things, right? So that's why it's important to identify this and you may then need to do something else. The other thing is you can appreciate this little bump here called the pulmonary artery, isn't that cute? And then with that, you can appreciate this aortic knuckle, which is kind of giving you where the aorta is. It's like a poor man's hand diagram, if you will, where the aortic arch is getting ready to kind of turn and getting ready to move down and behind the heart. And I think that's kind of the big things to appreciate in all of what the x-ray can kind of give you of the basic anatomy. And the reason why I say that is, in patients who experience maybe enlargement of this pulmonary artery, the pulmonary artery, potentially hypertension, that vessel can get big and it can cause enlargement there. You may see that. Aortic dissections or aneurysms may cause enlargement of this portion, which then widens out what appears to be the mediastinum. And that's why it's really critical to know just not only the anatomy of the heart when it comes to looking at it in a cadaver, looking at it on images like an illustration, but also appreciating it on diagnostic images and how it can be utilized to help our patients. All right, my friends, let's take a look at the right atrium. So we look here, we got the opening of the supravena cava. We got the good old opening of the inferior vena cava. We're gonna take a look at the anterior wall of the right atrium, and we're gonna appreciate the pectinate muscles. And then looking along the medial wall, you're gonna see that septum where the fossa ovalises. If we kind of take a good look here, we see the opening or the osteum of the coronary sinus where it empties into the right atrium. And let's now move through the actual tricuspid valve. You can see the cordate tendon here on the sides. You can see the good old papillary muscles. You see all this rigid, trabiculate carnaig. Oh, look at that. Good old pulmonary semilunar valve as we rush our way in to what? That pulmonary trunk. We get another view here, and we can see a good look at the pulmonary semilunar valve as we appreciate right here from multiple different views. Now, we can also see from the left side, we have the pulmonary veins that empty in to the good old left atrium. We can see the septum there with that fossa valus as well. And then we're rushing our way down through the tricuspid valve from the left atrium into the left ventricle. And we see the cordate tendon. We see all these big papillary muscles. Again, all those rigid, trabiculate carnaig. And there it is, the aortic semilunar valve that I'm gonna rush my way in to the base of the aorta. At the base, look what we see here. We see the ostea of the coronary arteries, the right and left ones. So let's move into the coronary arteries. We can appreciate off of the right coronary artery, there's a big branch called the marginal artery or the acute marginal artery. As we move posteriorly, we then move into this next branch here called the posterior descending artery. And you can also see off the left side, the left coronary, you got the left cirque. Again, appreciating that left coronary, we have two vessels here, the anterior and ventricular artery. And again, we also have a diagonal branch of it. Skidding a little bit more about lateral view, you can see the circumflex artery, that left circumflex. And we can appreciate another branch called the left marginal obtuse. This is good look at the actual veins that are around the heart. We can see the coronary sinus, that's the structure that empties into the right atrium. We have one vessel called the middle cardiac vein and that empties there. And then also we have the anterior interventricular vein which eventually becomes the great cardiac vein and that empties into the coronary sinus. All right, from here, if we take a nice look here, we can see a separation between the ventricles, the interventricular septum and the atria, the interatrial septum. And then if we wanna take another view, we can actually appreciate how thick the septum is and also the differences in thickness between the right ventricle and the left ventricle. Man, I really hope that you guys liked this video. Our team, Mirna, who really worked so hard on this, did such a great job animating it. If you guys can give her a shout out in the comments, she is an amazing animator and she did all the work here. I just presented it. So, man, I really hope that you guys liked this video. I hope that you learned a lot. I hope you kinda had fun along the way. Man, I'm just so thankful. I love you guys. I thank you guys. And as always, my friends, until next time.

=== FILE: Anatomy of the Lungs and Pleura [hog2PeS3K5k].txt ===

 mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere blue. I'm just kidding. No, this is going to be really cool to help us to understand the great, great understanding of the anatomy of the lungs, looking at the different lobes and fissures. And so we'll dig into this a lot. All right, let's dig into it. All right, my friends, let's move here to the kind of digital portion where we're going to take a look at a lot of this type of anatomy. And we're going to do it through a lot of illustrative views. We're going to take our time. And then after we get done with this, we're going to move into kind of looking at this in a cadaver. Obviously, it's going to be more of a virtual kind of like three dimensional one via the Anatomosh table. But again, I think this should be a thorough approach to give you everything you need to hopefully pace the anatomy exam. And all right, so we're going to take our time. We're going to go through this and we're going to really try to make sure that we can put a whole just really good view into this. We're going to take you along with the story, right? So when we think about airflow, I want you to think about airflow. When you take a deep breath in, what's the kind of like, I think that one of the easiest things to think about sometimes with anatomy is kind of like a storyline, a step by step process. If you were like an air particle and you got inhaled into someone's lungs, which structures do they go through one by one? I think that's the first thing to do is just to identify the structures as you go down all the way to get to the end, right? We're in this case, gas exchange is going to occur, identify those structures, and then we can kind of pick on it a little bit and go into some particulars a little bit here and there. All right, but a lot of this is really just more identification, seeing it, thinking about it, and then we'll talk a lot more about the physiological processes in our physiology lectures, more of that whiteboard stuff, but we'll try to apply some applicable things here and there, because obviously structure complements function and vice versa. All right, so here we go. When we think about airflow, we're not including it, but obviously if you take a deep breath in through your nose, it's going to move through your nose, it's going to move from your nares into your nasopharynx, it's going to go to the oropharynx, laryngopharynx, and it's going to get to the larynx, and then from the larynx, it's going to move downwards. What's the next structure that's a part of your conducting zone? Well, really, it's the trachea. So just below the larynx, there's going to be right here, you're going to have to go right into this guy here called the trachea, which has these kinds of nice little beautiful rings, these annular kind of like hyaline cartilage rings that move down. That's going to be the trachea. All right, from the trachea as the airflow moves down, it then bifurcates, and that's called the carina. That's called your carina. From here, the carina will bifurcate into two structures. One is going to go to the right, and it's going to go to the right lung, and then this one right here is going to go to the left lung. That's going to be the left primary bronchus. So you have the right primary bronchus and the left primary bronchus. Right? So again, right primary bronchus, left primary bronchus. From here, you then have to determine, okay, I got a right lung, a left lung, how many lobes do I have in each lung? We're getting a little ahead of ourselves, but for right now, the right lung, I want you to trust me, it has three lobes, and the left lung has two lobes. So I should have three lobar bronchi on the right, and two lobar bronchi on the left, and that is exactly what we have. So if we follow it off to the lobar bronchi, here's our primary. It should branch off. Should branch here, should branch here, should branch here. And that's what we got. We got a superior. We have a middle, and we have an inferior lobar bronchus, right? And that is really the key thing. And then if you go over to the left, this is the primary, branches off into the left superior, branches off into the left inferior. Not very hard, right? All right. Now we're in the lobes. From the lobes, we got to make sure that that bronchus gets distributed all throughout that lobe into different kinds of segments, right? And so then from here, it should branch out into these tinier little bronchi, off of this, all of these guys. And these are called your tertiary or segmental bronchi. And that is what's really cool, because then these kind of make up segments, if you will. So you can have like a segment here, like a bronchopulmonary segment, which is actually going to be really helpful. Now, from these tertiary bronchi, they then give off this tiny little bronchial, very, very thin wall. It's a simple cuboidal epithelial tissue. It has a little bit of elastic tissue, a tiny bit of smooth muscle. And it's getting ready to feed into a structure where gas exchange is going to take place. So it has to get ready to change its structure, because here you got pseudo stratified cilia to columnar goblet cells, lots of smooth muscle, lots of cartilage. And you want big structural things that can hold a lot of airflow. As you get to the tinier tubes, you don't have as much of that support and muscle. You need things very thin so that things like oxygen, carbon dioxide can move across pretty simply. So we're going to get into the terminal bronchi, you just can't see them. They're tiny little guys. And then again, I told you that there's like these segments, like this is a bronchopulmonary segment, which is actually cool because one segment is separated from another segment by connective tissue. Even though they could be in like the same lobe, it helps us that if there's ever a disease in this segment, I can safely remove that since it's separated by a connective tissue septa. So that's kind of pretty cool. But again, let's not nerd out, let's keep moving on here. So we talked about airflow. So we've gotten to the point where we took air from the nose and to the pharynx and to the larynx, to the trachea, to the primary, to the secondary, to the tertiary, and then into the bronchopulmonary segments, which have these little terminal bronchioles. And the terminal bronchioles, if you think about it, so again, we'll kind of take this down as we zoom in. We'll have your trachea and then you're going to go kind of moving down. You're going to get into the bronchi. You're going to get to your bronchioles. You're going to get into the tiny little guys called the terminal bronchioles. And then you're going to get into the next one, which is your respiratory bronchioles. So conducting zone, what that means is it's conducting air. That's all it does. There is no gas exchange occurring here. Respiratory zone is where gas exchange is theoretically taking place. So respiratory bronchioles are the beginning of the respiratory zone. And it's finished with the alveoli. So imagine here you have the respiratory bronchioles. The respiratory bronchioles are going to move and they're going to move into these tiny little tubes called alveolar ducts. And then those alveolar ducts are going to contain a bunch of different alveoli called alveolar sacs. So if you can imagine here is the respiratory bronchiol, this tiny little tube that's feeding this ball or this popcorn, this tiny little tube, or this tiny little tube, that's an alveolar duct and it's feeding these alveolar sacs. And each individual circle is an alveoli. Let's zoom in a little bit more. So as we kind of zoom in a little bit more here and appreciate these things, we can see something pretty cool. So here we're going to see the respiratory bronchiol and it's going to start diving in to these alveolar ducts and then here you're going to have these alveolar sacs. And then surrounding it is all this kind of pulmonary capillary network and that's really where gas exchange is occurring. So you have all of these alveolar sacs and each individual one is an alveoli. That is the structural and functional unit of the lung. If we zoom in on this alveolar sac, you can appreciate the individual alveoli. And the makeup of it is actually quite simple. There is simple squamous epithelial cells, which is kind of like these flat cells, and that's just where gas exchange is going to occur across. And you should have a thin little respiratory membrane here, a little bit of connective tissue, and then you have your pulmonary vessels. So this is where the gas exchange is going to take place, where oxygen will then move where? In and CO2 will move out and then this will be exhaling the CO2, oxygen that we breathe in would have been going into these vessels and then going to the heart. So these small little guys are like your type one alveolar cells. Like this little squamous guy right there, that's where gas exchange is occurring. And then here are these pink ones, these are your type two cells. And these basically are going to be capable of producing surfactant, which decreases a lot of your surface tension, which is in the alveoli and prevents the alveoli from collapsing, right? So that's really, really important. And then here we have some alveolar macrophages, but that's kind of just a basic little microscopic structure here of the alveoli. Alright, so we've really kind of, I think at this point talked about the airflow from the moment it takes and gets into our trachea, what are the structures that it moves through as it goes down? Let's take it a step further, and then say, okay, now that we know the airflow from top to bottom, what changes in the tissue makeup that allows for better conduction, that allows for better humidification and moistening and warming of the air, that allows for gas exchange, right? That's all really important and kind of highlighted up here with this top part of the chart. So epithelial tissue is important because when you talk about pseudo stratified cilia to columnar epithelial tissue, it's got, you know, a lot of that epithelial tissue for that surface area for where when airflow is coming by, there's going to be a lot of goblet cells, there's going to be a lot of cilia, and that's really important because one of the big things that allows for that is that allows for, as airflow comes in, we want to moisten the air, warm the air, humidify the air, and that's where the epithelium, the cilia, and the goblet cells all take place. Also, if you have any mucus or fluids or bacteria, things like that that are present in those airways, this cilia helps to kind of move and beat that stuff up and out so that you can spit it out. So we want these things kind of in our conducting zone, and we don't really want these things in the respiratory zone. We don't want mucus and cilia playing a role in gas exchange. So that's really the key thing here is I want the height of the epithelium to decrease, the cilia to decrease, and the goblet cells to decrease as we go down, right? So that's really, really important as you go from pseudo stratified cilia to columnar to more of a columnar to more of a cuboidal to then squamous cells. Cilia, I want this to decrease as we go down, right? Goblet cells, I want this to decrease as we go down. I want a lot of mucus as we get into those smaller airways that'll plug it up. Club cells, I don't want you to focus on too much of this, but this is going to be way more and more of your respiratory zone. Here's the big thing for the respiratory zone. This should really only be in the respiratory zone. It should be in the alveolar ducts in the alveolar sacs. This is going to be the type one cells which play a role in the gas exchange and the type two cells which play a role in the surfactant production, which helps to decrease the surface tension and prevent the alveolar from collapsing. Glans that contribute to mucus just like the goblet cells do. I don't want a lot of mucus in the airways that are small, so where should these be? More prominent in the conducting zone, right? Highland cartilage, this is more for structural support and resilience and making sure that that structure doesn't collapse. I want that more so in the bigger structures. I don't want that in the smaller structures, smooth muscle that controls the constriction and the relaxation of the airway, that controls airflow. I want that more really in my bronchi and my bronchioles and some in the trachea. That's where I would expect to see more of that and very little of that as I get downwards towards what the respiratory zone. Elasticity, we want the elasticity of the lungs to be really, really good, but I don't want it to be super intense. I want allowing for elastic recoil of the lungs, which allows for that passive expiratory process, but I want that involving more of the bronchi, the bronchioles, more of that structure that is again allowing for that recoil to occur. I want very little of it as I get downwards towards those small little alveoli. That's kind of like taking a concept of here's the structures as we move air from top to bottom. We've talked about that. Then we talked about what are some of the microscopic components that contributes to its overall function. The next thing that I want you guys to remember, and we'll get into it a little bit more in a second, but when you think about this, you can kind of have a clinical relevant point here. When you look at the structure of the lungs, let's say that you decide to eat something and it just goes down the wrong pipe, unfortunately, or you're a child and maybe you swallow a little car toy. That thing moves down the lungs. Which one is it more likely to flow down the right lung? The reason why is because of that vertical kind of like component of the right low bar bronchus, sorry, primary bronchus. Aspiration or form bodies are more likely to be aspirated and occur in that right lung. You can appreciate here maybe a child who swallowed like a little car toy and it got occluded that right primary bronchus. Then no air gets in here and you get kind of like an obstructive atlanticis and that can kind of decrease the size of that lung. It's not a pneumothorax, it's just there was a complete resorption of that lung because you're blocking airflow in. That's what we can kind of see in these potential scenarios here. That's something to think about just as a kind of a relevant thing here. We talked about airflow structure moving down from one to the next. What are the components? We talked about its tissue makeup which contribute to its overall function. The next thing I want to talk about is just again going kind of looking out of the lungs a little bit bigger. Say okay, I know that the trachea and I know the bronchi and the bronchioles and all of the alveoli there component wise. When I look at the lungs in a big view, what are some other things that I should really know? Well here when you look at the lung here in the anterior and the lateral view you can see a couple different things. So anteriorly we have a really good appreciation of the lobes. So here we have three lobes in the lung, two lobes in the left lung. So three in the right, two in the left. With the right there's the right superior, there's the middle and there's the inferior and they're separated by fissures. Here is the horizontal fissure and here is the fissure. You're going to see the same thing here. Here's the superior lobe, here's the inferior lobe and it's separated by the oblique fissure. So it's pretty simple to see these kind of like overall lung look. What I want you to now think about is okay there's another structure that you can kind of see but it's more in the inside of like it's actually kind of in the medial portions and it's called the pulmonary hyalum and I want to take a look at that because you can actually get quite a quiz questions about this sometimes. So you can see the lungs when we look at this in a ventral view. Here's again going to be the left upper lobe, here's the left lower lobe, here's the right upper lobe or superior right middle and right inferior or lower lobe. And then on the inside here you can kind of see that the pulmonary artery will run in here, pulmonary veins will come out of here. Same thing on this side you see it better. Pulmonary artery runs into the lung, pulmonary veins coming out of the lung and then you can kind of see here here is the left primary bronchus going into the lung. All of these things this is actually called the root right. It's actually called the root when it moves into the actual pulmonary hyalum. There's a hole in that lung called the pulmonary hyalum and that's where the structures are moving. And so sometimes you can get asked about this just based upon kind of the position. So when we look here this is the right lung, this is the left lung. What I want you to think about here is the orientation of the bronchus to the pulmonary artery. So when you kind of take a look at these you'll see here here's our bronchus right in the right hyalum and the left hyalum. Here's the pulmonary artery over here and here is the pulmonary veins over here and then same thing over here. Here's our pulmonary artery and here's our pulmonary veins and you're probably like wait Zach it's red wouldn't that be arteries? No not in the pulmonary and the fetal circulation case. So usually it's almost arteries almost always red and veins are almost blue except for fetal and pulmonary circulation that's usually opposite because the pulmonary artery is taking blood from the right lung getting an oxygen to bringing it back to the left side of the heart. All right so what I want you to appreciate here and this is the way I remember it is just that the primary bronchus and the pulmonary artery if you look at it on the left it's superior. All right so the pulmonary artery is superior to the bronchus in the left lung and then if you look at this this is actually going to be kind of the anterior surface of that right lung and then this is the posterior surface here. What's going on with the pulmonary artery here? It is anterior to the bronchus in the right lung so I remember the kind of like little simple mnemonic rals, R-A-L-S. The right bronchus sorry the right pulmonary artery is anterior to the bronchus and the left pulmonary artery is superior to that left pulmonary bronchus. All right so rals right is anterior left is superior that's a quick little thing to help you to remember the orientation of the artery to the bronchus. All right now the next thing is when you take a look at the lung you see the lobes but there's something else that's actually present that's called bronchal pulmonary segments. It's all of those tertiary segmental bronchi that are kind of flying all over the place and again this bronchal pulmonary segment is separated from this one by a connective tissue sept which makes it nice and easy to surgically kind of remove that section without affecting the other sections if they're healthy and normal and so we're going to talk about this you're just seeing it in the medial view you're getting a little bit of an eye of it in the lateral view and you can even see this in the ventral view. I'm not expecting you to memorize these I am not. What I want you to have just an overall appreciation about is how many bronchal pulmonary segments are present in each lung and it's generally for the most part 10 in the right lung and probably somewhere 8 to 10 in the left lung and I'll explain why because some of them can fuse but again I'm not expecting you to remember this unless you're going to be going to become like you know some type of surgeon usually some type of chest or thoracic wall surgeon you're not going to have to know all of these segments again it's just giving you a little bit of an appreciation so if we look up here you're going to see some different segments so here we're going to have what's called your green that's one that's apical segments that's going to be obviously up here all right then you're going to move a little bit more into the posterior portion so that's going to be two you can appreciate all color coded he's going to be like he'll have a dut…. he'll have a dut…. he'll have a dut…. a doodoo brown color as the posterior segment, which you can see here. Then we're gonna move into this one, and this is gonna be what? It's gonna be the anterior segment. So that's gonna be three, that's gonna be here in blue. All right, so you're pushing in all of these views. Then we're gonna go move into the middle lobe. So as we go into the middle part of the lung, then we're gonna get into these areas here. So you have your lateral segment, so lateral segment, that's gonna be four, that's gonna be kind of in this tan-beigeish color. And then you're gonna move into the medial segment, which is this gonna be this small little guy right here, which is kind of like this reddish color. And then we move into the inferior lobes. You have the superior segment, all right? And then you're gonna have another one called the medial basal segment. And then you're gonna have the anterior basal segment. And then you're gonna have another one called the lateral basal segment. And then lastly, you're gonna have the posterior basal segment. So you see why I'm telling you, you're not gonna have to memorize these. They're not gonna be something you'll be tested on. You're more likely than not be tested on how many of these bronchopulmonary segments are present in one lung and the other lung. And it's usually 10 in the right lung. If we go through the left lung, you can again have this similar process. If we just one and two, you can see that there is something very interesting that happens right away. Do you see how sometimes one and two, it fuses? So your apical segment and your posterior segment can fuse. And that's quite interesting, all right? But your anterior segment can remain the same. And then you continue and you have the superior lingular segment. And then you go to the inferior lingular segment. And then you go to the superior segment for the inferior lobe. And then again, we can go medial basal segment, anterior basal segment, and your lateral basal segment. And then again, your posterior basal segment. So you can appreciate all of these, but what you're noticing here is that we just fused two of these. And that's why you can have sometimes 10, or you may have eight, you may have nine. It kind of depends because sometimes the apical and posterior segment will fuse. But sometimes you can even have other segments that fuse as well. And so that's one of the really, really key things to think about here is that oftentimes there's 10 bronchopulmonary segments in the right, and anywhere from eight to 10 bronchopulmonary segments on the left. Again, apical and posterior segments can fuse, but you know what else can? The medial and the anterior basal segments can also fuse. So just these fused, that's gonna give you nine. If these and these fused, that's gonna give you eight. And if none of them, you may have 10. So that's why it's somewhere between eight to 10 and the left lung, and usually 10 in the right lung. All right, that was a lot. All right, at this point, what have we kind of talked about? We have airflow from the trachea down to the bronchi, down to the alveoli. We talked about the tissue makeup. Then we talked about the lobes of the lung. We talked about the fissures. We talked about the pulmonary hyalum. Then we said, okay, let's take every overall view of the look and break it into like a million pieces, right? Bronchopulmonary segments. How many are there in the right lung? 10, how many in the left lung? Eight to 10, depends on if the apical, posterior segment fused it and the medial and anterior basal segment fused. Otherwise, that's it. What's the significance of the bronchopulmonary segments? The component here is that if there is disease in that segment and not affecting the other segment, because there's a connective tissue septia, you can remove that safely without having to remove a lot larger portion of the lung. So that's the benefit of that. The next thing is, we talked about the overall view of the lung, right? The lobes, the fissures, the hyalum. We talked about the segments. We talked about the trachea and the bronchial tree that feed it. What about the covering? And that's where we get into the pleura. So if we talk about the pleura of the lungs, we're gonna have different layers. And so when you look at this, it's kind of like a little simple squamous epithelial tissue with a little bit of loose aerial or connective tissue. And on the top part of the lung, you have the cervical pleura. Then you have the costal. It's pretty easy to understand why. It's by the ribs. You have the medial steinal pleura. And then guess what? The diaphragmatic pleura. The next thing here is there's two different components of the pleura. So if you actually were to really zoom in on the pleura, you'll see here we have the skin. We then have the subcutaneous tissue. We have the intercostal muscles with the ribs. And then you have a green layer, like a bluish layer. You have a cavity here. So there's some different things here that I want us to talk about. So the first one is the layer here, very, very brightly highlighted. And this is the layer that's clinging to the lung tissue. This is called the visceral pleura. It's made up of simple squamous epithelial tissue and aerial or connective tissue. Then there is another layer, and that is gonna be kind of this blue layer here, which is super bright. And that is called the parietal pleura. That's called the parietal pleura. And again, this is a simple squamous epithelial tissue with a kind of aerial or connective tissue. And then there's a space, it's a potential space located between the visceral and the parietal pleura. And what's that called? That's called the pleural cavity. And that contains pleural fluid. There should always be a small amount of pleural fluid that whenever your lungs are kind of inflating and deflating, it prevents those two layers from rubbing up against one another, causing a lot of friction, which can lead to kind of pleurisy. And we do not want that, right? So that's the component I want you to think about. All right, another thing is that sometimes, whenever these pleura, usually they're pretty much almost like connected to one another. So when I say potential space, it's a space that really, like we don't think about it too much. Some areas, there may be a true separation, a true space that occurs between the visceral and the parietal pleura. And these are called recesses, and there's two important ones. So if you can kind of appreciate here in green, there's a costomediastinal recess. That's one, but here's the really important recess I want you to think about is down here. And this is called the costodiaframatic recess. This is sometimes when people get what's called pleural effusions, fluids that accumulate in larger amounts in the pleural cavity, they tend to really sit down there in that recess. And what happens is when you get a chest x-ray, it blunts that costodiaframatic angle. And you kind of lose that beautiful angle that we'll talk about sometimes when we do the radiology series. All right, at this point, we got down the airflow, breaking it down to all the different pieces. We talked about the tissue makeup, right? We talked about the overall look of the lungs, the lobes, the fissures, the pulmonary hyalum. We talked about the segments and their significance. We talked about the covering on the lung, the covering on the outer part of the chest, the inner part of the chest wall and the space between. Now let's talk about the blood supply that is in or around the actual lungs and pleura. So the first thing here is we talked about a little bit already, here's your right atrium, here's your right ventricle, here's your pulmonary trunk, right? There's arteries that go and feed the lungs. That is your pulmonary arteries. This is delivering deoxygenated blood to the lungs. So you have what's called the pulmonary trunk. It then goes into your right, into your left pulmonary arteries which then give way to your pulmonary arterials and go to the lungs where they break down into capillaries and gas exchange occurs, right? So this is again really, really important. Now, after gas exchange occurs at the alveoli, right? Then blood is gonna come via the pulmonary venules and it's gonna empty into the pulmonary veins. And there's gonna be four pulmonary veins and these pulmonary veins should all empty into the same place and that is in that left atrium. All right? So the whole purpose of the pulmonary circulation is to do what? To allow for proper gas exchange. Deliver CO2 to the lungs via the pulmonary arterial system. At the alveoli gas exchange, oxygen goes into the blood, CO2 goes out and then blood is gonna come back to the lungs, the left, I'm sorry, back to the heart via the left heart. So left atrium and left ventricle go all the way to the breast of the body. It's gonna bring that oxygenated blood back. So sometimes you'll be asked, take me as if I were a red blood cell from the right atrium to the lungs and back to the heart. Let's pretend we're gonna do that for a second. Right? Blood comes from superior vena cava, inferior vena cava into the right atrium. From the right atrium, it then moves across the valve. As the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle. Right ventricle then moves into the pulmonary trunk. From the pulmonary trunk, it moves outwards into the pulmonary arteries. Pulmonary arterials, pulmonary capillaries, gas exchange occurs. Comes back via the pulmonary veins. The pulmonary veins then go and empty into the left atrium. Left atrium then crosses the bicuspid valve or the mitra valve into the left ventricle. And then from the left ventricle, it leaves via the aorta and goes to the systemic circulation. That's what I want you to remember. All right. The next concept is going to be the bronchial circulation. So the bronchial circulation is very interesting. So we have the arteries in the veins here as well. So these are going to be supplying the oxygen to the actual tissue of the lungs, like the bronchioles. So they need oxygen as well. So it is the smooth muscle, all of these different epithelial cells. They all need oxygen. So the tissue of the tracheal bronchial tree, that's what needs oxygen. And so that's where the bronchial arteries come into play. So the bronchial arteries, they actually come off of the aorta. So when you really think about it, here's the aortic arch, right? And then off of that aortic arch, you're going to come down here into this descending aorta. And off the descending aorta, there's some branches. Here's the right bronchial artery and here is the left bronchi artery. So what you'll be tested on sometimes is, where does the bronchi arteries originate? They originate off of the thoracic aorta. Where does the pulmonary arteries originate from? They originate from the right side of the heart. So that's going to be really, really important, okay? Now, bronchi arteries, another kind of like clinical thing here is that whenever those kind of bleed, those tend to be the primary source for patients developing things like homoptysis. And that's really, really important to remember and they can bleed a lot. They're a higher pressure system as compared to that pulmonary arteries. The bronchial veins are basically taking any of the waste, any of the deoxygenated blood and removing it from that kind of tissue and bringing it back into the right side of the heart. And so when you look at this, you have a couple of different structures. You've got your left brachiosophallic vein, you have your right brachiosophallic vein. They then kind of coalesce and make the supravena cave which empties into the right atrium. So where does the blood from the bronchi veins come from? Well, here's going to be the right bronchi veins here and here's the azygous vein. So it actually helps to dump into the azygous vein which then fills into the supravena cava. The left bronchi veins, they actually help to dump into the accessory hemi-azygous vein which then eventually dumps into the supravena cava. So right bronchi veins, azygous, left bronchi veins, accessory hemi-azygous vein. All right, cool deal, man. So that's them. And so again, they supply the bronchi and they even supply, as you can see here, a little bit of the visceral pleura. The parietal pleura is supplied by the intercostal arteries and drained by the intercostal veins. All right, man, that was pretty cool. So we got the airflow down. We got the tissue makeup. We got the overall look at the lungs. We got the fissures. We got the bronchial pulmonary segments, baby. We got the pleura layers. We even talked a lot about the vasculature via the pulmonary circulation and the bronchi circulation. Bronchi again is supplying the bronchi. The visceral pleura comes off the aorta, dump into the accessory hemi-azygous and into the supravena cava. What about the lymph circulation? All right, and again, the reason why I'm telling you all of these things is because when you think about these kinds of things, like for example, like disease processes, if a disease process occurs where somebody has disease of the trachea, it's gonna affect the airflow, the conduction of air they'll develop.  respiratory distress. If they have some type of process where the pleura is inflamed, they can have pleuritis, and that can cause a lot of pain. If there is some type of process where they have a disease that is affecting a segment of the lung, we could remove that segment safely without affecting other segments. If there is some type of process where the fluid in the pleural cavity is over accumulated, we can have a pleural effusion. If there is fluid and pus and bacteria that accumulate the alveoli in the bronchi, we can have things like pneumonia. If there is a clot in the pulmonary arterial circulation, you can have a pulmonary embolism. If you rupture a bronchial artery or it bleeds into the bronchi, you can have massive hemoptysis. This is the same kind of concept to think about the clinical relevance here. Just like the lymphatic circulation, this is a problem that patients develop unfortunately cancers of the lung. They spread via these lymphatic vessels and nodes and get to other areas of the body unfortunately. So you can imagine there is a very extensive network here. I want you to remember the flow. So we start off here with kind of like a superficial kind of lymphatic plexus, and sometimes they can even be a little bit deeper. But what happens is all of these small little lymphatic plexus that are superficial or a little bit deep, they do what? They drain and they move their way inwards, right? So they're moving inwards into these nodes along the way where they get some more cleanup of that fluid. As they move, they counter some nodes. And what are those nodes? These are called your bronchopulmonary nodes, sometimes called the hyaluronodes. So remember, the hyalum is right where that primary bronchus, the artery and vein enter into the lung. So this is your bronchopulmonary or hyaluronodes. From here, it's then gonna move upwards. Where is it going to go then? It's gonna go to the tracheo bronchial nodes. So you're gonna have some of these guys that are right here. It's as the trachea kind of comes down and then it bifurcates to the primary bronchi. So here's your tracheo bronchial nodes it'll move to. So superficial, deep lymphatic plexus, bronchopulmonary nodes or hyaluronodes moves up to the tracheo bronchial nodes. Then what? It's then gotta keep going. As it goes up, it encounters these little trunks called the bronchomediastinal trunks. So here's the bronchus and then here, just right here is the mediastinum. It's a little space or cavity where the trachea actually runs through. So here we have the bronchomediastinal trunks. So again, we got superficial deep lymphatic plexus. We got bronchopulmonary hyaluronodes. We got tracheo bronchial nodes. Then we move up to the bronchomediastinal trunks. Then we come into the next part which is the lymphatic ducts or the thoracic ducts. So the right lymphatic duct is going to be this little guy right here. See how it dumps in at the junction between the internal jugular vein and the subclavian vein right at that brachiosophalic part? That's the right lymphatic duct. This is the one that you need to remember. Here's the thoracic duct. This is the one that empties right at the junction of the internal jugular vein on the left side and the left subclavian vein. Sometimes when people are doing what's called subclavian central lines, they can puncture the thoracic duct and they can cause a kylo thorax. And so that's an important thing to remember but this is going to empty right there. All right. So what I really want you guys to know is just more the flow. Whenever a patient develops a lung cancer, if that cancer is here and it does spread, like the lymphatic, it can spread into the bronchopulmonary nodes or also as the hyaluric can spread to the tracheal bronchial nodes, can spread to the bronchometeosanotrunks, can get to the, eventually, to the lymphatic ducts or the right lymphatic duct or the thoracic duct. All right. So let's move on to the last part here which is the innervation of the tracheal bronchial tree and really the pleura as well. So there is an autonomic component pretty much it's supplying in the sympathetic and parasympathetic that really the big things that I want you to think about is mucus production and then diameter of the bronchials. So bronchoconstriction bronchodilation. There is some vasodilatorium vasoconstrictive processes as well but they're not as high yield as I want you to think about. So primary thing is sympathetic is T1 to T5. So that's coming from that T1, T5 portion of the spinal cord, right? And what I want you to remember is is that when these postganglionic motor neurons go or they're preganglionic at the actual spinal cord, they then go to the ganglia where they synapse and then you get your postganglionic motor neurons that goes to the target organ in this case the lungs. When they release the epinephrine and norepinephrine onto that smooth muscle of the bronchials it's going to cause bronchodilation, right? And it also can affect the glands and so it can actually help to decrease some of that mucus production. Think about this, if you got like a, I don't know, a bear running after you, you need to be able to have open airways to allow air to conduct nicely in and out of the alveoli so that you get good oxygen to be delivered and good CO2 to be exhaled so that you can power those muscles to run away before you become lunch. The next component here is that you don't also don't want that mucus to be highly produced if you're running away from a bear. You don't want to be hacking and coughing up a lung and trying to have all this nasty mucus, you want those airways nice and patent, right? And so that's a cool thing. And I'll talk about why that's actually clinically relevant. Parasympathetic Vegas, right? So, sympathetic T1, T5, parasympathetic Vegas Nervor, cringey under 10 controls this. This is going to have a Cedocoline released, right? So it has very long preganglionic and then these little tiny short postganglionic motor rounds in the actual target organ itself releases Cedocoline onto the smooth muscle and then what does it do? It causes bronchoconstriction and then it also can increase mucus production a little bit. So now, here's the thing of why this is actually clinically relevant. If you think about a patient who has, let's say, bronchoconstriction, you can give them a Saba, which is basically a short acting beta to agonist. It's going to act like epinephrine and norepinephrine bind onto the smooth muscle and cause bronchodilation. So it enhances the bronchodilation effect and it also can decrease the mucus production if they have some issues there. If you give a drug, like let's say that you have a patient who has, again, some type of asthma or COPD, you can give them what's called a muscarinic kind of antagonist. And so basically they're going to block the effect of Cedocoline at those receptors. And so it's going to block the effect of bronchoconstriction and instead cause bronchodilation. And it's going to basically help to also block the mucus production so it can also lead to a decrease in mucus production. Another thing is we can give other drugs, anticholinergic drugs, particularly things like glycopyrilate, and that also has a decrease in the salivary and some of the mucus production as well. But either way, that's what I want you guys to think about. So guys, this has a really important clinical relevance to it. That was a lot. But the last thing that I want you guys to pay attention to is that we talked about the autonomic components, the sympathetic, parasympathetic. And we talked about how that really supplies mainly your tracheobronchial tree. What about the pleura? We know the parietal pleura is supplied by the intercostal nerves, right? We talked about that with the thoracic wall. What supplies the visceral pleura? Well, the visceral pleura is really going to be supplied by afference from the autonomic nervous system, right? So there is visceral afference from the autonomic nervous system that do innervate the visceral pleura. All right, my friends, so that covers a lot of the part of where we're going to talk about this and really the illustration. So we've gone through a lot of the things with the tracheobronchial tree, the structures, the movement of airflow. We talked about the overall macroscopic view of the lungs, you know, their lobes, their fissures. We talked about the bronchopulmonary segments. We talked about the hyalum and really knowing that quick mnemonic. We talked a lot about the vasculature. We talked about some of the lymphatic circulation and lymph nodes, and then we finished off a lot with the innervation. I really hope that you guys like this part because now what we're going to do is we're going to move to the anatomy table and we're going to kind of redo this. But we're going to look at this more and kind of what seems to be more of an actual realistic appearing patient. And so let's do that now. All right, let's dive in. So as we take a look here at Hans, we're going to take a look at the lungs and just kind of get an idea. So when you take a look here, you'll see the right lung. So there's the superior lobe, the middle lobe, inferior lobe, and they're respectively separated by the horizontal fissure and then the oblique fissure. All right, so that's going to be the right lung. All right, next we're going to take a look at the left lung, very similar. Obviously we talked about this a lot, but again, we're only going to have two lobes. So you're going to have the upper lobe or the superior lobe and the inferior, the lower lobe, and again, that's separated by the oblique fissure. The other thing that you have off of this kind of superior lobe is the lingula. And then you have this like little notch or divot and that's where the apex of the heart kind of pushes into the lung and causes this thing called the cardiac notch. All right, so we've appreciated the two lobes of the lung and the respective fissures. The next thing is the tracheo bronchial tree. So you can see here we have the trachea, then brypharcates into the right, left main bronchus, goes over here into the upper or superior low bar bronchus, the middle low bar bronchus, and the inferior low bar bronchus. And then the same thing over here for the left, the left superior upper and the left lower or inferior low bar bronchus. All right, and that just gives you an appreciation of these kinds of structures of that tracheo bronchial tree. All right, the next thing is talking about the pleura. You have the visceral pleura, that is the lining, the one that clings to the actual lung tissue itself. All right, and then as we kind of go further outwards towards the chest wall, you have the parietal pleura. And you have that cervical portion, okay? You also have the costal portion by the ribs. You have that diaphragmatic portion. And then if we kind of like change the morphology here to take a look closer, you're gonna see this midline structure and there's gonna be a lining there as well. And that is gonna be referred to as the medial steinal pleura. All right, so this is all parietal pleura. Both of them simple squamous with some areyllar connective tissue. Nerves, intercostal nerves are very important for the parietal pleura. And the phrenic nerve also runs within this kind of vicinity as well. And supplies the diaphragm. Arm and Frenset covers our video here on lungs and pleura. I really hope that you guys liked it. I really hope it really did make sense. And if you guys did continue to support us hit the like button, comment down in the comment section, subscribe. Also, again, really, really, really hope that you guys are liking these videos. We're gonna keep putting them out every month. So just keep an eye out on them. But thank you guys for joining. And as always, love you, thank you. Until next time.

=== FILE: Brain Tumors ｜ Clinical Medicine [KtnrqR7411A].txt ===

 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам What's up, Ninja Nerds? In this video, today we're going to be talking about brain tumors. Again, this is a part of our clinical medicine section. If you guys haven't already, continue to keep going back. Watch these in order. So before we talked about breast cancer, after that we talked about lung cancer, and today we're going to be talking about brain tumors. If you guys are really liking these videos, they make sense to you, please continue to support us by hitting the like button, commenting down in the comment section, and please subscribe. And also, if you guys want, if you go down in the description box below, you go to our website. There's a link there that'll take you there where if you guys become a member, you'll get access to notes, illustrations, quiz questions. We're developing exam prep courses, and there's so much more. So go check it out. All right, without further ado, let's get into the pathophys, my friends. All right, my friends, we're going to talk a little bit about brain tumors. When we talk about tumors, you've got a big old goober hanging inside of the head. We got to know particularly, is it a primary tumor? So in other words, it'll originate from some of the tissue that's already present in the brain, things like astrocytes or oligodendrocytes or Schwann cells that arise from something else. Tissues that were in or very, very near the actual central nervous system. Or did it start somewhere else, somewhere else outside of the central nervous system, and spread and broke across the blood-brain barrier to get into the brain tissue? And that's called brain metastasis. So there's two different types of tumors that patients can form. A primary brain tumor, and believe it or not, this is actually less common. So when you actually look at the percentages of tumors that are primary, this is somewhere around approximately 30%. And then with brain metastasis, that could be somewhere around approximately the remainder, so it's about 70%. So this is definitely going to be something that you want to be more aware of. Brain metastasis, whenever you have a tumor inside of the brain, which again, can manifest in a bunch of different ways, which we'll talk about, or can be seen similarly on an image that metastasis may look something like a primary brain tumor, it's important to remember that this came from somewhere else, and we'll talk about that. Focus our attention though, because this is going to be the portion where you can get tested on for the exam. Primary brain tumors, as I said, arise from glial tissue, or neural tissue, or something similar, but it arrives from tissue that's native to the actual central nervous system. The way that we like to organize it to make things easier and categorize it for us is we base it upon the relationship of the tumor to what's called the tentorium cerebelli. You're like, oh no, dude, the anatomy. I know, but it's actually very easy. So imagine here, you have these dural septa. The big one that most people know is the one that comes right here. Right down your fissure, that longitudinal fissure we have, it's called the falx cerebri. Well, we have another one right here, and it goes right between the cerebellum, and actually kind of the occipital and parietal lobe area, and that's called the tentorium cerebelli. So it's this little piece, you see this blue tissue that comes here? We have what's called the periosteal layer of the dural matter, which is that baby blue color. And the one that breaks away and dips into that space is called the meningiol layer, the dural matter. That chunk right there going in between this part of the upper lobe and then the cerebellum, that's the tentorium cerebelli. So let's actually write this one right here. That's the tentorium cerebelli. And again, this is a coronal section. So if you imagine I'm taking a section like this, and I'm slicing this off, and you're looking at the actual brain that way. This one is a sagittal section. So I'm taking a section like this, and I'm looking at the brain when I take that piece off this way. Again, look, here's the occipital lobe. Here's the cerebellum. You see that tissue fishing right in there? That's again the tentorium cerebelli. So again, let's write this structure out. It's a fox. I mean, it's kind of a dural fold or dural septa, and it's called the tentorium cerebelli. And we just sometimes call it the tentorium. Now imagine there's actually a hole. So there's a tentorium cerebelli that comes like this from both sides, right? And so it creates a little hole called the tentorial notch. The tentorial notch is where sometimes parts of brain tissue and brain matter starts actually getting under pressure. It can squeeze through the tentorial notch. We'll talk about that later. But what I want you to imagine is this tentorium cerebelli separates the brain into two compartments. So what I mean is everything above the tentorium cerebelli is pretty straightforward. It's called, let's actually do this in the red, this is called the supratentorial compartment. And then everything below the tentorium cerebelli. So these structures here is called the infratentorial compartment. The reason why this is so nice is that whenever we actually have tumors, we can determine if that tumor is again present here. So if I have a tumor that's actually present inside of the cerebellum, what kind of tumor would I call that? I would call that an infratentorial tumor. If I have a tumor that's somewhere located up here in the frontal parietal lobes or things like that, this is a supratentorial tumor. That's really important. And the reason why this is important is supratentorial tumors, which we can find up here above the tentorium cerebelli are more associated with adults. So when I think about a supratentorial tumor, I'm thinking about it's more likely and more common to see this in an adult patient. Whereas if I had a tumor here in the cerebellum or near the fourth ventricle or near the vermice, here that infratentorial tumor is most associated with pediatric patients. Do you see why this is an important epidemiological fact? So again, tentorium cerebelli is your landmark above it supratentorial. That's where tumors occur in mainly adults. There's a few exceptions. And the infratentorium or that compartment of a tumor is there. It's an infratentorial tumor that's associated with pediatric patients. Now brain metastasis is interesting. So again, we use our landmark here. What's this landmark again? It's called the tentorium cerebelli. Let's just remind ourselves of that. And again, the purpose of the tentorium cerebelli is really to be kind of like a, it's really just imagine it, imagine like a fold that encloses veins. So it's supposed to protect some of the veins that are actually present there. Now this tentorium cerebelli, what's really important is with brain metastasis, it's not just one location where the tumors occur. Brain metastasis is interesting. You can have a tumor that can occur here in the supratentorium. You can have another tumor that could still occur in the supratentorium. You could have another one that occurs here in the infratentorium. So one of the interesting things about brain metastasis that makes it different is usually primary brain tumors are more solitary. Usually have one big tumor. Brain metastasis is usually interesting in the fact where you can actually have, so let's bring all these here. There's one tumor, there's two tumors, there's three tumors. So with this, you can have multiple brain masses, right? Whereas in primary, it's oftentimes more solitary. Now here, I want you to remember, this is not always the case. Just because the patient has brain metastasis, they can have just one tumor. It's just the way that they're going to talk to you about it in the exam is it's usually going to be multiple brain masses. And these brain masses can be both supratentorial or infratentorial. So here's what I want to add on to this. So with brain metastasis, something that is important, so here we'll put important to remember. So that way you think about this when it comes up on the exam. Usually this patient will have an underlying history of a primary cancer. But here's the big thing. When imaging, whenever these patients come in and they get imaging, if you see usually multiple brain lesions, that's one thing. But they have a very characteristic location, alright? So again, multiple, oops, I forgot an L here, multiple brain lesions. But one more thing is also important, that it occurs most commonly along the gray white junction. The outer cerebro cortex is gray matter and then inside is white matter. Right at that junction is where we see those tumors. So they occur, that's what's really characteristic, occur at the gray white junction. And lastly what's important to remember is they can occur in both tentorium. In other words, they can be infratentorial or supratentorial. They don't always follow that classic presentation. As we said, supratentorial tumors are usually adults, infratentorial tumors are usually pediatrics, there's a few exceptions. These can occur in any and sometimes both. They're usually along the gray white junction and they usually have multiple scattered lesions. Really important to remember. Alright, primary brain tumors, I want to dig into this a little bit because we talked about the tumors that can occur super tentorially and infratentorially. Let's talk about some specific characteristics. We talked about this one a lot. Let's talk about each individual one and get a good understanding because sometimes they can test you about this on the exam. Again, you may see it more in your step one MCQs but it sometimes can come up relevant within the step two clinical vignettes. So let's say we talk about supratentorial tumors. Again, I want to highlight here that we say for the most part this is adult. There is two exceptions of where a patient can have a tumor as an adult and it's not present in the supratentorium. I'll talk about them because they're in the infratentorium. Two exceptions, so we'll actually let's write that out here. Two exceptions to this is going to be two tumors. One is called a hemangioblastoma and the other one is called a schwannoma. These can also occur in adults but they're actually in the infratentorium. So that's one little exception to think about. But for the most part, it's going to be these particular tumors. All right, so the most common malignant tumor, the scary tumor that's a primary brain tumor, is what most people refer to as glioblastoma multiforme. It's a type of tumor that's a primary brain tumor. It's what most people refer to as glioblastoma multiforme. It's a type IV astrocytoma. What happens with this one, let's actually write this out, it has a precursor. So it has to start, I told you, brain, they start from somewhere else. It spreads via the blood and it gets to the brain, breaks across the blood-brain barrier. These arise in the brain tissue. So some type of tissue in the brain had to become mutated and then turn into a malignant cell. That cell, that precursor, is actually an astrocyte via the name. That's why we call this a stage IV astrocytoma. So it actually arises from astrocytes that develop mutations. Usually it's in the isocitrate dehydrogenase enzyme. What happens is location is key for a tumor. So you want to know location. So remember I told you, supertentorial is going to be all of these. But sometimes when we look at the image on the MRI or the CT scan, we actually want to know where is it most characteristic of? What is the tumor most characteristic of? And so location for glioblastoma multiforma is usually frontal or temporal lobes. But here's the thing. Let's say here I start off with a tumor. Here's my glioblastoma multiforma, right? All of a sudden I see this tumor here, it's in the frontal temporal lobes. But here's what's characteristic. You see this structure, it's actually fibers that go across from communicate side to side. It's called the corpus callosum. This tumor can span across the corpus callosum. And what it does is when it spans across the corpus callosum, it actually tries to give, I'm not even kidding, they call it this a butterfly look. It's called a butterfly glioma. So what we talk about location-wise is usually it's a tumor that when we see it, it spans across the corpus callosum. That's the big thing is it can move from one hemisphere to the other. So it spans the corpus callosum. And so this is one that's really, really scary. It actually ring enhances. And it looks, I'm not even kidding, has that butterfly. Let's actually write that out. Just so you know, it's called the butterfly, the butterfly glioma. And we will talk about this when we get into the diagnostic section. So just hang in with me for that point now. All right, glioblastoma multiforma. Its astrocytes that started off normal, mutated, became a nasty tumor, and then grew like this. This is a stage four. This is a bad prognosis. The most common malignant tumor in adults. With that being said, the most common benign tumor, it's usually benign. There is chances of it being malignant, but it's not always the case, is a meningioma. This is the most common benign tumor, brain tumor, superdentortional tumor in adults. The meningiomas, what happens is, you see the blue tissue here? That's called the arachnoid matter. Now originally we said there was a dura matter, but remember, there's different layers to the meninges. There's dura, then there's arachnoid, then there's pia. We're going to represent this blue as being the arachnoid matter. I know prior we talked about it as being the dura, but in this case, I'm going to represent it as the arachnoid matter. There's cells in there that are actually called arachnoid cap cells. The precursor cell is going to be, what is it again? Come on, spit it back to me. Let's go. The arachnoid cap cells. It's called the arachnoid cap cells. Now these cells are once normal. They decide to get all jacked up. What happens is they mutate and they start to become abnormal. What they do is, usually, most common location, remember the structure here, it's called the falx cerebrae. It loves to form right around that area. Imagine I'm going to get rid of some of this tissue because it actually is what we call an extra axial tumor. It means it occurs outside of the pyränchoma. Isn't that crazy? I'm going to get rid of some of this brain tissue here. What I'm going to do is I'm going to take this tissue here and make it kind of bulgy. Usually it has somewhat of a crescent shape to it sometimes. It can really get, these things can get super, super big. I've seen some pretty large meningiomas in the neurocritical care. Look at this thing. It's pushing on brain tissue. That's a meningioma. Funny enough, they form these things which really anchor them down called dural tails. They really, really hold it down. But it's basically a tumor that most often occurs within the sides of the falx. We say they're oftentimes parasagital. They can occur really anywhere, but the most common location is right on the side of the falx cerebrae. We call that parasagital. Let's write that down. Where it is most often seen is the parasagital region. All that means is on the side of the falx cerebrae. It's usually along side the falx cerebrae. All I want you guys to remember is we often say that is called parasagital. All right, cool. We got the meningi down. All right. Spanish corpus glosum, GBM. It's occurring within the parasagital regions, makes kind of a more of a crescent shape, meningioma. Most common in the lignite, most common in the benign. We go to these two. These are less common, but they're something to definitely consider. This is called an oligodendroglioma. Now it kind of occurs in somewhat of a similar location in GBMs. It's usually frontal lobes. It can actually be sometimes bilateral, but most of the time what we see is we see a tumor that oftentimes occurs in the frontal lobes and it has a lot of heavy calcifications. One of the big differences is, look at this. This one may have started in the frontal lobe. Does it cross the corpus glosum? No. That's really high yield to remember, but it's also important to remember what does it start from? Well, look at the name. This one may have been hard to understand, glialblastoma, but I want you to remember it's a type of astrocytoma, astrocytes. So dengeroglioma. Take a second, think about it. What type of glial cell could that be? Oligodendrocytes. So it arises from your oligo dengerocytes. They become mutated. They get jacked up. They start to multiply and they occur where? In the frontal lobes. Just like you can with a GBM. Big difference here is this does not cross midline like the GBM does. That usually crosses midline. So it's usually frontal lobes, heavy amounts of calcifications. And also this one doesn't have that significant degree of ring enhancement as GBMs do on MRI with contrast, which we'll talk about in the diagnostic section. But again, big thing does not cross. No crossing of midline. All right. That's really important to remember. Does not cross midline like the GBM does. Potuitary adenoma craniopharyngeomas. These I like to group together because funny enough, they tend to occur in a similar location. So start off with the pituitary adenoma. So with the pituitary adenoma, what I want you to know is this starts from specific cells. The most common type of adenoma is usually from lactotrophs. So there's all these different types of like, you know, you have the corticotrophs, you have the somatotrophs, you have the thyrotrophs, all of those that produce hormones. Which type of cell usually develops a lot of them is the lactotrophs. And lactotrophs make what hormone? Come on, scream it out to me. Prolactin. So oftentimes when you get a pituitary adenoma, the precursor, if you will, is going to be what? It's going to be lactotrophs. So it's going to be oftentimes it's going to be those lactotrophs. Now here's another really important thing. When these occur, they occur where? Well right on the pituitary. It's usually around the anterior pituitary. So location is, we just like to call this, we like to say it's around the seletorsica. That's that anatomy term that we like. It's usually a cellar, we call this a cellar mass. I mean it's a mass, and we're going to represent this here again. It's a mass occurring in this little groove here. What is that? The seletorsica. It's a saddle. So that tumor is sitting in the saddle and it's usually along the anterior pituitary. Craneoforengiomas, and they love, you got to pay attention. Wake up. I know you're tired. I know. Believe me, I get it. But hang in with me for a second. Pay attention right now, because this could be a test question. For craneoforengiomas, they also like to occur in this area. They occur, again, they can kind of really get to decent size. And they can actually start to engulf. Let me actually do a different color. Let's do it just for the sake of it. Let's do it in like this pinkish color here. So I'm going to say craneoforengiomas, they kind of get here, and they can get a little bit above the pituitary. Now here's the big term here. This tumor arises, you know there's what's called the Rathke's pouch. There's a remnant of the Rathke's pouch. And this thing right here really starts to kind of get around the post here pituitary and around the stalk and just mashes on that son of a gun. So this one I want you to remember, precursor is going to be Rathke's pouch. Write this down, keep it in your brain. It's the remnant of the Rathke's pouch. Sometimes they'll ask that. And this is a little bit digging into your embryology. Location-wise it's still in the cell atersica, but it can sometimes just get a little bit above that. So sometimes we actually consider it to be like a cellar or supracellar mass, but they're often times we kind of say they're very, very difficult to completely distinguish. And sometimes you need the tissue to really get to that. But we'll say that this is again going to be more of a supracellar mass, but they are relatively close in proximity. So what I want you to take away from this is primary brain tumors, if it's above the tentorium cerebelli, it's super-tentorial. There's mostly adults, too little exceptions to consider just to add that into the brain space there. But the big ones, GBM, what do I want you to take away from it? Frontal lobes crosses midline via corpus callosum. Oligodendroglioma, frontal lobes does not cross midline. Meningioma is not even a part of the brain. This one, it's actually important to remember this term. This is extra-axial. That means that it does not actually arise from the brain perincoma. So extra-axial, where? Along the side the phalx cerebri, parasagile. Potuitary and cranioforengioma is near the cell atersica. If I said one is from lactotrophs, you say a pituitary adenoma. Most likely it's called a prolactanoma. And if I say it's coming from a Rathke's pouch remnants, you would say cranioforengioma. And we'll talk about this again. Remember Rathke's pouch, it's derived from the nasopharyngeal mucosin, it migrates backwards. That right there, there's remnants of it that actually occur and that's what causes that kind of cancer. We now have an idea of locations. When we get imaging, we can say, oh, it's in this location, does this, it could be this one. Oftentimes, though, you've got to get the tissue to make the definitive diagnosis. But say now, I talk about tumors below the tentorium cerebelli. They're infertentorial. I told you that these were for adults. I bet you could make some kind of assumption here, couldn't you? Let's make an assumption here. My red marker is starting to suck a little bit here. Let me switch it over. Switch it over to this bad boy. Infertentorial tumors are usually pediatrics. So let's write that down. That's going to be something you see. Oh, look at that. Look how juicy that is. The pediatric population. All right. Now with these, again, exceptions is the schwannoma and the hemangioblastoma. These still can occur in the pediatric population. Don't get me wrong. But these, again, can also be in adults. So there's always these fine-tuned exceptions. For the most part, the biggest one is pylocytic medjolabastoma, appendemoma, and again, these ones can also still be in the pediatric population. But again, these oftentimes, we see them a little bit more in the adults. Pylocytic astrocytoma, again, below the tentorium cerebelli. Pylocytic, this is a tumor where usually precursor, guess what? It's the term astrocytoma. This is a grade one. So there's always grade one, grade two, grade three, grade four. The grade one is your pylocytic. Grade four is glioblastoma multiformate. So this one is actually the most common type of, usually we'd say benign, brain tumor in the pediatric population. Now precursor here, it's actually pretty straightforward. It's within the name, thank goodness. But what's the precursor, my friends? It's astrocytes. Now I know you're probably like, Zach, can I just really just say simply that these tumors that really when I talk about them, they're present specifically in just the infertentorium or the supertentorium? Yeah, you definitely can. But again, it's important to remember that when we talk about the location of these, we can have a little bit more specificity. We're going to be good clinicians. So location-wise, when we look at this tumor, it's oftentimes more in the cerebellar lobes. And these can be pretty like large and cystic appearing. So this right here is going to be where you would see your pylosidic astrocytoma. So location-wise, it's usually going to be in the cerebellum. So it's usually within a cerebellar hemisphere. All right. Now my next one is medulla blastoma. This is actually the most common malignant type of infertentorial brain tumor in the pediatric population. Now precursor, this one actually doesn't have a good name. It's like, oh, it comes from the medullary tissue, bro. No, it doesn't really come from the medullary tissue. For this one here, let me set up here for a second. For medulla blastoma, what's really important to remember with this one is this actually arrives from neuroectodermal cells. So let's actually talk about this one here. Here's my precursor cell. This one is actually from neuroectodermal cells. So called neuroectodermal cells. And they're kind of like primitive parts of it. But here's what I really want you to remember. We talk about the medulla blastoma. The location is usually the big, big one to remember here. So location-wise, it loves to occur. So here's your lobe of the cerebellum. Here's a lobe of the cerebellum. Guess what's right here? You have this middle part of the cerebellum. It's called the vermus. That's the most beloved location for these medulla blastomas. You know, it's also really, really scary about medulla blastomas. And this is definitely a test question. So perk your ears up here a little bit right now. I want you to really, really pay attention. So again, location is definitely going to be the vermus. So the cerebellum vermus. Here's what's really interesting. This tumor is super scary. And guess what it can do? The tumor can actually get really close to the fourth ventricle. It can seed into the fourth ventricle. If it gets into the fourth ventricle, where does that go? Fourth ventricle comes out. You have the superior apertures, superior medial apertures. And then it can also move downwards into the central canal. Where's the central canal move? Down through your spinal cord. All the way down to the lumbar spine. This medulla blastoma is high risk for what's called drop metastasis. I want to write that down. So this one has a very high risk for what's called drop metastasis. So meaning that this thing can spread. It can spread. Metastas... Oh, I said stasis twice, bros. Come on. Metastasis. So it has a very high risk of drop metastasis. All that means is that these tumor cells can get into the actual fourth ventricle and the cerebral spinal fluid and can seed through the cerebral spinal fluid. Tell me that's not scary. So sometimes what you actually have to do is, when a patient gets diagnosed with medulla blastoma, you also have to do an MRI of their spine to make sure that the actual tumor hasn't spread to other parts of their spine via doing the drop metastasis. But that's just a little fact to what I wanted to tell you about. All right. Appendimoma. With appendimomas, this one's actually kind of nice because you think about appendimoma. That's the appendimal cells. Oh, boy. Oh, daddy. So precursor cells here. This is the appendimal cells. So if I got my appendimal cells, the one thing I want you to remember here is that these things really occur within the fourth ventricle. So they usually arise. It's a tumor that seeds itself within the fourth ventricle. So this one can also spread, believe it or not, via drop metastasis. It's just where you see it more common with medulla blastoma for some reason. But location-wise is very key. So if I ever kind of just popped quiz-dian and said, all right, tumor that occurs in the verminus, medulla stoma, tumor that occurs in the cerebellar lobe, pylosetic astrocytoma, tumor that occurs in the fourth ventricle, you would say appendimoma. So that's a really important thing to be able to remember. Just like if I said, hey, tumor in the frontal lobe crosses corpus callosum, GBM. Tumor in the frontal lobe does not cross the corpus callosum, oligodendrogelioma. Tumor that's actually located, again, within the extraaxial parasagile region, meningioma. Tumors that are within the cellis hercica, pituitary adenoma, or cranial pharyngeoma. So you get the point of why that can actually be helpful. So now we got this down. The next one to think about here is homangioblastomas. Homangioblastomas can kind of be somewhat tough to differentiate from pylosetic astrocytomas. We actually have to think about these a little bit. But usually, I'm going to do this in a different color for a reason. These are actually going to be like from vascular tissue. So it originates from vascular tissue. And it also likes to occur within the cerebellum. So within the lobes of the cerebellum. Problem is that homangioblastomas can also occur other places. They can occur in the retina. You know where else pylosetic astrocytomas can occur? They can occur in the optic nerve. That's one thing that they can test you on. So pylosetic astrocytoma, remember, optic. It can occur in the optic nerve, optic gliomas. Homangioblastomas can occur in the cerebellum as well as the retina. But they also have other tumors associated with it. This is actually associated with what's called von Hippel-Lindau syndrome, which we'll talk about. But again, precursor is the key thing. So if I say, where does it arise from? It's actually arising from a vascular tissue origin. So I just want you to remember it arises from vascular tissue. But here's the big thing is again, where would it be located in the infrectorium? And location-wise, it's usually in more within a lobe of the cerebellum. You're not going to find it in the vermus. You're not going to find it in the fourth ventricle. You're going to find it more within a lobe.  this is going to be within the cerebellum itself. All right, this next one's really, really important to remember. It's called a vestibular schwannoma. So schwannomas, these are cool. These are oftentimes associated with neurofibromatosis, particularly type II, which is usually a type of genetic syndrome. But with neurofibromatosis type II, you can actually get bilateral vestibular schwannomas. Schwannomas are usually tumors that, okay, here we go. So look, here's our pons, right? Here's our pons. Here's the cerebellum, and here's the verminus here, the fourth ventricle. The tumors usually occur right on the junction of where the cerebellum and pons kind of meet. So we call this the cerebellar pontine angle, or the cerebellar pontine angle. So let's actually write this down. So precursor, oh, I bet you like this one. What would the precursor cells be for this? This would be the schwann cells, yeah. So this is from our schwann cells. So they become malignant. This is usually a benign tumor, though. It's usually more of a benign tumor. But location-wise is really, really critical. Where is it going to be located? It's usually here at the cerebellopontine angle. So again, where is it? Cerebellopontine or pontine angle. This is a very, very, very important one to remember, okay? So schwannomas right there on the sides of the pons where it joins with the cerebellum. Really important one. Last one's a funky one, because you really, when you look at it, pinealomas, here's my tentorium cerebellus. So some people be like, bro, Zach, come on, look. Here's my tentorium. And all of these, here was the tentorium, but it was below. Because we're all talking about cerebellum and your brainstem. All of these make sense. But then you look at pinealomas. The pineal gland is kind of within the area of the diencephalon. So you'd be like, how does that kind of fit? Well, really what kind of happens is we kind of consider this tumor when it originates from the pineal gland, it kind of dips down here in below the infratentorium cerebelli and compresses and kind of starts to move in through the tentorial notch to the midbrain. So that's really where the pinealomas starts. Is that, again, it starts from the pineal gland. I don't know how to write that. So this is actually supposed to be precursor. So precursor, this is gonna be from the pineal gland. But the big thing here to remember is really, when you think about it, it originates in the diencephalon, but the tumor tends to spread just a little bit more into the dorsal midbrain, which is technically below the tentorium cerebelli. So when we talk about location, location, location, again, the big thing to remember is we really consider this to be more of a dorsal midbrain tumor. So we say it's more of a dorsal midbrain, especially lots of compression there. And we'll talk about the characteristic features that suggest a dorsal midbrain tumor, like a pinealoma, like perinatal syndrome. We got a lot here that we talked about, my friends, with tumors, primary brain tumors, less common, but arrives from tissue that's native to the CNS. Brain metastasis, these ones are usually coming from somewhere else outside the body and going to the brain tissue. Much more common, supertentorial tumors, adults. I want you to think about the differential. GBM, oleodendrioma, meningioma, cranioforengioma, pituitary adenoma. Infra-tentorial tumors, more common in pediatric patients. Pylocytic astrocytoma, medroblastoma, appendemoma, homangioblastoma, schwannoma, as well as the last one here, pinealoma. When I, from this tell you metastasis, it's usually not as much of a solitary tumor where primary tumors are more solitary. Metastasis, it's usually multiple lesions. They're scattered, they're diffuse. Gray-white junction is really important, but they can occur in the supertentorium, or the inferententorium, or both. Now let's move in really quickly to talking about the causes of metastasis and the causes of these tumors forming. We got tumors in the brain, right? You got these honkers hanging out there. We got to understand, again, more particularly, we're building our foundation, right? So I know it seems like, Zach, I feel like we're talking a lot about the introduction stuff. We are, we're gonna get some more of how this clinically applies, but we gotta build our foundation. So when we talk about brain metastasis, we have to know where are these tumors coming from? Because as you kind of go in and you actually evaluate a patient who comes in with clinical symptoms, things like headaches or focal neuro deficits, or maybe they have papilla edema, or they're having nausea and vomiting, and they have particular diplopia, and I don't know, just a bunch of different symptoms that scream that there's something structurally going on inside of the brain, that would make you start getting imaging. Once you obtain that imaging, then you would find, oh, this is a brain mass, and you could use the things that we talked about to kind of think about it. But what I want you to think about is also if a patient's coming in and they have these symptoms, you get a bunch of different lesions on their MRI, or their brain CT, you have to start thinking, okay, could this be metastasis? Look through their history. Do they have a history of a primary cancer they could have spread? Or if not, I gotta look and make sure that I rule out that primary cancer from the lungs or somewhere else. So where are those primary cancers most likely gonna be that spread to the brain? So oftentimes, it's gonna be most commonly a tumor that comes from the lung. So lung cancer by far is going to be the most common cause for brain metastasis. And when I talk about these, I'd say with that caveat that it's most likely small cell lung cancer. You can see it in the non-small cell, but again, it's gonna be way more common in small cell lung cancer. The next one's breast cancer. Again, when I talk about breast cancer, there's different types of breast cancer. But breast cancer usually when it's more likely the most common type, which is invasive ductal carcinoma. The next one is renal cell carcinoma. Renal cell carcinoma is a really important one to remember. The other thing that's actually really important to remember that kind of sucks, it's really, really sad with any of these tumors, right? If it occurs here originally, occurs here originally, and it spreads. These, when they get to the brain, really all of these, except for this one, when I'm gonna talk about this one next, when they get into the brain and they actually break across the blood brain barrier and they form that mass, they actually can cause hemorrhaging within that mass. And so you can actually get what's called hemorrhagic metastasis. So you can get bleeds in the brain, especially from lung cancer, breast cancer, renal cell carcinoma. And the next one here is a particular type of skin cancer. This one is obviously the most malignant and scary type of skin cancer. It's not squamous, it's not basal cell. Yes, you got it, it is melanoma. Melanoma is that scary one that if it metastasizes to the brain, it can cause pretty nasty hemorrhagic metastasis. So all of these can cause hemorrhagic metastasis. This one is actually, I'd say, one of the least common ones, but it is something to consider if a patient has underlying cancer of the large intestine or the rectum. So colorectal cancer is also another one that should come up. And also, we'll talk about this a little bit later, there's specific genetic syndromes that predispose certain patients to having brain tumors and colorectal tumors. We'll talk about it, it's called Turco syndrome. But when I talk about all of these, it's really important to remember that this is the most common, second most common. These right here, when they spread to the brain, they actually cause bleeding to occur. So hemorrhagic metastasis. This one, less common, doesn't usually cause hemorrhagic metastasis. How do I remember these? Because a lot of times it's hard to remember all of these. Lots of bad stuff kills the cortex. L, obviously for the lung. Bad is gonna be for what? The breast. S is gonna be skin. So I want you to think of skin. When you think of skin, you think of melanoma. When you think K kills, think about kidney. When you think about kidney, I'm gonna abbreviate this. Renal cell carcinoma. When you think about C, you're gonna think about, what, colorectal cancer. So those are the things I want you guys to be thinking about here as potential causes of something that spreads to the brain. Again, they occur here, and then what happens is any of these tumors, what do they do? They take, they get into the bloodstream, and they spread and get into the brain. They break across that blood-brain barrier. All right, let's get into the primary brain tumors. Okay, so we got the metastatic causes down. What about primary brain tumors? We don't really have a lot of good reasons as to why these dang things happen. A lot of the times, one of the ways, it's, you know, we, as clinicians, I'm gonna get on my soapbox, just for a second, I promise. When you do imaging, and it comes with radiation, you run the risk of potentially giving a patient, there is that chance of cancer. You're giving radiation that can damage DNA, cause mutations, and if those mutations don't get repaired properly, you bring about the opportunity for this to transform into a lignite cell and cause cancer. So when patients are getting frequent radiation, this, I'm not even kidding, this could be things like just getting CT scans very frequently, getting whole brain radiation therapy. Any of these kinds of things right here, this can potentially stimulate this cell to undergo a mutation. So it can stimulate, let's actually make this very, very clear here. It can stimulate a mutation. If you stimulate a mutation, you bring about the opportunity of this normal glial cell, or some type of brain tissue of the CNS turning into a malignant cell. And this is when you can get tumors, all right? That's one reason. A lot of the times though, we don't really have a good reason. They had no exposure to ionizing radiation, it just happened, it's unfortunate. You got the crap into the stick here. What happens is you have usually just like these progenitor cells. These are cells that can really become a specific type of glial cell. So here's our progenitor cell. If the progenitor cell for some reason develops a mutation, usually the most common mutation that you wanna think about and test for is called the isocitrate dehydrogenase, and there's one and two. This mutation, if it occurs, it causes the progenitor cell to turn into a glial cell tumor, which we call and we term a glioma. So let's actually, I'm gonna make this blue line here, so just so I can have some room. This is called a glioma, all right? Now, if I have a glioma, the problem with this is that this glioma can then decide, do I wanna become another type of tumor cell, or another type of tumor cell? If this then develops another type of abnormality within the genetics, and we call this abnormality, I know this is a lot, trust me, but it can be tested on. On chromosome number one, you have that short arm. If that becomes, you have a deletion, plus on chromosome 19, on the long arm, if that becomes deleted, this can transform this glioma. If you develop this type of mutation here, this can transform this glioma into a malignant oligo dendrocyte. So this would then become what's called a oligo dendro glioma. And now this thing can start replicating, replicating, replicating, and you get this brain mass that forms, all right? If you don't get the one P, 19Q, co-deletion, but you develop other weird mutations, maybe it's in the TP53, right? So the P53, which is a tumor suppressor gene, maybe that becomes mutated. Whatever it may be, that mutates and it becomes a nasty cell, but there's no deletion. That's the key, no deletion present. Here, we'll even write this down just so we're super clear. One P, there's no one P, 19Q, co-deletion present. If that happens, this turns into what's called a astrocytoma. So you get the point here. We can get brain masses from ionizing radiation exposure continuously or just sporadic mutations due to unfortunate genetics. IDH mutation can occur in both of these, but an IDH mutation and a one P, 19Q, co-deletion suggests oligo dendro glioma. Really important to remember. Oftentimes, this helps us because these types of co-deletions and mutations tell us if a patient will respond well to a specific type of chemotherapy called temozolamide. All right, that's why I mentioned that. Another reason why these brain tumors can form inside the essential nervous system because of these gliocells just mutating, not just because of radiation, not just because of sporadic mutations, but it could also be due to genetic predisposition from weird syndromes. One is called neurofibromatosis. There's a type one and type two. What I want you to know is that neurofibromatosis type one is often seen and it's associated with pylocytic astrocytoma. Now, that's one thing. Neurofibromatosis type two is oftentimes associated with a couple of them. It can be associated with appendemomas, it can be associated with meningiomas, and we'll write those down. So appendemomas, meningiomas, there's one really, really important one. It's bilateral vestibular schwannomas. That is what I want you to remember. So what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna kind of say that this is the important one to remember, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop. Neurofibromatosis type two, bilateral vestibular schwannomas are the awesome thing that they can be tested on in the exam. Now, one of the things about neurofibromatosis it can cause like weird neurofibromas to form, but one of the things that they'll test you on the exam that are oftentimes associated with neurofibromatosis is skin lesions. And I wanna actually show you what they look like, but these skin lesions are called cafe au lait spots. They look a little bit like this. So whenever you see these kinds of spots, I want you to think about neurofibromatosis. And if I said type one, pylocytic. If I said type two, I really want you to think about bilateral vestibular schwannoma. The other thing that's really important here is pylocytic astrocytoma for type one. Usually just remember this, it's on the optic nerve. Remember I told you it's gonna occur in the cerebellum? Where else is it gonna occur? Optic nerve, if it's associated with neurofibromatosis type one, it is optic. So look for a patient who has weird skin lesions, cafe au lait spots, and optic nerve compression. Bialytofibromatosis, think about cafe au lait spots, plus tumor that's located within the cerebellum, and then the contine angles. Now that deserves a little time to talk about something. When we see a patient come in with this triad of symptoms, think about schwannomas, what is that? Well one is they'll come in with what's called sensory neuro deafness. That's one thing. Second thing that they'll come in with, vertigo or balance problems. And the third thing that they can come in with is tinnitus. So if a patient comes in with tinnitus, which is ringing of the ears, if they come in with balance issues, and if they come in with sensory neuro deafness, not, and so there's conductive deafness, and there's sensory neuro deafness. We have to use what's called the Weber and Renee test to really determine that. Sensory neuro deafness, vertigo and tinnitus, really suggest a vestibular schwannoma. And if it's on both sides, it's associated with neurofibromatosis type two. If I said optic leoma and cafe au lait spots, you would think neurofibromatosis type one. All right, cool. The next one is turco syndrome. Now I'm not even trying to be mean. This is usually someone where they use different tricks of thinking about a turban. There's brain tumors that are also associated with colorectal cancer. So there's two tumors which kind of go hand in hand. So usually patients can have like colorectal polyps, which put them at high risk for cancer, right? So it puts them at high risk for cancer. And they can also have two different types of brain tumors that can be associated with these colorectal polyps, the lots and lots of polyps. So they can have lots of polyps, lots of them that can be associated, it can lead to cancer. The other thing is that you have two different types of brain tumors which can be associated with this. One is called a glioblastoma multiforme, or it could be a medullo blastoma. The one that's oftentimes more tested than not is gonna be this medullo blastoma. So you're gonna think about a child who comes in with symptoms of infertitorial tumors and who now has a ton of polyps in their intestine. There's actually different types of variants of Turco syndrome. There's the Lynch variant and that's associated with GBM. So that's actually due to a mismatch repair kind of problem. And so usually that can be associated with like colorectal cancer, endometria cancer, ovarian cancer, but also can be associated with GBMs. The FAP variant, which is the familial adenomatosis polyposis, they have tons and tons and I'm talking just tons of polyps in their colon at a young age, 20 year old with hundreds upon hundreds of polyps in their colon, plus a brain tumor like a medullo blastoma. This is the one to remember, that's the one that tests you on, where Turco syndrome. Turco syndrome, colorectal polyps, and I mean, tons of them, plus a tumor in the, usually an infertitorial compartment, cerebellum hermits, medullo blastoma, that's something to remember. All right, multiple endocrine neoplasia, type one. This one is associated with three particular tumors. I know we talked about this in endocrine, so you have men one, that's the three P's. It's pituitary adenoma, it's a parathyroid adenoma, and it's a pancreatic tumor, right? So let's actually write those down. So again, we had them right here to remind us, it's a pituitary adenoma, all right, so you'd have a tumor right here. It's a parathyroid adenoma, and this is gonna be associated with what? Hyperparathyroidism usually, and then there's gonna be a pancreatic tumor, and usually this is associated with what's called Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, releases tons of that gastrin that can cause peptic ulcers. So pancreatic tumors. When I talk about this, it's the three P's. So remember the three P's, pituitary parathyroid pancreatic. If I said men two A, just to test your knowledge a little bit, it's two P's and one M. So it's actually parathyroid tumors, they have pheochromocytoma and medullary thyroid cancer, and if it's men two B, it's two M's and one P. And so for that, it's medullary thyroid cancer, it's a morphinoid body habitus, and it's usually pheochromocytoma. All right, next one here, Von Hippolendau syndrome. This one is actually really high yield. This is a mutation that occurs on chromosome number three, and it's also associated with this type of triad. And usually what happens here is you get the tumor that's occurring due to vascular tissue origins inside here, inside of the cerebellum, but it can also occur in the retina. So it can also occur in the retina, which one's that one? Homangioblastomas. So you can get a homangioblastoma. And again, two locations, because we're talking about brain tumors, we really care about the one that's occurring inside of the brain, but it can occur where else? Just remind yourself, let's here draw it. Where else could occur? Here in the retina, all right? The other component here is what? A tumor here, renal cell carcinoma. All right, so renal cell carcinoma is also associated with this one. And then the last type of tumor here that can also be associated with this is you can sometimes get a tumor right here in the adrenal medulla. What's that called? Pheochromocytoma. So you can get a pheochromocytoma and multiple endocrine neoplasia, right? But you can also have it here in von Heppel-Lindau syndrome. So pheochromocytoma. So if I told you, hey, by a lot of vasibilishonomo, you would say nerve-vibranthosis type two. If I said optic glioma, right? And I told you it's a pylocytic one. That would be nerve-vibranthosis type one because they're associated with the cafe alle at spots. If I said, oh, this patient has potentially a ton of polyps and they're 20 years old and on top of that they have a tumor in their mid, their cerebellum, you would say. This is turcosyndrome. If I said that they have three different tumors, it's the three P's, you think about men one. And if I told you that they have, they're a young child and they have tumors inside of the retina and in their cerebellum, they also have renal cell carcinoma and pheochromocytoma, you think about von Heppel-Lindau syndrome. My friends, this covers really the causes and kind of gives us an important kind of understanding of how these really tumors form. Now that we've done this, what I wanna do is I wanna say, okay, patient comes in, they present with these symptoms. How do I actually get to the point where I can then say, let me move through, think about these symptoms, determine my diagnostic approach and then from there, determine the proper treatments. And one of those treatments is gonna be getting imaging to figure out what does it fit in and maybe getting biopsies to figure out what is the tissue makeup? And then thinking back to their history, what could have caused this? So now that we've done that, let's move now into the next step, which is thinking about how they will present. All right, so now we have a patient coming in, they're presenting with classic findings of brain tumors. What would that be? Well, there's a try, but just cause a patient comes in with a headache, don't just be like, oh, there's definitely a tumor up there. No, there's specific ways that patients present. A headache could be a tension headache, it could be a migraine, it could be a cluster headache. It could be from a lot of different things. It doesn't mean that they got a big old tumor hanging out in their cerebrum. So you have to kind of think about this. There is specific red flags that may make you decide to get an image of a patient. So if a patient says I got the worst headache of my entire life, it's a thunder clap headache, get an image. Another thing that may, it's not as like a grade of a red flag, but it's something to consider, is if a patient comes in with a headache, and that headache is usually, it's worse in the morning. So it's worse in the AM. Now you can also get this in patients with obstructive sleep apnea, but that's one particular thing. The reason why is this headache is usually due to elevated intracranial pressure. And so whenever they're laying flat, and then they get up in the morning, that usually is one of the big reasons. Oftentimes it gets a little bit better during the day as if they're upright and they're moving, because it helps to remove the cerebrospinal fluid and I'm sorry, the venous blood out of the brain. Another thing is that it's also associated with nausea and vomiting. So if they have vomiting right away in the morning, that's also concerning. So it's usually associated with nausea and vomiting in the early AM. Those are things that should definitely concern you. The other triad that you wanna be thinking about here, and this is what really, if a patient comes in with a headache and they also have this, this is another reason to scan them, get an image of the brain, see if there's a structural lesion there. But it's focal neuro deficits, or focal neurological deficits. And these deficits really depend, so we're gonna write this down, the type of deficit they have depends upon the tumor location. So it really just depends on tumor location. And I actually wanna talk just a little bit about that and really differentiating focal neuro deficits. If it's a supratentorial tumor or an infertorial tumor, we'll come back to that. If a patient comes in with headache and they also have weakness on one side of their body, get an image, right? That's really, really important. Headache, weakness, visual defects, they can't appreciate one side of their body, they have loss of sensation, numbness thing. Those are reasons to say, hey, I should probably get an image and make sure that there's not a brain lesion going on, whether it's a stroke, whether it's a bleed, or whether it's a brain tumor. The next one here is also something that they like to hit on for the exam. And it's usually someone who comes in and they have just a complete change in personality and memory and executive function. That is really important. So think about cognitive and behavioral changes. So if someone's just acting completely different than their normal self, that may not just be that they're a little bit of a douche. They could be because they got a tumor somewhere in their temporal lobe or their frontal lobe that can determine a lot of their personality, their memory, their executive function, their determination of inhibiting inappropriate thoughts. And so this could indicate potentially, maybe there's a tumor that's embedding itself in the frontal lobe or the temporal lobe. That may be the reason why, especially frontal lobe. So temporal lobe or frontal lobe. All right, so these are things that definitely would be thinking about if a patient comes in with a headache, think about the headache a little bit just because they have a headache doesn't mean that they have a brain tumor. Not everybody has to go running to the ER. Sometimes the focal neural deficits associated with a headache, you should definitely get imaging. And if they have these weird cognitive behavioral changes, guess what? If patients have differences in behavior, differences in memory, differences in personality, obviously work them up for things like delirium or an altered mental status. And oftentimes that comes with a good thorough laboratory but also imaging workup to make sure that you rule out structural brain lesions. And so that could be in the workup there. All right, let's say that the patient comes in with focal neural deficits. It's actually really important to think about, could it be a supertentorial tumor before you get the image or an infertorial tumor? It's always good to try and localize lesions. So supertentorial tumors, one of the big things to think about is what if I represent this in different colors? What if I had a tumor that's sitting here on the primary motor cortex? What would that potentially represent? Well, one thing it would do is that may have a patient come in with motor deficits or they may come in with weakness, right? So if it's sitting on the motor cortex, compressing on the motor cortex or compressing on the corticospinal tract, they can end up with weakness. And maybe on the contralateral side of the body, but there's weakness. If there's a tumor compressing here on the somatosensory cortex or the somatosensory association cortex, that's controlling sensation, that's controlling proprioception, that's controlling a stereognosis. So a lot of those things are proprioception or your sensation of self, all of that. So that's really important that they could have sensory deficits. So vision has a tumor that's causing a headache and they also have sensory deficits. That's also something to consider. And then the third is what if they have a tumor that's either compressing here on the optic tract or that's compressing here in parts of the occipital lobe where the primary visual cortex is. If I got a tumor that's sitting right here in the primary visual cortex, that could be a big issue, right? Because the primary visual cortex is the one where a lot of the visual field is moving. So that's really, really important. This could cause field cuts. That's really important to remember. So do they have visual field cuts? Right, because if you have a pituitary tumor or a cranial pharyngeal, what's pressing on this, this will cause what? Bilateral temporal hemianopia. But if it's compressing here, it'll cause contralateral homonymous hemianopia. And then the fourth big thing that always tells us if there's some type of cortical thing going on is usually if there is hemi-neglected. It doesn't mean that the patient is being neglected or I don't know, neglecting other people. All it tells me is that they're losing an appreciation of their opposite side of where the lesion is. Usually this occurs in the non-dominant hemisphere, which is the right side for people. So if there were brain tumors somewhere within that frontal parietal loberia, they may lose the ability to recognize or appreciate the opposite side of their body. You may touch their left arm and they don't even know it's there. You may ask them to move their leg and they move the opposite leg. You may tell them, hey, look over here, but they don't appreciate or see you on the opposite side of the body. So that's called hemi-neglect. Now, for infertentorial tumors, it's also really important to remember, if I got a big goober that's sitting here somewhere within the cerebellum, the cerebellum controls a lot of my balance, a lot of my coordination. And so this obviously could present with things like ataxia. That's one potential thing. Another thing is it may also cause abnormalities within my finger-to-nose testing. What's that called? Dysmetria. So looking for dysmetria should be something that you would think about here. And even we do other testing. You know what's, when you have their patient do rapid alternating movements, what's that called? And if they can't do it, it's kind of like, it's improper kind of like rapid alternating movements. It's called dysdiatokinesis, right? The third thing here is you also wanna consider if a tumor is somewhere near and compressing or near the vicinity of a lot of your cranial nerves. So imagine here, I'll represent this in orange. Let's say here, I have a bunch of different cranial nerves that are running out here. If I have a tumor that's either in that vicinity, right? And it's compressing on or I have a tumor right there. So let's say I have a tumor and it's compressing on some of these cranial nerves. What else could you get? Cranial nerve palsies. So cranial nerve palsies are also really worthy of considering some type of thing going on. And then I think the last thing is besides ataxia, you could also consider things like vertigo. Vertigo, usually central vertigo, is something also to consider. Again, this is all usually due to interruptions within the cerebellum. But these are the things I would want you guys to think about. So if a patient comes in with a headache and any of these symptoms you would think about, oh, could it be an infertitorial tumor? If they come in with a headache and some of these symptoms you'd think about a supertitorial tumor and then you would work them up from there. Let's now move in and say, okay, patient comes in,  there's a thing I got a headache, it's really bad in the morning when I get up, as I move throughout the day it gets a little bit better, I do have some nausea, some vomiting associated with it, and I've noticed that I also have some weakness on an affected side. Then you start thinking, okay, dude, I'm a little bit concerned for structural lesion. Other things that may start making you think about something else is really, really going on is do they have features that are associated with intracranial pressure that's really, really high? We can't talk about intracranial pressure unless you discuss the beloved Monroe Kelly doctrine, and all that says is the skull is a fixed structure. It doesn't allow things to, allow the skull to expand. Anything that's inside of the brain, whatever those components are, if it gets bigger, the skull will not expand. What are those three components? Well, I'm representing it here in kind of like a little chart for kind of an easy way to remember this. Here is blood. This consists of arterial blood and venous blood. Here is brain matter. So this is going to be brain tissue, all right? And then third here is CSF in blue. If we increase any of these components more than what they're supposed to be, they'll start compressing on those other structures. And also it'll build up inside of the skull and the pressure will go up. So let's think about what happens in a brain tumor. If a brain tumor starts to occur, what happens is the brain tissue starts to get worse, all right? So here's what I'm going to say. Let's say that I decide to increase the brain tissue. I increase the brain, I'm sorry. Let's say I increase, in this case, the CSF. So if I increase the CSF, if I increase the CSF, the reason why that would happen is you have a tumor that's somewhere within the central nervous system and it's compressing on your ventricular system, all right? As it compresses on the ventricular system, let's say for example, it's in the cerebellum and it compresses on the fourth ventricle. You can't get CSF through the fourth ventricle. And so it backs up into the cerebrate. The liquid duct backs up into the third ventricle, backs up into the latter ventricles. And what happens? They balloon up and they get big. What's that term called when you obstruct the ventricular flow and the ventricles get big? It's called obstructive hydrocephalus. Obstructive hydrocephalus is definitely due to, in this case, can happen and patients who have brain tumors. And this is going to do what? Well, think about it. Now you increase this compartment. That starts squishing on the brain and squishing on the vascular system. So you get less blood flow coming into the brain and you compress on the brain tissue. That's not a good thing. This right here is what increases a patient's intracranial pressure, all right? Intracranial pressure should normally be less than 20 millimeters of mercury. If the intracranial pressure is greater than or equal to 20 millimeters of mercury, we consider that to be pretty high. We don't want that. So that's something that we want to try to avoid. Another reason that patients with brain tumors develop high ICP is because you increase the brain tissue. You increase the amount of brain components. So if I increase the brain components, and what I mean by that is a tumor. So now I have this tumor, which is accompanying for it. And guess what else happens when you get a tumor, especially brain tumors? The secret chemicals that break down the blood brain barrier, especially the tight junctions. And those are supposed to maintain a controlled degree of permeability. If I break the tight junctions down, fluid leaks out from those vessels into this space around the tumor. And then you get edema. So vasogenic edema is another component here. Well now I have more brain tissue than I want. And guess what it's doing? It's compressing on the blood supply coming in or out of the brain. And it's compressing on my ventricular system so that I get less movement of CSF. So this right here will also increase the patient's intracranial pressure. Because again, that skull is not going to say, oh, increase in size for you. No, not unless you have a baby who still has those fontanelles, which will allow for a little bit of stretching. So that's the concept here. So when the patient has an increased ICP, that number gets above 20, it's usually due to hydrocephalus or the tumor and the swelling around the tumor. The question is, how will that usually present? Well, we already talked about one of them. If I got a tumor and that thing's compressing on the meninges, the meninges have lots of pain receptors here. Those pain receptors send signals to the trigeminal nerve and that triggers a headache. So headaches are oftentimes very, very characteristic. All right, and this is usually due to meningial irritation from the tumor compressing. Second one is you can activate this purple structure. You see this purple structure? If the pressure comes up enough, then it starts to activate specific structures, especially this one in the medulla, that's called the emetic center in the medulla. The emetic center in the medulla controls your emesis process, your vomiting process. And so guess what that's associated with? Nausea and vomiting, this is very, very common. All right, that's why when we talked about the classic symptoms, the classic triton is headache, which is associated with nausea and vomiting and headaches usually in the morning. It's due to a high intracranial pressure. So the nausea and vomiting is due to what? It's due to stimulation of what's called the chemo trigger zone or the emetic center. So a medic center, which is located in the medulla. All right, the next thing that I also want you guys to think about is we can also have this tumor getting big enough and the pressure rises enough that it compresses on this structure. What is this structure that runs from the midbrain to the pons of the medulla? It controls your level of wakefulness and arousal. It's called the reticula formation. If I compress the reticula formation from high pressure, guess what that can do? That can lower your level of consciousness. So you can end up having a declining, a decreasing level of consciousness. So a decreasing level of consciousness. This can vary in how it presents. Oftentimes the patient may start off as being just a little bit lethargic, a little tired, but they can wake them up. Then they can get a little bit worse where now, hey, I got to kind of like, I got to move your out a little bit or yell at you. Now you're at the point where it's like, you're not really lethargic. Now you're like really somnolent and it's hard to get you up. And then from there, they can get even worse to where like, man, I got to really, really stimulate them, but they do wake up. So now they're kind of an uptunded state. And then eventually I got to really, really, really move them and give painful stimuli to get them to wake up. So then they're more of a stupor. And then eventually I can squeeze and do anything to them, but they won't wake up and they become comatose. So due to the worsening, worsening intracranial pressure, you can move through that systemic process or that progression, if you will. The next thing that can happen here is, you see here, if the pressure is big enough. So you know, there's CSF, right? So not only could it be because of pressure, but also, if you have a buildup and intracranial pressure, you know there's fluid that's around this optic nerve sheath. So you know it's called the optic nerve sheath and there's cerebral spinal fluid there. If the pressure inside of the brain is going up, the cerebral spinal fluid, it can kind of transmit that pressure around the optic nerve sheath. And it can kind of squeeze down on the optic nerve. And if you squeeze down on the optic nerve, guess what drains the, coming through this area? There's a drain veins there. Can't drain the vein. And so what happens is you get a lot of venous congestion right here around the entry called the optic disc and it gets swollen. And these patients can experience something called papilla edema. So papilla edema. The next component here, and this is the last one, is if I have enough pressure, you see this nerve here? So watch this. Sometimes you can get enough pressure, enough shifting, where it squeezes right there. So there's a nerve here. It's called the abducens nerve. And it actually kind of comes from the pons and it works. So let's actually move this a little bit here because it's not technically where it should be. It should be right there, just me being a little anal. But it should be in the pons and it's going to move its way through here. You see this right here? This is called the clivus. And then as it moves up the clivus, it makes this turn. You see a little bone there? Whenever you actually have pressure that builds up, it smashes that nerve against the bone, the little pointy part of the bone. And now that nerve, when you compress it, you lose signals. Guess what this nerve is? This is the sixth cranial nerve. Guess what the sixth cranial nerve goes to? It goes to what's called the lateral rectus. And so now you don't have good signals running down the abducens nerve. And you inhibit the lateral rectus. And it's supposed to control your lateral gaze. What this does is this changes their ability to see objects as one entity. And it causes double vision. And so oftentimes these patients get diplopia. So double vision. That's really important to remember. All right, so again, headache is due to meningial irritation from pressure. Nausea and vomiting is pressure on the emetic center. Decreasing level of consciousness is pressure on the particular formation. Papillodema is pressure that's being transmitted via the CSF and squeezing down in the optic nerve sheath, causing blood to not drain from the retina, especially around the optic disc. Papillodema. Diplopia, or diplopia, is whenever the abducens nerve, because it runs up and it gets right on that sharp part. It presses down and smashes on the nerve and the lateral rectus can't contract. Now this is not the cli- this is not like how all patients present when they have intra-cranial pressure. It may just be a headache. It could be nausea and vomiting. It could be they're a little bit more sleepy and harder to wake up. They could, if you get a fundoscope, look at their actual retina and you see, oh yeah, the optic disc is pretty large. They may have double vision, but sometimes they may come in with very severe presentations, like herniation of brain tissue, where brain starts moving through spaces, where it's got to find somewhere, if the skull won't expand, I'll find a hole and I'll shove myself through there. Not trying to be weird, but that's what it will do. Let's now talk about that whenever there's herniation symptoms. Alright, so now if a patient comes in again and they have elevated intra-cranial pressure, you obviously want to watch out for things like we talked about headache, nausea, vomiting. You want to watch out for again, potentially is there any signs of papilla, demon, fundoscopic exam? That's definitely very concerning. And is there any diplopia? Declining level of consciousness is really, really important. But when a patient starts presenting with the classic findings of what I mean, the tell-tale sign that the pressure's up and the patient's at risk for herniation, we use the Cushing's Triad from the exam. And so the Cushing's Triad basically looks at three factors. One is it looks at the heart rate, it looks at the blood pressure, and it looks at the breathing. And what we want to know about this is what's happening with the heart rate. What happens is you end up, is the pressure builds up in the brain, you compress in the medulla. And the medulla is controlling a lot of your cardiac activity, especially cardiac acceleration. And so if you lose that cardiac acceleration, you lose extrinsic supply that helps to speed it up. And so unfortunately, it will start to go down. Your body will try to compensate to increase the blood flow to the brain in that time frame. And what it'll do is it'll try to push your blood pressure up so that you can still try to profuse the unfortunately very hurt and injured brain. And then on top of that, whenever we have compression on the medulla, guess what else is there? Your respiratory groups, your ventral, your dorsal respiratory groups, your pontine respiratory groups, all of these things control your breathing patterns. And if a patient has compression of the brainstem, your breathing patterns will be very, very irregular. And so that is what we get concerned about is having irregular breathing patterns. All right? So that's what I want you guys to be thinking about. When we talk about pressure building up in the brain enough that it actually, again, skull won't expand, it's going to start popping through spaces or holes where it can find it. That's when we get worried about herniation. So there's a couple of different syndromes I want you guys to be able to pick up. So whenever they talk in the exam, hey, if a patient has subfouscine herniation, what's the biggest thing to remember? They have contralateral hemiparesis or hemiparesis or sometimes it can be contralateral paralysis of the muscle. But what I really want you to understand is big, big takeaway features, but I'm going to try to walk you through on how that actually happens. So subfouscine herniation, usually this is a supertentorial tumor. Let's say I have a tumor sitting right here. It's in the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, and what happens is it pushes, it has a mass effect. So it pushes on structures that are nearby. There's one structure here. It's right this portion here, right next to the foc. So you have the foc cerebrae, which is running right here. Right here is what's called the singulum. If it's getting mass effect from a nearby tumor, it actually tries to push. And what it does, it pushes this way. And so as it pushes this way, guess what happens? I'm going to try to herniate underneath the foc, but what it does is it squishes everything in its path. What's right in the path here? It literally is running right here. What's that vessel? The anterior cerebrary. So when a patient develops subfouscine herniation, the biggest concern is that the singulum moves under the foc cerebrae and compresses the anterior cerebrary. And when you compress the anterior cerebrary, what does the anterior cerebrary do? Well think about it. You have different zones, right? So you have a zone technically, if I were to do, let's say I do this one in like blue. This is kind of like your anterior cerebrary territory. And then here, if I did in red, this is going to be most of your middle cerebrary territory. And then if I did this one, let's say in this like baby blue color, this is going to be most in this actually, let's actually use a different, let's use orange. This would be your posterior cerebrary territory, right? And so when a patient has, like they have compression of the ACA, they can actually develop infarction. And so what actually ends up happening is you're going to get infarction of the frontal lobe. And so this area will become compromised, the one I have in this blue color. So this area is going to become damaged. And again, it's going to be on the opposite side of where the tumor is. So now they're going to end up with a potential frontal lobe infarction. Now the frontal lobe, or at least in that potential area, you're going to have the motor cortex. And the motor cortex, if you think about the motor homunculus, the motor homunculus always goes for the foot, is going to be closest to the medial portion. And then it goes, you know, maybe you got foot, then you got the legs, then you get the torso, then you get the face all the way over here. So what area is going to be most predisposed? It's going to be the legs. And so your lower extremities tend to be the most affected structure. And so what happens is, let's say here, I have my corticospinal tracts that are going to be here from that frontal lobe, they're supposed to all kind of give me my corticospinal tracts that run here, they're run through the internal cap, so they come down the midbrain, the ponds, they decosate here at the medulla, they go to the spinal cord. And from here, it's going to go to the muscles. And it's going to cause these muscles to contract. It's going to be the contralateral muscle, right? Well, if I end up causing infarction here, all of this gets injured and damaged. It loses the signals. I lose this signal. I lose the contraction of the muscle. And if I do that, that's how the patient experiences what's called contralateral hemiparesis. And this is because they ended up having an infarction of that frontal lobe area here. And that is, again, going to cause an infarction on the contralateral side. But it will be on the same side as where that mass is. And this was the problem as the mass was here. It was exerting its mass effect. And that mass effect is what ended up leading to the cingulum herniating underneath the fox and pushing on the anterior supranary and farkting that tissue. That's what I want you to take away. So subfousin herniation, the biggest feature here to take away is the muscles will be weak on the contralateral side of where there was an infarction. But it's because the mass effect pushed the cingulum underneath it and compressed the anterior supranary. All right, cool. Uncle herniation. With uncle herniation, what happens here is there's a tumor. And it's usually going to be somewhere within the temporal lobe. And it can be pretty big. Sometimes it can be a little higher. But if it's really, really big, there's a lot of edema. There's a lot of swelling. Then what can happen is, again, it'll exert its localized mass effect. But what happens if that mass effect is enough that when it pushes here, let's say this is the most medial portion of the temporal lobe. It's called the uncus. If that starts slipping here, you see there's the tentorium cerebelli, these little blue things that come inwards. Right here, if this thing slips over the tentorium cerebelli, what it'll start doing is, imagine this, I'm going to squeeze on the midbrain now. I'm going to push and mash on that midbrain. And as I mash on that midbrain, I'm going to get damaged to a lot of different surrounding structures. So, again, what happens in this scenario is that the uncus moves through this notch. What is that space called between the tentorium cerebelli, the tentorial notch? So moves through the tentorial notch. And when it does that, it compresses a couple of different structures. But particularly, it compresses the midbrain. With this being said, when it compresses the midbrain, there's a couple of different structures that are important to the midbrain and then surrounding that area where the midbrain resides. One of those areas is it's going to cause compression of the PCA. So it compresses the PCA, the posterior cerebratory. So that's actually, so you come up here, you get the verts, you got the basilar, and then here's your PCA. If that thing herniates, it can compress on the PCA. Now, again, think about your territories. Here's my frontal lobe area where the ACA is going. This is frontal and sometimes even parietal, right? And then we'll go to the next part here, which is going to be the MCA territory, which is going to be like all this portion right here. And then here, we're going to have the PCA territory. Now the PCA territory, there's one really, really critical area that actually gets hit here. And that's near the occipital lobes. Now, if you hit near the occipital lobes, the problem with this is that you lose the primary visual cortex. And so what can happen here is you can actually get occipital, or at least around that area, you can get an occipital lobe infarction. Now if that happens, let's take a second to think about why that would be absolutely terrible. If that happens here, that's where the primary visual cortex is. So think about this for a second. Let's say here, I have my visual pathways, right? Let's say here I have a visual pathway right here, and that's going to be picking up information from the medial visual fields or your nasal visual fields. And let's use pink as the other color here. This is going to be the medial hemorrhagna. This is going to pick up your temporal visual fields. Same thing. Here's the medial portion here. And then we'll come over here and we'll say that again, this is going to be the temporal fields. So what happens is these pick up their visual information from here, and this picks up visual information from here. And then again, this one picks up visual information from over in the medial field, and this one picks up visual information from your medial fields. When that happens, when they pick up that information, they carry that down via their fibers. The lateral fibers never cross. They go to the lateral geniculate nucleus, and then in the lateral geniculate nucleus, they get sent outwards to the cortex via the optic radiations. Same thing for this one. It's going to go here. It's going to move out. They go to the lateral geniculate nucleus, and then optic radiations are going to go to that primary visual cortex. The medial fibers, these cross. So they go over here. They go to the lateral geniculate nucleus, and they come over to the optic radiations. And then same thing. This one's going to move here, and it's going to cross lateral geniculate nucleus, and then you're going to go to your optic radiations through the occipital lobe. So if you're noticing what's happening here, you're getting this information, let's say that we enfarcted this portion. So say this is the area that got destroyed because we enfarcted that PCA territory. If you follow it back, it's going to give you the lateral fiber, so you're going to lose this field. And that's going to be, so this field right here, gone. We lost this field. So let's actually put some red axis here. This field is gone. Then we have to follow the medial fibers, so we're going to bring this one over here, come over here, and you lose this field over here. When you think about it, if you lose this visual field, and you compare it, and you look at this within the aspect of the patient's vision, we actually look at vision kind of a little bit like this, as our visual fields. And then same thing here. What do you notice about their visual fields? This visual field and this visual field is preserved, but these visual fields that are technically, if you want to think about it on the right side. So they're homonymous, but it's going to be contralateral in that aspect. This is contralateral, homonymous, hemianopia. So that's one potential presentation that you want to watch out for here. It's called contralateral, homonymous, hemianopia. And that's usually because of the PCA compression causing occipital lobe infarction. Now the other thing that can happen when you compress the midbrain is when you compress the midbrain, there's a couple different structures here. Let's say that we have this one here, and this one is actually going to be the third nerve. So you have the third cranial nerve, and we have this guy here, and we'll have this guy here, and it's associated with parasympathetic fibers. So there's two different types of fibers. There's somatic fibers, which are going to be going to the muscles, the extracula muscles, and then there's parasympathetic fibers, and these specifically go to the pupil. They control the pupils and accommodation reflexes. And so it's really, really important to remember this. If you have this herniating and smashing on the midbrain, let's say that this is occurring here on the left side, we're going to damage these. So let's damage these. If I damage these, and this is all the cranial nerve 3, cranial nerve 3 nuclei, I lose two pathways. One is the motor pathway that is more somatic, if you will. And that controls the extraocular movement, so it controls the EOMs. And I lose the pupil pathway, which is the pathway that is going to control whether the pupil dilates or constricts. That's going to be interfered with, because again, I'm compressing on these structures and I'm losing that supply. So if that happens, let's think about this. I lose the motor supply going to these muscles, and there's a bunch of different muscles. I'm going to just quickly list them for a second. This one will be the superectus. This one right here is going to be the, we're going to say in this example, it's on the medial side of the eye, medial rectus, inferior oblique, and inferior rectus. Superectus, inferior rectus, are supposed to have specific jobs. Superectus elevates, inferior rectus depresses, and then you have the medial rectus that helps to adduct the eye, bring them inwards. And then the inferior oblique does what? What helps to elevate the eye, right? And it usually helps to move it. Now here, let's think about this. If I lost the cranial nerve three supplies, all of these muscles, you're going to lose the ability to do what? To adduct the eye? You're going to lose the ability potentially to elevate the eye via the superectus. What muscles become completely unopposed now? You end up with the lateral rectus being unopposed, and you end up with the superior oblique being unopposed. The lateral rectus does what to the eye? Pull it out. What does the superior oblique do? Depresses it, and then it causes it to go out. So what ends up happening to the patient's eye is they end up with what's called a down and out presentation. So they end up with a down and out eye. And the reason why is because you lose the motor supply to which muscles? You lose the motor supply to the superectus, the medial rectus, the inferior oblique, and the intra rectus. Which muscles are now unopposed? Lateral rectus pulls the eye out. Superior oblique is supposed to do what? It's supposed to naturally bring it down. So now that lateral rectus is going to pull it out, and then that superior oblique is going to pull the eye down because they're completely unopposed. That's the concept I want you to remember. All right. The other thing is that we interfere the pupil pathway. So we also decrease the motor pathway, and now we're going to decrease the pupil pathway. Now I told you that there's two parts of the cranial nerve 3 nuclei. One is there's somatic, and the other one is the eddinger Westfall. So there's the somatic, which controls the motor pathway, and then there's the eddinger Westfall nucleus. And this is the parasympathetic pathway that goes to the pupil. If we interfere with that, we damage that. What is parasympathetic supposed to do? Do you guys know? It's supposed to constrict the pupil. It's supposed to constrict the pupil. You're going to lose the ability to constrict the pupil. Now what happens? The pupil starts dilating. So because of this, you lose the ability to constrict the pupil. The pupil will dilate. So now you end up with a dilated pupil. Because again, I don't want to go crazy through the physiology because this is supposed to be more of the clinical aspects. We've talked about this more in step one and more about our pathophys. But again, if you injure the somatic fibers, you lose the movements of superior, inferior rectus, inferior oblique, and medial rectus. So then superior oblique and medial rectus become unopposed. If you lose the parasympathetic supply to the pupil, it's supposed to constrict it. Now it's going to be unopposed and it's going to dilate. So these patients can have a dilated and pupil with a down and out movement. And it's on the ipsilateral side of where the herniation is. So ipsilateral, that's important to remember. For down and out of the eye and dilated pupil, it's ipsilateral. One more thing for uncle herniation. There's three things. First of all, contralateral hamanum semianopia from PCA infarction. Second thing is a down and out movement of the eye with the dilated pupil that is usually not going to be as well as responsive to light. And then lastly, they're going to have another problem. There's motor fibers that run through this way. So let's actually do this. Let's pick, let's do orange. Let's say there's motor fibers that are supposed to be coming through this portion here called the cerebropiduncle. And what they do is they run down here through the midbrain. They come down the pons. And then eventually they do what? They decasate at the pyramids and the medulla. They come downwards to the spinal cord. And then what do they do? They end up going to the muscles and causing contraction. But what side of the body is it on? Contralateral. If I'm pressing on that side of the midbrain, what am I going to do? Damage that nerve. I damage the corticospinal tract as they move through the cerebropiduncle. And if that does that, I don't send signals down to the contralateral muscle. So what's another potential presentation? I'm going to put down here. Let's make some room here. This is going to be contralateral. We're going to really mash this in, guys. Contralateral hemiparesis. So if I say, patient has a tumor, they're starting to herniate it. I say they have a down and up movement of the eye with a dilated pupil. They have loss of visual fields. And it's usually on the same side. In other words, when I talk about this, it's like this visual field here for the nasal portion on my left eye, and it's going to be the what? The temporal field on the other eye. So it's on that right side if you want to think about it, but it's opposite visual field. So contralateral hematomas hemianopia. And then if I also say that they have contralateral hemiparesis, you're going to say uncle herniation. There's this weird phenomenon. I'll talk about it more in the intracranial pressure lecture, but there's something called a Kernighans-Nach syndrome. And Kernighans-Nach syndrome is basically whenever the pressure is so high that you smash the midbrain, and then this other midbrain gets smashed against the tentorium. And so you can actually end up compressing the corticospinal tract here. So the patient can actually get ipsilateral hemiparesis, which is kind of weird. But we won't go too far. I just want to keep it at that. So subfalsine, contralateral hemiparesis. Boom. That's the ACA infarction. Uncaherniation, uncus herniates compresses the third nerve in the associated eddinger west ball. Dilated, pupil, nonreactive to light, down and out movement, compresses the PCA, contralateral hematomas hemianopia, compresses the cerebral peduncle, contralateral hemiparesis. Now what? Let's move to the next one. The next one here is called central trans-tentorial herniation. This is essentially when a patient has so much swelling and usually it has to be kind of a symmetric pushing down. So I'll say that I have a tumor right here and a tumor right here. So it's usually whenever a patient has significant amounts of cerebral edema or they have like two big tumors and these tumors are causing kind of a, I don't know, I guess I would use the term like a equal amount of downward or surrounding mass effect. As it does that, this whole portion here, which we're going to kind of like, I'll do an dotted line here, this is called the diencephalon. This is called the diencephalon. The diencephalon is going to get pressure from above and what it's going to do is it's going to literally smash down through this space. What's that space called? The tentorial notch. And so what ends up happening is the diencephalon shifts.  this downward through the tentorial notch. That's what we call trans-tentorial herniation. So what ends up happening in this patient is they end up having a diencephalon. Their diencephalon pushes through the tentorial notch. And when it pushes through the tentorial notch, it literally squishes on the brainstem. And what that's going to do is that's going to push on, that's going to compress the upper portion of the brainstem. So it usually starts off as compressing the midbrain, and then it progresses to compressing on the pons and even the medulla in certain cases. But here's how I want you to think about this one. So with sub-falscene, it was a structure moving over and compressing. With oncus, it was the thing moving through the tentorial notch and compressing on the midbrain. This one, it's an entire deep structures that are smashing down on the midbrain. I'm not even kidding. It's like, imagine it like an accordion. Like I'm playing the midbrainstem like an accordion. I'm smashing this thing down. By doing that, you can actually smash this thing down so much. There's little vessels here. So imagine I have a downward traction here on the brainstem. There's small little vessels, the little perforator vessels off the basal artery going into the pons. These things get shredded to bits and they cause like little hemorrhages to form inside of the pons. And this is actually characteristic of central transitorial herniation. We call them direct hemorrhages. These are called direct hemorrhages. And so that's something that you can kind of see due to like the destruction of these pontine perforator vessels. But one of the big things to remember for this one is you can press a bunch of different structures. So what I want you to know is pupil changes, motor changes and brainstem reflexes that get affected here. In this scenario, we have pupil changes first. If I have this thing smashing down, the first thing that it does is it smashes down on these sympathetic nerve fibers coming from the hypothalamus. So sympathetic is supposed to do what? Is supposed to cause dilation of the pupil. And then here I have the Ettinger Westfall Nugle. So this is my Ettinger Westfall, which is the parasympathetic fibers. This one's to cause constriction of the pupil, right? What happens is when you get downward pressure, the diencephalon that includes the hypothalamus, you compress the sympathetic fibers first. And so if you compress the sympathetic fibers first, what would be the first thing to happen? You would lose the ability to dilate. And so this is the first thing to happen. So first thing that's going to happen is you'd lose the ability to dilate. So if you can't dilate, now you have all constriction. What's going to happen to the pupil? It's going to get small. So what will happen first is you're going to get small, small and kind of like pinpoint pupils. So let's say small pupils. Then what happens? That's the first thing. As the compression worsens, you then start squeezing and compressing on the Ettinger Westfall Nucleus, which is the parasympathetic fibers. And then you lose the ability to constrict. So if you lose the ability to constrict and the ability to dilate, then what happens? They stay the same size. They stay mid position. So then what happens is the pupils will then change to become mid position and relatively fixed and fixed. So that's the first thing I want you to realize when you start seeing this. The second thing is motor changes. So you guys remember there's a structure here called the red nucleus. And the red nucleus controls what's called your rubro spinal tract. If you don't remember that, go back over to our tracts video. But the descending tract here is it goes to muscles that control flexion. So it's supposed to control our flexors. It's supposed to control flexion muscles, particularly of the upper arms, or the upper extremities of your arms. When you have injury that's above, let's say the injury starts above the red nucleus, which is usually where this is going to be coming down, super nuclear fibers. What happens is this causes the red nucleus to still be able to fire on its own. And so you can still flex. And so what happens is these patients, sometimes they have almost excessive flexion. And we call this posturing when a patient's like this, it's called de-corticate posturing. And so sometimes that can be seen when you have a good enough compression above that red nucleus or damage above the red nucleus. So we say the first thing is they may start off with what's called de-corticate posturing. Then as compression gets worse and you start mashing on the brainstem, especially the midbrain, you may start damaging structures either at or below the red nucleus. As that happens, do you lose the ability to have, you lose the ability of flexion then. And so flexion is lost and you get unopposed extension. Then the patient starts doing this. And this is called de-cerebrate posturing. So that's the next thing that can start to develop as the pressure continues to rise and compress further on the brainstem like an accordion. So de-cerebrate. The next thing that I want you guys to remember, as as we compress on the brainstem, you have different reflexes. And as we compress further and further and further like an accordion, you lose these reflexes respectively. So if I compress on this one, and this is going to be going to my pupil. So this is the third nerve. This is for the pupil reflex. Then I have the trigeminal nerve, which controls the corneal reflex. And then I have the eighth nerve, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, the tenth nerve, the vagus nerve, which controls your cough reflex. And even the gag. What will happen is you may start to lose the pupil reflex first. All right, so this may be potentially the first one to go. And this will be the second one to go. And this may be the final one to go. So it may kind of go in this order as the progression gets worse. This may be the first one, and the second one, and the third reflex to go. All right, that's what I want you guys to be able to remember. So if a patient comes in with central transcentral herniation, what I want you to remember is they may come in first with small pinpoint pupils. As it gets worse, they get mid position and fixed. They may start off with de-corticate. They then progress to de-cerebrate. They may start off with potentially having a loss of the pupil reflex, but then you lose corneal and then potentially you can lose cough and gag. And then lastly, remember, sometimes if you get imaging, you can see that they can have these hemorrhages on their ponds due to complete shearing of those basilar perforators. The last type of herniation is tonsillar herniation. Tonsillar herniation is whenever you have a tumor that's usually pretty decent size here in the cerebellum. And enough that the local mass effect from that tumor is squeezing on the cerebellar tonsils, enough that when the cerebellar tonsils have to go somewhere, they go through the foramen magnum. And when they go through the foramen magnum, guess what's the structure right here that they start mashing on? They start mashing on the medulla and the upper parts of the cervical spinal cord. So in this scenario for trans—so tonsillar herniation is the cerebellar tonsils move through the foramen magnum. And then they compress the medulla. Now as you do that, it's important to remember what's going to happen with them. The medulla has so much control, especially cardiopulmonary control, I told you guys. And so what we think about with this one is as you lose cardiopulmonary control, you can start developing features of near death. So let's say first off, I cause damage and destruction to the respiratory centers. This is supposed to control nerves like your intercostal nerve, your phrenic nerves, all these nerves that go to control breathing. I'm going to lose this. This is actually going to end up getting destroyed. And then what happens is the patient can have apnea breathing. So they stop breathing at all. That's one characteristic feature that we get a little bit worried about with herniation. The next thing is I lose the control or the information that goes to my heart. And this can start getting injured and destroyed. If this gets destroyed, I lose signals to the heart. This may start off, as we talked about, with a low heart rate that can then progress. Sometimes I've seen it and a cardiac arrest. You may see hypertension that then eventually they lose all ability to regulate their blood pressure that can progress to hypotension and again, cardiac arrest. So sometimes this is how these patients unfortunately will present as they may come in with bradycardia and go into cardiac arrest. They may come in with crazy high blood pressure and then all of a sudden their blood pressure tanks. The other thing you want to watch out is motor changes. And you never have enough compression of the medulla, I guess, what runs through here, your corticospinal tracts. And you can actually damage these enough that you, especially if there's the decavation point that you're compressing on, you can lose, I'm not even kidding, you can end up with flaccid paralysis. And then lastly, I think the same thing goes for this, is that when you notice with brain sim reflexes, again, it's the same concept. You're going to be causing damage to these. Usually the one, if you have it near the medulla, it's going to be that loss of the cough and gag reflex. So that's what you're going to potentially notice is that these patients will have a loss of their cough, reflex or their gag reflex. But other potential things that could start arising is they may start having other features that start to arise. It could be completely indirect or unrelated, but they may start losing things like their corneal reflex and losing things like their pupil reflex. But again, it's usually going to be the cough reflex that we worry about first, because again, it's very, very close proximity to where this herniation is occurring on the medulla. These may occur due to other potential pressure changes and shifts within the brainstem. But my friends, this is going to cover the herniation. There's many other features that can occur. Let's now talk about some other things that can happen as a result of a brain tumor. All right, so next thing is if a tumor is actually pretty, unfortunately very, very close near the cortex, it can really, really agitate the cortical neurons. So you have to have a cortical mass. This is very, very, very important. So essentially, the only way that you can truly get seizures is with a supratentorial tumor, except that supratentorial tumor has to be very, very close or pretty much at the cortex. That's where a lot of the actual control of what really initiates seizures is going to occur. So if I have a cortical mass, this creates a focus for potential things like I can have a firing here. And if this is like in the motor cortex on the left side, then the patient may have some tonic-clonic jerking of their right side. So they can develop something like focal seizures. So that could be one potential thing, is you want to watch out for like focal seizures. But the thing that we get really, really concerned about is if that focal seizure starts off with them twitching their opposite arm, and all of a sudden they go into full tonic-clonic seizures as a grand-mall seizure, a generalized seizure. So it may start off just this focal firing, but then what happens is that continues to spread. And then you get loss of awareness. You get multiple other territories that start unfortunately firing. And then you can get what's called a generalized seizure. So here's what I want you to remember. And this is really important. When a patient comes in and they're presenting with headaches as a potential feature, and that's that classic feature of the headaches with nausea, vomiting, papillodema, those are usually key things to think, patient has a high ICP. The worrisome features is do they start exhibiting signs of herniation, contralateral hemiparesis, only you think about subfalsine. Contralateral hemiparesis with the dilated pupil that's down and out, and contralateral hematomastomy and opiate, uncoherniation. They start off with potentially small pinpoint pupils become mid position. They start de-corticate, go de-cerebrate, they lose their reflexes progressively. You think about central transcentorial. They start off with cardiopulmonary changes. That's your thinking about the medullary one as well, the tonsular herniation. But sometimes with this, they may come in with a new onset seizure. So the biggest presentation that we see in patients who have brain tumors is a new onset seizure. This is the first seizure they've ever had. Any time that happens, it is always a structural brain lesion until proven otherwise. So it's a brain lesion until proven otherwise. Because it's like, let's say that the patient had a history of a seizure, right? Maybe they're not taking their medications or maybe they use drugs or something like that. There could be a lot of different reasons of the patient has a seizure. But if it's a new onset seizure, no true provoking factors, you always going to think it's a brain lesion. You got to get imaging and you might find a tumor. That's something to think about. Now the next thing is obstructive hydrocephalus. I already talked about this a little bit with brain tumors when we talk about increased intracranial pressure. When a patient has obstructive hydrocephalus, usually it can happen. You can have, for example, if I have a tumor right here that's deep seated and it's big enough, it can mash here. It may squeeze on like the third ventricle. But most of the time where you see most severe obstructive hydrocephalus, oftentimes and not, it's going to be infratentorial. And the reason why is this is because most of the CSF is going to start passing through here and then out into the subarachnoid space or down the central canal. But this is where you're going to see a lot of it. And so any kind of infratentorial tumor, medula blastomas, pylosidic asterisytomas, things like that, they're pretty big and they mash right here onto that fourth ventricular cerebral aegoduct. If you compress this area, what's going to happen? This is going to start backing up all that CSF. If that CSF backs up, what's going to happen to these ventricles? They were once this size, now these things are going to start ballooning up. And then this is going to cause the ventricles to become gargantuous. That's when we start getting worried about obstructive hydrocephalus. Now obstructive hydrocephalus, because we're impeding CSF flow, how would this potentially clinically present? Clinical presentation of this is almost often always going to be with features of increase in jocranial pressure. So it's going to be your findings of increased ICP, which is everything that we really spent a lot of time talking about. And I know you probably hate me after doing all of that. But I think now you'll know if ICP is high, they can present with headache, nausea, vomiting, papillodema, decreased level of consciousness, diplopia, they can present with herniation syndrome, tons of stuff. But here's the big thing. Remember I told you that the most common way that you'll see obstructive hydrocephalus is because of an infertitorial compressing here? Who often gets infertitorial tumors, pediatric patients? Sometimes if you have a very, very, very young child, very young, and their skull hasn't completely formed yet, their fontanelles are still present. You know what's the problem with that? They can move. And so sometimes in pediatric patients, this is really important to remember, pediatric tumors, this can lead to something called macrosephaly and bulging fontanelles. So this can cause their, literally their skull does actually expand a little bit and it causes something called macrocephaly. And you can even get these things called bulging fontanelles. And it looks actually a little bit like this. All right, so now from here, when a patient has obstructive hydrocephalus, it's a tumor that's compressing on this area and obstructing cerebral spinal fluid flow. If it happens, their ICP can go up. If their ICP goes up, they can present with all the symptoms that we talked about. So if it's in a pediatric patient, this is the one that you want to remember, the enlargement of the skull and potentially the bulging of those fontanelles because they do have some give to them. They aren't a fibrous joint just yet. All right, let's move on to this one over here. Vasogenic edema, this should sound familiar. Yeah. So if a patient has a brain tumor, what happens is they can get swelling and fluid that can really extend around this. And sometimes like GBMs, GBMs can have scary amounts of like vasogenic edema. And this can really occur around the tumor. What really happens is this tumor can secrete a bunch of different inflammatory chemicals. So it can secrete a bunch of different inflammatory cytokines. And when it does this, what these inflammatory cytokines do, here's the tumor, it releases that, there's vessels around this area. So there's always vessels here. These inflammatory cytokines, there's normally, there's these little blue things here. You see what these are? These are called tight junctions. They're supposed to be there. So they're supposed to be tight junctions. These inflammatory chemicals, what they do is they rip apart the tight junctions. So now this guy's going to come in here and let's say that I'm going to target this one right here. I'm going to destroy this tight junction now. As I destroy the tight junction, what do I do to the permeability here now? I open it up. If I open up this area, guess what's going to happen now? I'm going to allow, so let's actually bring this here up back here a little bit. So what happens is this guy's going to target the tight junctions. When he targets the tight junctions, he's going to cause damage to the tight junctions. They're going to open up. Now this is going to be super permeable and fluid is going to start leaking out of the blood brain barrier. This is naturally your blood brain barrier here. And so what's going to happen is you cause destruction of the blood brain barrier and now fluid is going to start leaking out across these capillaries into the peritumoral tissue. So basically what happens with this is there is what we would say as, let's write it as destruction of the blood brain barrier, if you will. There is destruction of the blood brain barrier because you rip apart the tight junctions, now fluid can leak out and guess what you end up getting? You end up getting peritumoral edema. So peritumor edema. This just means that around the tumor, you're getting a lot of swelling. That's vasogenic edema. Now if I have more brain and it's associated like fluid around it, what is that going to do to the actual modern rachealodotrin? I'm increasing my brain tissue and the surrounding tissue around it. So what's that going to do? It's going to increase my intracranial pressure. So oftentimes this will precipitate with classic findings of increased intracranial pressure. Which again, do I need to remind you? Ah, why not, right? Headaches, nausea, vomiting, papilla, edema, dyplopia, right? And again, with this being said, if it's worse, worse, worse enough ICP, it gets too high it can start causing herniation features. Alright, that's vasogenic edema. So so far we've hit the really big stuff here, which is patients coming in with very high intracranial pressures on ICP crisis is the thing we get scared about. You can start off generalized and mild. What we get concerned about is herniation. They can come in with a seizure. They can come in with obstructive hydrocephalus. They can come in with vasogenic edema. What's another way that they may present with? Alright, so if you also have a tumor that's actually located again a little bit more within the pituitary region, obviously in that cellotersica, you get like a pituitary adenoma. Pituitary adenomas are kind of problematic. And the reason why is, yeah, not only can they cause things like potentially headaches, they also can cause things like endocrine dysfunction. And usually the endocrine dysfunction is the form of prolactinomus. I told you prolactinomas are the most common type of really a pituitary microadenoma. So usually it has to be a pituitary microadenoma. But right now I'm just going to say we're going to call this a pituitary adenoma. Now one of the big things about pituitary adenomas, and we again, we talked a lot about this in pituitary disorders and our endocrine playlist, so make sure you guys watch that for more info. But these things are pumping out a very specific type of hormone. What is that hormone that we're worried about? Well it's pumping out prolactin, usually levels that are greater than 200. And as that prolactin levels really, really go up, what does prolactin do? Well normally it's supposed to help with breast tissue particularly. It's helping with milk production. That's one of the biggest things. But unfortunately if that level is a little bit too high, it's higher than it should be, one of the things that can happen is that this can cause breast tissue enlargement. So one of the things that it actually can do is it can lead to gynecomastia. So the patient can get gynecomastia and unfortunately it can cause inappropriate milk production. So two things can actually arise here. It can cause gynecomastia and also it can cause inappropriate, unfortunately milk production. So we call this galactoria. And then the next thing here is it also can act on the, what? Particularly the uterus. And it can change the estrogen production levels. And so they can actually have very funky menstrual cycles. So menstrual irregularities is another really important feature that you want to watch out for. So watch out for menstrual irregularities. Alright, so when a patient comes in and they present with a headache and on top of that they also are presenting with these weird endocrine features like gynecomastia, galactoria, menstrual irregularities, definitely be thinking could this potentially be a pituitary adenoma. Now the other thing here is central diabetes and syphidis. So this is something that you always want to think about potentially. If a patient is coming in, they have polyuria, polydipsy, hypernatremia, maybe some dehydration, you should definitely consider could this be a central diabetes and syphidis. And one of the big types of tumors that is associated with this one is cranioforengiomas. So if a patient has that tumor, let's say that they have that tumor and it's kind of like usually around here and it's kind of around the posterior pituitary, it's compressing on the stalk here, so the stalk here between the hypothalamus and the pituitary. When that happens, you lose the ability now to do what? If you're compressing on the pituitary stalk, you lose that crosstalk between the hypothalamus and the posterior pituitary. Now this is an area that's supposed to be making hormone called ADH. But because there's compression here, you lose that crosstalk here and you lose the ability to produce ADH. If you make less ADH, ADH is supposed to go to the kidneys and act on these receptors here. What's this receptor here called? It's called the V2 receptor. It's supposed to act on the V2 receptor, send signals to cause aquaporns to be expressed. But if aquaporns are not expressed, do you reabsorb water? Well again, less ADH. Is it going to act on this receptor? No, this interaction will occur. And so this signal to that aquaporn will be gone. If I lose that, then I can't reabsorb water. And so where does the water end up going? The water ends up being lost into the urine. And so what ends up happening is I get less water being reabsorbed and I get more water ending up in the urine. When I get tons of water in the urine and less water into my bloodstream, what can happen? More water causes the dilute urine. But it also is going to potentially cause you to potentially lose so much volume that you can become dehydrated. So it can potentially cause dehydration. So that's one of the things that we get really, really concerned with. One of the things that prevents this in these patients, thankfully, is that not only are they losing lots of urine polyuria, they get super thirsty to try to bring back that water. So they have polydipsia. The other thing is when the water in the blood gets really kind of like lower, potentially what this can do is it can ride that serum sodium up. And so that's one thing that we worry about is potentially a hypernatremia. So one of the big clinical presentations to think about this is if a patient comes in with polyuria, polydipsia, and potentially due to the effects of polyuria, this is where we get concerned. Could they come in with complications like hypernatremia and dehydration? Now, the reason this would happen is that the patient is peeing a lot, so much that they're losing so much water in their actual urine and they're not getting into the bloodstream. That can cause hypernatremia, right? But they have to drink enough water. So if there's heavy polyuria with not enough drinking of water, this will cause hypernatremia and it will cause dehydration. That's why that can actually happen. But again, this is highly and heavily associated with which type of tumor? This is associated with craniofaryngeomas. All right, so that would cover that one. So a lot of these tumors that we've talked about, they really can increase your intracranial pressure. They can cause seizures. They can potentially cause obstructive hydrocephalous, vasogenic edema. But the ones that are a little bit more unique is the pituitary adenoma and the craniofaryngeoma. Those can cause hyperprolactanemia. Those can potentially cause central the eye and guess what else they can do? They can cause the next thing, bite temporal hemianopia. All right, so next is bite temporal hemianopia. Now, again, we can see this with tumors that are usually kind of going to be within that cell ataristic region. And then what it's going to do is it's going to be big enough that it compresses on this structure right here. What's that? So this is going to be a tumor that compression. So it's usually due to compression of optic chiasma. If I have compression of the optic chiasma, again, there's going to be two particular tumors that are within that region that I need you guys to think about. What are they? Pituitary adenoma. Usually it's a big one. Pituitary microadenomas, they don't cause as much mass effect. Pituitary macroadenomas, which don't usually carry that hyperprolactanemia type effect. Those are big enough that they can actually smash on that optic chiasma. So again, you're going to see this with types. This is going to be the pituitary adenoma. Again, if we're being really, really specific, what you're talking about in the pituitary disorders, it's a macro. And the other one would be a craniofringiomas, little pop quiz. What was that derived from again? The remnants of Rathke's pouch. Yes. All right. So these are the two tumors that we get worried about. Now, when they compress in the optic chiasma, what's the problem with that? Let's think again. I know that this was really annoying because we talked about it over there with the uncle herniation. I'm sorry. We talked about this a little bit with uncle herniation, particularly the compression of the posterior cerebral artery. Now in this one, it's a little bit different. So we're going to follow through again. It'd be a good kind of test. Here we have the medial fibers. They carry this information and they cross. They go to the lateral geniculate nucleus. From here, they send optic radiations to the primary visual cortex. Same thing here. This is when I carry this information here. Latter geniculate nucleus. And then where does it go? It goes to the optic radiations. If we were to just be thorough though, and we add this little part on here, where we have these parts of the retina, which is picking up from the nasal field, these are going to come here and they're going to stay on the same side. Go to the lateral geniculate nucleus, optic radiations. Same thing here. Stay on the same side. Lateral fibers here, lateral geniculate nucleus, optic radiations. Where is the damage occurring? The damage is actually occurring right here. Right in this portion is getting damaged. This is the medial fibers. The medial fibers pick up visual information from which parts? So again, they pick up visual information from over here. So again, if we have the eye here, and we just kind of squeeze an eye right here, what is it picking it up from? It's going to be picking it up from out here. So this area is going to be the one that we get worried about, this potential visual field. And then again, for this portion, it's going to be picking it up what? Over here, this one. So these are the ones that we're going to be losing. Now, if you think about that, this is your temporal visual fields. Your temporal visual fields are going to be lost. What is that called? Bitemporal hemianopia. All right. Now, with Bitemporal Hemianopia, how will the patient usually present? They'll present with peripheral visual field cuts. All that means is if I take my fingers and I have the patient look at me, and I kind of come out here on the periphery, and I say, hey, how many fingers do you see me pointing up? They wouldn't be able to tell me that number, because they're losing that peripheral visual field. For the comparison of uncle herniation causing contralateral hamonomous hemianopia, they would lose this visual field. So if I had them, if I were to try to basically cover their eye, and I said, hey, can you see how many fingers I'm pointing up on this side? They wouldn't be able to do it, because this visual field is being affected, that medial visual field. And then if I asked them, how many fingers am I pointing up on this side? Over here, they would lose that peripheral. So they lose their medial, and they lose their peripheral. That's why we call it contralateral hamonomous hemianopia. All right, so again, it's on the opposite of the particular visual field, but it's on that same side, which is in this case, we're going to say they're both on the right side. All right, in this case, you're losing both temporal fields. So we got that now. I think we got this. Bithemporal hemianopia, pituitary adenoma, craniofringiomas. The last one that I want to discuss is called perinaut syndrome. Perinaut syndrome is almost exclusively seen in a specific type of brain tumor, called a pinealoma. So we see this in what's called pinealomas. So again, we're going to have this tumor here, which is kind of moving downwards through the tendorial notch and compressing on that dorsal midbrain. As it mashes and damages the dorsal midbrain, you get some potential features. Let's take a look here at the midbrain. So here's a cross-section of the midbrain. We have portions of the midbrain, like you have what's called the tectum, and you have the tegmentum, and then you have the peduncles, which is the cerebral peduncles. Within that portion of the tectum is the superior nympherecliculi. The tegmentum is where we have things like your pre-tectal nucleus and your cranial nerve-3 nuclei. What happens is that you're going to damage a couple of different structures in this scenario. The first ones that get damaged are these guys in pink. These are going to get damaged, and these are called your visual gaze centers. So you're going to have damage to the visual gaze center. The next thing is you're going to damage the pre-tectal nucleus. So the pre-tectal nucleus is another one that gets damaged, so damage to the pre-tectal nuclei. And again, I'll explain what all of these kind of do relatively to the disease process in a second, but these are going to get jacked up. And then you're going to have cranial nerve-3 nuclei, which is going to kind of be both of these, which again, you have the somatic fibers in black, and then your parasympathetic fibers with the eddinger Westfall nucleus here in green. These are going to get damaged. All right? So this is going to be your cranial nerve-3 nuclei, which includes the somatic fibers as well as what other fibers? The eddinger Westfall nucleus fibers. So let's think about what would happen here. Three potential presentations are going to occur. The first one is these patients have what's called pupil-light-near disassociation, another term just to be-  arigatis, argal-robercin-pupil. What happens is, is you have damage, son of a gun, to the pre-tectal nucleus. You're jacking up the pre-tectal nucleus. The pre-tectal nucleus is supposed to, and very simply, receive information. So let's say here it's getting information from your pupil pathway, the light reflex pathway, right? It'll go to the pre-tectal nucleus and that'll communicate to your, adding your Westfall nucleus which causes your pupils to constrict. That's the pupil reflex. Light will come in, you hit the eye with light, send signals down, goes to the pre-tectal nucleus, communicates that to both of your, adding your Westfall nucleus, goes to your pupils, your pupils constrict, and you have a direct and then a consensual response. All right? The thing that we have to remember is, that's being damaged. And so whenever you do the light reflex, there will be no pupil constriction and response to light. So you'll do light exposure and there will be no pupil response. In other words, they will not constrict. So you'll expose them to light and when you do the light, there'll be no pupil response. They will not constrict. But then what you do is, you say, okay, look at my, so you shine the light in their eyes and when you do it, you're not going to get that actual constriction response. But then you say, okay, look at my finger. And when you look at your finger and you have, you kind of come in, their eyes should be able to constrict, but also they can accommodate. So they'll have the near response. And so they will be able to constrict with their accommodation or their near response. And so when you test accommodation or their near response, they will have that type of response. All right? That's really important. The reason behind this is that you have damage of the pre-tectal nucleus, which goes to the adiagra Westfall nucleus. The accommodation or the near response is from coming from cortical pathways and they're able to bypass the dorsal portion of the midbrain and they go straight to the adiagra Westfall nucleus. And so you still have an intact near response. So you're going to have a normal near response. So a normal near response, but whenever you shine light into their eyes, they will not have pupil area constriction. Funny enough, you can also see the symptoms of tertiary syphilis. I always thought of syphilis in there sometimes. All right. The next thing is they can have what's called convergence retraction nystagmus. Convergence and traction nystagmus is again, you have cortical fibers, cortical bull bar fibers that come down in the third nerve nucleus. What happens is this is all getting kind of compressed. And this is supposed to be inhibitory fibers. So the cortical fibers are inhibitory fibers. They're supposed to inhibit the third nerve from sending signals to the muscles all the time, but now you lost the inhibitory fibers. So what's going to happen? You actually gain a loss of inhibition. So then this, this puppy's like, all right, I'm going rogue. And it becomes super stimulated. When it becomes simulated, it sends lots of these signals to two different muscles that we really want to think about. One is it highly stimulates the superectis and heavily stimulates the inferior rectus. We're going to stimulate the superectus, the inferior rectus, and we're also going to stimulate the medial, medial rectus. Now watch what happens, which is kind of like, it's kind of cool when you think about how this works. When you contract on the superectis and inferior rectus, what's it going to do? It's going to really pull the eyeball in because you're not going to have that, they're going to have, these both, these muscles are going to be opposing each other. So you won't be able to go up or down. It's literally going to jack the eyeballs back into the socket. And then the medial rectus are both going to contract. What's going to happen? That adducts. So you get this convergence of the eyes and I'm not even kidding, the eyeballs get sucked into the globes, like the globes get sucked back into the socket. So it's called a convergence retraction nystagmus. And then lastly, you have destruction of the vertical gaze centers. The vertical gaze centers are supposed to communicate between the fourth nerve, so they're supposed to be the fourth nerve or cranial nerve four, which is the trochlear nerve and cranial nerve three. Both of these are supposed to be communicating with one another, controlling your vertical gaze. But this vertical gaze center is jacked up. So you don't see signals as well appropriately to the fourth nerve and to the third nerve. And so what happens is your ability to lift the eye upwards is impaired. And so because of that, the eyes actually, they have a limited upward gaze and actually they can sometimes in worst case scenarios, they can sit down. We call it sun setting eyes. So one of the things that we get worried about is that if we ask them to look upwards, they can't. And then on top of that, not only can they not look up, sometimes the eyes sit downwards and it can cause something called a sun setting eyes. So sun setting eyes that we get kind of worried about. That was a lot for brain tumors. At this point, we've covered the path, though, we've gone over the causes. We've talked about how these patients could classically present. We talked about findings of increased intracranial pressure. We talked about how they could present with seizures, obstructive hydrocephalus, vasogenic edema, endocrine dysfunctions like in hyperprolactamemia, central DI. We talked about how they could come in with loss of visual fields from both temporal visual fields or peripheral visual fields. And we talked about they can come in with limited ability to put their eyes up, how their eyes can bead inwards and get sucked back in. And on top of that, sometimes they can't even have a pupil response to life, but they will upon an accommodation reflex. So now the question is, how in the heck am I supposed to determine if a patient has a brain tumor? Let's put all of these things together and go through our algorithm. All right, my friends, let's dig into this. We're going to talk about the diagnostic approach. So we spent a lot of time talking about the different types of brain tumors, primary versus secondary, really talking about them and dividing them into supertentorial, infratentorial. We talked a lot about the classic clinical findings that we can see with these diseases, oftentimes depending upon the location of where the tumor is, determines the focal neurological deficit, the associated headaches, nausea, vomiting. Obviously, those are a lot of things that we talked about. Plus, we really, really dove into the complications that could be potentially possible, especially with that of vasogenic edema, obstructive hydrocephalus, potentially seizures if it's a cortical lesion. And there's a lot of things that we discussed. So what I want to do is I want to take the time to say, let's put this together in a way that hopefully is systematic. It's organized and it helps you to be able to think about these clinically. So when you're on the wards and you have to evaluate a patient, or if you're presented with a clinical vignette, you know how to stepwise go through this process. Let's dig into it. First thing is, when a patient presents with classic findings or complications of brain tumors, you should start thinking about just in general a structural lesion of sort. So if they come in and they present with a headache that's usually worse in the morning, if they have associated nausea, if they have vomiting, if they have focal neurological deficits, a first onset seizure, new onset seizure, never had a seizure before, think structural brain lesion. I think the other thing that's really important is if you do happen to pull up that ophthalmoscope and you take a look and you're like, oh, look at the fundus. I know that's not always easy, but looking for evidence of papillodema is also crucial as well. So I think those are really important complications. Oftentimes these patients will present very, very sick. If you have a brain tumor that's large enough, it could cause herniation symptoms. And so watching for a fixed and dilated pupil, watching for a declining level of consciousness, watching for worsening hemi-pareeces or loss of sensations, breathing, cardiovascular changes, these are all really, really crucial to consider. So when we think about this, whenever a patient presents with a new onset seizure, focal neural deficits, a really bad headache that's worse or it's becoming associated with the morning headache, the nausea, the vomiting, any signs of herniation, you get a non-contrast head CT. The reason why we go with a non-contrast head CT first is you're trying to suss out other differentials. And what I mean by that is if I have someone coming in with a new onset seizure, if I have someone coming in with a headache, if I have them coming in with focal neural deficits, I don't know if it's a stroke, I don't know if it's a bleed, I don't know if it's a tumor, I don't know if it's something else. And so it's really, really crucial to take a look at that. Now let's say that we do that and we end up finding, hey, there is a brain mass. It's always important to categorize that as is it supertentorial or infratentorial. So one of the most common masses that we see in adults, unfortunately, is a glioblastoma multiforme. And this is a really, really nasty type of mass. Usually what happens is when we look at this one, you can see that it spans across the corpus callosum. And so it crosses midline. When you take a look at this one, it's not easy to see it crossing that midline as much, but you can see here there's definitely what looks like some kind of changes in color, some hyperdensity, and you see a lot of this darkness here. This is probably the tumor and all of this around this is probably surrounding vasogenic edema. If we look at the MRI though, we're just to say, hey, let's get an MRI to get a better look, a definitive look, and get an idea of what's going on here, you can definitely see how this crosses midline, right? Lots of central necrosis, lots of this kind of hyperintensity around the tumor. This is definitely classic. You see a tumor crossing midline, you definitely want to think about a GBM, all right? Now another one is extremely common. It's probably one of the most common benign supertentorial tumors is meningiomas. And so this is usually extra axial. It's not usually intraparynchymal, and it's because it's a part of the meningiogrowth. Usually these can occur perisagely, parafalsine. So this one is an example here that you can kind of see. This is a really solid, very hyperdense mass that's near the kind of like falx. That's a pretty common one. So if I took a look at an MRI, you can really appreciate how this is causing massive compression of the brain tissue and leading to some, like just minor midline shift here, probably causing some degree of compression. Another one is an oligodendroglioma. These are relatively rare. I wouldn't be first to think about these, but if you do see these, they can occur bifrontally. And they also are just generally a pretty common frontal lobe mass. So this would be something that you may see. If you take a look here, you can also appreciate it here. All right. The next one is a craniopharyngeoma. These don't oftentimes present like super easily. One of the ways that they can present that we talked about is they can't present with central diabetes and sypidus. Craniopharyngeomas are kind of one of those where they are possible for them to cause optic chiasma compression. I'd say that's more likely with a pituitary tumor, but craniopharyngeomas definitely can do such thing as well. With this one, you're definitely looking at the supercellar area. And so you can appreciate here, look at this. So here's our pituitary gland, and it's going to be right here, supercellar. So it's just above the cell atersica. We can appreciate a pretty good mass right there. And if we look to the next one, a pituitary adenoma, this one's definitely sitting within the cell atersica of the sphenoid bone, and we can appreciate that all right here. This is a pretty nasty pituitary adenoma. It's a pretty decent size one. And one of the things you can actually see here is the sheer volume and size of this thing. It's definitely easy for this to cause some significant compression of the optic chiasma. That's where you get that bitemporal hemianopia that's associated with this one as well. So we can really appreciate supertentorial tumors. These are the big ones that I want you guys to be thinking about. When we talk about the next one, we're talking about infertentorials. So infertentorials below the centurium cerebelli, it's that kind of like dural septa that really separates the upper part of the brain, supertentorium, from the infertentorium. And so we'll kind of talk about these. One of the big ones that's really important to remember is pylocytic astrocytomas. So this is kind of like a type one glialblastoma. And so you can see here that this is a cerebellar mass. And so when we look at these, these are usually in like a lobe of the cerebellum. And they're pretty like cystic appearing. So you can see here in pretty nasty looking pylocytic astrocytoma. Another one that they can occur is along the optic nerve. So I would remember that one as well. So these are pretty nasty ones and they definitely can cause some mass effects. So you could see some changes like ataxia, some vertigo, some changes in their overall coordination would be pretty common. And if it's pretty decent, it can compress on the fourth ventricle, you face that and need to obstruct the hydrocephalus. Here you can definitely appreciate with the MRI how cystic appearing this thing is. And again, don't forget that these can occur along the optic nerves. You can get optic nerve gliomas. A medula blastoma is a really, really high yield one. This one usually occurs along the cerebellar vermis. And because of that, it is very, very likely to cause mass effect on the fourth ventricle. You can see just by looking at this thing, you see how this is really a large mass and it's compressing and it facing the fourth ventricle. That cerebrospinal fluid can't move and gets what happens. The third ventricle gets ballooned up and then here's your lateral ventricles and the temporal horns of the lateral ventricles. These things are huge. So obstructive hydrocephalus is very, very common with this type of tumor. And again, you can appreciate it here with the hyperintensity that we see here, especially on the T2 imaging. This is really causing a lot of obstructive hydro. All right. So epidemomas, these are not very common, but when we think about these, these are kind of derived from the epidemal cells. So they're going to really occur in the fourth ventricle and they can kind of extrude out a little bit, but they're mainly going to be a fourth ventricular mass. And so these will definitely cause obstructive hydrocephalus. You can already see the temporal horns. They're pretty decent sized. You shouldn't be able to see them this big. And so you can see here this mass, it's kind of encroaching. It's definitely in the fourth ventricle, but you can see it's kind of encroaching into the cerebellum, causing a decent amount of mass effect. MRI, you can definitely appreciate how well defined this is inside of the fourth ventricle, really occupying that. This is a pretty nasty one. Hemangioblastomas are not something I want you to spend a lot of time about, but I want you to think about these, especially associated with the exams with von Hippel-Lindau disease. So von Hippel-Lindau, this is a mutation that occurs in the von Hippel-Lindau gene, just on chromosome number three. And this is usually associated with hemangioblastomas, which are going to occur in the cerebellum, can occur in the retina, but it's also commonly associated with renal cell carcinoma and even pheochromosyton, which is the tumor of the adrenal matula. So definitely something to think about with this one. So cerebellum mass is going to be what you'll have, and it's very vascular, highly, highly vascular type of mass that you would see here in the cerebellum. But you definitely want to think about this in patients who have also associated retinal hemangioblastomas, maybe a pheochromosytonoma, and on top of that, maybe even a renal cell carcinoma. So that's something I would think about for this one as compared to the other ones. It's not going to be super high yield, but in a classic clinical vignette in someone who's presenting with renal cell carcinoma, retinal hemangioblastomas, pheochromosytonoma, then I would definitely be thinking about this one, especially associated with von Hippel-Lindau. All right. Here we can definitely appreciate the size and sheer kind of like description of the tissue surroundings within hemangioblastoma. A vestibular schwannoma, I would say, is really important. Remember, we'll talk about this a little bit more in EENT, because it has an effect on balance and also on hearing, particularly tinnitus. You might get some vertigo associated with this. And so, and even some deafness too, some sensory neural deafness. So it's really crucial to think about this one. So what I really want you to think about with these ones is they occur on the cerebellopontine angle. And one of the key things that we talked about is that when it's associated with a genetic condition called neurofibromatosis type 2, it's usually bilateral. So you can appreciate here a decent sized here on the right, a nasty looking cerebellopontine angle mass, which is likely vestibular schwannoma. And you can appreciate a smaller one, but still kind of a hyper dense sign over here on that left side, around that petrus portion of the temporal bone. All right, here we can clearly see the differences and the hyper intensities here that are showing a lot of enhancement at that cerebellopontine angle. So this is a bilateral vestibular schwannoma. Definitely think about these when you see this, when you see bilateral, think neurofibromatosis type 2. All right. Now, pinealomas not common, but again, something I would think about, especially in a patient presenting with sun setting eyes, which we can see, we can also appreciate that they can have other signs of perinode syndrome. So perinode syndrome, they have that vertical gaze palsy, so the sun setting eyes, and they kind of have that weird contraction, retraction, nystagmus as well. And so these are something I would think about with the perinode syndrome as well. All right, you can appreciate here kind of the pineal gland kind of sticks backwards, because you should generally have, you know, when we think about these, you'll have a portion called the hypothalamus, and then you'll have the pituitary gland here, and then you should have in this vicinity the thalamus. And then over here is your pineal gland, and that's going to be where this tumor is really forming, and this is going to be kind of pushing dorsally, and that's where you get that dorsal kind of like compression of the midbrain, and that's where you see that perinode syndrome as we can kind of see written here. All right. So this is really kind of covering our infrecentorial masses, and I think this gives a really good picture, you know, literally, as to what these could look like. And I think oftentimes looking at them based upon an image like a CT or MRI, it doesn't diagnose the tumor, it just gives you based upon what you've gathered from their history, what you've gathered from their physical exam, what you've gathered from other potential labs and other findings, what it could possibly be. But the differential should remain the same, that when you think about a supercentorial mass, you go through the list, you think about a GBM, an angioma, an oligodendroglioma, a cranioforengioma, a pituitary adenoma, and you think about those. When you have an infrecentorial mass, you think about a pyrocytic astrocytoma, a medula blastoma, an appendinoma, you think about a schwannoma, you think about a hemangioblastoma and a pinealoma. Obviously, depending upon the locations, the look, the overall effect of that, that's going to give you some ideas based upon these images of what it's most likely like. But I think the other thing that's really beneficial of, again, the non-contrast head CTs is ruling out other complications. Look at this. You can appreciate when you get a pretty nasty mass, this is likely a GBM, because you can see it's really getting close to crossing that midline around that corpus callosum. But this is a tumor-price sitting right here, and you see all of this on T2, all of this hyperintensity spreading out, that's vasogenic edema. You can really, really appreciate that on the T2 image, but really more so on that T2 flare, because the T2 is going to fill up the ventricles as white, too. But this one, you don't see that. This T2 flare really shows you a lot of vasogenic edema. It's really going to cause a lot of problems with headaches, midline shift, which can lead to some symptoms of herniation. Here we can appreciate obstructive hydrocephalus to the maximum. We probably have an infertentorial tumor, as we can see. It's likely what would happen with these patients is it compresses and it faces the fourth ventricle, and everything above that gets filled up. You can see that third ventricle is huge. Look at these. These are like watermelons. They're lateral ventricles. They're huge. The hormones are really big. You can see here this ventricle is really, really large in this view. This is an appreciation of seeing how a mask can cause compression on that fourth ventricle if it faces it. Then unfortunately, we end up with a lot of backflow into the ventricles. Sometimes if you look closely on MRIs, you can even see some trans-dependable flow across the ventricles. That's a really, really important thing, but this is definitely classic for obstructive hydrocephalus. You can really appreciate all of these enlargements. Here's another appreciation. CT is really the best thing. It's the easiest thing. You can see here is a big tumor, and it's compressing, and it's causing all of this backflow. Look at the third ventricle. It's gargantuous. Look at the temporal horns. Lateral ventricles with the anterior horns. They're pretty big. This is definitely a sign of compression. What I wouldn't want to see, and I'd be scared to see something like this. This is a tumor that's got lots and lots of surrounding edema that's causing the uncus. You can see it here to push out over the centaurium. Unfortunately, that will cause compression in the midbrain. You can see that there is a lot of compression here. That's nasty. That's usually a sign of uncle herniation. That can lead to a fixed and dilated pupil. In this case, on the right side, they can even have some contralateral hemiparesis. If you get it really bad enough, you can actually smash it to the other side. You get what's called Kern-Hans-Knot syndrome, where you get ipsilateral paralysis as well. This is definitely something I would want to think about. We can also appreciate here that because of the surrounding edema, it can push some of the parts of the tissue on this side, the right side, underneath the fox. It can actually herniate underneath the fox's rib. We call that subfalsic herniation. That can actually cause compression of the arteries of the anterior cerebral artery. You can actually get, unfortunately, you can get compression of those. You can start losing. If you imagine, let's say that the tumor is here on the right side, they would compress this side. All the nerves go to this. You could potentially start developing some symptoms of hemiparesis. Unfortunately, that would be unfortunately, in this case, it would be on the same side. They can definitely develop some ipsilateral hemiparesis due to some subfalsic herniation. That would be pretty concerning, especially over the lower limbs. We can just see and appreciate that the midline shift is significant here whenever you have a lot of mass effect, like a big tumor, like a vasogenic edema, like a bleed. All of these things, according to the Monroe-Kelly doctrine, says that if you have more blood, more brain tissue, more CSF, it's going to cause, unfortunately, shifting in movement of that tissue because of the brain is in a fixed space, which is the skull. That's going to lead to pressure rising and unfortunately, herniation. This gives us a look at why non-contrast head CT is a really good go. I showed some MRIs in there to just help you to appreciate a little bit more about what it will show us for these masses. I think the most important thing is, although I did show you the brain MRIs in this, I want you to understand that it is the gold standard. The purpose of an MRI is that it really gives us a contrast. Particularly, whenever you have a patient who has, let's say, a CT scan, it looks like it could be a mass, you want to see if the mass enhances. You want to see if you get some enhancement. That usually is an indication of a lot of vascular supply to that area and some breakdown in the blood-brain barrier. That's really, really crucial. Another thing is that when we get MRIs, it's really helpful to see if the lesions are more like one lesion in one location or if it's scattered. It's all over the place, especially near the gray-white junction because those are more likely to suggest metastatic lesions. Again, if I see one lesion as we showed above and it really has some ring enhancement, that would more likely suggest a primary brain tumor. Again, if it's super-tentorial, then you go through the list at GBM. An oligodendroglioma, a meningioma, a pine... I'm sorry, a craniopharyngeoma or a pituitary adenoma. If it's an infrincentory, you go medjoblastoma. You go appendemoma. You go to a pylocyticastrocytoma. You go down the lines of a vestibular schwannoma or a pinealoma, et cetera. Once you have done that and you say, okay, I did the CT scan, showed me a mass, showed me maybe some complications, got the MRI, definitely showed some ring enhancement, showed the location of the tumor, gave a better look at it as we saw already, then I need to figure out which one is it. We got imaging diagnosis. I need tissue. That's where I would say getting a brain biopsy or doing a craniotomy with a resection would allow for us to first off help therapeutically by removing that tumor and some of the mass effect, but also it's going to be diagnostic. Here you can appreciate a stereotactic brain biopsy where we make a small little hole and we stick this needle downwards and take out some pieces of that tissue. You can also just fully do a craniotomy and resect a large portion of that tumor and send it off to the pathologist to figure out which type of tumor it is. That's really what you're going to be looking at, is you're going to be looking at that histopathology. This is going to fit more in the step one categories. You may see some questions on your step two, but not as likely. What I want you to take away from this is really that the histopathological diagnosis is going to be paramount to determining what type of tumor it is. GBMs, yes, you can make an assumption based upon the imaging for the most part, but histopathology would be the best way to go here because it's going to show you that pseudopalacidine necrosis as you can see right here. This is a pseudopalacidine necrosis and if we stained it for the GFAP, then that's definitely going to be able to show me a positive GFAP stain. If I said meningioma, this one usually shows these things called somoma bodies. You're going to see what looks like these swirls and whirls of tissue here. This is classic for an area of what's called a meningioma. Oligodendroglioma has the classic term, a fried egg appearance. If you check for what's called isocitrate dehydrogenase mutation, that'll come up and they could even have some co-deletions. You can see here, here's the white of the egg and here's the yolk of the egg. That's that fried egg appearance that we look for with an oligodendroglioma. Cranioforengiomas have these things called cholesterol crystals. If you can look here, this is a huge chunk here of where we would have these cholesterol crystals. This would definitely be more suggestive of a cranioforengioma. This is some basic histopathology that I would want you guys to be considering. When we think about infrasentorial masses and if we were to take biopsy, that area or resect that area, again, you're thinking about things with a pylosidic astrocytoma. Same thing to a GBM, they're more just like a stage one. They'll still have that GFAP staining. When we look at these, they have these really bright rosenthal fibers that really stick out here. The next thing is a meduloblastoma. Meduloblastomas are really, really nasty ones because they can have drop metastases. What we look for is the Homerite resets. You can see this similar to the pseudopalacidine necrosis, this central pink core with lots of cells surrounding it. This would be a Homerite rosette. A pendemoma is, again, going to be a pretty uncommon one in that fourth ventricle mass, but when you look at these, again, they have the pseudorosets. They're a very vascular one. You can appreciate it. Look here. Here's the vasculature. Here's the vasculature. You have these rosettes around it. That's a pseudovascular rosette there. Meduloblastomas are just super, super vascular. When you look at these, they're highly vascular lesions. You can see here all of these red blood cells, and you can see all of the tissue surrounding it. This is really going to be pretty common of a hemangioblastoma. The last one's a vestibular schwannoma. This one actually is kind of important when it comes to these. I think that, similar to the fried egg appearance that we see with the oligodendroglioma and the pseudopalacidine necrosis with the GBM, I think this is one that is worth remembering because of the antony A and antony B areas. You can appreciate here on this kind of like whiter or let's say kind of like the lighter pink colored side, there is a tissue difference. Then over here, there's this kind of like more purple appearance. The dense, hypercellular environment, which is this darker color, is called the antony A bodies. Then over here, this loose, hypercellular kind of lighter pink color is your antony B bodies. They can have some really, really important things to kind of distinguish this. That's really going to be common for vestibular schwannomas. All right. We've taken a pretty good look here at understanding that when we talk about masses, you see them with imaging based upon their symptom presentation. CT is kind of the first way. Get a better look with an MRI and then get a tissue diagnosis to determine what type of primary tumor we have. When you got a tumor that is not just one, but multiple all over the place and they enhance, I would be concerned again about a metastatic lesion. Could it be things like toxoplasmosis? Yes. Could you have one ring enhancing lesion? It could be primary CNS lymphoma? Yes. Could it be a brain abscess? Yes. There's a lot of different things, but when you see scattered and they have an underlying history of a primary cancer, lung, breast, I think those are really, really important to remember. Melanoma, renal cell carcinoma, papillary thyroid cancer, all of those things are very common for these tumors to spread. When they get into the brain, they occur everywhere. As an example, this is more characteristic of a metastatic brain cancer as compared to a primary brain cancer. I can look and point out multiple metastatic lesions that are enhancing. That's more suggestive and they really occur very commonly along that gray-white junction. That's going to be important. Now, when we think about if we find this, let's say that a patient came in and they had a nuanced, that seizure, you get a brain CT, you find some potential lesions, you get an MRI, you say, oh my gosh, there's scattered lesions all over the place. This is brain metastasis. Where did it come from? You have to go and find that. You probably have to pan scan them, get a CT chest, abdomen, pelvis. I think PET CTs are pretty good as well, especially if the chest, abdomen, pelvis doesn't come back with anything. PET CTs are pretty good, but either way, these are going to show something. For example, in this patient, we got a PET CT and we can see lots of different areas as we can appreciate here of enhancement. Once you've done that, we should probably biopsy that area. If you say that you find a lung mass somewhere, you find a breast mass somewhere, a colorectal, a renal mass somewhere, you should probably go and biopsy that area because it's probably a primary cancer that is metastasized. That's what I would do is I would definitely get a biopsy of that primary area to confirm and say, okay, this is definitely from this area. That is the likely source. That's not a primary cancer.  so that's a lot, and I know it's a lot, so what I want you to do is, okay, let's say now, we've gone through, we say, okay, patient who comes in, they got nuance, that seizure, they got focal nerve deficits, worsening, morning headaches with nausea, vomiting, maybe some papillodema, they got some weird presentations, I get a CT, I find that there's no other causes, but I see some weird mass-like structure, maybe some associated complications. What do I do now? Get a brain MRI, brain MRI is gonna show an enhancement, it's gonna show if it's a one lesion, and it's gonna make sure that it's actually in this particular location that may suggest maybe one primary cancer over another, but you may have to get a tissue diagnosis to confirm. If it's multiple scatter lesions along that gray-white junction, I can think that it's metastatic, look for the cancer somewhere else, pan scan them, get a PET CT, find that, and biopsy that area to say it's a primary cancer that's metastasized, all right? When we think about treating these though, it's obviously always treating the emergencies or the urgent kind of things first, so I think one of the big things is if a patient comes in and they're herniating, your first goal is not gonna be, hey, let's get an MRI, no, no, no, no, no, we should definitely figure out how we can prevent them from herniating and unfortunately succumbing to brain death, and so oftentimes in acute scenarios like this, I'd say it's not as common because they don't just rapidly expand as much, I'd say that's more common with a subarachnoid hemorrhage or a brain bleed or a stroke that has malignant cytotoxic cerebral edema, but it can happen. I've seen it a couple times with really large brain tumors with significant amounts of vasogenic edema. You'd wanna give them hypertonic saline or mannitol, that's really just a temporizing measure, it's only gonna help a little bit to kind of reduce some of the swelling, and it's not gonna be a great therapy, but it's gonna be the best that you can do to kind of reduce the ICP temporarily. Surgical resection would be kind of barren on the top thing because you don't wanna remove the structure that's causing a lot of this problem, and that's usually the problem with a brain tumor is that unless it's bleeding or it's causing a massive amount of obstructive hydrocephalus or vasogenic edema, the osmotherapy will only help for a very, very short period of time, you have to surgically resect these, put an EVD and get them on steroids really. So this is where I would do like a craniotomy and I would remove that tissue, that's gonna be the definitive therapy. All right, now external ventricular drain is great, like I said, if you have a tumor, the big things is obstructive hydrocephalus and vasogenic edema. Osmotherapy, like mannitol, hypertonic saline, those are really, really quick things, but you need to get to the surgeon and say, hey, we need to remove this or we need to put a drain in. And the point of the drain is because if you have a tumor that's really compressing the ventricles and building up CSF, it can't flow, you're building up CSF in the skull, and it's gonna cause the ICP to go up. So I'd pop in an EVD. That'd be the first and quickest way is where you would access this. This is usually a bedside procedure, they pop it in around the terion and they try to get that into the area of that third ventricle. And then you're gonna kind of pull off that fluid. Usually if you look here, this is a very common one when you work in a neurological ICU, they like to zero this off of the tragus, which is that's what it's representing, but it's gonna help to allow for the increase in pressure inside of the ventricles to have an alternative source, to divert it somewhere else. If it's not moving down because there's some kind of mass compressing here, you wanna provide an alternative source and that's where it's gonna drain into this bag. And so that's the whole point of that is to really drain off any of this excess fluid so that the pressure, because the CSF as it starts to reduce, the pressure starts to go down. This would only be, again, another temporary thing. It would be temporary to do before I can get them to the surgery and get that actual tumor out. Cortico steroids are great. I think initially upfront, if a patient's in an ICP crisis, it's not gonna be the best thing, but it's something that will help at least to reduce some of the vasogenic edema. Because what it does, it actually helps to re-endothelialize the capillaries and help to reduce some of that leakage that you're getting with these kinds of problems here. That vasogenic edema is really gonna be a lot of capillary leakage, breakdown of the blood-brain barrier, and you're gonna try to help to re-endothelialize that and kind of reduce that loss of fluid. All right? Obstructive hydrocephalus, like, overall, when you think about this, an EVD is definitely good upfront. But long-term is what you have to say. Am I surgically resecting the tumor? If you're surgically resecting the tumor, great. But let's say that you have a patient who you surgically resected it, but there's still some residual tumor, or they're still having obstructive hydrocephalus, or they can't get a tumor removal because of the location or because the surgeon's not gonna do it, you need a way to continue to divert that fluid. So how do I do that? Why do I need a chronic CSF diversion? And so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna tap into the ventricle, but I'm gonna reroute it down through the neck. I'm gonna go all the way down here into the peritoneum. And I'm gonna do what's called a VP shunt. And when I do that, it takes a way of instead of draining it out of the body because a person can't live walking around with a pole where it's diverting fluid into the EVD bags. No, we have to have something where it kind of goes based upon gravity. And that's what the whole purpose of the VP shunt is, to allow for CSF when it is building up to divert down via this gravity mechanism into the peritoneal cavity. And that's the whole purpose of this. Visogenic cerebral edema, again, we talked about this, it can cause an ICP crisis. The only thing that really helps with this is like dexamethasone. So hitting them with like, usually if you really wanna know 10 milligrams of dexamethasone upfront, and then putting them on scheduled dexamethasone after that, every six to eight hours will help. And eventually you'll have to taper them off that because you don't wanna keep them on that forever. But that's gonna help with some of the associated visogenic edema upfront that's causing some of their symptoms, like ICP changes or headaches and neurological deficits. All right? So the last thing is seizures. When a patient comes in seizing, obviously if there causes a brain tumor, you have to treat the underlying tumor. But sometimes if you can't remove that tumor, you have to treat them. And so it's really, really, really important that we commonly use things like levatorazetan. We can use things like valproate or phosphinitone. These are very common anti-apileptic drugs. The key thing that I think is really important is that we don't give these to a patient who has a brain mass and have never had a seizure. It's very controversial out there. But the guidelines do suggest, unless the patient has had a clinical seizure, you should not be giving them anti-apileptic drugs as a prophylaxis. It's given primarily if the patient is actually having a new onset, seizure clinical events. That's when this would be truly indicated. But that's again, relatively controversial. So the last thing I wanna talk about is when we're trying to treat these like inevitably, which is kind of trying to remove the underlying source, surgery is the key thing. It's just a matter of how we're going to surgically resect these. Usually craniotomies are even removing a larger portion of the actual skull, like a craniectomy, and trying to resect that tissue is gonna be the best way to go. That's gonna help to remove the tumor mass. It's gonna help to be able to relieve any of any kind of like mass effect that can cause complications like vasogenic edema, midline shift with herniation, ICP changes, hydrocephalus, et cetera. All right. Radiation therapy is something that we can do. External beam radiation therapy, I'd say that's gonna be something that we would do if they have metastasis. So whenever a patient has diffuse metastasis, so they have a primary lung cancer and it's spread to the brain, external beam radiation therapy would probably be the way to go for that one. You can consider it after a patient has had a GBM removed, but I want you to primarily remember that it's gonna be more likely to be used in metastasis that is all over the place and you can't go and pluck out each one of those metastatic lesions. So hitting them with focal beam radiation would be the best, better way to go. All right. Now, stereotactic radiocergery, which is a type of radiation therapy, it's called Gamma Knife. It's a very localized, it's super localized. You have a bunch of gamma, kind of like a bunch of radio waves and the gamma rays that are coming, shooting in on one specific location. Gamma Knife surgery is a really, really good one that we do with... All right, the other type of radiation that I want you to know, it's particularly for vestibular schwannomas, is a stereotactic radiocergery. This is essentially Gamma Knife. It's like a really like high localized, focused area beam of radiation on a tumor, especially vestibular schwannomas. You can hit those with a pretty good, focused area of radiation. So you can kind of see how these rays are really, really highly focusing on one particular location. That would be a true benefit for something like this. We also use it a lot in trigeminal neuralgia, too, to help to kind of destroy where that kind of like, trigeminal ganglion is at, and especially near where there's compression, where the actual vessels are. So this is a really, really common one that you can use in vestibular schwannomas and trigeminal neuralgia. A chemotherapy, Tema Zolomide is really the go-to for patients who have GBMs. When you have a GBM, Tema Zolomide is interesting because it plays a role with the blood-brain barrier. When you think about the blood-brain barrier here, you can appreciate that we have the vessels. So we have the endothelial cells. They have really, really nice tight junctions. And then on top of that, you have the associated astrocytes, which are helping with the formation of that blood-brain barrier. When you have a drug like Tema Zolomide, it has a good ability to be able to cross the blood-brain barrier. But what it actually does is, and especially if there's breakdown on the blood-brain barrier, it's gonna cross a lot easier, it can find a glioma. And when it gets into the glioma, basically what it's gonna do is, it's gonna try to shut the DNA off. It produces an active molecule that basically controls your DNA methylation. And so you end up with a lot of these double-stranded DNA breaks, which causes these cells to unfortunately go through their death process. And so that's really what Tema Zolomide will be utilized as an patient who has a high-grade GBM. So when we think about GBMs, the best thing to think about upfront is, do they need surgery? Okay, try to, you can obviously consider a surgical resection if possible. After that, you can consider some radiation therapy if it's a very high-grade one, and you can consider Tema Zolomide. Oftentimes, GBMs have a very, very poor prognosis, though. But this is what I want you to think about with that. Man, this was a lot, and I really hope that at the end of this, you feel a little bit more comfortable with brain tumors. I feel like you know what to do, step by step, that if you ask, what's the next test? What will this test show me? What will it give me? Will it actually help me in my diagnosis? Okay, if I do that, what's the next test to confirm it? I really hope that at the end of this, you feel confident with that, and also being able to decipher and differentiate between other types of disorders, or between primary and metastatic. I hope that whenever you think about treatment, treat the emergent cases. Oftentimes, it comes down to surgery if you need it. An ICB crisis, temporizing measures are usually the best thing until you get to that surgery. Things like osmotherapy, mannitol, EVDs, and steroids. Ultimately, seizures should be controlled if they're having a seizure with anti-epileptic drugs. If not, we don't really give them prophylactically. Oftentimes, what these kind of conditions, surgery is the way to go, but sometimes you may need some associated external beam radiation therapy, especially for the higher grade GBMs, but it's more beneficial for the diffuse metastasis with a primary lung cancer somewhere else. And then Gamma Knife was the last one that we talked about, being more particular for things like trigeminal neuralgia and vestibular schwannomas. And then don't forget about the team as old line, especially if they have the IDH mutation, the one, the decode deletion. I would definitely consider that one. It's gonna be a little bit more beneficial. All right, my friends, I hope you guys liked this. I hope you learned a lot. I love you. I thank you guys, and as always, until next time. Thank you.

=== FILE: Breast Cancer ｜ Clinical Medicine [a1Ttvmt-NG8].txt ===

 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам What's up, Ningenerts? In this video today, we're gonna be talking about breast cancer. Again, this is a part of our clinical medicine section. If you guys like this video, it makes sense. It helps you please support us. You can do that a couple different ways. Hit the like button, comment down in the comment section, subscribe, or become a premium member on our website. We have a link down in the description box below. Go check that out. We have our notes, illustrations, quiz questions, everything that you would need to truly succeed in all of your courses. All right, let's get into it. Let's talk about the pathophys of breast cancer. I'm in front of this. Let's start talking about the pathophys. When we talk about breast cancer, it's really important to understand that when you look at the basic anatomy of the breast, that there is all these mammary glands, and really it's made up of ducks and lobules. That's really all it is, and that's what helps us to make the milk, is those cells. That's where cancer arises. Cancer arises from those lobules, or from those ducks, and from those epithelial cells, then fortunately, they undergo mutations of sort to become malignant. They start to proliferate. They grow, and you get these clumps of abnormal malignant cells within the lobules, or within the ducks, and then eventually they can spread. That's what generates breast cancer. Now, the reason why these cells start to abnormally proliferate, why they gain the capacity to become abnormal, and they continue to grow, and they break past the basement membrane, they get into the blood, that comes down to a couple of different things we'll talk about later. It could be that the estrogen exposure over a long period of time is a little bit higher than normal. They could develop mutations in specific genes that predispose them to this cancer, or there could be other scenarios where we don't really have a good reason, but for some reason, these patients over express specific receptors that increase the signaling for proliferation and survival of malignant cells. So let's take a look here at the breast. Let's say, again, when cancer arises, they usually arise in two locations. They arise in the lobule, or in the duct. And so let's imagine here that we kind of just zoom in on the structures here, and say, here's what we're looking at. We're looking at a zoomed inversion here. And here, we're gonna see we have a lobule, and there's gonna be a mass in this lobule. Or here we're gonna have a duct, and there's going to be a mass in that duct. And these are the tumors that are basically making up a patient's breast cancer. So this right here is a duct, is a ductal tumor, right? And here is a lobular tumor. And these are the two different ways that we can really think about breast cancer as it comes down to a tumor that arises in the duct of the mammary gland, or the rises from the lobules. What really helps us to kind of dig in a little bit more into this is let's say that we take, for example, we take like a section here of this duct, right? We zoom in, or we take a section of this lobule, and we zoom in here, and we look at the progression. So whenever we take like this cross section, and we zoom in on the lobule or on the duct, how do these actually become tumors? Really, how does that occur? And so let's say that we take, for example, this is a normal duct or a normal lobule, right? So this is a normal duct slash lobule, right? So when you look at the cells there, they look normal. Have they invaded this red structure called the basement membrane? No, it looks pristine. However, over time, the patient develops mutations. And these mutations cause the cells to become a little bit more atypical, and they don't look as normal cells. And so then they progress, all right? And so from here, we start to see what's called atypical hyperplasia. And this atypical hyperplasia, it usually can result in two different locations, right? So look at these cells. Look how jacked up and funky these stinking things look. Look at that. This dude has got some kind of like little goober hanging off the top. That's an atypical appearing cell. It doesn't look normal. And again, this can occur in the duct or it can occur in the lobules. Now, out of these, which one's most common? Most of the time, when malignancies arise, they arise in the ducts. That's usually the most common location. Lobules, it can occur, it's just not as common. Let's say now, atypical hyperplasia is kind of like a pre-malignant condition, is the way you wanna think about it. Patients who have atypical hyperplasia on their biopsies, when you look at them, they have a very high risk of that converting into cancer. How? Let's say that these patients experience more mutations. Cause really everything that happens here is it's a mutation. Mutations, you get the point, they experience more mutations. Every single time there's abnormalities here that are causing mutations to arise, that are causing proliferation, all of these things are occurring, right? Now, when that happens, these cells continue to become abnormal and become malignant. Now, we technically have a cancer. This is technically as defined as a cancer at this point, where you have cells that have accumulated and taken up the entire concentric portion of the duct or the lobbyal. They're confining that entire lumen. This is now referred to as a carcinoma in situ. And what this cancer tells us is that this cells, these malignant appearing cells, have not broken past that red structure, which is the embasement membrane. So they're proliferating, they're not dying, they're surviving, but they haven't developed the point of where they have a lot of blood supply coming to them, angiogenesis, they haven't released the matrix metalloproteinases yet that are breaking through the basement membrane, they're not there yet. But once they accrue more mutations and they become abnormal, then they gain that capacity to do that. And then from here, this start off as a carcinoma in situ. And again, where could it be guys? Think about it. It could be in a duct, which is gonna be the most common, or it could be in a lobbyal. Now from here, once it actually does dig to the point where these cells start releasing matrix metalloproteinases, they break down the basement membrane and they get a lot of blood supply coming to them and they can spread. At this point, this thing is invasive. This thing has the ability to spread. And this is now referred to as an invasive carcinoma. It's no longer in situ. It's an invasive carcinoma. And again, out of the two locations, where would this occur? It could be in the duct, or it could be in the lobbyals. The thing that I want you to think about here is look at the normal trend. Most of the time when we think about a patient developing breast cancer, they develop a mass in their breast. Most of the time it's ductal. So usually starts off as you have a normal cells within that duct. You accrue mutations or abnormalities that cause proliferation and eventually, it turns into atypical ductal hyperplasia. Then they accrue more mutations and it becomes carcinoma in situ. But it's ductal carcinoma in situ. That's technically, we'll talk about these. You technically can write these, or I'll read them later, ductal carcinoma in situ and lobular carcinoma in situ. Then from ductal carcinoma in situ, if it accrues more mutations, becomes abnormal and eventually gains the capacity to break past the basement membrane, it's now invasive ductal carcinoma. That's the most common progression that we think about with these cancers. Now, the scary thing about cancers is that from here, these cells, they can start to become a little bit more liquid and they don't become solitary in the sense that they're staying in one location. They can start to spread. And once they do that and they break off and these things get into the circulation and they get into the lymph nodes, now we're having cells break off and go into different locations in the body. At this point, we refer to this as metastatic breast cancer. So this is referred to as metastatic breast cancer. And we'll talk about the most common locations that these things go. Usually they start at the lymph nodes, but they can go to the lungs, they can go to the liver, they can go to the bones, they can go to the brain, and this can cause a lot of havoc on the body. So you get the point here. When we talk about breast cancer, which is the most common cancer in women, you see that a cancer rises in a duct or in a labial really starts off normal, becomes atypical. This is a marker for a significant high risk of developing breast cancer. Then they become carcinoma and situs and then they become invasive. Then they break away from that local region, go to nearby lymph nodes, or they can get into the bloodstream and spread to other organs. Then we have metastatic breast cancer. What I wanna do now is, I wanna take a little bit of time to talk about what is the true difference in ductal carcinoma and situ, lobular carcinoma and situ, invasive ductal, invasive lobular carcinoma, and then also talk about a couple other variants like pageants and inflammatory breast cancer, because there's some slight differences in those pathophysiologically. Let's do that now. Let's think about this at this point. We've developed an understanding of the progression, kind of like microscopically histopathologically of breast cancer, that it's normal, atypical carcinoma and situ, invasive metastatic. So when we talk about these, I wanna break cancers down of the breast into noninvasive and invasive. Most of the time, whenever we see these patients and they come in with symptoms, they're usually at the stages of invasive. But let's talk about some of the noninvasive ones that you need to be able to recognize and consider that they do carry that risk of becoming an invasive cancer. So noninvasive cancer is one of them, we talked about it. It's a carcinoma and situ. What's the most common one that I told you that the cancers usually start off in? It's in the ducts. So we're gonna start off and talk about ductal carcinoma in situ, which again is DCIS. So with this one, where does the cancer actually arise? Think about this. It arises in the ducts. So there's gonna be some type of mutation that occurs where the cells start to proliferate and grow, but they do not break past the basement membrane. Now, when this happens, because they do not invade past the basement membrane, how will these patients usually present? Well, the thing with ductal carcinoma in situ is that they don't usually present with a breast mass or symptoms. Most of the times these patients are pretty much asymptomatic. Most of the time they are asymptomatic. How do we usually find this then? It's usually an incidental finding. And so what happens is a patient goes, they get an ultrasound or they get a mammogram. Usually it's a mammogram, and on the mammogram they see calcifications, like microcalcifications. That's somewhat indicative that it could be a patient who has ductal carcinoma in situ. You would biopsy that if you had some concerns and you would find that type of histopathology that we talked about, that it would be these cancer cells that are confined to the duct, not invading the basement membrane. So oftentimes it's microcalcifications on mammography. That is usually how this presents. It's almost always asymptomatic and it's incidentally found as microcalcifications on mammography. Now one of the big things with this cancer is that again, it can have that risk of developing and converting into invasive ductal carcinoma. So it carries a very high risk of uni or ipsilateral breast cancer. That's really, really important. So I wanna add one more thing into this one is that there is an increased of ipsilateral breast cancer. Now you might be wondering why I'm telling you that. I promise I'll tell you a little bit later. It's gonna come into play with lobular carcinoma in situ. But again, big thing to remember for ductal carcinoma in situ is again, it's a cancer that arises in the ducts and it does not invade the basement membrane. It usually doesn't produce palpable or any kind of mass lesion that's gonna be symptomatic. They're asymptomatic. And oftentimes it's an incidental finding. So let's add that last thing in there. It's oftentimes it's a incidental finding. Whenever you get a mammography during your screening processes that we'll talk about later, that's when we find it. And it may have some concerning features to it. We may biopsy and find that. The next one that I wanna talk about is called Padgett's disease of the breast. But I'm just gonna put it down here as Padgett's disease. So Padgett's disease is kind of like, it's actually kind of interesting. It starts off as a ductal carcinoma in situ. So imagine this, imagine it's kind of like you have a cancer right here in the ducts. It's confined to it. But then what happens is the cancer cells start migrating. They don't invade past the basement membrane, go into the surrounding fat tissue or anything like that. Look at this. They move along the lactiferous ducts and sinuses. And they move out here onto the breast. So now you see how these cells are kind of migrating. So look, it actually starts to, in a way you can think about this, it's migrating towards the nipple and then outwards from the nipple onto the skin. That's weird, right? So that's one of the big differences with this one, is that this starts off as a ductal carcinoma in situ. So we can say it's a ductal carcinoma in situ and then spreads to the nipple and the lactiferous sinuses, which are kind of right around that area. So that's really what happens. It doesn't invade the basement membrane, which makes it noninvasive. But it does move along these and then move onto the skin. And so really what happens with these patients is they have a characteristic picture. They often time have what's called nipple eczema. I'm not even kidding. It literally can look like a red, inflamed, itchy nipple for these patients. It looks actually a little bit like this. So whenever you see that type of picture, a very itchy, little bit red, inflamed nipple, you should be thinking about pageants. Here's another concern, anything. Not only can it cause nipple eczema, but these cells, they may start to ulcerate the nipple. Isn't that sad? It is, man. And so if it does do that, sometimes these patients can also get bloody nipple discharge. That's another thing that you wanna watch out for. So another thing here is watch out for, bloody nipple discharge. Bloody nipple discharge. Okay, so we got it. Pageant disease is kind of like a ductal carcinoma in situ. Sometimes it can even actually be truly. I'm not even kidding. Sometimes you can actually get invasive ductal carcinomas and they can also spread. But oftentimes it's ductal carcinoma in situ that moves through these ducts to the sinus, to the nipple, to the areola and causes an eczematous lesion to appear. Itchy, red, inflamed nipple with sometimes associated nipple discharge. Now, one of the things that actually is important to remember here is you'd think, oh, I gotta do a core needle biopsy. You do, but sometimes, what's actually kind of high yield to think about here and I wanna add in for this, is that sometimes with pageant disease, we can just, if we see, son of a gun, if we see that a patient has this nipple eczema, we can take a skin biopsy. And so if we do a skin biopsy of this lesion, right around where that eczema appears, and it produces pageant cells, that's almost diagnostic when it comes to the USMLE exams. So definitely think about that, that they may present a patient who has nipple eczema, maybe some occasional bloody nipple discharge, they do a skin biopsy, and it shows pageant cells. That's a ductal carcinoma in situ that's spread to that nipple areola region. All right, cool. So I say noninvasive, I got these two. The last one, some people don't really consider this to be a cancer. They consider it more of like a very high risk, kind of marker, it's like a marker of badness. So it's called lobular carcinoma in situ. And you're like, what do you mean, Zach? Can't this kind of like, it's the same thing, like Zach, you said that these can go normal, atypical, carcinoma in situ into an invasive. That's the funny thing, for some reason, when you think about this, this is a cancer, it's confined to the lobules, yeah? Doesn't spread past the basement membrane. Usually same thing, completely asymptomatic. So they don't really present with any kind of symptoms. It's usually oftentimes, it's an incidental finding. It's the same thing, you actually go, you get a mammogram, and it shows like this weird appearing lesion. However, there's not microcalcifications. So it appears sometimes like a fibroadenoma. So it's not a classic mammography finding, but it is something that is an incidental finding. So usually it's a finding on mammography. Or sometimes there's a thought that this is a fibroadenoma, and they get a biopsy, and it comes back lobular carcinoma in situ. The whole point I'm trying to make of this is, is that lobular carcinoma, it's pretty much never going to be one of those that goes from lobular carcinoma in situ, to invasive lobular carcinoma, which is odd, right? One thing that this disease tells you, and they can try to test you on this on the exam, is if you see lobular carcinoma in situ, this is what you should be kind of telling your patients. These patients have a high risk, pretty scary risk, a pretty high risk of bilateral cancer. Whereas ductal carcinoma in situ carried a risk of ipsy laterals, usually that same side. This, if a patient has lobular carcinoma in situ on their left breast, they have a high risk of developing invasive carcinomas in both breasts. Why is that important? Because sometimes on the step two, what they could do is they could say, hey, you have a patient who has lobular carcinoma in situ. They're at high risk for bilateral breast cancer. What would be a preventative strategy? Get rid of both breasts. That's something that could come up on the exam, and so that's what they'll try to say, is that to consider this, you may need to remedy this. That's the big kind of like telltale thing for this one, is you may have to do a bilateral mastectomy. And by doing that, and this is prophylactic, you're trying to prevent them from developing that bilateral breast cancer. That's the big thing I want you guys to take away from this. All right, non-invasive breast cancers, done. We have a pretty good idea. Out of these non-invasive, which one is the most common ductal carcinoma in situ? That's the one that you're gonna see. It's usually microfialcifications. Padgets is a weird variant of that. They usually cause nipolexma. Lobbidocarsinoma in situ, it's not symptomatic. It's usually diffuse, and it's more likely going to affect both breasts. Because of that, you have a high, high risk of bilateral cancer. Consider it for these patients, talking to a surgeon about removing both breasts. Now, invasive breast cancer is the next big thing that we have to talk about. With invasive breast cancer, there is really two types, and we talked about them a little bit over here, that you have what's called invasive ductal, and I'll write both of these, ductal carcinoma. Now, when I talk about breast cancer, dude, most of the times, probably 70 to 80% of cases is this. That's the most common. Another one is invasive, so we'll bring this one down here, invasive lobular carcinoma. But this one is not very common. We'll talk about one more, and this one is really, really, really sad. It's super, super scary. Usually when patients present, they're already stage three, getting ready to go to the point of stage four. And so this is a really, really important one that I wanna talk about. So let's differentiate these, because we were able to differentiate these, right? Let's differentiate these. With invasive ductal carcinoma, you're gonna start off with this cancer here. It's in the ducts, but guess what it's gonna start to do? It's gonna break past the basement membrane. Do you get the difference there? It's spreading beyond that. Is that gonna produce a palpable mass? It definitely can. So this one definitely can present as a palpable mass, and sometimes, if you think about this, if you present with a palpable mass, what's the most common location? So when you think about the breast and you cut them into four portions, the upper outer quadrant is the most common. 55% of the time, it's usually gonna present in the upper outer quadrant of the breast. Because there's a little axillary component here called the tail of spence. That's usually, right in those areas there, is where you're gonna have most of these cancers starting to arise. That's one way that a patient will present. Sometimes, they may present on their screening mammography. So it can be a palpable mass, or this could be an incidental finding on mammography. Most of the time, when you think about a patient having breast cancer, that's the type that you're gonna be thinking about. This is the one that can start here, and it can spread outwards. What you'll see later is that these patients, usually, because of that mass, it latches on to the suspensory ligaments, and then the suspensory ligaments become tethered and fibrotic, and they pull on the skin and the nipple. And then the skin becomes retracted. The nipple can become retracted. And then the other thing is that sometimes, these cancers can cause a little bit of nipple discharge. It's not as common, but the biggest thing is looking for a palpable mass with associated dimpling of the skin and the nipple. That can be kind of a telltale sign. Again, invasive ductive carcinomas, these are the most common. What about inflammatory breast cancer? Inflammatory breast cancer is interesting. So usually, at the terminal ductal lobular unit, kind of like right here, is our cancers. From here, here's where it's different. They break off like little tumor microemboli, let's call them. They're like little tumor emboli, and they can get out and spread, but they don't do it in chunks. They do it in like little microemboli. From here, these tumor microemboli, guess where they go? They go right over here to your neulomphatics in the dermis. When they get into these areas here, they start clogging up your dermal and lymphatics. And so you get lymphatic obstruction. Now, imagine you obstruct these lymphatics, because naturally what's supposed to happen is, is the lymph should drain some of this interstitial fluid and take it out, right? That's naturally what should happen. But guess what you're gonna do if you have these obstructions there? You're not going to be able to do that. And so what happens here? This gets inhibited. This fluid builds up. Oh dude, if I obstruct my lymphatics, I'm gonna cause a lot of edema. So then a lot of this fluid will start accumulating and accumulating and accumulating here, and you'll get a lot of swelling of the breast. So that's what you're gonna start seeing is you're gonna see breast swelling. And dude, it's usually bilateral. It can present bilateral, it can present unilateral, but the key characteristic features here is you're gonna get a lot of breast swelling. And whenever you have a patient here who has that breast swelling, it's gonna look like mastitis. And that's one of the biggest things that they'll try to talk to you about with inflammatory breast cancer, is that when you look at these patients, they're gonna have basically, let's say, swollen, red, and painful breasts. And so when you look at this, if you actually see what this actually looks like, it actually can be really problematic with inflammatory breast cancer. It can look like mastitis, which is an infection of some of the mammary gland tissue. What would happen is, is you would take this, you would say, oh, I think it's mastitis. And if you gave these patients, and usually with mastitis, there's maybe some fevers, there's maybe an elevated white count, but what you would do is you would say, okay, let me give this patient antibiotics. And if you gave them antibiotics, and they gave a positive response with antibiotics, and they got better, it's probably mastitis. But if you had this patient with swollen, red, painful breasts, you gave them antibiotics, and it didn't get any better. And if anything, it continued to progress, poor response, this suggests inflammatory breast cancer more often. That's something that they can try to mess with you with on the exam, is they'll say, hey, a patient came in, they had swollen, red, kind of like really painful breast, I gave them antibiotics, they didn't get any better, what's your concern? I'm concerned for inflammatory breast cancer. Now, one of the big things that is important to remember is that with this cancer, because of the dermal lymphatics getting so obstructed, they get swollen, this skin, when you look at it, it looks like an orange peel. You get all these little dimples, and it's called a pewdie orange, which is kind of an orange peel appearance to the breast. It looks a little bit like this. With inflammatory breast cancer, it is really, really important to remember that this is often characterized by lymphatic obstruction by tumor microemboline. This one is a big palpable mass, it's cohesive, it can spread, can become metastatic. But this is the one that's really scary, and when these patients are found, here's what's sad about this one, is they present, usually at stage three. They present at stage three. And I'll tell you what stage three means when we get to it, but with invasive ductal carcinoma, you may catch a patient at stage one, you may catch them at stage two. Usually, when inflammatory breast cancer, when you have these tumor microemboline, and they're in the skin, they're in the mammary gland tissue, that's already at that point, the tumor has spread and metastasized, that's how they get these symptoms. So usually by that time, it's in the actual skin, chest wall area, that's why these patients usually have stage three breast cancer. All right, invasive lobular carcinoma. This one's not very common, but again, you can kind of imagine here that it's a cancer that starts off in the lobules, and then eventually it breaks out. And you might wanna kind of go the route and say, oh, this is a lobular carcinoma in situ that became invasive. For some reason, that's not usually the case. It's very rare, very, very, very rare for that to happen. Oftentimes, it's just a cancer that usually arises there, and it starts to really, really again, spread beyond that. But it's uncommon for lobular carcinoma in situ when you find it to become invasive lobular carcinoma. Now, with invasive lobular carcinoma, there's something really, really weird about this one, because sometimes when you look at these and you think, okay, lobular carcinoma, ductal carcinoma, how would they really test me? Well, with this one, again, these patients are oftentimes going to be asymptomatic. And therefore, because of that, they would have usually, this is an incidental finding on their imaging, usually a mammogram, so mammography. And so this is usually gonna be asymptomatic. It's usually gonna be more of a diffuse, multi-centric and lobular involvement. They'll appear very abnormal. Here's what's really important, and this is how they will try to test you on the exam. When you think about invasive lobular carcinoma, when you look at the cancer, and this is really what's interesting, is let's say that I take a piece of that cancer here. And here's the cell, and it's all starting off here, where you're having all this build up inside of the lobules. All right? And then, what it wants to do is, is it wants to break past the basement membrane. And so it gains those matrix metalloproteinases, right? When it does that, it helps it to move, and they move in a single file fashion. That's the characteristic thing that you guys wanna take away from invasive lobular carcinoma, is that when it spreads, and it breaks past the basement membrane, it moves in a single file fashion. So when it moves in a single file fashion, so it migrates in a single file fashion, you have to ask yourself the question, okay, so it doesn't do that for ductile, why? And the reason why is, when you actually look at their microscopic structure, and some of the proteins, there's a specific protein,  and the protein that actually helps these cells to kind of be linked together. And it's called e-cadherins. What happens is, these patients lose, they have a loss of e-cadherins. That's the big difference. They have a loss of e-cadherins. So they develop some type of mutation or change that causes them to break off those proteins between cells and move in a single file fashion past the basement membrane. So when you think about this, and this is that lobular cancer right here, we're kind of just zooming in on it here to look at this in a cross section, these things, they move in a single file fashion. That's because of a loss of the e-cadherins. Reason why I tell you that is that sometimes what you can do is you can actually check an e-cadherin test on these patients. And if they have that loss of e-cadherins, it supports more of a lobular carcinoma that's invasive as compared to a ductal. All right. So again, that's the big thing to think about for these things. Now that we've talked about our non-invasive and invasive breast cancers, and we have a pretty good understanding that most often the time whenever a patient presents, they start off with ductal carcinoma in situ and they progress to this. But sometimes the scary one that you could miss and it's already too late is inflammatory breast cancer. Another way that they could present from ductal carcinoma is the variant of pageants. But these two are not very common. This one, very high risk of bilateral breast cancer. This one, it's most oftentimes an incidental finding. And really one test to be considered is the e-cadherin testing. All right. Now from here, what I want to ask ourselves is how in the heck, what in the same heck is causing these cells to mutate and to grow and to proliferate? The reason why I tell you this is these patients can either present in a bunch of different ways. Lermass, incidental finding on screening, bleeding from the nips, they can have eximidus lesions, a lot of different things. You have to be able to look into the patient's history and say what puts them at high risk? Because sometimes you may need to screen these patients earlier, use specific modalities, or do specific types of therapies that really is key to know. Let's talk about that now. We really established a baseline on how these cancers, particularly within the breast, grows, how it actually starts. So when we think about this, what are really the triggers? What's the risk factors that are associated with jumpstarting these cells to become atypical, to become malignant, to really spread? And so one of the big ones that we talk about, and that's why we have to do really good histories, we have to assess a patient's risk. And that comes with estrogen exposure over time. And so let's kind of have an understanding as to why this happens. Your ovaries are responsible for producing something called estrogen. So I'm going to write this out, right? But there's another way that you can write out estrogen. Because estrogen comes in like estrone and estradiol, the most common form is estradiol. And so I'll also write this as E2, which is estradiol. Now that's one way. So the ovaries for females will produce estrogen. Now whenever the ovaries produce estrogen, what happens is estrogen can go and work on the breast tissue. It works on a bunch of different tissues, right? It's a hormone. It can go and work on breast tissues. It can work on the muscles. It can work in the bones. It can work in the brain, all the kind of areas that you can think of. One of the big things with estrogen is that it has to work, especially in the breast. It can work on two different ways. One, it's primary way is intracellular. But you do have some small amounts of extracellular receptors. But estrogen is primarily going to cross the cell because it's a lipid soluble type of medication, it's a steroid. And so it'll cross over, and I'll represent this as E2 with like a circle. And what happens is E2 will bind onto a receptor, an intracellular receptor. And then once this happens, this E2 and receptor will then move into the nucleus, right? And it'll basically bind onto specific genes. When you bind onto a specific gene here, this will cause this gene, usually it's the cyclin D gene. That's usually the primary one, is the cyclin D gene. You'll activate this cyclin D gene. And this will cause these patients to kind of increase the expression of cyclin D and cyclin dependent kinases. And so really what it'll do is it'll increase the expression of what's called cyclin dependent kinases, CDK. And this is usually four and six. And what these things do is, dude, they like ramp up your proliferation, right? Because think about it, estrogen can kind of cause some of the breast tissue to grow. That's why usually breast tissue starts to arise when a patient hits their point of where their actual ovaries are producing estrogen, right? That's why breasts usually develop during the secondary sex characteristic staging. So whenever this happens, the CD4 and CD6, basically this will cause the cell to proliferate, dude. I mean, these cells go ham. And so you get cell proliferation. Now here's the problem. With cell proliferation, every time a cell proliferates, what's the issue with that? How in the heck does that cause cancer? It doesn't. It's just the more that a cell proliferates, the more chances a person develops the risk of developing cancer. So every time a cell proliferates, the DNA has to replicate. Every time the DNA replicates, there's a chance of DNA damage. And every time the DNA is damaged, there is the risk that that could actually become mutated if you don't repair it properly. And with that, that mutation can cause normal cells to become cancer cells. So every time a cell proliferates, all you essentially do is you increase the risk of mutations. That's all it is. And every time you increase the risk of mutations, you turn a normal cell. So let's say here I have a normal cell. You take this normal cell and you turn it into an atypical or malignant cell. That's really what is happening, is that every single time a cell mutates, it can become the high risk of that cell becoming malignant. And that's what you get scared of is now I have a malignant cell as compared to me originally having a normal cell. So that's where we get scared. And so if estrogen is being produced consistently and consistently over time, what's the issue? It's constantly being produced due to prolonged exposure to having high estrogen levels. So the higher the estrogen levels are over time, the more it stimulates this intracellular and extracellular receptor, the more it activates the genes to increase the expression of CDK 4, 6 cause cell proliferation. Over time, there may be other things that can occur besides the proliferation. You may cause the cells to stop undergoing apoptosis. You may cause the cells to trigger angiogenesis and cause more blood flow to the area. You may cause them to gain the capacity to release things to break down the matrix and spread. So you get the point. What would be a reason that the ovaries would be producing a large amount of estrogen over time? So here's what I want you to think. We usually see this. So let's say here we think ovarian, so the ovarian estrogen is up. So you have an increase in the ovarian estrogen. What are a couple of different reasons for this? And I want you to think about it not necessarily as an acute increase. It's an estrogen increase over a longer period of time than normal. So one reason is early monarchy. What in the heck does that mean? Well that means that your first menstrual cycle was really, really young. So think about this, dude. If a menstrual cycle was at 11 years old and then you go into menopause at like 55 or something like that, that's the amount of time that you had estrogen levels these consistent times during the follicular period, the luteal phase, where you had estrogen levels that were up. That's more proliferation of the breast tissue. That's more chances that they acquire mutations. What if the menopause was really, really late? You see the thing with that one? So what if menopause was late? That's another thing. So if you had early monarchy or if you got into menopause way later than you were supposed to, that's expanding your timeframe of prolonged estrogen exposure. So late menopause is another really, really important one to consider as a risk factor. Another one is a patient who never has breaks in their menstrual cycle. So you know when there would be a break in the menstrual cycle is whenever you get pregnant. When a woman gets pregnant, they have a period where they're not having this abrupt rises in the estrogen production as compared to during their normal menstrual cycles. And so that affects their breast tissue, right? So that's another really important one is a patient not undergoing pregnancy. And so null parity is a really, really important one. So when we think about this, these are potential things that really can cause ovarian estrogen exposure levels to be high over a period of time. Sometimes even late parity. So if you have a child later in life, that also can potentially increase that risk as well. Another reason is it could be due to adipose. So adipose, estrogen is really high. So you know adipose tissue, it's kind of really interesting when you think about this. So normally we have different hormones that our body makes. One of them is called androgens. And so this can happen also kind of in even the adrenal cortex too. But androgens are actually things like testosterone or dihydrotestosterone, androsine, dione, all of these different types of androsine. So dihydropion, androsterone, androsine, dione, testosterone, all of these things. So what happens is we can take these and the fat tissue contains an enzyme called aromatase. So there's an enzyme here and it's called aromatase. And that enzyme stimulates the conversion of androgens into estrogen. And technically this estrogen is, you know, estrone. But I'm just going to again, I'm going to kind of say here that this is going to be estrogen. It's technically not going to be as much the E2, but you're still going to have this increase in estrogen. And so I'm just going to write here E2. But the thing is, is that the mechanism is all the same. So the same thing would happen here, that this would do what? Well, the estrogen would then go, and again it would combine onto this receptor. More often than not, it's going to go intracellularly and stimulate this pathway. Question is, is why in the heck would adipose estrogen levels be high? What's going to cause an uptick in the aromatase expression or activity that's going to continue to convert androgens into estrogen? If you've got a lot of adipose, you'll have a lot of these enzymes. That's a really big thing to actually remember. Morbid obesity definitely contributes to a risk of developing breast cancer. And so this is important because sometimes we think about on the step two, they'll ask you exam questions. And they'll say, okay, they'll present the clinical vignette, and they'll say, this patient is at risk for breast cancer. Which one of these risk factors with regard to estrogen exposure is modifiable? Obesity. You can't change when you have a period in the start. You can't change when you go into menopause. Technically, null-apparity, that is a modifiable risk factor. You technically, you could actually get pregnant. But obesity is a true modifiable risk factor as well. The other things that are important to remember that can increase the risk of any kind of mutation is alcohol. So alcoholism definitely is a modifiable thing that actually increases the risk of developing breast cancer as well. But nonetheless, the last thing that I want to talk about here is, what if it has nothing to do with the adipose? What if it has nothing to do with the ovary? What if this is exogenous estrogen is high? So exogenous estrogen is high for longer periods of times. And usually this is in patients who are postmenopausal and who are on a drug that is trying to replicate estrogen and progesterone. What would that be? Hormone replacement therapy. I'm going to put HRT. So HRT. And usually they've been on HRT for a decent amount of time, five, ten years. So they're prolonging their estrogen exposure. Except this, it's a pill. So this scenario here will represent it as though this is a drug. And this drug contains estrogen and progesterone. And so all this is doing is, it's just getting into the body and acting like this. You get the point here. All of these things are leading to an increase in cell proliferation. So whenever a patient has these particular risk factors, you have to consider that. Now this is really, really important because guess what? Not only can these patients, when you think about it, let's say here, we take this, this is their cancer. It starts here in the upper outer quadrant. When you really look at this and you examine this, again, it starts off normal, becomes atypical, becomes carcinoma in situ, and becomes an invasive breast cancer. The real reason this is happening is, is the estrogen levels over time. So they're having elevated E2. Elevated E2. Elevated E2. And that's stimulating the increased proliferation and therefore mutations that cause you to go from normal to atypical to carcinoma in situ to invasive. You get the point. That's why it's actually super critical when a patient has cancer. We biopsy their tissue and we look to see, because guess what happens with high estrogen exposure? Guess what you do to these receptors? You up-regulate them. You overexpress them. That's another thing. We'll talk about that down there. But oftentimes we'll biopsy these areas. We'll send it off for immunohistopathology and see, is there an overexpression of estrogen and progesterone receptors? All right. That's the increased estrogen exposure. Let's move to the next reason that a patient can also develop these risks of causing a cell to become cancerous, and especially in the breast. And that's a decrease in tumor suppressor activity. All right. So now we move on to the next component here, which is again, what are causing these cells to either proliferate, become abnormal, gain the capacity to break past the basement membrane? And another really important one is the genetics. So tumor suppressor gene activity is really critical in preventing malignancies, right? And there's a lot of different genes, but there's really, really important ones that are critical to discussing in breast cancer. So let's say here I have a normal cell, a normal ductal cell. And all of a sudden, this cell experiences some type of DNA damage. So here we're going to cause some damage to the DNA. So there's some DNA damage. Gets hit with whatever it may be. You cause some damage to the DNA. Now I'm going to represent that with an X. That's a damaged DNA. Maybe there's a break in the DNA. And so we need DNA repair genes to come into play and say, okay, cool, I'm going to go ahead and fix this. So let's say that you have these DNA repair genes, and they're going to go ahead and fix this. So if there's good DNA repair, so we're going to have DNA repair going on here, then we'll have these enzymes come in and basically help us to fix that actual damaged DNA. And so we can take and generate a normal cell. This is a cell that's not going to undergo mutation now. This here is our damaged cell. And if you repair that DNA, there's less chances of it mutating and becoming a cancerous cell. But if you don't have DNA repair occur, and there's a lot of genes that are critical to DNA repair. P53, the TP53, which is like the tumor suppressor P53 and BRCA genes, there's P10, there's a lot of them. But this is a really, really important concept that if you don't have those genes working to undergo DNA repair, what's going to happen? That damage will not get fixed. So here this one, we're good. We fixed it. Look, it went from a damaged DNA to a normal. Here we're still going to have that damage. And maybe it progresses and it becomes like a double-stranded DNA break instead of a stingle. And then from there, you end up causing mutations to occur because you don't allow for this cell to really undergo the normal process that it should. So now that I have inadequate DNA repair, now I take this cell and I increase the risk of causing gene mutations. And eventually this right here is where we can see issues, where we start off with a normal cell. Here's a normal duct. Here's a normal duct. And this is these cells. You cause increased risk of gene mutations. Now what's going to happen? Because I didn't fix that damaged DNA, I can increase the risk of the mutation. That mutation can cause my cells to transform and to become malignant. And then from here, this is where I see cancer starting to rise. All right? Now I've taken this cell, which was normal. It's become abnormal. And now I have cancer. And the cancer cells all riddled within these ducts. And then from here, this thing is going to build up in the breast tissue. And you're going to get this breast mass here. So that's the problem with this. And so we have to ask ourselves the question, what's really playing a role in this? And so the tumor suppressor genes are really what are aiding in our DNA repair process. There's two really, really important ones that get tested. One is the BRCA1 and the BRCA2 genes. If you have mutations in these genes, this can be a problem. These are natural tumor suppressor genes which aid in DNA repair. So if you have abnormalities or mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2, guess what's going to happen? You're going to have no adequate DNA repair. So that's one problem. So let's say here, I have a BRCA1 or a BRCA2 mutation. That's going to lead to this problem here. So if you have mutations in these potential genes, then guess what? That can actually lead to the inhibition in DNA repair which causes this risk of malignancy. The question that comes here is, these are tumor suppressor genes? Yes. But when we talk about this, obviously family history is key because this is an autosomal dominant condition. So since this is something that can be autosomal dominant, you really have to look at this as being a factor that can come with a family history. So a patient who has a very strong family history of breast cancer, you really want to be thinking about BRCA1 and BRCA2. Here's the other thing about BRCA1 and BRCA2. The other thing is here is not only is it a familial thing, but also it increases the risk for breast and ovarian cancer. So it's not just breast cancer that becomes a little bit of a higher risk. It significantly increases the risk of breast and ovarian cancer. Now sometimes when patients find out that they have the BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation, they may say, oh my gosh, I'm very, very high risk for developing breast cancer and especially ovarian cancer. And sometimes these patients, they'll go the route of maximum prevention and they'll remove their breast bilaterally and they'll remove also their ovaries. And so that's called a bilateral mastectomy and a bilateral salphingo ooferectomy. That's something that's relatively common if you have this BRCA mutation. The reason why is with BRCA mutations, not only does it carry this risk and not only is it seen with the family history, but here's the concerning feature. With BRCA mutations, they cause breast cancer. They cause breast cancer at a young age and younger patients. And the other thing with this one is it's very, very aggressive. So that's a really, really important thing to remember is that we'll see this breast cancer being a little bit more common in younger patients and also being kind of aggressive. That's one thing I want to think about. When I talk about to a patient, I say, hey, what's the family history? Does your mom have breast cancer? Does your grandma have breast cancer? This is going to show an autosomal dominant pattern. So that's really, really important to take into consideration and you can go as far as testing for these and doing gene testing. The next one that is also really important, they like to ask us on the exam just because of sometimes there's big names. Whenever you hear the name of something, it's actually helpful. So this next one is actually, we'll see with a TP53 mutation. And so this is something that we see in a disease. It's called Lea from any syndrome. Now, Lea from any syndrome is really important. It's a genetic mutation in the TP53 gene. Now, the TP53 gene is a tumor suppressor gene. So if you have a mutation in the TP53, guess what? You don't allow for adequate DNA repair. If you don't allow for adequate DNA repair, this can cause those cells to no longer be able to survive as normal and become malignant because you don't repair those damaged DNA. With Lea from any syndrome, one of the biggest things to remember is that this presents not just as this one is usually breast ovarian. That's a big thing to remember. With Lea from any, remember the mnemonic BLAST53. BLAST53 is that these patients can have a high risk of breast and brain cancer. They have a high risk of lymphoma, leukemia. They have a high risk of adrenal carcinoma. They have a high risk of sarcoma. And they have a high risk of the TP53 mutation. So this is something that is a really helpful mnemonic. So if you see a patient who has multiple cancers, think about the BLAST53. Do they fit that category? It may make me think about Lea from any syndrome. This one, really bad. These patients have a very, very, very aggressive and young cancer. So they present with cancer at a very young age. We'll talk about this a little bit later. I don't want to get too far ahead. But these types of mutations cause the patient to often times present with triple negative breast cancer, which is a very aggressive type of cancer. Meaning that these cause mutations in the cells and it has nothing to do with estrogen exposure, progesterone exposure, HER2 signaling. It's all due to these mutations that cause these cells to, again, not undergo this repairing. And then they can cause these damaged DNA to cause mutations that lead to these cancer cells just going haywire. This can be a very, very aggressive cancer. So these are usually your triple negative ones that we think about here. All right. So we've gotten down to risk factors is think about estrogen exposure over time, whether it's ovarian, exogenous, or adipose. Think about mutations. With these, think about younger patients. Look for family history. Look for other types of cancer risks in them or in their family. The last thing I want to talk about is receptor overexpression. All right. So the next component here that I want you guys to think about is receptor overexpression. Really, this kind of goes hand in hand with like estrogen exposure to a degree, but there's also maybe some mutations that are playing a role in this. So when we talk about, again, looking into risk factors, this is one of these things where we don't really like look into the history for this. This actually comes from a biopsy to really determine this. But there may be a lot of epigenetic. There may be mutations. This could be due to estrogen exposure. There could be a lot of different reasons why this is happening. But what usually happens in this scenario is that you have different types of receptors. You have hormone receptors. And so let's actually categorize this. So you have hormone receptors on the breast and then you have what's called your growth factor receptors. Now the hormone receptors, there's actually two types here that are really important. The most important one is the estrogen receptor and we're going to represent that as ER. And the other one is the progesterone receptor. The other one for the growth factor receptors is going to be HER2. All right? HER2 or ERB2, but HER2 is the big thing here. Now what happens if these receptors, you increase the number of them? I increase the expression or upregulation of these receptors on the cell membrane. So here we have the estrogen receptors. We'll just use these as estrogen receptors here. So you have some kind of extra extracellular parts, but here you're going to have the intracellular. That's primary the way that these receptors will present. So here, E2, which is going to be the example we used, it can bind here, but most of the time it's going to bind intracellular. And then when it does that, you have this combination of them. And then these will then do what? Well, they'll use this kind of like, you know, receptor ligand complex and then they'll move downwards and they'll bind on to a specific gene in the DNA and increase the expression usually of the cyclin D genes, right? So we know that. And so basically the overall effect that we're going to see from this is that you're going to increase like the cell proliferation. That's going to be a really, really important one via the cyclin dependent kinases, right? You can also potentially see other effects here, which is you can see some decrease in apoptosis as well. So you can even see some decrease in apoptosis from some of these genes because you're trying to cause the cells to proliferate, so therefore you don't want them to die. And this basically allows for increased survival of these tumor cells and cancer cells. So that's one way that we can think about this. If you increase the number of receptors, basically you're increasing this response. So if a patient already has increased estrogen exposure and you increase the number of receptors, you're facilitating this type of process. You're really amplifying it. And that's going to increase the risk of these cancers becoming pretty, pretty rough. If you have an increased estrogen exposure and a lot of receptors to tolerate that increase, you have a recipe for a lot of proliferation in cells that don't die. Her 2 is actually a little bit more scary though. So this is basically for growth factors. And so her 2, if you have a mutation or you increase the expression of these her 2s, they're supposed to bind on to what's called epidermal growth factors. And so epidermal growth factor can bind on to these her 2 receptors. When they bind on to the her 2 receptors, they activate a bunch of different pathways. I don't really want you to go crazy, but it can activate the jack stat pathway. It can activate the RAS, like MAP kinase pathway. So there's a lot of different pathways, but either way, these are going to be kind of like tyrosine kinase receptors where these epidermal growth factors bind on. Causes the tyrosine residues to get phosphorylated and then activates these pathways. And then these pathways will send signals down to the genes, right? And then whenever you do that, you trigger these cells under proliferation to decrease apoptosis. And on top of that, you want a lot of blood flow. So this can even cause a lot of vascular endothelial growth factor to get released from the cell and cause more blood flow, which can cause that tumor to really get a lot of oxygen nutrients and also to metastasize. So this can also increase angiogenesis. The whole point here is that if you have increased expression of those her 2 receptors, basically you're going to stimulate these receptors more intensely. You're going to increase your intracellular signaling pathway. You're going to really activate these genes to cause proliferation, drop in apoptosis, and increase in angiogenesis. This is going to cause these cells to become super, super, super scary. That's the important thing to remember. So let's say that I take a patient who has breast cancer. We diagnose that from their mammography, maybe a combination of ultrasound. We see that it's a suspicious lesion. We say, OK, we got to go on biopsy. We do a corneal biopsy. When we do that corneal biopsy, we send off that tissue to look at it to see if it's lobular or ductal carcinoma. And if it's other kinds of features like pageants or inflammatory breast cancer, we kind of get to the bottom of the type. And then from there, we also want to know which receptor type is most particularly over-expressed because that determines the way that we'll treat them and also determines their prognosis. So let's say here I took a biopsy and I have these different types of cancers. And what I find is I find that I have my different receptors. I have my estrogen receptor, my progesterone receptor, and my HER2. And let's say for this cancer, it's increasing the expression of your hormone receptors. And so they're positive for the estrogen and progesterone, but they're negative. They're not over-expressing the HER2. This is hormone receptor positive.  cancer. This is a specific type of treatment that will give them things like tamoxifen, aromatase inhibitors, luprolide, CD46K inhibitors, things like that. What if I took another tissue and I biopsied it, looked at the immunofenotyping, and I found that their estrogen receptor really wasn't overexpressed, or progesterone receptor wasn't predominantly overexpressed, but the one that really was is the HER2. If that's the case, this is a HER2 positive cancer. This is a very specific type of treatment. It's more aggressive than this one, and this is going to need something like Tristuzumab and maybe even chemotherapy. The last one, this is the scary one. This is the worst prognosis. What if I look at it? I look at the estrogen receptors, the progesterone receptors, the HER2 receptors, and I want to see which ones are overexpressed, but all of these are not overexpressed. This is called triple negative breast cancer. There's different types here. Again, this is our hormone. This is basically the estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, sensitive. This is our HER2. This one, I really want you to know the name of. This one, we call triple negative breast cancer. This has the worst prognosis, very, very, very aggressive. Usually we see this with the BRCA1, BRCA2, P53 mutations. Very important to remember. The big thing to take away from this is this determines prognosis, but again, it also determines the likelihood of these, or it kind of explains to a degree why these cancers are actually arising. What's actually happening? Well, if you have more receptors, they can bind estrogen, they can bind to growth factors, and they can trigger the proliferation, shut down apoptosis, and get a lot of blood flow to them. That's how you get these cancers. All right. Now that we've really talked about all these different aspects of the pathophysiology and how breast cancer arises, we need to now say, how will they present? Let's do that now. All right. Let's now discuss the classic findings of breast cancer. When we think about breast cancer, funny enough, when you say classic findings, I'd say more often than not, breast cancer is usually asymptomatic. It's found on imaging. So that's why we do screening, is unfortunately, during a screening process, we see, oh, there is an abnormal or suspicious lesion that we found on mammography, or we found on ultrasound. Sometimes though, unfortunately, the breast mass, if it becomes large enough, and it's in the right spot, it can cause symptoms to occur. So what are some of those symptoms that you should be readily thinking of? So one is a breast mass. Now, location wise, we already talked about it. It's usually going to be in the upper outer quadrant. So that's going to be the biggest thing is look for the upper outer quadrant to be one of the locations. So again, we kind of like, we cut the breast into different sections here. And when you do that, you're going to find that the most common location is going to be in this vicinity. Now, another thing that's also really important to remember about this breast mass is that usually it's going to be firm. It's going to be palpable. It's going to be usually, most of the time, painless. And so that's something that you want to be thinking about is when we think about the breast mass, it's usually going to be firm. It'll be palpable, and it'll be painless. The only reason I say that most of the time is that you think about inflammatory breast cancer, usually it's not like a mass. It's the entire breast is enlarged. It's swollen. It's really painful in those patients. The next thing to also consider is that whenever these masses, they start to encroach, right? So they start from a duct, they start from a lobby, or they start to expand and invade. When they do, they can start to invade onto these ligaments. Do you guys know what these ligaments are called from your anatomy? They're called the Cooper's ligaments. And if they can enlarge and they get tethered to those Cooper's ligaments, what can happen is it can cause them to generate a little bit more tension because they kind of get shortened. And if they get shortened, they pull. And when they start to pull, what could this do? Well, this could start retracting on the skin or on the nipple. And so that's what you see here is you see that the Cooper's ligaments, so these are your Cooper's ligaments that are kind of getting tethered by these tumors. And that's causing retraction or pulling of the Cooper's ligaments would try to attract the skin or retract the nipple. And so that's what you could start to see here is you could see retracted skin or a retracted nipple. And I think it's important to understand what these look like. So retracted skin looks like this. And then a retracted nipple looks like this. So if we have a patient coming in, they have a palpable breast mass, they come in with a retracted nipple, retracted skin. These are important things to consider. Now, one other thing that I want to talk about is nipple discharge. I'd say that this is something that you can see. It's not as usually common with truly invasive breast cancer. Sometimes what can happen is you can have an intraductal papilloma. And this can kind of ulcerate and it can cause bleeding here. Or pageant's disease can also present like this. So usually it's bloody nipple discharge. It's oftentimes going to be more likely bloody. So bloody nipple discharge. So bloody discharge is a really, really important one to think about. This is oftentimes seen more likely in a patient who has pageants or an intraductal papilloma. So we can write that down here. Really, you're only going to see this one in two different types. You're going to see it in pageants and they'll also have that associated what? Nipple eczema. That's really, really important to remember. Please don't forget that. And the other one is an intraductal papilloma. We'll talk about this a little bit more when we get into OBGYN and some of the other types of like benign appearing breast masses. Now, if a patient has nipple discharge, definitely be thinking about this one. Pageant's disease a little bit easier because you're going to see that nipple eczema associated around it. And again, if you did the skin biopsy around that area, what would you get? Pageant's cells. Pute orange is going to come up on your exam one way or the other. With this one, it's again, you have that tumor that's occurring here. It's a determinable doctor lobular unit. And then it starts to get these tumor microemboli. And these tumor microemboli start to spread and they get into the lymphatics. And whenever they get to the lymphatics, they cause lymphatic obstruction. When you get lymphatic obstruction, we already kind of talked about this. With that lymphatic obstruction comes a lot of backflow of lymphatic fluid. And when you get that backflow of lymphatic fluid, that's going to cause all this swelling to occur. And this is going to cause a very, very enlarged, erythematous, painful occurrence of the breast tissue. And when you look at it, it can have this orange peel-like appearance. It's kind of like a little dimpling that may be evident there. This is what you would see in inflammatory breast cancer. And it looks like this. So we've seen now that if a patient has this type of appearance, where they have the peel to orange, they have the nipple discharge, they have the breast mass, they have the nipple skin retraction, that's important to remember. But again, what did I tell you? Oftentimes, more than not, the patient will come in asymptomatic, they'll get screening, and we'll find the breast mass. With that being said, when a patient has breast cancer, there's a complications that one needs to think about. And the first thing is lymphadenopathy. That's usually the first place. I mean, come on, imagine here, you have a breast cancer that's occurring in the upper outer region of the breast. What is literally right next to it? The axillary lymph nodes, dude. So these tumors cells can actually spread to the axillary lymph nodes. That's going to be the most common. They can spread to the internal mammary lymph nodes. They can spread to the superclavicular and infraclavicular lymph nodes. But by far, most often, axillary lymph nodes are going to be most often affected. The next one, again, I'd say this is way less likely, but you could see them spreading to the internal mammary lymph nodes. And then another area that they could potentially spread is the clavicular ones. And so you can have two different types here. I'll write them all as though as the kind of like one entity, but it's going to be the supra or infraclavicular. Now, out of these, which one is by far going to be the most common? It's going to be the axillary lymph nodes. Now, these can become enlarged, right? So a patient may present with a breast mass, maybe some nipple skin retraction, but then what's the next thing that you want to look for? Look in the axilla to see if there's any large palpable, firm, and usually painless lymph nodes. That's something that you definitely want to be assessing for. And if that happens, that's really, really important because it determines the staging. And it's also really important to know that if you have axillary lymph nodes that are getting hit and involved and they're getting enlarged, you want to know if they're mobile or if they're fixed. And so because the reason why is this kind of also adds to prognosis and staging. So you have to ask yourself the question, is it mobile? That means it's not really as bad, right? Or is it fixed? So that's also really, really, really kind of helpful in thinking about that. So now that we have lymphenopathy is a really, really important thing. This is usually the first area where a cancer can start to metastasize. Other areas of like distant and usually hematogenous metastasis is going to be the brains, bone, liver, and the lungs. So let's say here you have a cancer and again, what's the most common type? It's usually going to be ductile. That's going to be the most common type. And it's going to invade past the basement membrane and it's going to start seeding. When this cancer starts seeding, so here we're just taking a kind of zoomed in look at this cancer. You see how it broke past the basement membrane and it's starting to seed these cells, these cancerous malignant cells into the bloodstream. And from here, they're going to go all over the place, man. These things are just going to go haywire. One area that they're going to go is the brain. When they get to the brain, this is something unfortunately as working in a neuro ICU, you have seen a lot, is that these masses, they get into the brain and they can definitely cause what we would say is brain mets. But one of the big issues with these is that sometimes they can bleed. So you can get the risk of this mass bleeding kind of around that vicinity. So some of the things that I've usually seen with these brain mets from breast cancer or renal cell carcinoma or lung cancer or melanoma or thyroid cancer is that they can bleed. And so one thing that you could see is a mass and these masses do have the potential to do a couple different things. One is they can bleed and they can become an intracranial hemorrhage. Another thing is that usually these masses can be near the cortex and so they alter the cortical activity. So they increase the risk of seizures and also they increase your intracranial pressure. So these are the things that you get worried about when you have this mass that's kind of like in these areas is you can get an ICH, right? You can get seizures or you can get a bump in the intracranial pressure. And so seizures are obviously pretty simple to see how they would present. ICH they could present with focal neural deficits and headache and increased ICP they can present with headache, nausea, vomiting. So these are definitely things to be thinking about. Also they could present with focal neural deficits too. And so you can see how this can become problematic when you have what we refer to as brain mets. Now these are pretty sad and oftentimes we'll find this of a patient has breast cancer and they present with headache, nausea, vomiting, blurred vision, they present with seizures, they present with a bleed and therefore present with focal neural deficits or let's just add this on it's confining an area where normal tissue is supposed to be and you can get focal neural deficits. If they present with these symptoms you need to get imaging. And so what we would oftentimes do is we would say oh this is definitely not normal we need to proceed with a brain MRI with contrast. Find that mass and say oh dang it it's metastasized to the brain and that changes the management. Another thing is that these tumor cells, these dang pesky tumor cells, they can get into the bone. When you get bone mets the problem with this is is they like to activate you know these cells here what are these cells here these are your bone eating cells what are these called your osteoclasts right so these are called your osteoclasts. These cells will activate the osteoclasts they can see create osteoclasts activating factor they can do a lot of different things there may be other kind of cytokines but these osteoclasts will start chewing away at the bone and when they chew away at the bone they liberate calcium and they lead to lesions and so you can get these things called lidic lesions and you can also get hypercalcemia and so that's another thing that you want to be watching out for is does the patient have any hypercalcemia do they have the presence of lidic lesions. So with lidic lesions they can present a couple different ways one of the concerns is that with lidic lesions what can they do well if that happens to a bone and you start eating away at the bone you're going to cause pain right so that's a couple ways that they can present one is they can present with pain bone pain another thing is that this bone now is eaten apart and you got chunks missing out of this dude you know it could fracture dude it could fracture so you can get pathological fractures the other concern is that if these lidic lesions are near the vertebrae so a really scary area is when you get what's called spinal met and these spinal mints give you like these lidic lesions these dudes man they cause pain obviously but one of the concerning signs is that if it's enough in that area that it can start to compress on the spinal cord so that's where I usually would get worried is the spinal cord compression so you could have a patient coming in and they're presenting signs are going to be you know that they have weakness in their lower extremities they have urinary incontinence or they have fecal incontinence they have loss of sensation down there and so these are definitely concerning features from these these lidic lesions so that's something I would want to watch out for as a patient presenting with a lot of bone pain they're presenting with history of pathological fractures I get imaging I see spinal mats or I see lesions all over the dang place or they come in and they present with like a caudoquina syndrome kind of thing that's scary another thing I would also consider is that whenever you break down bone and you get a lot of bone cell turnover there's an enzyme that's released this is called alkaline phosphatase and so that's another one where if you have alkylphos that's really really elevated in combination with calcium you can think about a malignancy there as well but if I see the presence of these bone mats then usually what you got to do is you got to go as far as to say okay I need to consider for this patient I got to go far and really evaluate them with what's called a bone scan so then I got to get a bone scan and sometimes we'll just get like a CT scan of their chest abdomen and pelvis and you'll probably find these lidic lesions by doing that work up now if these puppies metastasize to the lungs you know then you get these kind of lesions that occur usually near like the the bronchi and stuff like that and in some of the lung tissue near the periphery like near the pleura and so oftentimes if it's near like the bronchi you can kind of compress on the bronchus and so you know these symptoms are usually super vague but you can get things like cough and dyspnea so that could be one thing I'd say the the other thing is that if a patient keeps getting pleural effusions so you get inflammation right or this deposition near the this malignancy near the pleura you can definitely cause increased capillary permeability here and so this can definitely cause pleural effusions pretty like recurrent ones so pleural effusions and a patient who has like underlying history of breast cancer I definitely consider has it spread and so usually for this we'd have to go as far as to say okay we got to look for this let's get a chest CT really to find this and then finally these these dang pesky tumor cells man these little puppies they can deposit here and they can get all up in the liver all up in that sun gun and when they do that it usually doesn't do too much it may make the liver a little bit bigger maybe a little bit of a pattern of megalithia but oftentimes they're not really symptomatic if it is big enough and if it's affecting liver tissue sometimes you may see a bump in their LFTs but I'd say that that's not always going to be the case it may be a little bit mild bump in the LFTs but oftentimes I'm telling you you get an imaging for one of these things because usually what happens is for this you get like a CT of the chest abdomen pelvis and you may find these you know these lesions here so this is where you may progress and say okay let me get a CT of the abdomen and pelvis so the whole point here is like looking for metastasis and we don't order these tests unless they present with symptoms because it's unnecessary just like for axillary lymph node involvement guess what the only way that we truly want to know is if they have lymph node involvement is we biopsy that and so usually what happens is we'll talk about this a little bit later we can do something for these patients called sentinel lymph node biopsies and so for example if I have an axillary lymph node that I'm really really concerned is is really it's inflamed it's bigger it's larger sometimes what we can do is and we'll talk about this we do something called we'll do what's called a sentinel lymph node biopsy so there's two different types you can do what's called a sentinel lymph node biopsy or an axillary lymph node dissection to really see if these axillary lymph nodes have a lot of tumor cells in them all right so these are the things that we'll talk about as we get into our diagnostics which is super crucial so let's do that now and really say how do I put all of this together how do I really look for those patients who are high risk and screen before they have these symptoms or these classic findings what if I have a person who comes in with classic findings or complications how do I really get to the diagnosis of it once I've diagnosed it how do I know the receptor types how do I know what to do with these patients and how do I stage them that's what we got to talk about all right my friends let's move into the diagnostic approach now so we got to put everything together everything we talk about on the whiteboard let's really have a good way of summarizing it so the first thing you always got to be getting a history and physical you got to ask the good questions you want to know particular things because it determines their risk so you're going to be on the computer you're going to be plugging these things in you want to know okay do you have any family history of breast cancer oh you do okay cool um do you have any personal history of breast cancer okay let's put that down as another risk factor okay do you have any bracket mutations we see this a lot in the Ashkenazi Jewish population right that's another potential risk factor did you have an early menstrual cycle oh you did okay did you have late menopause all right it's another one and then the other thing is that if you ever had a baby no all right so null parity that also adds risk and so there's all these different things that become a big big ball of risk that we plug into something called the tyrolyphusic score and it spits out a number or percentage and tells us where the patient falls if they're average or high risk so that's one thing we have to think about the physical exam is going to be key obviously the patient we should be in examining themselves if they notice any kind of abnormalities they should come to a doctor and say hey this is what I'm noticing when you physically evaluate them do you see or palpate a breast mass do you see any nipple or skin retraction anywhere in the vicinity of that mass is there any discharge that's either intermittent or while you're there do you notice any diffusorathema edema hot tender those could be a potentially mastitis so then what you do is you start them on antibiotic they don't get better oh could this be inflammatory breast cancer that's a classic clinical vignette and do they have any nipple eczema that just doesn't seem to go away that could be pageant's disease right so these are all things that you're thinking about so what you want to know is does their physical exam suggest any classic presentation clues if it does and they have any of the things that we just talked about you go straight to diagnostic imaging you're trying to figure out is there a lesion that supports these symptoms if they're less than 30 because of the more density of the breast tissue the likelihood of seeing cysts or fibroidonomous probably better to go with the targeted breast ultrasound but if they're 30 or plus that if you can get enough primarily with a diagnostic mammogram and you could consider agon adding in a targeted breast ultrasound as well but again less than 30 ultrasound greater than equal to 30 it's going to be a diagnostic mammoth that's the way I want you guys to think about this for the exam now if a patient does not have symptoms but they have all those big risk factors and you plug it into the tyroquusic assessment and it spits out a percentage that's high greater than equal to 20 percent that's a high risk patient man we gotta we gotta do something where we gotta do screening mammograms to see if we can find these masses but we want to go a little bit better and so we're gonna add in a breast MRI and that's really only for your high risk patients and then on top of that we're gonna screen them per guidelines which is it's going to be earlier than most patients and it's going to be more frequently than most average risk patients now if they fall within the average risk of less than 20 percent we just do a screening mammogram we don't need the MRI and we can do things a little bit differently we don't need to screen them every single year for a long time so let's discuss what these screening guidelines truly mean so it's funny enough in 2024 I think it was like late maybe not it was either September October the USPSTF actually came out with new guidance it used to be 50 to 75 years of age we'd screen them every two years and then stop at greater than 75 now it changed and so now they're going earlier so this is the most commonly tested one is USPSTF they say 40 to 75 stop at greater than 75 and do it every two years ACS is kind of stuck with their guidelines that you go 45 to 54 every year so it'll be aggressive up front and then once we get to greater than 55 we'll go to every two years and you stop when you think that less than 10 years of life is expected in that patient obviously this could be based upon just if they're an 85-year-old patient can they still get breast cancer yeah but do they also have congestive heart failure do they have other potential things that are going on that potentially could shorten their lifespan and it's not going to make truly that much of a difference all right then we probably shouldn't even do any of these assessments because we're going to find something and then do nothing about and and then just kind of expose them to unnecessary risk and that's why we kind of stop at that age range now high risk we got to be aggressive we got to catch this thing early so we do MRIs breast MRIs at like 25 years of age and then once it gets to 30 we do add on the mammogram and that's why I want you guys to remember we're doing this every single year so the big numbers is USPSTF 40 to 75 stop at greater than 75 every two years high risk breast MRI at 25 annually once you get to 30 add in the mammogram annually all right now from here the next thing is once we've found these lesions let's say that we get the mammogram we get the MRI we get the ultrasound they show some concerning findings usually a buy rad scores always reported by a radiologist on these and so a buy rads of zero probably just means it was like not conclusive wasn't a good image you should probably just repeat it usually when you get to like one to three it's like yeah it's likely but not but it does carry a risk of malignancy probably just screen them a little like scan them again a little bit and like maybe six months three months if it's really concerning but if it's greater than or equal to four that's high risk of malignancy and you can't ignore that you can't just like wait and say hey we'll come back we'll screen you in a little bit later no you got a biopsy this right so if you see things like on the ultrasound where you see I'd appreciate here a hypocholic lesion next to the nipple and then down here we're actually kind of taking a better look at it you can see this is a little bit more concerning this is definitely an ultrasound that shows a kind of hypocholic lesion that could be suspicious for breast mass especially a malignant one and then here we can appreciate in the MRI you can see that kind of like this coin shaped lesion pretty bright opacity that you can appreciate that's pretty suspicious as well so if they reported that this would come out as a greater than or equal to four then you got to go to the next step which is biopsy in that mass so you're going to do a coronetal biopsy the benefit of this is going to tell you the type of breast cancer that we discussed is an invasive ductal carcinoma lobular carcinoma ductal carcinoma and situ inflammatory breast cancer pageant cells do they have estrogen receptor progression receptor over expression do they have her to over expression do they have no expression all of these things come into play when you get that coronetal biopsy so that's why it's so clutch so you're going to go ahead do an ultrasound find it over the mass once you find the mass you're going to stick a needle down and take out a chunk of that tissue that you're going to send off to histopathology pathologist is going to take his you know things you're going to look under his oh yeah okay I see everything it is going to be if it's a tumor confined to the ducts and hasn't broken past the basement membrane that's dcis right ductal carcinoma and situ if it's in the ducts and then it's actually broken outside of the basement membrane then that's an invasive ductal carcinoma this is the most common 80% of the time it's this one if it's in the lobules and it's broken past that then that's when we get the lobular carcinoma and situ right but here we can appreciate before we actually do that look you can see here here's going to be the duct you can see a mass confined to that kind of extending outside of it and here's the lobules right so this is going to be the invasive ductal carcinoma and the next one was again if you see it in the lobules invading the basement membrane that's invasive lobular carcinoma so I'd expect it to be in one of these guys and so here you can see it's kind of like enlarged there all right next one is if I see tumor cells that are in the dermal lymphatics is kind of spread throughout the chest wall the skin the dermal lymphatics this is pretty much like pathodontics for somewhat for the inflammatory breast cancer so kind of you know showing this is kind of indicative of that and the last one is if it's kind of confined to the nipple the skin the areolar area that we do biops and we found these things called pageant cells that'd be concerning for pageant's disease of the nipple all right so these are ways that we can determine and kind of the the overall type of breast cancer but that's not always like super helpful what is helpful is the immunohistochemistry so I want to look at the tissue cells in that tumor and say hey what kind of receptors are they overexpressing and so if I see estrogen receptor progesteral receptors that are really really overexpressed but not any HER2 that's hormone receptor positive breast cancer so ERPR positive breast cancer if I see that they have no ERPR positive but they have lots of HER2 expression that's HER2 positive breast cancer the reason why this is so important to remember is because this is different therapies we can do tamoxifen if they're premenopausal we can do aromatase inhibitors if they're postmenopausal if they're getting really towards the like end stages where they're getting really really bad like stage four we can add on things so we can do things like adding on CD4, K4, 6 inhibitors which I'll talk to you guys a little bit about we can do LH, RH, agonist like luprolide so there is alternative options here that we'll discuss when it comes to HER2 we really only have one drug and that's Tristuzumab you can do chemotherapy sometimes but Tristuzumab is going to be the one that they'll test you on the exam so you see HER2 anywhere I think Tristuzumab now ERPR negative and HER2 negative tells me that none of the receptors all three of these receptors are negative that's called triple negative breast cancer this is a very aggressive one HER2 positive breast cancer and triple negative breast cancer have a very high risk of recurrence they're aggressive they're nasty ones so we just really want to be able to identify that now if a patient has breast cancer and they're pretty young less than 45 that brings about a concern of like them having a genetic you know susceptibility to this like a BRCA or a TP53 mutation like leaf or mini syndrome if they have triple negative breast cancer that also carries the risk of a BRCA mutation of some type of like genetic problem and I think a really big one is a strong family history right so strong family history where multiple first-degree relatives or relatives in that kind of like chain or generation have recurrent episodes or episodes of breast cancer so that's something I would actually go ahead and get genetic studies for I would test for BRCA1 and BRCA2 I would test to see if they're coming back positive the reason why is not only do these carry the risk of breast cancer they carry the risk of ovarian cancer as well a lot of patients will talk about later they may elect if they know that they have these to do a bilateral mastectomy to remove the breast and a bilateral subhingal ovarectomy to remove the ovaries just because they want to reduce their risk completely of developing breast and ovarian cancer if they have the TP53 mutation that could suggest leaf or mini syndrome we see that these patients have risk of not just breast cancer but like lymphoma leukemia they have adrenal cortical carcinomas they have sarcomas and so these are really really important to remember as well a lot of times we can even do these things called an oncotype it's a little bit beyond the scope of like what you'll need to know for the step two but the oncotype diagnosis can kind of help us to guide how we'll treat patients with adjuvant chemotherapy and so it really kind of helps us to say okay we should we should kind of modify our therapy plan because their oncotype diagnosis diagnosis tells us this now either way after we've done genetic testing it's just telling us is there hereditary is there a familiar is there a genetic potential cause to this that I need to address that's what it's going to tell me but from here I've diagnosed breast cancer I've determined the type of breast cancer I've determined the receptor type of breast cancer I've taken the time to consider could there be a genetic cause to this patient's breast cancer what's the next thing to determine what's the stage of the breast cancer and so the first thing I got to do is go back to my imaging and assess the tumor size and look at the T for the T and m staging is it less than two centimeters that's T1 that doesn't necessarily determine the stage but it helps us is it two to five that's T2  is it potentially greater than 5 centimeters? That's T3. And then lastly is it invaded the chest wall, the skin. And that's T4. And this is all really helpful because it's gonna come into play at the end to tell us what type of stage this patient falls in. All right, so here we can have a less than 2 centimeter. Here's 2 to 5, here's greater than 5, and here we got a decent sized mass, but it's kind of all over the place. And the chest wall and the skin, that's something that we gotta think about. Now, from here, we've determined the size. Next thing we need to know is the lymph nodes. Are any of the lymph nodes enlarged? Or they have lymph adenopathy? Because if you can palpate those, great. If you can't, you don't know that those tumor cells haven't spread from the breast to the axillary or the clivicular nodes yet. And so what we'll do is we'll do something called a sentinel lymph node biopsy. We often do this during a lumpectomy. So we're in there, we're cutting out the tumor, and then what we'll get ready to do is we'll say, okay, here's the tumor. What I wanna do is I wanna take a radiotracer dye and inject it into the tumor and see which lymph nodes it goes to. And I wanna take that lymph node, right? So I'm gonna inject it in, I'm gonna see where the radiotracer goes. Okay, it goes into these lymph nodes. Let me test these lymph nodes. And then what I wanna know is, do any of the lymph nodes have tumor cells in them? Because if they do, that's concerning. But I need to have a specific number. And if it's three or more of those lymph nodes that are just infiltrated with tumor cells, aw, shoot, son. We gotta cut these puppies out. So we gotta do an axillary lymph node dissection. So again, no nodes that are palpated, sentinel lymph node biopsy, usually done during the lumpectomy. Inject it, see where it goes, test it. Oh, we got tumor. Boom, we gotta cut them out. Especially if there's three or more. The next thing is if they do have palpable nodes, you probably wanna test those to make sure that they're actually consistent with breast cancer. And they don't have some kind of other cause. And so we'll actually do a core needle biopsy on those and see if they come back with tumor cells. What you wanna know is how many kind of nodes are being involved. And so the way that we kinda do this is we say, do they have one to three axillary nodes involved? This is very arbitrary, but if they do, it's called N1. Do they have potentially four plus axillary nodes involved? That's N2. And the last one is we say, do they have any clavicular nodes, like super clavicular, infraclavicular nodes involved? Okay, that's N3. And the reason why is we've now developed the T, we've got the N, the last part is the M. And so from here, all I wanna know is, is there distant metastasis. Has this cancer gotten through the bloodstream and spread to the other areas? Like the brain, the lungs, the adrenal glands, the bone, that's what I wanna know. And so we often look for symptoms. So do they have a headache? Do they have focal neural deficits on one potential side? Do they have a new onset seizure? You gotta get a brain MRI, man. You gotta look to see, do they have a mass? And if you see something like this, you're like, ah! You got brain mets all over the place, man. This is something that would be very, very concerning for a metastatic disease. And that would probably be in this case, in this patient scenario, from their primary breast tumor. The next thing is if they have presentation of bone pain and maybe some pathological fractures, you check their calcium levels through the roof because they're having lots of osteolysis. You check their out-foss, that's high because there's lots of bone cell turnover. Maybe the tumor even got near the spinal cord and it's extra-dural and it's mashing on the spinal cord and they got some neuro deficits or they have some weakness, some peristegias, they have fecal urinary incontinence. These are all things that we gotta be concerned about. So we get bone scans oftentimes. And look to see, do we see any big radio tracer uptake? Oh yeah, I got multiple areas here in the spine that it's getting taken up from. And that's another common area that the breast cancers like to go to, to the bone. All right, a paddle megalee increased LFTs. This is something that's probably not often you're gonna see. It's probably incidental that you're getting a CT scan for the patient of their chest, maybe their abdomen, their pelvis, and you happen to find some hepatic lesions that could be present. But if they do complain of like right upper quadruped pain, their liver feels a little enlarged, you're getting some baseline labs and you find that their LFTs are bumped, I would get the CT abdomen pelvis and see if you find any hepatic mets. This is a really big one to find as well. All right, and the last one is do they have any cough, dyspnea, recurrent pleural effusions that just you keep tapping and draining and it's not getting better? That's something I'd be really, really concerned about, especially even like homoptysis too, about getting a CT chest to see if they got any mets that spread from their primary breast cancer to their lungs, all right? This is a really big one. You can see they got tons of these all over the place. All right, so these are all really things that make me think about metastatic breast cancer. So we've determined the type of breast cancer, we even diagnosed breast cancer based off the coronetal biopsy, we determined the type and we determined the receptor type off of that. We then looked at the size of it based upon the T, we then looked if there's any node involvement and I can really do that by palpating if I have palpable ones, biopsy, those of I don't have them sent in a lymph node biopsy, and then scans based upon symptoms to see if it's spread. From here now, I've determined the T and M stage. So it's kind of like take and put this all together. If I really say that a patient has ductal carcinoma and situ or there's stage zeroes, which we kind of say, then the tumor is not really something that you're looking at the size of it, you're looking to see if it's confined to the ducts. If it is, that's ductal carcinoma and situ. But stage one, that tumor size usually less than or equal to two centimeters. So that would be consistent with this one. The node involvement though, you shouldn't see really any node involvement with stage zero or stage one. So they're not gonna have any node involvement. If we go to stage two, now let's think about it, what's the next size, two to five. So now we got a tumor that's about two to five centimeters. Do we have any node involvement? Well, it could. And usually at this one, it's about one to three axillary nodes that are usually involved. If I have that, that's N1, right? And that's gonna be suggestive of stage two. When I get to stage three, this could be greater than five centimeters, right? Or it could be a tumor that's invaded the skin, the chest wall, it's more diffuse. That's very common of inflammatory breast cancer. Nodes, well now we gotta go N0 and N1, guess what N2 is? N2 is if they're getting to like, greater than or equal to four axillary lymph nodes. Or any clavicular nodes, right? So we can have an N2 and an N3 here. That's gonna be your stage three. Stage four is really easy. And the reason why is any of these, stage zero, one, two, three, they shouldn't have any distant metastasis. But guess what stage four has? Stage four, we don't care really what size it is if they had node involvement. That doesn't matter as much. What matters is did it spread to a distant organ. And so that's why I want you to think about these breast cancers again. If it's less than or equal to two and they have no node involvement, that could be stage one. If it's two to five, one to three nodes, that's gonna be stage two. If it's five centimeters or greater or it's invading the skin in the chest wall and they have any kind of N2 and three multiple, four plus axillary nodes, clavicular nodes, it's stage three. And lastly, if they have distant metastasis, it's instant stage four. This is the one that you can probably get tested on because it's the one that's pretty obvious, all right? Now, really, really important node because this is another thing that I'd like to do is because when you think about inflammatory breast cancer, it is a tumor that usually is diffuse. It's widespread and involves the skin, the dermal lymphatics, lots of different parts of the chest wall and the breast. So whenever a patient has inflammatory breast cancer on diagnosis, it's stage three, always. Make sure that you remember that. Inflammatory breast cancer is always stage three upon diagnosis. All right, so we've diagnosed breast cancer. At this point, we then need to say, how do we treat it? Well, there's so many different therapies and oftentimes we can look at this a couple of different ways and we'll put it together at the end. So targeted therapies, you're looking at really trying to target estrogen is really the key thing. Tamoxifen is a really beneficial one, especially in those who are premenopausal. And so the concept behind this is that when a patient has androgens, right? Androgens usually can get converted into estrogen and this is gonna be helpful to remember because estrogen, then what it does is, it actually binds on to a receptor, right? And this is usually inside of the cell. So this is actually the plasma membrane, this is gonna be the nucleus. There's gonna be a receptor, probably intranuclear receptor, or at least some type of intracylic receptor for estrogen. It's gonna bind on to that estrogen receptor. What it's gonna do then is it's gonna help to activate a specific cyclin enzyme, cyclin D1. When it activates this enzyme, that then is gonna be really, really important because it couples with another one called CDK, cyclin dependent kinase 4-6, who then phosphorylates other different types of proteins. One of them is called RB, retinoblastoma protein. When it phosphorylates this protein, that protein gets rid of E2F. E2F is a very powerful transcription factor that stimulates the cell cycle to undergo the proliferative phase, to go from G1 to Gs, I mean to G1 to S to G2, and to go through mitosis and to split and make a cell. So it's gonna trigger that cell proliferation response. When you give a drug like Tamoxifen or even one like Rheloxaphen, what they do is they block the estrogen receptor. So if estrogen is present, it's blocking it. That blocks the cyclin D1 signaling. That blocks this phosphorylation reaction. This blocks this transcription factor from triggering the cell cycle, and now you're not gonna have that cell proliferation. Aromatase inhibitors, which are commonly utilized in post-menopausal women. So these here are gonna be beneficial because what they're going to do is they're going to shut down this pathway. So aromatase inhibitors are gonna be things like letrasol and nastrasol, and they're going to inhibit the conversion of androgens into estrogen. That means less estrogen to bind onto the estrogen receptor. That means less of that cyclin D1 pathway. That means less phosphorylation. That means less E2F release. That means less of this cell proliferation. So this is gonna be something I really need you guys to remember. Really important for you guys to remember these. Now, what do we use them for? Again, we use them in patients who have ERPR positive breast cancer. They have lots of estrogen receptors, progesterone receptors that they're very sensitive to, and you're gonna try to block that pathway. Another thing to think about is we can use this in chemo prevention. So patients who have a high risk of breast cancer, they get that greater than or equal to 20% thyroid cues score. We could actually put them on this because it may slow the progression of that disease. So that's something that we can think about and slow the risk of it actually causing high estrogen exposure leading to cell proliferation, leading to the risk of mutation and malignant transformation. So that's why we can consider these, especially again, sticking with the pre-menopausal and post-menopausal separations. CDK4-6 inhibitors, you can imagine where that's gonna go. That's gonna go right here, right? This is gonna be, I wouldn't even try to say this name. I can't even say the name thing, but, palbocyclib, all right? So these ones, you're not gonna be tested too often on them. Often if you get a name like this, you're probably gonna see more likely the drug category, the CDK4-6 inhibitors. But these are gonna be drugs that I want you guys to remember particularly as an add-on. And what they're gonna do is they're gonna inhibit the CDK4 and 6. And when they inhibit this enzyme, that's going to inhibit the phosphorylation process. If you don't phosphorylate retinoblastoma, you don't release the E2F, you don't then trigger the cell proliferation. So you stop and stunt that cell proliferation process. All right, so these are drugs that I think are usually good as an add-on. All right, so if a patient has a metastatic ERP or positive breast cancer, this is one that you would add on. Usually you add it on to an aromatase inhibitor, all right? So if a patient has metastatic breast cancer that's ERP or positive, we'll put them on letrosol, which you can see here to block this pathway. And we'll put them on CDK4 and 6 inhibitors, which are going to inhibit this pathway. And that kind of provides a mutually benefited action. Now, one other important note that I didn't mention is relaxaphing. It also is mentioned in the textbooks that relaxaphing can be used as a chemo-preventative agent, but we use it as an alternative to aromatase inhibitors and post-menopausal women, not pre-menopausal. Tamoxifen is the only one for chemo-prevention pre-menopausal, aromatase inhibitors, and relaxaphing, which has the same mechanism as tamoxifen, which is kind of interesting, is going to be for post-menopausal women, chemo-prevention. All right, so that covers this. So again, we got all of these drugs and how they work in this process. These two, ERP or positive breast cancer, chemo-prevention, this one, add on to the aromatase inhibitor and the metastatic ERP or positive breast cancer. And relaxaphing can be an alternative to this guy and post-menopausal women who you want chemo-prevention. Now, LHRH agonist, this is gonna be things like loop relied. It's also good in ERP or positive breast cancer. Again, usually patients who have that high risk and again, they're pre-menopausal. So this is something that I would add to tamoxifen. So pre-menopausal, tamoxifen. So this would be an add-on if they're really at that ERP or positive breast cancer. High risk and the pre-menopausal, I'll add this one on to tamoxifen. The concept behind this one's actually kind of interesting. So here you have the hypothalamus and make something called GnRH. GnRH then stimulates the pituitary gland to make something called luteinizing hormone, which goes to the testes and males and triggers testosterone production, which then goes to the prostate where it can be converted to UV into what's called DHT and DHT is really helpful for the prostate growth, right? The other one is gonna be follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone. And these really go to the ovaries where they'll stimulate the ovaries to make things like estrogen and progesterone. But estrogen is the primary one. And then estrogen will go to the breast and the breast is gonna be really, really critical here, right? So whenever you give someone what's called an LHRH agonist, you're acting like GnRH. Another name for this is a GnRH agonist. And so what it's gonna do is it's going to stimulate the pituitary gland to increase the production of luteinizing hormone, to increase the production of FSH and LH. When you do that, and we're focusing here on the female side, it's going to then tell the ovary to increase the production of estradiol. And in males, it would increase the production of testosterone. The whole point here is that in this scenario, it's gonna create a high level which creates a negative feedback mechanism. The reason why this is in both is because you can use this drug in prostate cancer and in breast cancer. Because it's gonna shut down these hormonal pathways. It's like a chemical castration for males. And it's basically shutting down the estrogen pathway in females in a sense. So now watch what happens. When they're elevated, it's going to then do negative feedback and shut down that pathway. Negative feedback, shut down that pathway. So now that you've done that, what's gonna happen to the luteinizing hormone in the FSH levels? It should drop. And if they drop, what happens to the testosterone in males and the estradiol in females? It drops. If your estradiol levels drop, what's that gonna do? It's gonna cause less proliferation in the breast, less chance of that tumor getting any worse and bigger. That's the benefit of this. And it's the same thing for males who have prostate cancer. If they have really, really advanced prostate cancer, we'll put them on LHRH agonists. Because what it's gonna do is it's gonna shut down the testosterone and that's gonna reduce the recurrent and consistent growth of that tumor. While we also consider other therapies for that patient. Usually in states like where they're not metastatic, radical prostatectomies is usually the option. All right. So that's what I want you guys to think about here is again, LHRH agonists is an add-on to tamoxifen in certain cases like ERPR positive breast cancer. Tristuzumab, the big thing is just you hear this, you gotta think HER2 positive breast cancer. HER2 positive breast cancer, we're giving Tristuzumab. The concept behind this is here you have a breast cancer cell and you have a HER2 receptor. When this thing's active, it's sending tons and tons of different pathways to cause cell replication. So many. Your goal is to give a drug that blocks that receptor. And by doing that, what you're hopefully doing is you're basically telling these receptors to get internalized and get broken down. So now you have less of them exposed. You're also gonna stimulate apoptotic pathway so that the cell can die. And then on top of that, you're also going to shut down the cell replication process so that that breast cancer cell stops continuing to grow. So you're either going to lower the receptors, kill the cell or stop it from continuously replicating. That's the draw of Tristuzumab. Now, Pembrolizumab is another one that we can consider. It's usually in triple negative breast cancer. So we'll check the PDL1 and see if they have that high PDL1 kind of activity. And that's really gonna play a big role in how we're going to treat this patient, right? So Pembrolizumab is really gonna be something that we give chemotherapy and Pembrolizumab for triple negative breast cancer. Now, Pembrolizumab is kind of cool. It's an immune checkpoint inhibitor. So here let's say you have a tumor cell and here's a T cell. T cells will interact with tumor cells via a T cell receptor. And on the tumor cell, they should have an MHC complex that expresses an antigen. Now what happens is this T cell, it wants to be active and it wants to start killing this tumor cell that appears that it's abnormal or foreign. But what happens is the tumor cells express something called PDL1. And if that PDL1 interacts with the PD1 that's present on the T cell, it shuts the T cell down and it can't kill that tumor cell. What I wanna do is I wanna give something that either binds to one of these two and so that they can't interact with one another and it can't shut down the T cell, keeps the T cell active and that T cell is gonna start fucking beating the snot out of the tumor cell. And so that's what we do. We give a drug that binds to the PD1. It's an anti-PD1 inhibitor. It's Pembrolizumab. When it binds, these two can interact. T cells like, all right, Floyd Monday made the weather's in the house, but boom! And it's going to explode this cell, right? So that's the concept I want you guys to remember. Now, PARP inhibitors is not a common one that we actually talk about much for the exams. All I really want you to know is we really only give it in patients who have BRCA positive breast cancer. Concept behind this is that usually with these patients who have breast cancer or any kind of person who gets cancer, there's always a risk that they have breakage in the DNA and they have to repair it. And if they don't repair it or if there's a problem with that, you're gonna have issues. BRCA plays a really, really big role in repair. So if you get a single-stranded DNA break, PARP enzymes are supposed to come in and help to repair that. Well, if I give a drug that then, let's say, we get a break, PARP is supposed to come in, but I give a PARP inhibitor that comes in and blocks that. Can I allow me to fix that single-stranded break? No, so then guess what ends up happening? You end up with double-stranded DNA breaks. This is even more catastrophic. Because what happens here is that if a patient did have normal mismatch repair genes or they had DNA repair genes and they could fix a lot of this kind of issue, then cool. We'll be okay and the cell will survive. If they have good BRCA genes, they don't have mutations in them, right? So if they have the ability to cause what's called homologous recombination repair, then they'll be okay. The cell will survive. But if they don't have the ability because they have mutations in their BRCA1 and BRCA2, guess what? They can't do that homologous recombination repair. And then that leads to death of the cell in this case. So that's what I want you guys to remember here is that we're giving something to hopefully kill that cell who doesn't have that ability to fix the DNA. All right? And that's when we give this to a patient who has metastatic breast cancer with BRCA1, BRCA2 mutations. Now chemotherapy is something that we give to these patients as well. And it's usually neo-adjuvant, meaning that we give it before a particular therapy like surgery or even before radiation therapy. And that's usually stage three breast cancer. And because you want to try to shrink the tumor the best that you can before you go to do the surgery. Adjuvant chemo-therapies, you're doing it after a particular set of therapy. So you're doing it after surgery, after radiation therapy, maybe even in combination with targeted therapies. You're doing this in patients who have breast cancer that got treated with a lumpectomy or a mastectomy, radiation therapy. And they're on a targeted therapy, but they have a high risk of recurrence. And you want to try to kill some of those, like micrometastases, kill some of those remaining cells, tumor cells to prevent recurrence. This is usually any patient with triple negative breast cancer, any patient with HER2 positive breast cancer, you're giving them adjuvant chemotherapy. All right? Now, the specific agents I don't think are super critical, but they are going to be kind of things like anthracyl cleans, like doxorubicin or taxanes, like passothaxyl. All right? So these are things that I want you guys to consider as neo-adjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy. It'll all come together because we're going to put all of this together in a nice table. The next thing is surgical intervention. Obviously, this is the best case scenario for anything from like, you know, stage zero. So ductal carcinoma and cytotin, all the way up to like stage two. We can kind of like cure this with minimal kind of invasive strategies. So what's called a lumpectomy. And so it's going to cut tissue, but it's not going to cut out the entire breast. It's breast conserving. And this is really good for ductal carcinoma in situ or stage one and two breast cancer. Because you're finding where the tumor is, you're going to make an incision, you're going to pull out that tumor and you're going to suture it up. Done. That would be the best case scenario. But if you get to where it's a bigger tumor, it's more involved, it's getting into the, you know, a little bit more diffuse, then we might have to unfortunately go to a mastectomy. All right. And so that's when we get into like usually stage three. Stage three breast cancer, we're probably going to the route of a mastectomy unless you still can conserve it. Usually if you get like a diffuse tumor that's all over the place, are a really, really big one, there's not much to conserve. Especially in these kinds of scenarios where they have lots of node involvement too. You may just have to go the route of doing mastectomy. All right. And these could be like you're just cutting out the actual breast tissue itself and leaving the nodes. Or it could be very radical and you're cutting out the breast tissue and cutting out the nodes and even some of the muscle tissue. And then there's even a nipple sparing mastectomy where you can still kind of do like a total mastectomy, but you're just sparing the nipple tissue itself. So these are different ways that we can try to cut out the tumor and also just reduce any kind of remaining tumor that resides after that. So that's our goal in stage three. Now bilateral mastectomy sounds pretty aggressive, but we do consider this as a prophylactic option and patients who have BRCA1, BRCA2 mutations, you can do a bilateral mastectomy because yeah, you do carry that risk. And so cutting them would definitely reduce that risk, but you also have the risk of ovarian cancer. And so these patients also consider opting for a bilateral supengle opherectomy where they remove the breast and then with the supengle opherectomy, they remove the ovaries and the fallopian tubes to reduce the entire risk of ovarian cancer as well. So that's kind of the really, really aggressive route that some patients will go if they have BRCA1, BRCA2 mutations. Now we talked a little bit about sentinel lymph node biopsies that it's in the diagnostic section where if a patient doesn't have palpable nodes, we're going and doing a lumpectomy. During that process, we're also doing a sentinel lymph node biopsy to see if some of the tumor cells spread to the nearby nodes that we don't see. And if they do, we go about that, right? But this is a test again where you're doing it during a lumpectomy or during the surgical procedure where you're going to inject that dye, look to see if it's spread. Okay, found the node. Let me go ahead and check this, see if there's any tumors in there. All the tumors in there. Okay, we're going to have to do an axillary lymph node dissection if there's a bunch of them, three or more. With that being said, axillary lymph node dissection, really the reason why we would go to this one is you got tons and tons of nodes that come up positive on sentinel lymph node biopsy or your stage three. Because at that point, you probably have four to 10 axillary nodes, that are involved at that point. So that's a really, really big one. And inflammatory breast cancer is most likely going to be very diffused. It's going to involve the dermal lymphatics. So you're going to want to take those out as well. All right, and so again, you're kind of just taking and you're literally cutting away axillary nodes. So you're showing here the kind of lymphatics where there's the axillary going in to the area of the armpit. You can appreciate some nerves and vessels that you want to be careful with, especially the long thoracic nerve. You don't want to hit that one, especially during this process. You can end up with winging of the scapula and things like that. There is a lot of different risk with this one, but the goal is to try to cut out as much to the axillary nodes as possible. So this is the surgical interventions that we talked about. All right, so the next thing I want to talk about is radiation therapy. So when we use radiation therapy, it's primarily adjuvant. It's not anything that we usually ever do neo-adjuvant, meaning that we do it before some type of surgical procedure. It's usually always after the surgical procedure, like a lumpectomy or a mastectomy. So adjuvant radiation therapy is going to be great for those who have, you know, Dr. Carson Oman site too, after they get a lumpectomy. Same thing for stage one, stage two, after a lumpectomy. Stage three, again, after a mastectomy. So it's usually going to be something after we've had some type of removal of the tumor, because you're trying to prevent micro-matastasis. You're trying to prevent any of the remaining tumor cells. If you didn't get the best margin, or if you didn't completely remove some of the small little tumor cells that were residual afterwards, you're trying to kind of kill those and prevent recurrence. And so that's the goal of that. And again, you're just kind of taking radiation therapy, a pretty decent dose, and you're hitting that right at the tumor, or in the area, the vicinity of where the tumor was, and you already performed the procedure. Obviously this runs the risk of like radiation across some other associated problems, but that's something that it's kind of worth the risk when you're doing this after a surgical procedure. So there's a lot, right? It's definitely a lot. And so I want to try to put it together for you in a way that makes sense, where we put everything step by step. If a patient has Dr. Carson Oman site too, you always want to think surgery first. So doing the lumpectomy is going to be the best way here. Radiation therapy is going to reduce the risk of micrometastases. And then chemo prevention should be offered, like tamoxifen and premenopausal, right? Or aromatase inhibitors and postmenopausal, or you can also consider, reloxifine if their tyrocusic score is high, greater than or equal to 20%, all right? Stage one, stage two, kind of similar. These ones, they're gonna have tumors that are decent size, but hopefully they're not involving the skin, the chest wall, they're scattered. And so for here, lumpectomies is the desirable goal, right? After that, well, during the lumpectomy, we're also kind of basing it upon if they have nodes or not. So what sometimes is likely being performed during this procedure, a sentinel lymph node biopsy, right? To see if it's kind of involved multiple different nodes. And if it does, okay, we go axillary lymph node dissection. If it doesn't do that, then we don't do axillary lymph node dissection if there's not three or more. But after we've done the lumpectomy with the sentinel lymph node biopsy during that process, what's afterwards, it's the same thing as DCIS, radiation therapy. We don't do chemo prevention here because at this point the patient has cancer. We technically don't consider DCIS like breast cancer. It's like, it's in-brout. It's very high risk. They're kind of like at that point where they definitely, if we let it go, they can convert and grow to invasive ductal carcinoma. Now, at this point, radiation therapy. We've hit them with cutting out the tumor. We check to see if it's spread to the lymph nodes. If it did, we cut out, especially if there's a lot of them, we'll cut those out and then we're gonna kill or prevent any kind of micrometastases. At this point, you then can consider targeted therapies. You can consider them. So things like tamoxifen, things like aromatase inhibitors could be considered in this scenario. So if I have a patient who has premenopausal, I'll give them tamoxifen. And especially if it's ERPR positive. If they're posinopausal, I'll give them an aromatase inhibitor. If they have HER2 positive, give them a Tristuzumab, right? So those are definitely things that you can add on. What's really important is this next step, which is variable, which is chemotherapy. You can do chemotherapy, but it's based upon their risk. So for example, let's say that a patient had triple negative breast cancer. We're doing lumpectomy, we'll do this, we'll do this. For triple negative, we don't really have any targeted therapy. We're gonna go straight to chemotherapy. If a patient has HER2 positive breast cancer, we'll do lumpectomy, sentinel lymphoviopsy, radiation therapy, we'll start the bunch of stuzumab and we'll add on an adjuvant chemotherapy occasion. So those are the kind of things where we would add that on. It's based upon the oncotype diagnosis. With this point, the patient has a tumor that either could be greater than five centimeters, could be kind of diffuse scatter throughout the chest wall of the skin. They could have four plus axillary nodes, some clavicular nodes, it could be pretty extensive. And so a lot of the times doing a surgery right away is kind of challenging. So you wanna try to shrink the tumor or tumors the best that you can. And so doing neoadjuvant chemotherapy first is usually the go-to. We're gonna try our best to shrink the tumor down. After we've done that, then we're gonna try to do a mastectomy. If there's any possibility of a lumpectomy, always try that. But a mastectomy may unfortunately be the way to go because there's so many axillary nodes that are likely involved, you're gonna have to dissect those out. After you're done with this, you want to reduce the risk of micromotassesis. So you're gonna hit them with radiation therapy. Targeted therapy should always be considered if they have ERPR positive and their premenopausal, tamoxifen, right? And add something on at this stage, like LHRH agonists if they're ERPR positive. If they're postmenopausal, you can do something like an aromatase inhibitor plus an LHRH agonists, right?  but you're doing targeted therapies. If they're HER2-positive, it's Tristuzumab. So again, you think about these scenarios here. If they're ERPR-positive, you're going to go with this. Now here's where the next step comes in, the adjuvant chemotherapy. So if I have a patient with triple negative breast cancer, I'm doing chemo first. I'm going to cut out the tumor, going to cut out the nodes, going to prevent the risk of micromitastasis. No targeted therapy specifically going to chemo. HER2-positive, hitting them with this, cutting out the tumor, cutting out the nodes, trying to prevent micromitastasis, Tristuzumab, and chemotherapy. So those are the things I want you guys to consider. Now we get to the last stage, stage four. This is spread. It's spread to potentially the bones, the brain, the liver. And at that point, that's a scary scenario. So what we need to start considering is do we even do surgery at this point? No, surgery is not really an option. So we don't usually go to that. What we like to do is just target a therapy. That's really going to be the go-to in this potential scenario. So for example, if the patient was ERPR-positive, right, you'll do an aromatase inhibitor plus a CDK4-slash-6 inhibitor. That would be your go-to if they're metastatic. If they're triple negative breast cancer, pembrolizumab. And if they have BRCA-positive mutation, it'd be a PARP inhibitor. If they're HER2-positive, it's going to be Tristuzumab. You get the point. And lastly is we can consider adjuvant chemotherapy for these patients. If they have things like HER2-positive, they have things like triple negative breast cancer. Those are times where we'll add on the adjuvant chemotherapy. Whew! My friends, that was a ton, dude. That was a lot. I really hope it made sense. I hope that at the end of this, you feel just a little bit more comfortable or even hopefully a lot more comfortable with breast cancer. I hope that if you see it on the exam, you're ready to crush it, dude. And I just love you guys. Thank you guys so much for hanging around. Listen to the video and I love you. Thank you. Now as always, until next time. you

=== FILE: Cancer Screening Guidelines ｜ Clinical Medicine [3gRWtZlffBg].txt ===

 packageddashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdash talking about their history, their family history, and really deciding, okay, based upon your risk, is it average, is it high risk? Do you carry specific genetic mutations that put you at risk for this cancer? And then obviously, depending upon that, determines what kind of screening that you will do using a specific modality, and then how frequently you'll do it. And obviously, depending upon the specific type of risk factor, you may have to do that very frequently, and sometimes if it's kind of a lower risk, you may be able to span that out. We talked about all of those high risk scenarios in each individual type of lecture on the specific cancers. The primary goal of this lecture is to really give you an overview to say, okay, if I took the average risk individual who carried a specific risk for things like lung cancer, breast cancer, et cetera, what age would I screen them? How frequently would I screen them? And what modality would I use to screen that patient? Let's talk about that today, just to give a quick little reminder and recap of these concepts. All right, so let's start first. When we talk about screening guidelines, we'll focus here first on colorectal cancer. So with colorectal cancer, obviously with this, we wanna talk about what is the age range, and we're gonna kind of base this off what the USPSTF states. And we go with the age of 45 to 75 years of age. Within that age range, depending upon these patients who carry this average risk, we should be screening them with what particular type of modality? And it depends. So for some patients, they may not want to get the gold standard, which is a colonoscopy. They might prefer something like a FIT, which is a fecal immunochemical test, or an FOBT, a fecal-occal blood test. So these are simple tests where you take a stool sample and you'll run it through this like little test strip, and basically what it'll do is you'll have little antibodies that'll be able to detect specific types of proteins, things like hemoglobin, which can be in blood, that could detect that there is blood within the stool. But that doesn't tell you that the patient has colon cancer, just says, hey, there's some of the cold blood in the stool. Maybe we should evaluate this with a colonoscopy. This is a really good test. I'd say it's a little bit more sensitive than a fecal-occal blood test. But a fecal-occal blood test can do the similar concept. You take a stool sample, you put it onto this little slide, you put a testing solution on this, and all it's gonna tell you is based upon this, does it show that there is the presence of blood or a cold blood in the stool? Again, if the patient didn't wanna get a colonoscopy, you could do these yearly to survey them. And if they came up abnormal, what would you do then? Then you should pursue a colonoscopy, especially if the patient has associated symptoms, right? Things like maybe abdominal pain, maybe changes in their bowel habits, right? On top of that, maybe they've had experienced weight loss. And maybe they have anemia or iron deficiency anemia. These are things that I think all with that should push a patient to get a colonoscopy. But these are some pretty decent tests. Now, another one that's been kind of incorporated, and you can potentially extend it out a little bit longer than a year, is a fit DNA test. It's called the coligar test. It's honestly, when you take the fecal-occal blood test, all you're looking to detect is red blood cells that are present in the stool. When you look at a fit tester, you're looking to detect proteins in the stool, specific to blood. So things like hemoglobin. With a test, particularly like a fit DNA test, you are literally trying to find specifically DNA. And when I'd be more specific, is yeah, you can find red blood cells, but you're looking to find DNA mutations that are more suggestive of a patient having colorectal cancer, or being at increased risk of colorectal cancer. So that's another test that we can incorporate. So if I said fecal-cult fit test, you could do that yearly. If I said a fit DNA, you would push that to maybe every three years, all right? Now, again, if that coligar came back positive, you should then say, hey, let's do a colonoscopy. But it came up negative, you can come back and do it again in three years. A CT colonography is another alternative test. It's kind of interesting, but again, you expose the patient to radiation. All you're doing is you're getting a CT scan. And so you get a CT scan of the abdomen. And what you'll do here is you can kind of appreciate there is some weird appearing kind of polyps or nodules. This technology can then kind of invert them into like a three-dimensional image, and we can kind of trace around and find specific abnormalities. So you can appreciate here on this 3D colonography, you can see that there's these two weird areas that we can appreciate on this tracing of the colon. And then when we zoom in on it utilizing this technology, we can see, hey, there's definitely some abnormal kind of polyps appearing, and we can also appreciate that here on the CT scan. This would then say, we have something abnormal, we should investigate this and get a colonoscopy. But if it came back normal, you could potentially push this and say, hey, let's do another one in five years, right? A flexible sigmoidoscopy is one that can be utilized. I'd say it's less common. We see this more in patients who carry an APC or what we call FAP conditions, so familial adenomatosis, polyposis. They have risks of developing, I mean, hundreds upon thousands of polyps within their kind of, their descending and sigmoid colon. And so in these patients, it's best to go and evaluate that particular area where that APC mutation tends to really resonate. And so with that, because it's involving more of the descending and sigmoid colon, you don't have to do a colonoscopy where you travel throughout the entire colon. You could just keep it primarily focused in on the descending and the sigmoid and stop kind of near that splenic flexure. And that's where we would say a flexible sigmoidoscopy would be general, potentially beneficial. And so you'll take this kind of scope and maybe there's gonna be a polyp here in that descending colon. You're only gonna go in and focus on this area. So it's kind of like a very narrow, kind of like boiled down colonoscopy where you're only focusing on the most distal portion of the colon, all right? And that's something that you can consider in every five years as well. Now, colonoscopy is going to be the gold standard. So if you get an exam question, it says you have a patient who's 45 to 75 years of age, they carry an average risk of colorectal cancer, we should be screening them. What modality should you be doing? And you can do it less frequently is a colonoscopy. Now, when I say we do it less frequently, you can do it every 10 years, but that's if it's completely normal. If there's some concerning features, maybe a little bit of like, you have some polyps, maybe you have some kind of weird appearing adenomas or some high-grade dysplasia, you may have to come back every three or five years. But if it's pretty good and you got nothing really concerning, you can extend that out to 10 years. A colonoscopy is you are literally visualizing the entire colon. You're running the rectum, the sigmoid, the descending, the transverse, the ascending colon. You are traversing that whole entire area to look for any abnormal kind of pictures. Now, if you go through that and you say, oh my gosh, I found cancer in the descending colon, or I found in the sigmoid colon, or I found in the rectum, again, you may diagnose that condition and then you kind of go down a different pathway of determining, okay, what's their overall T and M staging? What's the next step? Should we kind of refer them to get some type of surgical procedure? Should we start them on chemotherapy, et cetera? But if it comes back normal, you can again push the study out to every 10 years. And so that's something I want you guys to really remember. All right, for breast cancer, this is again focusing on the average risk individual. We determine this, if you guys remember, we do something called a tyrolycus excor. There's different modalities that you can use, but I think that tends to be the most validated one. And we go with less than 20% or greater than equal to 20%. For those that carry the average risk, a mammogram is your primary modality. And again, the USPSDF just changed the actual guidelines where it used to be 50 to 74. Now we actually push it to 40 to 74 years of age. And when we do this mammogram, again, you are looking at this and you're getting a, what I would say is a, it's not diagnostic, right? It's a preventative mammogram, where it's going to be kind of just looking at general views of the breast and seeing if they can identify any types of abnormalities based upon its by-rat score. And determining on that, you may then need to get a diagnostic mammogram. You may need to go further and get other additional tests. That's really, really important to remember. So mammogram is going to be the test of choice here. And again, frequency is about every two years. So let's say that you get a mammogram, you find this abnormal lesion and its by-rat score is pretty high. And that scenario, depending upon this, yes, you may need to do a repeat diagnostic mammogram, but the more likely potential scenario, if you see a pretty abnormal lesion like this, is you need to proceed with a core needle biopsy. And so something to consider is, again, based upon the finding, we may have to go on biopsy. But if it comes back completely normal, we can push this and say, hey, why don't you come back in two years? And so that would be the particular guidelines for those who carry the average risk of breast cancer. Cervical cancer is going to be something that a lot of patients are at risk for. HPV is a very prevalent infection out there. And when you look at the actual incidence of HPV infections in cervical cancer, it's very, very high. So there's a pretty significant relationship between the two. And then we talk about HPV. And usually we try to keep this to where we don't go in too young of an age, right? The people who tend to be high as risk for this is those who have very frequent sexual partners, a lot of unprotected sex, they're immune suppressed, and they don't have that immune system capable of fighting off HPV. So we'd like to keep this around like that 21 year range. And then from there, we should continue to be screening them almost all the way up to about 65 years of age. The way that we do this is because it can affect the cervix is we'll start off, let's say that we go 21 to 29 years of age. We do something called a pap smear. All you're gonna be doing in this is you're gonna be taking and doing a speculative exam, you're gonna take a little brush and you're going to then rotate that to get some of the cells around that cervix. And then from there, you're gonna collect those, send those off to the pathology lab and figure out what does it come back with? Does it come back with low grade squamous intrepidial lesions? Does it come back with high grade squamous intrepidial lesions? Does it come back with atypical glandular cells? These are things that kind of determine, ooh, if it did, I need to go a different route. I may need to do things like a coposcopy. I may need to do a biopsy. And so these are things to definitely consider. But let's say that you do it completely normal. We don't see anything concerning, or maybe it's a low grade. You could then say, hey, let's do it every three years from that, right? If you have somebody who's 30 to 65, you can give them an option where they don't have to come back and get these pap smears as frequently. You can do it a pap smear every three years, or you can do a pap smear plus an HPV test, which is once you take the cells, you send that off to see if any of those cells are infected with HPV 6 and 11. If it comes back positive for one of those genotypes, then it's a little bit more concerning and we're probably gonna have to do some type of coposcopy and biopsy, right? To determine if there is any kind of abnormal lesions. So that's something I would definitely say that's really, really important to remember. But if it comes back normal, you can potentially push this every five years. All right, cool with that one. Next one is lung cancer. Lung cancer is really important for this. It's usually gonna be very specific. The age range is about 50 to 80 years of age, but we want this in patients who actually have the particular risk factors. What is that? Smoking. So those who smoke, and generally we say that it's gotta be a specific number of pack years. And that's usually greater than or equal to 20 pack year history. And if you're a current smoker or you quit within the last 15 years, you need to get a low dose chest CT. The whole point of this is being able to identify things like small pulmonary nodules or small pulmonary lesions before they become very large unfortunate cancers, things like squamous cell or small cell that can be pretty much devastating and metastasize really early. So that's why 50 to 80, you smoke 20 pack year or greater and current or quit within the past 15 years, you need to get a low dose chest CT. And we do that annually. Now if it came back and you saw something like this, this is really concerning. If I saw something like this, I'm probably gonna push to go and get a biopsy. If it was something where the patient had all of the appropriate risk factors, this one is very abnormal, it's irregular, it's got kind of a spiculated appearance, it's very large for this one. And depending upon the location, usually with these upper lobes are pretty concerning. I'd push to get a biopsy. Now if you were like, I don't know, should I do a biopsy? Because biopsies, they carry risk. You probably have to do something like a VATS or a CT guided FNA. So obviously these kinds of things carry risk or CT guided biopsy would be a thing that you'd have to consider. Because this is a little bit more peripheral. Usually if it's a little bit more central, you can perform things like a bronchoscopy with a biopsy. But oftentimes when they're kind of towards the peripheral lobes of the lungs, you may have to do things like a VATS, you may have to do a CT guided biopsy. And then usually if they're involving the pleura, you can potentially tap into that pleural fluid and test it for any kind of malignant cells by checking the cytology. And if you get a bloody tap, that kind of gets a little concerning too. But either way, I think for this one, you'd have to commit to doing a biopsy. So sometimes if it's like, I don't know, you can do things like a PET scan. And that would show potentially increased FDG uptake. And that may push you to do a biopsy, right? But I think anything that's usually pretty decent size, greater than eight millimeters, usually upper lobe, irregular, speculated, something like this, I'd probably go straight to doing a biopsy, right? But if it came back normal, you could do this just every year, all right? And so that's something to definitely consider. Now prostate cancer is kind of a controversial one when it comes to screening these patients because believe it or not, yeah, we do have an age range which this tends to be more common and it's usually 55, 69 years of age. But I'd say that this is kind of like, it's a shared decision-making process. And what I mean by that is that those who are usually African-American, 55 and older, and they have a family history of prostate cancer, those patients should be screened with a PSA level. For those who are 55, they're not African-American, they usually don't have any particular family history. That's when you would talk to them and say, hey, we can do a PSA level, if it comes back a little elevated, like greater than four, we can consider repeating it if it's abnormal. But the problem is that sometimes that leads down in an undesirable rabbit hole and you push them to get biopsies and tests that they shouldn't actually get. And so that's why it's important to kind of talk to these patients and make sure that you have a good predictive value, a positive predictive value that says, hey, that this patient does carry a pretty high risk and I wanna make sure that I don't miss this too late and we identified this without putting them through the unnecessary tests. So 55 to 69, but I would add in there, those who have a family history, African-American ethnicity carries that pretty good risk and I would check a PSA level. If you tend to check it at 55 to 69, they don't have those risk factors, that's fine. Just remember PSA is not the end-all be-all. Combining it with things like a DRA to see if you feel any kind of abnormal areas along the prostate that are kind of like usually enlarged but non-tender kind of appearing, that would maybe kind of concern me a little bit. Sometimes you can have a completely normal DRA, you can have elevated PSA, but there's other conditions that can elevate the PSA. That's why you really wanna be careful. And so that's why sometimes when we talk about these, it's really talking with the patient and making sure that they're agreeable to this. Because once you get that elevated PSA, you may need to go down the route of getting an MPM or high. You may have to go down the route of getting a trans-rectal ultrasound with a biopsy. You're putting them through procedures that they may or may not need. So it's important to talk to them about that. But generally with this one, it's not kind of a you do this yearly, every two years, every three now. You kind of just do it based upon the actual decision-making between the patient. And that's why I added this one in. It's kind of controversial, but I wanna consider it since we talked about this in an individual lecture. All right, the last one is a patosailur carcinoma. The big thing to remember about this one is we talked about this in the pancreatic and apatobiliary cancers. But I think the big thing to remember is that this should be considered in a patient who has cirrhosis or who has chronic hepatitis B virus infection or if they have both. Either way, if they have these conditions, that puts them inherently at a risk of developing apatosailur carcinoma. And the way that we screen for that is with a ultrasound and an AFP level. Usually an ultrasound shows a kind of an abnormal, kind of like adenoma, there are an abnormal appearing solitary mass. That should be very, very concerning, especially if the AFP level is high, greater than or equal to 20. Those are concerning features. But again, it's just adding in this little extra one where if I have a concern, patient has cirrhosis, have had B, I wanna screen for hepatitis, I mean, hepatitis B carcinoma, you need to do an ultrasound. That's the key thing, and AFP could be an additional one. And we do this every six months. All right, and here you can kind of appreciate that this person has a history maybe of cirrhosis or has hepatitis B virus. They got an ultrasound and it found this kind of solitary mass that was concerning. And that could be concerning for hepatitis B carcinoma. All right, wow, that was a ton of information on these different types of screening guidelines. And again, this is meant to really focus on the average risk individual. And talking about those particular types of cancers that if we can potentially identify these with the proper modality early, we can catch something before it's developed into some kind of terrible stage three, stage four illness. So I really, really hoped that this made sense. I hope that you guys liked it. I hope that you learned a lot. And if you did, please take the time to hit the like button, comment down in the comment section and subscribe. And man, I just love you guys. I thank you guys so much. And as always, until next time.

=== FILE: Cancer Screening Guidelines ｜ Podcast [N5lAZ-sqhVA].txt ===

 packageddashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdash screen them, what modality to use, what ages to do it, how frequently to go and screen somebody and I think that's the most challenging thing. So I think that's what we're gonna kind of do today is just a nice little essentially a recap if you will of all of the different types of cancer screening modalities, when to do it, you know modality to use and then kind of like the intervals. Alright let's get started here. So case one we have colorectal cancer. Mr. L, a 47 year old man, is here for his annual visit. He feels fine, has no family history of colon cancer and no GI symptoms. He asks doc, when do I need my first colonoscopy? Yeah so that's that's a really good question. I think that's the key thing is to focus on here is that we're not gonna get into the super like nitty-gritty critical. So for example, if someone has like something like Lynch syndrome or familia adenomatosis polyposis or if they have putzjäger or if they have some type of like family history, like a strong family history, we're not gonna talk about that. We're gonna talk about primarily those of the average risk and we can kind of discuss some of the high risk features as well but I think the big thing here is that for this patient since he has no family history, no GI symptoms, you know you could go with the general age range which we say started about the age 45 and so with this you know a lot of the times when you start screening there's different modalities that you can use. You can do things like the you know if you don't want to get a colonoscopy it's not the gold standard but you can do things like the fecal coli blood test. You can do the fit test. They have a new one called the fit DNA test also known as the coligar. The fecal coli and the fit you can do those like every year and if it comes up abnormal we get a colonoscopy. The fit DNA, the coligar, you can do that one every three years and then there's another one called the CT colonography and you can do that one every five years. Either way if any of those come up like abnormal appearing that would indicate a person to get a you know a colonoscopy but for this person I'd say start at the age 45 and generally we prefer to do these like every 10 years. If everything is normal you get the colonoscopy from Mr. L looks completely good. Okay cool I'll see you back in 10 years. If it like hey we see a couple polyps a couple of them seem a little bit abnormal. Let's let's catch you back in five years. If someone appears like very abnormal, dysplastic appearing, you had to do a polypactamia to do some maybe some high-grade dysplasia. Maybe come back a little sooner like three years but generally age 45 every 10 years for that average risk individual. For those who are more high risk with probably more particularly a family history like a strong family history you could go like age 40 but otherwise that's what I want you guys to know for this one. So for our patient Mr. L we started the screening at 45. Let's just say it was it was normal it was average risk like we talked about so Mr. L would then be due for another colonoscopy at age 55. Yeah exactly. And then remember colonoscopy is always the gold standard diagnostic therapeutic. Yeah exactly because if you see something like a polyp or you see something abnormal you can definitely biopsy it kind of remove that and then send it off to pathology to see what it comes back as. But yeah colonoscopy, gold standard, all the other tests that we talked about they're just you know you can use them as alternatives but again if they come up positive guess what you're gonna have to get in the end in game which is a colonoscopy. Yeah all right Case two we're talking now about breast cancer. So we have Miss J she is a 52 year old healthy woman comes for a checkup. She wants to know when she needs her next mammogram her last was two years ago. Okay yeah so for these again now talking about a patient who doesn't have like the the super significant like you know high risk factors we're kind of going to talk primarily about that average risk. So the USP STF changed actually just recently I want to say it was like a year ago and they changed the guidelines from where it was 50 to 74 years of age and you do that mammogram every two years they lowered the age down to 40 to 74 years of age. And so you start them at age 40 you go to the age 74 stop at the age 75 and you'll do those mammograms every two years and so that's the key thing. Now if you did have some of those particularly like the BRCA if you had the BRCA mutations or something that puts you at super high risk then yes you could consider up another one is like Lynch syndrome something like that too can't cause breast cancer so BRCA Lynch syndrome things like that you could go a little earlier and you could potentially do these mammograms at like the age 30 but usually you combine them with like an MRI as well. So with this one you're gonna have a healthy person you're just gonna go straight up we're gonna do 40 to 74 years of age that's gonna be the age range that we're gonna do it every two years pending that it's normal the buy rad score come back come back fine. So that's what I would say for this person. Don't be fooled USP STF says every two years if you see an answer choice that says annually don't don't pick it yeah exactly you're gonna get tricked. Yeah exactly and there is other guidelines out there like the ACS and they kind of like do things a little bit differently but I think the USP STF is the one that I would prefer to follow for this especially for your board exams and stuff okay. Case three now we're talking about cervical cancer okay we have Ms. T she's 27 healthy and she asked if she still needs her pap smears annually. Alright that's a good question the answer is really no if we say generally for those who are like 20 yeah like less than 30 is generally the way to go but we started at age 21 so 21 to 29 you should be getting a pap smear generally we can say like every three years alright once you get to about the age 30 to about the age 65 you can actually opt for two you can do a pap smear and you can do it particularly you can keep doing it like every three years or if you don't want to do it every three years you could extend it out to five years if you combine that with like an HPV co-testing like the genotyping so that's something that you could do in general so that's what I would say pap smear again 21 to 29 you're gonna do that every three years when you get to 30 to 65 you should do that you know every three years as well or you can opt for the pap plus the HPV co-testing every five years so that's what I want you to know for people who are going to be tested and screened for cervical cancer and after 65 no more getting mutilated she's done exactly exactly yep yeah but it's important and of course you know you have to go through it it's how it goes yeah and and obviously there is certain scenarios where you can test these patients you know particularly let me be at different times like a little earlier but oftentimes we try not to do this before 21 and there's really no benefit from extending it beyond 65 years of age okay let's move on case four we're now talking about lung cancer we have a mr. B a 62 year old man with a 40 pack year history he quit 10 years ago he's worried about lung cancer and wants to ask what you think about that hmm so generally for people who have a 40 pack year history that's that's a pretty significant history and age anything greater than 50 so age we say I think it's 50 to 80 50 to 80 years of age and a greater than or equal to 20 pack your smoking history whether that's current or former and you quit within like the last like 15 years you you fit the criteria to get an annual low-dose CT scan of the chest and so that's what I would say for this person he is within age range of 50 to 80 he has a 40 pack year history he is former he quit 10 years but it's still it's within that 15 year kind of range and he's worried about his lung cancer absolutely let's do an annual low-dose CT scan check that out make sure that we don't see any kind of abnormalities like a pulmonary nodule that we need to do maybe a further investigation with do we need to do a serial CT in like a couple like six months to a year oh this one looks really abnormal let's get a PET scan oh this one's highly you know high risk of malignancy let's get a biopsy kind of thing so I think that'd be the best way to go for this scenario and if you're looking at the cutoffs here so if he quit let's say 16 years ago no screening yeah I think technically yeah I think from there you could kind of like say alright we really we don't necessarily need to do that if he's worried about it I could still say hey let's actually talk about it then but I'd say for the most part with that pack year and again I'd say if he did quit and it was over that 15 year range you could make a significant you could make an argument yeah I don't think we should do this but I think in this case he's asking for he's crazy he's concerned and he fits the criteria let's let's do the annual slow-dose alright case 5 prostate cancer oh boy mr. g a 58 year old man asked should I get a PSA so this is this is a this is tough because there is not a true USPSTF like guideline to say you start a PSA at this age you know like how we talked about so far with colorectal cancer it's you know generally we have a pretty good idea you know we're gonna say 45 and if it's breast cancer it's 40 to 74 you know cervical 21 to 29 30 65 you know in lung cancer 50 to 80 for this one there is no like alright you start with a PSA which is a prostate specific antigen by the way you're not gonna have like a specific start date it really kind of comes down to what I'd say is called shared decision-making so when a person is about 55 years of age until they're about maybe 69 they run the highest risk of developing prostate cancer but it's more so in those individuals who have a family history or they have a particular risk factor and being African-American puts you at pretty high risk and so African-Americans family history those 55 and older you do run that risk of prostate cancer and so yeah I don't think that there's anything wrong at that range if you talk with your actual patient and say hey you know are you concerned about it yeah we can check a PSA level and just be keep in mind to tell them that these PSA levels they can be elevated for a variety of reasons that doesn't indicate prostate cancer so you can have BPH at that age and sometimes that can cause a PSA to be real quick what happens if they had just had sex or they just ejaculated wouldn't that put your level up a little bit yes yes that's a good point so not only can it be things like BPH but it can be sexual activity you know anything that kind of triggered an ejaculation definitely one thing going on bike rides believe it or not you know it because you know horseback riding exactly something like that that's literally I'm not kidding you're smashing down on the prostate trauma so that kind of stuff can definitely in trauma can definitely do it as well so yeah you know I think that's one of the things that's considered you check the PSA if it comes back let's say greater than four you could you could tell them hey this doesn't mean that you have prostate cancer let's recheck it in six weeks try to avoid any sexual activity any kind of horseback riding like you said you know a kick to the bazookas anything like that that could cause that level to jump up a little bit and kind of go from there and if it did come back persistently abnormal that's when you could investigate you say okay hey maybe we kind of do the next step you could always like combine it with a DRE even though it's not always suggested it could be something to think about and then from there you can make decisions if you want to get like an MRI of the prostate or to do like a a transrectal ultrasound or something like that as well but yeah that would be the goal is to say let's talk about a PSA are you at risk 55 69 is generally the age range family history African American yeah I don't think it's a bad idea to do it let's just take that into consideration what it may mean and then follow up with a repeat testing and then again make sure that we kind of remove any confounding variables and then go from there with that result and I think the buzzword phrase if you will here is the shared decision-making yeah I think that kind of jumps out at you and yep you know if you see that more often than not that's probably your answer yeah so yep take it or leave it yep alright case 6 we have hepatocellular carcinoma okay mr. Y a 52 year old man has cirrhosis from chronic hepatitis B he feels fine but do we screen him absolutely yeah absolutely so those who have cirrhosis or chronic hepatitis B which he has both you know which the hepatitis B probably caused his you know cirrhosis they are a high risk of hepatocellular carcinoma and so generally we should be screening those with an ultrasound and I like to add on the AFP level which is a serum alpha-futile protein level usually tends to be a pretty elevated sometimes if it pumps up like greater than or equal to 20 I get kind of concerned for cirrhosis so I like to combine an ultrasound and an AFP level and I like to do that like every six months to really get an idea if there is any kind of a pathocellular carcinoma because those can carry kind of a pretty pro prognosis if they get pretty bad so that's what I would say is 100% if they have cirrhosis that's one indication or chronic hepatitis B you need to screen these patients with at least that minimum ultrasound you can consider the AFP level I like to add that on but that should be the guidelines and then happy even without cirrhosis even without correct yeah that's okay yep so cirrhosis or chronic hepatitis B doesn't have to have both just it has to be one of the both of the one of those two okay well those are the main big screening guidelines yeah if you could Zach just a quick rapid wrap up here yeah just to kind of tie together everything we talked about and I think that's the key thing and again just you know you could always just fast forward to this part if you want but I think the big thing to remember is that colorectal cancer for average rifts this is your average rift start at 45 right that's the USPSTF guidelines and you're gonna do it every 10 years all right you can do other things like the fit the fecal cold blood test yearly you can do the fit DNA every three years you can do the col CT colonography every five years colonoscopy 45 to 74 every 10 years that's key breast is we're gonna go with the new guidelines the USPSTF 40 to 74 you're gonna do that with a mammogram that's the key thing a mammogram every two years you can add on the breast MRI in certain scenarios earlier if the patient has very significant high risk factors like their tire cues explore or they have BRCA mutations etc but oftentimes we just go with a mammogram as that screening modality cervical cancer 21 to 29 you do a pap every three years when they get to 30 to 65 you can do the pap every three years you combine the pap with the HPV co-testing for lung cancer it's 50 to 80 years of age with a greater than equal to 20 pack your smoking history and they are a current smoker or former and they quit within the last 15 years you're gonna be doing that with an annual low-dose CT scan and then guiding and watching to say hey do they have any nodules are they concerning let me kind of make my decisions from there prostate we don't have a universal guideline it's shared decision-making so from the age range of 55 to 69 you talk with your patient about getting a PSA level to see if that comes back elevated greater than four but really we should be doing this in the patients who have a family history or African-American are within that appropriate age range and then kind of make those steps along with the patients kind of discussion and the last one is a patocele carcinoma we should be utilizing a fee I'm sorry a alpha fetal protein and a patek ultrasound every six months in which scenarios those who have been diagnosed with cirrhosis or those who have been diagnosed with chronic hepatitis B virus those are the primary indications for screening for something like that boom that's it all right and it's it's pretty like thankfully we did this because the whole time we're doing oncology I'm like man there's so many guidelines there's numbers being flown around everywhere hopefully this is just a nice quick area even if you want that rapid wrap up yeah come right to that point yep get your information because there's so many numbers I kept telling you I'm like how do you remember all this stuff yeah and that's the jazz of challenging me because the other thing is that you have all these like niche things so like for example as we talk about in each individual lecture like colorectal cancer there's things like Lynch syndrome there's things like you know FAP there's things like you know Puzierger you have a personal or family history of it breast cancer same thing if you have like that tyrolycaeusic score you got to do it earlier you have to use different modalities besides a mammogram cervical that one's pretty much standard lung obviously with that one that one's pretty much standard but I think for the most part a lot of the heavy ones itches your colorectal cancer and your breast cancer it's hard to kind of like say okay what do I do with these yeah and so I think that's the key thing is just to remember these are the primary ones for those average risk the high-risk ones are more than niche ones that we talk about in the individual lectures if you want to go that extra mile so I really hope that you know you guys like this podcast it was a short simple sweet nothing crazy it was really just meant to be kind of a nice little rapid recap of all the different types of screening guidelines that you should be knowing for those who are at high risk or potentially even average risk for cancer and so I hope that you liked it I hope that you learned a lot and man I love you guys I thank you guys and as always until next time

=== FILE: Colorectal Cancer ｜ Clinical Medicine [HjIQy8FycKA].txt ===

 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам What's up, Ninja Nerds? In this video today, we're going to be talking about colorectal cancer. This is a part of our clinical medicine series, and if you guys are really enjoying these videos, they make sense to you, they help you a lot, please support us. You can do that by hitting the like button, commenting down in the comment section, subscribing. Also, go down the description box below. There's a link that goes to our website. On our website, if you're a member, you'll have access to notes, to illustrations. We're also making other features, quizzes, flashcards, there's so much more, so go check that out. Without further ado, let's really dig into colorectal cancer. Hi, my friends. We're going to start talking about colorectal cancer. What I want to do is, I want to make it easy for you guys to remember. I think one of the ways that we like to do that, especially when it comes to you taking your exam, is separating them, unfortunately, into the right side of colorectal cancers and left side of colorectal cancers. The reason why I say unfortunately is that not all patients present exactly like this. Sometimes there's a little bit of a mix. I think one of the best ways of doing this is it's going to help you to organize the presentation. It's going to help you to organize a little bit more of the pathophysiology and the causes behind it. I think it's also going to help a little bit when we start talking about treatment. First things first, we're going to have right side of colorectal cancer left-sided. How do we define that? It's actually really straightforward. We talk about right side of colorectal cancer. Here's our tumor. Here's our tumor. It can be sitting anywhere within what parts? Here at the bottom part, this is called your cecum. If it involves parts of the cecum, that could be one consideration. It can involve the cecum. What's this part going up? That's called the ascending colon. If the tumor as it is here is in the ascending colon, that would also be a potential area to be considered as a right-sided colorectal cancer. Then the last one is any kind of location that goes anywhere from here up to the point of the splinic flexure. What I'll do is I'll draw a dotted line here. That's at that splinic flexure portion. Anything here, which is your transverse colon, that can also be considered. Out of all of these locations, cecum, ascending colon, transverse colon, where would it most commonly occur? Most often, if it is a right-sided colorectal tumor, it's usually in the ascending colon. That's going to be the most common location. We'll represent that by just kind of boxing this off in red. This is oftentimes, if there is a right-sided tumor, it's usually more often than not going to appear in the ascending colon. What's really interesting about this is that the ascending colon, the cecum, and the transverse colon has a really big luminal diameter. Because it's a pretty big luminal diameter, these tumors, when they come in, even though in this image it looks like it's very, very obstructive, it's still such a large lumen that they don't usually cause very significant clinical obstructive symptoms. In other words, they don't cause abdominal pain. They don't cause things like abdominal distension, nausea, vomiting, cramping abdominal pain, all of those things. It's not usually a classic presentation. We'll talk about it later. The most common ways that these present is asymptomatic. What do I mean by that? They don't present with symptoms. Unfortunately, they present with things like occult GI bleeds. All that means is that they don't see visible blood in their stool, but if we were to check their CBC or check a fecal occult blood test to see if there is blood in their stool, that would come back either showing anemia on the CBC or a positive fecal occult blood test. We'll get into that a little bit later, but it's just kind of introducing you into that. The left side of colorectal cancers, we define that based upon where does it end. Well, it ended right here. For the right-sided, if I draw that dotted line right at that splenic flexure, it's anything including the splenic flexure, the descending colon, sigmoic colon, and the rectum. Here I'll put here, this is the descending colon. Here's my tumor. Here we'll put the sigmoic colon, and here we'll put the rectum. It can involve any part here, which is the rectum, the sigmoic colon. Here's the tumor that we have sitting in that left side of part of the colon. Here is the descending colon. Out of all of these locations, where does the tumor most often usually situate itself? It often most likely situates itself in the rectum and the sigmoic colon. Funny enough, it's actually at a junction point called the recto-sigmaic junction. That's usually a very common location of where we can find these tumors. Again, right-sided tumors, most often the ascending colon, left-sided tumors, most often in the sigmoic colon and the rectum right at that junction between the two. Just as a little quick thing here, for left-sided colorectal cancers, these things, they don't have as big of a lumen in the descending and the sigmoic colon and the rectum as they do on the right side. Because of that, when these tumors do grow, they do cause obstructive symptoms. These patients usually often present what changes in bowel habits, the abdominal pain, tenesmus, which we'll talk about what that means. They can also present what constipation. They can present with very thin-shaped stools. These are things that are very, very obvious in a left-sided colorectal cancer. Now, here's the next thing that you ask. When you talk about the GIT, the alimentary canal, the layers, you always have a mucosa. Then you have a submucosa. Then you usually have a muscularis mucosa. Then you get it down into the muscularis externa and then the adventitius cirrhosa. What I want to tell you is that when these cancers usually arise, they arise from the epithelium, which is a part of our mucosa. What I want to do is I want to take pieces of a natural, let's say that you take a piece of this actual colon here, like the ascending colon or the cecum, and you look at it and it's normal. How does it turn into this? Same thing. I take a piece of tissue here at the rectum or the sigmoic colon. How does it turn into this? Without going crazy down the genetic pathway, this is all due to mutations. Let's say here's a piece of tissue. It's a normal right colon. All of a sudden, I take this one and I introduce a mutation. What kind of mutation? Well, there's different types, but I think the one that's actually really important to remember is called a BRAF mutation. If a patient ends up experiencing what's called a BRAF mutation, this is basically an enzyme that signals to the nucleus to trigger the transcription of genes that are involved in proliferation. Normally, a BRAF gene is connected with a receptor. When a growth factor hits that receptor, it activates BRAF, sends the signals down to the nucleus and tells it to proliferate. If I have a BRAF mutation, that means that the BRAF enzyme is always on. If this BRAF mutation exists and that BRAF enzyme is always on, it's always signaling to the nucleus to proliferate, proliferate, proliferate. That's what usually becomes a problem. Now, here we're going to have an epithelium. It doesn't look abnormal though, right? Doesn't it look kind of the same? This is just at this point, this is a mutated epithelium. It doesn't look like anything just yet. The reason why is the BRAF mutation is usually what we call the first hit. There's a first abnormal mutation in the allele. Then what happens, you get a second hit. You introduce a second hit to the other genes, and this one is by causing abnormalities in mismatch repair genes. We call this part, we're going to trigger what's called CPG methylation. All we're doing is we are methylating specific parts of DNA. We are causing DNA methylation. You know what DNA methylation does? DNA methylation usually silences specific genes. Guess which genes this decides to methylate? Your mismatch repair genes. You know what mismatch repair genes are supposed to do? If you end up, whenever we replicate DNA, if you have an insertion or deletion error, guess what? The mismatch repair genes turn on and they come and they fix that up. If those are silenced because of this, guess what happens? You can't fix that DNA damage. If they can't fix that process, what's going to happen? You're going to end up with an abnormal mutation. Then what happens to the epithelium? It becomes mutated. This is when these patients actually very quickly, they can grow pretty quickly. They can turn a normal epithelium without even forming a polyp. These things can form these big things called adenomas. They can be called, they're usually called sessile serrated adenomas. What is this one here called? Look at this one. Here's the epithelial tissue. Look how it just became all this weird looking serrated type of performance here. Usually it's sessile. We have a sessile serrated adenoma. Then usually what happens is these patients, over time, they develop more mutations, more mutations. They have these 353 mutations and then it turns into a carcinoma. Then eventually you end up with this really nasty cancer. Now we have a patient who developed a carcinoma. They started off with a normal epithelium and then they developed that tumor. How did they develop the tumor? They ended up with a BRAF mutation. BRAF mutation made the epithelium mutated. They get the second hit with the methylation of which type of genes? Mismatch repair genes. Now you're all jacked up. When that happens, you can get these things called adenomas. Perliferation of tissues because now you can't control any issues with fixing those mismatch repairs. Now they become mutated and you have a constant accelerator which is the BRAF. It's constantly signaling proliferation. This is going to make this nasty adenoma. Then at a pretty quick pace, it can convert to a carcinoma. That's what's scary. We call this the serrated pathway. If you want to, we actually call this the serrated pathway. The serrated pathway, we don't know what exactly triggers this. There's some things that we have association with. Out of all of these pathways, this is probably maybe like 10% of cases. The next one here, let's say that we take this normal piece of tissue. We decide to convert it and make it abnormal. A similar thing has to happen. There has to be a mutation. What kind of mutation usually arises the question? Usually what happens is they get what's called a mismatch repair gene mutation. That's what happened here. They methylated these genes and then it became silent. It's a similar concept. Except with this, you just completely mutate these genes. It's usually, unfortunately, it can be sporadic or it can be due to genetic causes. This is really important. I'll talk about this later called Lynch syndrome. It's a unfortunate hereditary condition where they have a mutation in the mismatch repair genes. If you have a mutation, can I fix insertion deletionaries? No. What happens if I can't fix them? That leads to a mutation. Mutations lead to abnormal epithelium. Now, same thing. I got a mutated epithelium here. I already started that with having a mutation. All I need to do is get a second hit. If that happens over time, we don't really know why. Sometimes it's sporadic. Sometimes it's weird genes that just pop up and get abnormal. That's what usually happens. There's different ones. I don't want you to go crazy. Usually the ones that we see that can pop up, don't go crazy trying to memorize this. But the ones that we see that can pop up is called transforming growth factor beta. That becomes mutated. Another one is called the Bax gene. All that you need to know is this is a growth factor gene. If you cause this to mutate, what do you think it's going to do? It's going to cause cell growth. It's going to cause proliferation. Bax is an apoptotic gene. If you shut down that gene, and when I say that you cause this mutation, technically this gene gets turned off. That's supposed to cause apoptosis. If you're supposed to cause apoptosis and you turn that gene off, guess what happens? Now your cell can continue to survive. Here's what happens. If we start with the mutation with the mismatch repair genes, we get second hits just like in these. Now we have an opportunity for that mutated epithelium to become cancerous. This is different though. In the serrated pathway, it became like this. It became this weird looking appearing of adenoma. This one is also going to be an adenoma, but it doesn't look like it's serrated. It appears kind of flat. This is called, that's the name, it's called a flat adenoma. It's called a flat adenoma. There's scary things about having flat adenomas. You want to know what it is? If I do a colonoscopy, I'd probably be able to see this one. It'd be a little hard. It'd be somewhat difficult because s-cell serrated adenomas, even though they look like they'd be big ones that pop off the actual mucosa, they're not pedunculated. What that means is that usually there's not like a stalk. It looks like there's a stalk there, but there is truly no stalk that's making it pop out into the colonic mucosa, the lumen. This one, do you see a stalk? No. If I were to go into a colonoscopy for these, what do you think I would find? I probably could easily miss these. That's what makes these scary. This one over here, I'd be able to see. That one would be obvious because it's pedunculated. These two might be a little bit more difficult to see. This is the most aggressive one. The reason why is if I go into a colonoscopy in this patient and then come back maybe a couple years later because it was normal, guess what can happen? It can quickly convert into a carcinoma. This pathway is called the micro-satellite instability pathway. We see this in a condition called Lynch syndrome. That's what I want you to remember. Serrated pathway, we don't have a specific inherited condition per se. The micro-satellite instability pathway, we do see a hereditary condition that we'll talk about and it's called Lynch syndrome. These two is how we see right-sided carcinomas. Some patients who have Lynch syndrome, guess what you're going to see it? Right-sided carcinomas. How would they present? A cold GI bleeds. With this one over here, this is where most cases, I'd say 10%, maybe 5% of cases. 15% usually are going to be occurring via this pathway. But 80% to 85% occur through the left colon side. We think about this one. Here let's say that we took a piece of tissue. We have a normal epithelial tissue. All of a sudden, it starts to, whoa, what happened here? This one looked normal and they looked similar. That's what makes these scary. They don't give you early signs. This gives you an early sign. All of a sudden, these ones straight to becoming adenomas to carcinomas quickly. This one, I see a sign of it kind of proliferating. Then it gets a little bit more proliferated and pedunculated and then it becomes a carcinoma. That's actually kind of helpful and this may help us to pick these up sooner. What happens with this one, this is really, really important guys. This epithelium develops a mutation. This mutation is important to remember and it's called the APC gene mutation. They actually lose it. The APC gene mutation. They develop an mutation, APC gene mutation. APC gene mutation, APC is supposed to basically help to degrade a molecule called beta-catenin. Beta-catenin is a protein that basically helps to trigger your cell proliferation. APC helps to break down beta-catenin so it doesn't cause uncontrolled cell proliferation. But if you lose that APC gene, what happens? Now the tissue starts proliferating. Now we end up with this epithelium. We end up with a hyperplastic, hyperproliferative, let's say, hyperproliferative epithelium. All right. Sometimes we even can say that this hyperproliferative epithelium can look like an early adenoma. When you look at it, it actually could look like an early adenoma. That could be helpful because I could pick that up a little bit sooner if I do a colonoscopy. But then what happens is they get a second gene mutation. So you're noticing there's always a first one and then there's usually a second hit. Same thing here. APC gene mutation, you're going to get a second hit. This one you actually do need to remember. This one is called a KRAS mutation. KRAS is basically a GTPase. Basically it's an enzyme that's connected to a receptor. A growth factor hits the receptor, it activates KRAS. KRAS then signals down to the nucleus to trigger transcription factors to cause DNA proliferation. KRAS depends upon signaling just like the BRAF does. And so if all of a sudden I constituently activate my KRAS and it becomes in a locked and activated position, it sends uncontrolled signals down to the nucleus to proliferate. Now what's going to happen? This thing's going to proliferate like crazy. And unfortunately that's when you're going to get these big kind of pedunculated tubular appearing adenomas. And so then what you're going to do is you're unfortunately going to start seeing this thing like a, we call this a late. Technically you can call this an early if you really want to. You can call this an early adenoma. And this one we're going to call a late adenoma. And this one's going to appear more pedunculated. So it'll definitely appear very pedunculated. So when you look at it, it'll look like it has a stalk on it and it's popping out. This is at the point now where, oh man, this can easily transform and become a lignant. Usually what happens is an encounter is one more mutation and that's a TP53 mutation and that's a tumor suppressor genes. It's supposed to put the break on proliferation, but if you lose that, guess what? Uncontrolled proliferation. And that is usually what triggers this patient to develop a carcinoma, a nasty adenocarcinoma. Now this pathway is an important one to remember. It has multiple different names. Some people call it the adenocarcinoma sequence. Others, they call this the chromosomal instability pathway. Or again, some people call it the adenocarcinoma sequence. What am I trying to tell you? Patient comes in with changes in bowel habits. They come in with hematocasia. They have a potential colonoscopy and you find that they have left-sided tumors. If they have left-sided tumors, you need to think about these potential genes being mutated. The reason why is there's familial conditions that I'll talk about. One is called familial adenomatosis polyposis. It triggers this pathway. If a patient comes in, they get a colonoscopy and you see a right-sided tumor. Sometimes unfortunately you find them at that stage because they usually either are flat or very sessile. They're not usually pedunculated where they pop off the surface. When you take them biopsided area, you'll find if they're presenting with an occult GI bleed, you find a positive fecal occult, a positive fit test, or an iron deficiency anemia, you get it done. You find that they have a carcinoma. In this potential situation, this could be due to something like this mutation, which one would this be seen in? Lynch syndrome. That's really, really important. Some of these, they aren't familial in this particular sense. We'll talk about some other risk factors that can pop up, where it has nothing to do with the hereditary cancer syndrome. It actually could just be due to an unfortunate family history. It could be due to diet. It could be due to other kinds of things. It's really, really important that we think about this when it comes to understanding the concept. Also, I'll talk later. The reason why I mention these now is we'll talk about drugs. We'll come into the discussion of, I really need you to know if they have this mutation and it's present and they have a high degree of instability. We use a drug called Pembrilizumab. If they have a K-RAS and a BRAS mutation, we can't give growth factor blockers because it won't matter because these are always turned on. We have to give something else. But if they don't have the K-RAS and the BRAS mutation, we can give growth factor blockers. That's why I'm trying to introduce this to you because we'll talk about it a little bit in the treatment section. All right. Let's move on now and talk about what are the things that put these patients at risk for these types of mutations to turn these tissues into these big whopping tumors. Discussing risk factors for colorectal cancer. It's important to remember that in colorectal cancer, a lot of these things could be, sometimes you can't do anything about it. Unfortunately, no matter how much you try to change things like your diet or other aspects, there's just not much you can. We should know what those non-modifiable risk factors are. Unfortunately, you can't change your family history. Family history is a really, really important one. If a patient has a family history of colorectal cancer, how do we define that? Just because you had a family member who was like 80 years old who had colorectal cancer doesn't mean that you are at high risk. Usually it's a first-degree relative before the age of 60 that they were diagnosed with colorectal cancer. That's truly how we should be defining it is when I say a family history of colorectal cancer was a person, usually first-degree relative that had colorectal cancer before the age of 60 years. A second one that I want to talk about is usually we just see this, unfortunately, and I'd say males who are above the age of 50. That unfortunately puts you at a pretty high risk in general. Males greater than the age of 50 years also is a pretty significant risk factor for these. The reason why it's interesting, it could be due to that in males, they have lower estrogen levels and believe it or not estrogen may have somewhat of a potential protective effect. That's interesting. We don't really know exactly how, but in males they may have a lower estrogen levels that kind of gives them less of a protective effect on colorectal cancer. Another one is if you unfortunately have a disease that causes a lot of inflammation of the GIT. That would be something like inflammatory bowel disease. Inflammatory bowel disease, there's actually two types. There's ulcerative colitis and Crohn's. Technically yes, both can cause this, but please remember that if I had to pick between the two, I'd say ulcerative colitis is more likely than Crohn's. What happens with this one is it causes a lot of inflammation. This inflammation of the GI mucosa leads to something called pseudopollops. They're like these inflammatory pollops. These types of pollops aren't cancerous. With that constant abnormality and inflammation, it can become dysplastic and lead to cancer. Chronic inflammation, multiple bouts of inflammatory bowel disease where you have these recurrences, that can increase the risk of developing colorectal cancer. That's why we should be screening these patients very, very early. Once they get the diagnosis, we should be probably screening them like eight years after their diagnosis. We should probably be doing it every one to three years to make sure that those inflammatory pseudopollops don't turn into a dysplastic tissue. Males greater than 50, a family history first-degree relative, less than 60, and again inflammatory bowel disease. The last one I want to talk about is called hereditary cancer syndrome. This is the one that I actually want to talk about because the board likes to ask about these. Even though they don't make up a large percentage, you'll probably see these on the clinical and yet. Before we move on talking about some of these hereditary cancer syndrome, I just want to finish off talking about some of the modifiable risk factors. Things that you do have control over and you probably should stay away from if you have some degree of risk of colorectal cancer. Obviously, some of these are dietary and just lifestyle changes. Diet is a really big one. Diets that are really high, highly processed meats. That would be probably a really big one to stay away from. They always say red meats and things like that just within appropriate amounts. The next thing is alcohol. Usually heavy alcohol consumption and what I mean by that is more than I'd say two drinks per day. That usually has an increased risk. Cigarette smoking is a really big one, especially in females. We actually have seen that cigarette smoking really increases the risk of those serrated polyps. Cigarette smoking, really big one. Last one is those patients who have an unfortunate metabolic syndrome picture. What do I mean by metabolic syndrome? Unfortunately, they have obesity and they have lots of physical inactivity. They have more of that sedentary lifestyle. These are all things that put them at higher risk of developing colorectal cancer. Big ones to really remember because if a patient comes into the clinic and they are, let's say, 40 years old and they have a family history of where their dad was diagnosed with colorectal cancer at the age of 50, then we probably should be screening them sooner. If a patient has inflammatory bowel disease, we should probably be doing colorectal cancer screening a little bit sooner. These are all things to take into consideration. Now that we've done that, let's talk about the hereditary cancer syndrome. The first one I want you guys to remember is called familial adenomatosis polyposis. This one is really important because we talked about some of the genes. That's why some of those genes actually come in handy here. One of the genes that becomes mutated is called the APC gene. They can develop the APC gene mutation. Now remember what I told you, whenever you have an APC gene mutation, what actually can occur? You guys remember, you lose the ability to break down beta-catenin so proliferation occurs excessively. What happens in this is that these patients develop, and I mean, I'm not kidding guys, they develop hundreds upon thousands of polyps. Where's APC gene mutations? Remember those carcinomas are tumors that usually appear in the left side. It's going to appear in the left side. These patients can get usually hundreds to thousands of polyps that appear within the left colon. Now, if you get hundreds to thousands of polyps within the colon, guess what? These adenomatous polyps, can they convert and can they become carcinomas? Absolutely. You know what's actually interesting? Is that these patients, usually because of having so many polyps, there's a hundred percent chance of colorectal cancer by the age of 40. That's absolutely insane. There is a hundred percent chance of colorectal cancer by age 40 years. That is insane. So, it's really, really, really important to be able to remember this fact. Because these polyps can easily, easily convert into colorectal cancer. So, then you can end up with a colorectal cancer. Now, this is what we see with familio adenomatous polyposis. So, sometimes these patients can present only with intestinal disease, hundreds upon thousands of polyps, and they can present with colorectal cancer. But sometimes they can have variants. So, they can present with polyps here, but they can also present with tumors in other areas of the body. So, this condition is called Gardener Syndrome. Now, Gardener Syndrome is one of those where they present with bone and soft tissue tumors. So, they can have tumors here in the bone. They can have tumors here in the skin. And so, they can get different types of osteomas and fibromas all over the place. They can do it in the hands. They can do it in the jaw. It can occur all over the place. So, it's important to remember that they can get what's called soft tissue or bone tumors. So, that's one way that it can manifest. The other way that it can manifest is, again, this combination. It's usually extra intestinal. So, it can also present with polyps that carry the risk of what colorectal cancer? So, they can also have colorectal cancer. So, it's usually a combination of these two that presents as Gardener Syndrome. The other one is called Turcot Syndrome. So, Turcot Syndrome is usually, it can actually be in both FAP and the next one we're going to talk about called Lynch Syndrome. And this one is a combination of having these problematic issues like colorectal cancer and, oh, it's really sad, having tumors inside of the brain. Now, the tumors that occur inside of the brain is really, really important because I'll talk about this one in a second. But here, we can have something called a glioma. And here, we can have something called a medjaloblastoma. So, again, if it's a glioma or if it's a medjaloblastoma. Now, unfortunately, with having familial adenomatosis polyposis, these patients can have polyps that occur at the age of like 10 to 12 years old. So, that's why we usually screen them very, very early. Patients with Lynch Syndrome, they can develop and it's usually more around the age of like 20, 25 around that potential timeframe. So, because of that, when you think about Gardener Syndrome, it's usually going to be something like where they have these soft tissue and bone tumors plus colorectal cancer. Turcosyndrome is colorectal cancer plus a medjaloblastoma. This is going to be something that we see more in the pediatric population. So, this one is associated with which one? It's associated with FAP. All right. This one is associated with Lynch. So, this one we would see associated with familial adenomatosis polyposis, which is going to be medjaloblastoma plus colorectal cancer. Glioma is going to be more like the young adult or adult age, Lynch syndrome and colorectal cancer. Really important to distinguish that. I like to remember Turcosyndrome. It's not to be offensive, but I think about Turbin. So, you think about having a hat on the head or something like that. So, you can think about brain tumors plus colorectal cancer. If it's a glioma on histology, it's Lynch. If it's a medjaloblastoma on histology, it's likely FAP. All right. All right. Now, let's talk a little bit more about Lynch syndrome. Lynch syndrome is usually a mutation. What do we say? Come on, guys. Let's think about it. Think about it. Think about it. It's a mutation in the mismatch repair genes. So, this is a mismatch repair gene mutation. So, that caused a mutation in the mismatch repair genes. You lose the ability to fix any kind of mutations. This is or any kind of insertion deletion errors. Mutations arise. You get a second hit, transform a growth factor beta, Bax mutation. All of a sudden, this thing goes and turns directly into a, you know, carcinoma very, very quickly. Usually, you can start as a flat adenoma. Boom, straight to a carcinoma. So, they're going to.  and then to get colorectal cancer as a very, very problematic issue. And which side is it more common? Right-sided colorectal cancer. Another unfortunate thing is there's a mnemonic out there to help you remember it, but you think about Merrill Lynch. So Merrill Lynch was a CEO, right? And so when we think about that, we think about C for colorectal cancer, E for endometrial cancer. So they can also get endometrial cancer because of this. So we'll add that one on, endometrial cancer, and then O, so CEO ovarian cancer. All right? So this is one thing to be able to remember here is that these patients who have Lynch syndrome, they are at very high risk for specific types of cancers. And you can remember C-E-O, Merrill Lynch, right? And so Lynch syndrome is a mismatch or pergene mutation that can lead to increased risk of cancers, which ones colorectal cancer, endometrial cancer, endovirian cancer. All right? The other potential presentation of Lynch syndrome is Turco, where it can actually present with a brain tumor and having right-sided colorectal cancer. Now again, Lynch syndrome, very, very rapid development of carcinoma. Start off as a flat adenoma, boom, can develop a carcinoma. FAP, you usually develop hundreds upon thousands of polyps. 100% chance of a little bit of colorectal cancer. All right? Know the variants. These are the really, really big ones you can get tested on. Know this really well. The next part I only mentioned just for the thoroughness sake of the lecture, but it's not something that you'll probably be tested on too often. What you may see about these is these things called hammertomatous polyps. So I'm not going to go through the genes because it's unlikely that you're going to be tested on them. There's all these different types of genes. There's these S-tech genes and SMAD4 genes. You don't need to know it. All you need to know is that these patients, usually at a young age, develop some type of mutation. All right? They develop a mutation of sorts. That mutation that they develop puts them at risk of developing these things called hammertomatous polyps. That can occur in the stomach, can occur in the large intestine, and it can occur in the small intestine. Funny enough, when we actually see these tumors, they look like they're very pedunculated, and they have this hammer-like appearance. And they can appear in the stomach. They can appear in the large intestine, and they can appear in the small intestine. Out of all the locations of where it usually does appear, guess where it appears more often in the small intestine? So when we talk about this in colorectal cancer, yes, you can get these polyps that can occur in the colon. They can occur a lot of other places though. So I can get a polyp here that can develop in the stomach. It can develop in the colon. And it can develop here in the small intestine. So not only does that put them at risk, yes, you can't deny that if they develop a polyp there, these have somewhat of a malignant potential. It's not an insane amount of malignant potential, but they do exist. These hammertomatous polyps can potentially convert them into cancer. But it's more often that it's going to occur in the small intestine than it's going to occur anywhere else. Now, there is two types of conditions that are more juvenile that you need to know about. One is called Putsjäger's syndrome. So Putsjäger's syndrome is they have two types of presentations. One is they have these hammertomatous polyps. So they get these polyps. Plus they get hyperpigmented lesions. This is what I need you to remember. If you hear about a younger kid who's got these hyperpigmented lesions in their mouth, around their lips, and their hands and feet, and they have polyps that are appearing somewhere in their GIT, anywhere in their GIT, that is Putsjäger's syndrome. All right, so polyps plus hyperpigmented lesions. What do these lesions usually look like? They look a little bit like this. All right, so you saw that that patient had these lesions all over their mouth and their lips. They had it on their hands and their feet. If they have these polyps, they have hyperpigmented lesions, that's called Putsjäger's syndrome. Now, yes, they do carry a risk of colorectal cancer. So they do. You can't deny that. That with these patients, because of having these polyps, they have a small risk. There is an increased risk, but it's not super high. They have an increased risk of colorectal cancer. But more likely is that they have a risk of small intestinal cancer. And you know what else they have a risk of? Breast cancer, pancreatic cancer. There's so many different things. And so all that you're going to be tested on for Putsjäger's is going to be these hamertomatous polyps plus hyperpigmented lesions. That's what I need you to remember. All right, there is another one. I won't go too crazy on it. It's called juvenile polyposis. Juvenile polyposis is they can develop hamertomatous polyps as well. And they can occur in the stomach. They can occur in the small intestine. They can occur in the large colon. The only difference is that they usually don't have any other kind of specific lesions. It's usually occurring in very, very young kids. I'm talking less than the age of five. So if you see a young, very, very small kid, less than five years of age, who has tons of polyps that are in multiple parts of their GIT, you can think about juvenile polyposis syndrome. All right, that gives us a pretty good idea of what I want to tell you when it comes to risk factors. The biggest thing that you're probably going to be tested on is family history and hereditary cancer syndrome. And the third one is inflammatory bowel disease. Knowing these things, you have to know them to determine how soon you'll screen. That's very common and tested on the exam. Let's now talk about what are the ways that patients who have colorectal cancer can present from the most classic to the worst case scenario. All right, friends, so now let's start talking about how these patients can present. Again, it goes back to the right and left side of colorectal cancer. So right side of colorectal cancer, again, what I want you to remember is that when it looks at the right side, again, I think it's important to remember that the lumen of the right colon is wide. So because of that, that makes obstructive symptoms less common. So that's really what I want you to take away from this, is that there is a decreased chance. It's not like 100%. It's just decreased chance of obstructive symptoms. There's also another concept here that also adds to why there's less chance of obstructive symptoms. When you think about the stool coming from the small intestine into the large intestine, not only is this lumen wide here, but the stool is also more liquidy. So it's, again, less chance of possibly having an obstruction that adds to the mix. What really happens here is that this tumor, usually in the right side of tumors, you get exophytic or another, or let's say it like this, ulcerative tumors. All that means is that these are very easy to bleed. That means that these tumors can easily bleed. If they bleed, you get some blood that appears here. What's going to happen? OK, well, that blood is actually going to, when it gets pushed out here, it's going to easily mix with the liquidy stool. So that's what's going to happen next. It's going to mix with the stool. So it mixes with the stool. And then by the time it gets out to where you need to defecate, you drop that that dentodon, what happens? You're going to get blood that is in the stool, but you're not going to be able to visibly see it. So this leads to non-visible blood in the stool. Now there is a term for this, non-visible blood in the stool. Do you know what we call that? Occult GI bleed. So the most common presentation is you don't know it. It's an occult GI bleed. So that's one way. Now sometimes when you think about this, occult GI bleeds, they can present a couple of different ways. If I'm losing blood, what happens is because of that chronic bleeding, your body actually starts to unfortunately experience anemia. So one way that an occult GI bleed can present is it can present as anemia. So it's usually iron deficiency anemia. So iron deficiency anemia will abbreviate as IDA. That is one very, very common presentation. Now this iron deficiency anemia can present in two like clinical vignettes. One is it's in a male greater than 50. So if you see a male greater than 50 with symptoms of anemia, what's symptoms of anemia oftentimes? Fatigue, pallards, some generalized weakness. Male greater than 50 with iron deficiency anemia, and no ascertainable cause, ascertainable cause, you think about colorectal cancer until proven otherwise. Another one is a post-menopausal female. The reason why I say that is because if it's pre-menopause, guess what? They have abnormal or they can have uterine bleeding. And so we can't really completely say is it just heavy menstrual cycles. If they're post-menopausal and they aren't bleeding anymore, then you want to start thinking could this be due to an occult GI bleed? Another thing is that these tumors, they're kind of like, they do have the capability that they can lead to cytokines. And so you can get things like a little bit of interleukin 1, a little bit of tumor necrotic factor alpha, a little bit of interleukin 6. And what that can do is that can kind of lead to activation of the hypothalamus. So you can get all these kind of cytokines. And that can then act on the hypothalamus. If this acts on the hypothalamus, what is the hypothalamus going to do? Well, it can change the way that we decide to eat. And if you change the way that you decide to eat, unfortunately, they usually don't have an appetite. What can lead to that happening? Unintentional weight loss. So a male greater than 50 or a post-menopausal woman who is having unintentional weight loss and iron deficiency anemia is colorectal cancer until proven otherwise. So watch out for this because what this is going to do is lead to unintentional weight loss. Usually that's kind of like greater than 10 pounds within a month, all right? Without really trying to do anything about that. So that's something that we would be kind of concerned with. With a right cytokole rectal cancer is a cult GI bleed and unintentional weight loss. Which types of tumors for the hereditary? This is usually going to be Lynch syndrome, all right? For left cytokole rectal cancer, which types of etiologies, hereditary cancer syndrome? FAP, remember that. Which one's more common? Left or right? Usually it's the left, all right? Now, we talk about left cytokole rectal cancers. What usually happens with this one is that the lumen of colon is smaller and stool is more solid. If the stool is more solid and the lumen is smaller, what does that mean? You have an increased chance of obstructive symptoms. That's what we can kind of start seeing here. So with this one, you think about, again, the lumen of the colon here is a lot smaller. The stool is more solid. Your chance of developing obstructive symptoms now goes up. Now, with that being said, let's say that I have stool that's trying to move through here and it's a little bit more solid. As it runs through this area, some of it may kind of squeeze by and it may really have to squeeze past this cancerous stricture. And if it does, you get a very small, I don't mean to be like weird or vulgar, you get like a pencil-shaped stool. So now this stool could be very, very kind of like small and weird kind of like shaped because it had to squeeze past that stricture. So that's one thing that I want you to remember is that they can develop things like a pencil-shaped stool. So that's one thing that we like to definitely never consider as a pencil-shaped stool. So let's just say change in stool size. We'll talk about this a little bit later though. All right. All right, that's one thing. The next thing is some of the stool won't be able to make it because maybe if this is like liquidy, it's also they can get diarrhea that passes by here. But if this thing's kind of like solid, it's gonna start doing what? It's not gonna be able to get past this stricture. And as it doesn't get past this stricture, this area starts kind of like dilating and getting kind of like larger and spasming. And you also can't pass stool. So what's another thing that you could potentially see? Constipation. So that's another thing that I like to think about is a lot of changes in bowel habits. So let's actually write that down here. A really, really common presentation here is changes in bowel habits. And what does that look like? Okay, well, it's actually kind of like recap what we just said. One thing is some stool can kind of squeeze past the stricture. What does that look like? That gives you the pencil-shaped stools. So pencil, they're gonna say this one on the exam some way, shape, or form. It comes up and you think right away, left side of colorectal cancer. Another one is the stool won't be able to pass. It'll hit this wall or the stricture and it can't squeeze through. So then it dilates. When it dilates, it causes spasming. That spasming is you feel like you have to go poop like right now, but whenever you go to sit down and go, you only get like little nibblets, all right, like little like goose turds. And so because of that, we call that tenesmus. That's called tenesmus. The next thing is, is if I can't pass stool, am I gonna be able to poop? No. So I can get constipation. Now here's the last thing is with that constipation, sometimes, sometimes a little bit of stool may make it pass the stricture. So you can get constipation with periods of diarrhea. So that's the other thing to remember is you can get constipation with periods of diarrhea, where some, just a little bit of the liquid stool can make it pass that stricture and unfortunately you get some diarrhea. The other thing is that these tumors, when they bleed, look, it's in the rectum, it's in the sigmoic colon. How close is it to your poop chute? Very close. And so unfortunately, guess what? If they do bleed, you'll see that blood. And so when these bleed, that's a little bit different because now it's not gonna mix with the stool. It's actually probably gonna coat the stool. And because of that, they can get a bloody stool and it's a visible bloody stool. What's that call when you have like a brighter, bloody appearing stool? So you wipe your, your tuchus and you see blood all over the toilet paper or all over the poop. That's hematocesia. So hematocesia is a potential sign that there's blood there in that kind of like distal part of the colon. All right? The last thing is that these tumors also secrete, yeah, you got it. It secrete things like interleukin one, interleukin six, two-metacritic factor alpha. What are these things all gonna do? They're gonna act on the hypothalamus. If they act on the hypothalamus, what's that gonna do to your kind of like hunger and a lot of your desire to eat? It's gonna decrease it. What's gonna happen to their weight? It's gonna start becoming less. So they can start to experience that unintentional weight loss. All right, so taking away from this, right-sided, a cold GI bleed, left-sided changes in a lot of their bowel habits. They can also have visible bloody stool. This one doesn't have visible bloody stool. They both can have unintentional weight loss. That's the way that I want you to think about these. All right, this is gonna be the classic presentations, especially on your exam. The worst case scenarios are gonna be these that I wanna talk about. So sometimes, and it's really sad, and that's why we're trying to get better at screening these patients, they may not present with these obvious signs. Or let's say that, and this happens a lot, you know, some of you, I've had them, I've had hemorrhoids, and so whenever that happens, you end up with sometimes some blood in the stool. And you just ignore it, and you chalk it up to hemorrhoids, or you chalk it up to something else. Those are signs that if you don't deal with it, it could become something like colorectal cancer that doesn't only present now with hematocysia, and maybe mild changes in your bowel habits that you just thought was just, oh, it's something I ate. All of a sudden, it can metastasize, and you can present with other complications. That's why it's really important to be able to identify these things early. So especially for patients who are at high risk. So where can colorectal cancer spread, and how can that present? Well, here we have colorectal cancer, right? In this case, it's in the left colon. Now when it spreads, there is different areas where it can spread, and it kind of depends upon the location. But for simplicity's sake, usually what happens is this gets into your circulation. Either it gets into the portal circulation, right? Or it gets into the inferior vena cava circulation. But when it gets into the circulation, it can then spread and go all over the place. If some of these kind of like, these actual cancer cells spread to the brain, and they get into the brain, and you start getting metastasis here in the brain, what could potentially happen? Well, one thing is I can end up with a headache if it's big enough, because it can increase the intracranial pressure, right? So one potential clinical presentation is the patient can present with a headache. All right? Another one is that if it gets in the cortex, guess what happens to the area of the cortex? It can cause it to become irritable. It can create an asynchronous kind of like firing, and that can lead to seizures. So seizures are another potential presentation. If the tumors get into a part of the lobe that control specific motor or sensory function, what else could they develop? Focal deficits. Now, out of all of the locations of where colorectal cancer could spread, this I'd say would be the least likely one of where it can spread. But this would be the clinical presentations that we would be worried about. If a patient presented with like a new onset headache, new onset seizures, new onset focal deficits, we're gonna image and we'll pry find these lesions. If we then go ahead and say, hey, where does these lesions come from? We scan them all over the body and we find that they had a lesion in their colon. That could have been the source. All right? The most common location of where these things usually seed via the portal circulation is to the liver. And they can cause a lot of lesions here in the liver. Now, the liver can potentially have all of these lesions that occur here and cause nothing. They cause no symptoms. If you get some really, really big lesions, I'm talking like some honkers, you may get hepatomegaly. But oftentimes the most common way that you could see this is unfortunately, incidentally, but LFTs may be a little bit elevated. Especially on the exam, they may present a patient who has a history of colorectal cancer. They got a little bit of a large, right upper quadrant that's palpable. You get LFTs and they're a little elevated. That could potentially suggest that. If the tumor cells spread to the lungs, this one's a little bit different, but usually this spreads via the veins that are in the lower part here. So they usually can actually get into the inferior vena cava. And so if they can get into the inferior vena cava, they can bypass the portal circulation, get right into the lung. This can cause a met lesions here. And so sometimes they can present like all different types of ways. They can present with a cough, they could present with homoptysis, they could present with pleural effusions. It's really like completely weird how these patients could present. So they could present with cough, homoptysis, they could present with dyspnea, or they could even present with like these, like really bad pleural effusions. It kind of just depends on where they decide to deposit. And then the last one is really interesting is it can also spread to the peritoneum. When it spreads to the peritoneum, it can cause these lesions to occur in the peritoneum. And whenever they get here, these cancerous cells, they really increase permeability of the capillaries around the peritoneum. And if you increase the permeability here, guess what happens? It starts to cause the capillaries to become super leaky and a lot of fluid leaks out into the abdomen. Lots of albumin kind of like rich fluid. And so they can literally get acides. This is called peritoneal carcinomatosis. We can see this with ovarian cancer and we can also see this with colorectal cancer. When they start having all of this fluid build up, this can cause such enlargement that it can lead to a presentation like acides. Now, acides is tough because whenever you see acides, the first thing you start to think about is do they have like some kind of like cirrhosis? So you would have to get potentially a paracentesis and then when you would analyze the paracentesis, you would check the sag ratio. And the sag is the serum albumin that you would take and you would subtract that from the acides albumin. And this patient would have a ton of albumin in their acides. And so they would have a sag that's like less than 1.1. We talked about that in our serotic lecture and are in an acides lecture as well. But this would be an acides that I would be concerned about. And if I hear, I'll write it down for you guys, but this would be an exudate of acides. We determine that based upon a sag that is less than 1.1. And we would also get a bunch of like cytology and we would try to make sure that there's no evidence of infection here, but because we don't want to have SBP, but most of the time this is going to be peritoneal carcinomatosis. You're going to have a cancer that's causing a lot of leakiness and abduance leaking in there. All right, so this is metastas. Obviously another location that they can spread is guess what's all around here? Lymph nodes. So they can spread to a bunch of different types of mesenteric lymph nodes all over the place as well. So there can be some metastasis in those areas. All right, so not an area that we want to catch this, but this sometimes may be the way that they present and we unfortunately find it as a result of another kind of presentation. One thing that you want to think about, and this comes up on the exam a lot, I'm telling you like every time I've taken an exam, this comes up and it's a very, very commonly tested one. So in patients who have colorectal cancer, you can have an abnormal mucosa. So in other words, bacteria that are supposed to stay in the lumen, don't always stay in the lumen. And there's one specific bacteria that can cross over this kind of ulcerated or lack of barrier here. And if this poppy gets across here and gets into the bloodstream, this can cause bacteremia. So what is this bacteria here? So there's a bunch of different names, what we call this streptococcus gallolyticus. It's under the streptococcus bovis species. Now streptococcus gallolyticus, if you have colorectal cancer, it can cross the GM mucosa, get into the bloodstream. Guess what streptococcus gallolyticus does? It loves like damaged or old or like prosthetic heart valves. It likes anything that appears to be old, damaged, or that's a valve. And so let's say that a patient has a damaged mitral valve. These bacteria will then do what? Well, they're gonna go find that valve because they love damaged valves because there's gonna be areas of where it's broken down. And they're gonna go and they're gonna start kind of seeding onto these valves. And they're gonna produce these vegetations. And then what happens is, when you produce these nasty vegetations, this can lead to an infection of those valves. It could ulcerate the valve. What happens if it ulcerates the valve? And then your valve starts breaking down. Well, blood can rush backwards. Guess what one way that the patient could present? They could present with a new heart murmur. All right? Another thing here is that patients with endocarditis consistently, consistently present usually with a fever. This is probably gonna be more subacute endocarditis, but still nonetheless, they could present with a fever. Another thing is that if these vegetations break off, so let's say that they break off and they get into the circulation, so this thing breaks off, so either the valve breaks and you get a murmur, you get fever because you have this kind of bacteria circulating through the bloodstream, or you can spread these kind of like septic emboli. These are called septic emboli. These can go all over the place. What's one area that we always see on the exam though? Right here, the fingernails, splinter hemorrhages. So you wanna watch out because these things, they can really, I'm not kidding, they can go anywhere, but the way that they'll try to test you on the exam is this patient having splinter hemorrhages. So maybe you'll have a patient who has kind of like a fever, they have splinter hemorrhages, they have a new heart murmur, they have a history of colorectal cancer, or maybe you don't even know, that's another thing. You don't even know that they have colorectal cancer. Let's just say that you have a patient who comes in, new heart murmur, fever, and some splinter hemorrhages, you get an echocardiogram, and the echocardiogram shows that you have a vegetation. So it shows that you have a vegetation there on the valve. And then you get blood cultures. And the blood cultures, when they come back positive, guess what they come back positive for? Two of the, out of those cultures, you take two of them, if it comes back positive for streptococcus galilidicus, what do you then need to consider that this patient has colorectal cancer? How they'll try to test you on the exam is, you'll have a patient who comes in, they present with some features of endocarditis, you get an echo, you get a blood culture, comes back with streptococcus bovis, or streptococcus galilidicus, they ask you, what is the next step in management? You get a colonoscopy, because your fear is that they have colorectal cancer. That's the way that they're gonna test you on the exam about this, so do not forget that. All right? The last one I wanna briefly go through, because it's not super calm, we don't see it all the time, but if you get a tumor that's pretty big, man, and it's really in the left-sided colon, and let's say that it's almost completely obstructing, so let's say that this tumor is a complete obstruction. All right? So you have a tumor causing a complete, not a partial, a complete obstruction. That is very, very dangerous, that's bad news bears. The reason why is, now stool, no stool, some of it could seep by, no stool is getting passed here. If no stool is getting in here, I'll draw a couple like-fucking giblets there, here's a couple little turds. All right, these things can't get by. This is gonna do what to the colon? It's gonna make it dilate. And so then what you're gonna get is, is you're gonna get a sequence of events. We talked about this in GI. You're gonna first get some dilation. All right? So then you're gonna get this dilation of the colon. When you dilate, what do you do to the vessels that it's within the wall? You squeeze them. If you squeeze the vessels, can you give oxygen to the wall of the actual colon now? So what's the next event? Aschemia. If aschemia goes on for a long period of time, what's gonna happen? The tissue starts to die. If it starts to die, that's called necrosis. Necrotic tissue, is it strong? Can it resist high pressure? No. So all of these things would occur. Usually it's one, two, three. And then what's gonna happen is, is this guy is going to perforate. Here's my marker. Boom. If this perforates, this is unfortunately the problem where any of this stool that's in here, here's any kind of stool, what else could be in there? Bacteria. All this bacteria, air, anything. All that stuff can come leaking out. So I can have air, I can have bacteria, I can have poo, and all this stuff is gonna start leaking out where? Right into the peritoneum. All right? And that's what we get scared about is that all of this can then spread into the peritoneum. And what's the potential presentation of this? They could present with peritonitis. So oftentimes the clinical presentation of peritonitis is what? So peritoneal signs is usually they have like guarding of their abdomen. You come near them, they're like, you know, they don't wanna move. They don't, you touch the bed that they're laying on and they'll scream, right? Rigidity. You touch their abdomen and it's like rock solid. Rebound tenderness is another really, really important presentation. So in other words, you press down and they don't have pain, but when you come up, they're like, ah, you know, that is a potential sign of a peritoneal sign, meaning you perforate and you potentially have peritonitis. The other one is unfortunately, they could be sick as, like I'm talking sick, like hemodynamic instability. So when I say hemodynamic instability, I'm talking that this patient has a blood pressure that's like zero, all right? So stability. So they could present with a very, very low blood pressure. They could present with shock, right? So that's another potential thing that you wanna think about is, are they presenting with like tachycardia and low blood pressure? These are some scary signs. Another one is that they may present this as a patient who, you get an x-ray. You get an abdominal x-ray or a CT scan and it shows the presence of a pneumo peritoneum. What is a pneumo peritoneum? So a pneumo peritoneum is when you look at an image, like an abdominal x-ray, you have the diaphragm and just underneath it is the liver and you'll see this air bubble. You'll see this space. That usually means that air has leaked into the peritoneum. And again, you can have feces getting in there so you can get peritonitis and goceptic. You can have stool leaking in there and you can have air leaking in there. And so sometimes looking for an abdominal x-ray that shows a pneumo peritoneum, it actually looks like  just a little bit like this. That could be potentially concerning for having something like a bowel perforation. This would be an emergency. Now, with all of this that I've told you about, what are the big things that I want you to take away from this discussion with colorectal cancer? Oftentimes, you may not have very, very obvious signs like this, a cold GI bleed, maybe some iron deficiency anemia. Think about that for right-sided. Left-sided, think about the blood in the stool that's visible and some weird changes in your bowel habits. The worst case scenario is you catch it too late and it spreads to the liver, spreads to the lungs, spreads to the brain, spreads to the peritoneum. Sometimes if you get lucky and a patient has endocarditis, which that's not lucky, but again, if you catch it and they get blood cultures that show that they have this bacteria, this is an ominous finding and you need to scope them to see if they have the tumor. That's one way that we would do this. And lastly, if a patient comes in with like hemodynamic instability or signs of peritonitis, think about a perforation. This is not always a very common cause of perforation, but if you get a pretty significantly obstructing tumor, it can cause a perforation. Alright, we've really gone through it in this lecture. Now what I want us to do is I want us to take some time and actually go through the diagnostic approach and put all of this together piece by piece. Alright my friends, let's talk about the diagnostic approach to colorectal cancer. So we're going to take everything that we've talked about so far up to this point and start coming up with a way of really kind of analyzing these patients and figuring out what do we do, what's the next step? How to interpret this. So first thing is you need to know if your patient has symptoms or not. That's a really, really important thing and obviously when we talked about right-sided colorectal cancer, it's usually a cult. They may have iron deficiency anemia. That may be it. For your left-sided, they may present with changes in bowel habits. That's definitely a possibility. They may present with hematocles and they may present with symptoms of bowel obstruction. There's the weird scenario where you may find this from a patient having infective endocarditis from streptococcus bovis also known as streptococcus galilidicus. But sometimes these patients won't present with anything. They're just completely asymptomatic and you have to potentially consider do they have a risk of colorectal cancer. They may not be presenting with any features of colorectal cancer and they may not have it. But how do I make sure that I am surveying to see if they do have it? I catch it early or I make sure that they don't have it by continuously doing things according to the guidelines. Screening is very, very important. We have to determine how early and how frequently we scan patients in the sense of colonoscopies is the biggest one. How do we know when we should do it and how frequently we should do it? Because every procedure carries risk when you put under anesthesia, when you're putting a scope up through the colon. There's always complications and you want to avoid that if possible. So for average risk patients, we prefer around the age of 45 to do a colonoscopy for the first time. And if you don't have any polyps, you don't have any abnormal lesions, great. You can come back in 10 years. If the patient doesn't want to do a colonoscopy at all, there is options for them. So there is alternative routes and we can talk about that. But if they do have a polyp or if they have an abnormal lesion, based upon that, they may have to come back before 10 years. They may have to be at 3 years if there's a lot of high-grade dysplasia, lots of polyps, or 5 years if it's more of a lower-grade dysplasia, not as many polyps. So that's really, really important to remember is if they have polyps or abnormal lesions, they may have to come back a little earlier, 3 to 5 years. If they don't come back in 10 years, if they don't even want a colonoscopy right away and they want to do other things first, we can do that. What are those things? Well, the other alternatives is you can do stool studies. They're not perfect, but they're going to help you to find a patient who's got something abnormal going on and say, let's do a colonoscopy. For example, we can do things like a fecal-immunochemical test, a fit testing. They even add on the DNA sample component of it as well. So you take a stool sample, you test it, and you're looking for specifically proteins like hemoglobin and things like that that are present in the stool. If that comes back positive, that's definitely concerning for blood in the stool. If there's blood in the stool, hey, I should definitely be concerned about this, especially in a greater than 50-year-old patient. They also have iron divisions, the anemia. They could have colorectal cancer. A fecal-cold blood test is another one. This one's way better. It's way more sensitive and specific. Fecal-cold blood tests aren't bad, but you take the same thing, the stool sample, you're putting in a testing solution and seeing if it comes back positive for blood. You can definitely do both of these. We say that you can do this at 45 if you're not going to do the colonoscopy. If it's normal, you can just keep doing it, just keep doing it yearly. The moment that it comes back abnormal, you should then say, hey, this is concerning. We should go ahead and consider doing a colonoscopy to make sure that there's nothing there. Another alternative to stool studies is you could do imaging studies. It used to be things like barium enemas. We don't really do those anymore. They're still tested on the exam and I'll show you what they do. Flexible sigmoidoscopy is another one. You can sometimes do that. Sometimes there's options to do flexible sigmoidoscopies and a fit test, and you can do that every five years. Oftentimes the one that we're starting to see now is CT colonographies. CT colonographies, you can do at the age of 45 as well. It's an interesting test where you get a CT scan. You can see on the CT scan there's a weird appearing polyp here, some stuff here. Whenever you do that, you get the three-dimensional image you get here. We can even run through and create this really cool run through of the colon and find particular abnormal lesions. That's one of the beauties of CT colonography. We can say, hey, there's some weird lesions here. We can look at this three-dimensionally. We can appreciate it here. It's nice because it shows you something without having to go into the lumen of the colon under anesthesia. This is a potential benefit, and this is something that patients will do. If it came back where it did show something, then we got to go further. If it didn't show anything, then we can go ahead and do this in another five years. If it does show something, we got to get a colonoscopy. It's the right thing to do to make sure. We not only got to take a better look at it, but we also want to take a biopsy. This is the way I want you guys to think about it is that the goal is a colonoscopy. 45 years of age is really the goal. If it's nothing on that colonoscopy, come back 10. If there is something, 3 to 5, depending upon the degree of dysplasia and the amount of polyps. If you don't want to do that, you can do stool studies or you can do imaging studies. If those come back abnormal, you got to get a colonoscopy. If they do come back fine, you can keep doing those according to their guidelines, yearly for the stool studies every five years for the imaging. Again, remember, we do have other tests that we can do. Flexible sigmoidoscopy is one, but usually it's one where we combine with the fit test and we would do that every five years. If it came back abnormal, you get the colonoscopy. If it came back normal, you can still do every five years. We don't really do that much and we don't really do barium minima, but they love to test the barium minima on the exam. Let's say that, for example, on the exam, they say a patient came in and they ended up getting screened, they ended up getting a barium minima and it shows this lesion, the apple core lesion. It looks like someone took a bite out of this thing. That is pretty consistent with a colorectal cancer. That's something that we would say on the exam. You ever see the apple core sign on barium minima? Think about colorectal cancer. This is for the asymptomatic patient who we're trying to screen and make sure that we finally identify it or we keep an eye on it so that we don't find it when it's stage four. What about the patient who is high risk? This isn't the patient now who's 45 years of age with not a lot of risk factors. This is the patient who has things like hereditary cancer syndromes. This is a patient who has a personal history of colorectal cancer. They have a family history or a first degree relative less than the age of 60 was diagnosed with colorectal cancer. They have things like Pusieger syndrome. They have things like juvenile polyposis or FAP or inflammatory bowel disease. Those are things that we got to be a little bit more aggressive and we should do colonoscopies way earlier than 45 years of age and we should do it more frequently than every 10 or every three to five years. We do this again based upon what is that risk. For example, if I said that a patient has a personal or family history of colorectal cancer, a colonoscopy is the way to go, we're still going to follow the interval of every five years instead of every 10 years if it is normal. The recommended age is starting earlier than 45, 40. 40 is the go to, but if you have a patient who has a family history of colorectal cancer and a first degree relative, if they had a diagnosis, let's say at the age of 45. 45, they were diagnosed. Well then, what you could say is you could actually give them the actual ability to get a colonoscopy at the age of 35. You want to go to whichever one comes earlier. For example, you could do it at 40, but if they have a first degree relative that was diagnosed with colorectal cancer at 45, you could theoretically start at 35. You should do that. You should go earlier. Whichever one comes first is the goal. 40 years of age or 10 years before the patient's loved one or first degree relative has a had that diagnosis. So as the example is if the loved one, the first degree relative was 45 years of age, you could theoretically start at 35, which comes before their age of 40. I hope that makes sense. With familial adenomatosis, again, it can be a colonoscopy, but he got to think about this one. It's primarily left-sided disease. You're going to see this most often in the sigmoic colon and probably in a little bit of the descending colon. It's going to be the primary area. Flexible sigmoidoscopy is definitely one of the ones that they suggest, but you still can do a colonoscopy. It's just that FAP is going to involve more left-sided disease. For this one, they're super high risk. 40 years of age, 100% chance of colorectal cancer. You got to do this one every year. You're going to start this one pretty young. You're 10 to 12 years and you do this every year until you get the colorectal cancer because there is 100% chance of them getting colorectal cancer if they live to the age of 40. You really, really got to keep a close eye on this one. Lynch syndrome is another one. Look at this. This is what FAP would look like. If you actually took a resection, so this is a person who got a colorectal, I mean, you're actually looking at this, this is how many of these polyps they have, hundreds upon thousands of polyps. That's why it's a super, super aggressive one because any one of these could actually convert into an adenocarcinoma and boom, you're done for. That's an idea to give you perspective of FAP. Lynch syndrome or non hereditary polyposis, Coli, this one, colonoscopy. This one definitely tends to involve more of the right-sided disease. Colonoscopy, you're going to only get over that right side, but it can involve the left side. Again, interval is you can do every one to two years. The big thing about this one is that usually we got to get to this one prior before, at least when they're at 20 to 25 years of age because that's when they're probably going to present what they're not. Again, you got to remember Lynch syndrome can also present with endometrial cancer and ovarian cancer. That's another thing that you got to be scanning them for and considering working them up for as another potential cancer risk. Poochieager syndrome, this is the one that I told you where they present with the hyperpigmented macular lesions that are going to be appearing over the lips, usually over the oral mucosa on the hands, the palms of the feet. This one can cause gastric cancer, small intestinal cancer, colorectal cancer, pancreatic cancer. There's a bunch of different cancers for this one. The risk of colorectal cancer tends to be on the lower side, but they like to include it in this one. It is something to consider that we would do a colonoscopy, but oftentimes you run more of a risk of gastric, small intestinal, pancreatic cancer. Sometimes we'll do EGDs and pancreatic MRIs. For Poochieager, it's every three years and you're going to start this at eight years of age. Again, pancreatic MRI, this definitely carries a pretty high risk of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Every three years you'll include a pancreatic MRI and you're going to do that around the age of 30. Juvenile polyposis syndrome, this is usually on the child, usually pretty young. They're going to be pretty young. With this one, they do carry the risk of, again, colorectal cancer, small intestine, gastric cancer. Oftentimes this one is usually a colonoscopy paired with an EGD. We're going to do that every one to three years and we're going to start that pretty young, usually 12 years of age. This is a lot, but I think the most important ones out of this is to remember is really the personal history and family history one. This is going to be a definite one that you can see. Flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy for FAP is a big one. There's one more that's really, really important. That's called inflammatory bowel disease. Inflammatory bowel disease, you're going to want to do a colonoscopy. Now, when we talk about this, this is Crohn's and ulcerative colitis. Ulcerative colitis is going to carry more of the risk of colorectal cancer as compared to Crohn's. It's just because Crohn's tends to involve multiple different areas. It has those skip lesions. It can involve the ileum most often, so small intestine. Whereas ulcerative colitis usually is going to involve areas like the rectum, the sigmoid colon, and it can even go continue. You can get pancolitis, but you're definitely going to see more of that rectum and the sigmoid colon involvement and even the descending colon. With that being said, colonoscopy is going to be really, really crucial here. With this one, we do it based upon the degree, when they were diagnosed, and the degree of colitis. If a patient was diagnosed eight years ago, then we'll start scanning them after that eight-year mark. We'll do it every one to three years. That's dependent upon the patient. But eight years after the diagnosis of pancolitis, we'll start doing this. We got to do it very, very soon, or 12 to 15 years after the diagnosis of left cytocolitis, meaning it's just involving more of the rectum and the sigmoid colon, and maybe even the descending. You can go 12 to 15, which is definitely a lot later because it's only just involving one part of the colon, but if it's involving the entire colon, you got to go every eight years. Eight years after the diagnosis, and then go every one to three years. That's a lot. But again, just to recap, personal family history is the big one. 40 or 10 years before the first degree relative was diagnosed, whichever one comes sooner. FAP, 10 to 12, you're doing it yearly because you are guaranteed to get colorectal cancer. You have to do it annually, get to the point of where they do the colactomy. In IBD, they carry a super high risk of dysplasia, inflammatory pseudopallops, and this can become cancer. It has to be eight years after the diagnosis of pancolitis, or 12 to 15 after just the procto, and usually just left side of colitis. That's a lot. Now I want to talk about the patient who comes in with symptoms. If the patient comes in with symptoms, then I got to start talking about a colonoscopy. Usually anybody who's aged greater than 50, plus they have one of the following. I'd say a big one is iron deficiency anemia. This is going to be super common on your step two. When you've got a patient who's 50 years or greater and they have iron deficiency anemia without an identifiable or easy cause to discern, then you should definitely be thinking about colorectal cancer. That's definite, and usually that's going to be one of the indications where you got to get a colonoscopy. Another one that I would consider is hematocasia. If a patient has hematocasia and they're older, but it's persistent hematocasia. You've done, you've ruled out things very, very simple like diverticulosis, or you've ruled out things like hemorrhoids, which are very, very common ones. I would definitely consider colonoscopy, and especially if the hematocasia is paired with the changes in their bowel habits. That's lasted for a while, greater than six weeks. The reason why I say this is because whenever you have, again, you have that tumor that's present on the left side of the colon, which is the more common one. It's going to create a partial obstruction or full obstruction, depending upon how extensive it is. It's going to make pencil shaped stools. That's one big thing. You're going to have periods of where you have frequent episodes where you're pooping out very small amounts of turds. You feel like you're not completely emptying your bowels because you're only getting small little turds to come out, and you keep feeling like you got to go. You may even have periods of diarrhea as well. That's something definitely to be considered of in this patient population. The last one, and this is the weird one, is a patient who comes in and they have a diagnosis of infective endocriditis. Their blood cultures and their echocom, and they say, hey, they have a little vegetation maybe, or their blood cultures only come back with streptococcus bovis or streptococcus galaticus. You always colonoscopy these patients because you may find a colorectal cancer. These are the things I definitely want you to be thinking about as a reason to get a colonoscopy. You've got A-50-year-old, most often iron deficiency anemia is the big one that they'll present on the exam. You're going to get a colonoscopy. When you do the colonoscopy, what you're looking for is the tumor. Is it going to be in the left colon, the right colon? You'll be able to visualize that on the colonoscopy. Once you biopsy that, you'll be able to confirm, oh, this is like an adenocarcinoma here that we're seeing. That's going to be super, super helpful. Because again, you can think about this. As I throw that scope up there, and I'm examining, and I see, oh, wow, look, here in the descending colon, I see this abnormal appearing mass that's friable, and there's irregularities in the mucosa, and I take that off, and I send it, and it comes back, okay, it's cancer. Or if I go down here to the sigmoic colon, I start saying, oh, man, there's another friable mass, and I take a piece of tissue, and I send it off. Oh, the pathologist says it's malignant. Or I go down here to the rectum, and I'm getting really, really low, and I see this friable tissue. It definitely appears irregular. It's ulcerative. It's exophitic. Boom, take it off, and I send it out. Okay, came back positive. All right. These are things that are definitely going to help me to make the diagnosis, both visually and then pathologically, from that tissue sample. Now, once you have diagnosed colorectal cancer, you need to consider working them up. What I mean is working them up for metastasis. All right? It's not just metastasis. There's other things that we'll talk about as well, but metastasis is going to be the big one. You should get a CT, chest, abdomen, pelvis, because you want to look to see if it's spread to the lungs. You want to look to see if it's spread to the liver. That's going to be the most common one. You want to see if it's spread to areas like the bones as well. All right? Liver lesions are going to be a big one. Also, I'd say pelvis, another really one. Actually, not bones per se. It's the peritoneum. That's what I should actually have said. Sorry. The peritoneum. The CT, chest is good for lungs. Abdomen is good for the liver. The pelvis is going to be looking for peritoneal carcinomatosis. I'll explain what the heck that means. Here we can appreciate on this CT scan of the abdomen, look at all these metastatic lesions, all these hypodensities. Pretty suggestive of metastatic disease. Then you can see here on the chest, we can appreciate all of these metastatic lesions in the lungs, bilateral, all over the place. Pretty consistent. Here is the, oh, look at this. This is called peritoneal carcinomatosis. You see some of the psides. Here's what's interesting. Once you get colorectal cancer, this tumor can start invading into the omentum. It thickens up the omentum here and it makes it look like the inside of a cake. Here's all the icing. Then here's the inside. That thing is omental caking. This is pretty consistent with peritoneal carcinomatosis, which we can see in colorectal cancer for starts to spread there. That's definitely one thing to definitely consider about is a patient who presents with omental caking. You see any kind of acidic involvement present on their CT scan? That'd be concerning, especially if they have a history of colorectal cancer. That really tells me that they got metastatic colorectal cancer. If they got liver lesions, lung lesions, or peritoneal carcinomatosis, I got metastatic colorectal cancer. That's pretty aggressive and there's not much that we can do with that. There may be certain exceptions that you can consider, especially if the only area that I'm a tacitize to is the liver. You could theoretically do a colectomy or remove a couple of the hepatic meds and consider it being a possibility, but oftentimes at this stage, there's not going to be much surgical option. Another thing I want to do is I always want to attain a CEA level. CEA is actually really interesting. CEA is a tumor marker. We see this when we talk about prostate cancer like PSA. We'll talk about testicular tumors and we'll talk about beta-HCG and AFP. Testicular tumors or prostate cancer tumors or any kind of tumor like this, they'll have these tumor markers. Now, these tumor markers don't diagnose colorectal cancer. Really, what we can for the most part say is that, yes, to the degree the higher the CEA level is, yeah, maybe the more advanced it is, but it's more used as a baseline and then determining efficacy of treatment. I always do it as a way of getting a baseline CEA level. You have a patient with colorectal cancer, you get a CEA level. It's probably going to be elevated, but I would just look at that and then compare it after you've done particular therapies like a colectomy. Hey, what happened to the CEA level? Oh, I got better. All right, cool. That's what we would want to do is use it as a way of being able to monitor efficacy of therapy. The last thing that I also want to be considering in my work up is I need to determine if they're going to be a patient who will respond well to targeted therapy because when we get patients who have metastatic colorectal cancer, there's not a lot of options. Surgery is not really an option. Sometimes we've got to dig into our bag of tools and tricks and see, can we come up with something that we can at least prevent the disease from getting bigger and bigger and bigger? You'll notice in cancer that as we get to the metastatic diseases or we get to the advanced stages, there's not a lot of surgical options. We then got to start digging into targeted therapies and immunotherapies. This is what I would want to do. But before I could even offer that, I need to make sure that they have specific genetics that I have an area to target. I'd obtain an MMR which looks at that microsatellite instability and see if they have a lot of that. The reason why is I can target specific drugs to this one. I want to know if they have the KRAS or BRAF analysis because if they have any mutations here, that changes which drug I can give. I'll make sense of all of this later. This is a big way of looking at colorectal cancer. Asymptomatic, you got to get a colonoscopy if they're average risk. Start at 45. If you don't want to do that, there's options. There's stool studies, there's alternative imaging studies, but if they come back abnormal, you got to get a colonoscopy. If you get a colonoscopy, comes back abnormal, you may have to come back in three to five years depending upon the degree of dysplasia. If it's normal, you can come back in 10. If they have high risk factors and one of the most important ones, a family history, you got to do it at 40. If their family member was diagnosed at a young age, then you can go 10 years before they were diagnosed with that cancer. Another one is FAP. We'll do it every year, 10 to 12 until they get a colic to me. The third most important one is IBD. You're going to do that again eight years after the diagnosis of pancolytus or 12 to 15 after the diagnosis of left cytocolitis. For symptomatic, we get a colonoscopy with biopsy if they have greater than 50 and the red flag symptoms, iron deficiency, anemia, changes in bowel habits, persistent amatic aphasia, or positive blood cultures. If you find the tumor, you diagnosed it. Look at the pathology, confirm that it's actually a carcinoma, and then from there, stage it. After you stage it, get their CEA level. See if they have a baseline that you can compare to with your therapies and then also look to see do they have mutations analysis that can help me to treat them if they have metastatic colorectal cancer. Let's talk about the treatment of colorectal cancer. The big thing here is surgery. Surgery is going to be the primary option for these patients, especially any from stage one to stage three. Collectomy is the way that we're going to go. We're going to literally cut out the diseased segment, or unfortunately, sometimes in severe cases, the entire colon if we have to. We don't like to do that, but we will if we have to. We will remove a portion of the colon that consists of that cancer. The more invasive, the more widespread that cancer is, the more likely we're going to have to take more of the colon. Collectomy is the way that we're going to go. As we do that, we'll remove some of the particular areas where there may be some lymph nodes that are actually going to have some spread from that cancer, or at least remove them to reduce the risk of it spreading to those areas. If there's anything that remains, you don't get as clean of the margin. We'll remove some of the periortic lymph nodes and we'll remove some of the actual, all the lymph nodes that are within that vicinity. One of the big things is deciding the colactomy. It just depends. You probably won't be asked exactly. I think the simple ones will come down to total and probably like right and left hemicolectomy. When you think about this, it's pretty straightforward. Let's say that you had right-sided disease. You'll do a right hemicolectomy. If you involve just maybe a portion, for example, in this case the transverse colon, you can do a partial colactomy. If it's the left-sided that's primarily involved, you'll do a left hemicolectomy. If it's really the only the sigmoid colon that's involved, it's a sigmoid colactomy. If it's going to be the sigmoid that's not involved and it's really just going to be the rectum, you'll do a total proctectomy. If it's involving the rectum, the sigmoid colon, parts of the descending colon, you'll do an abdominal perennial resection. If it's involving no part of the rectum, you'll do a lower anterior resection. If it's a complete involvement of the ascending transverse, descending and sigmoid is a total colactomy. If it's involving the rectum and the sigmoid, descending, transverse and then the ascending colon, that would be a total proctocolectomy. Obviously, in this scenario, it just depends upon what you're trying to resect. Depending upon how much you resect, it also determines if you're going to have to have some type of diversion, in other words, a stoma, where you're going to have to have some parts of the colon empty out into a bag external to the body. That depends especially if you're removing areas of the most distal parts of the colon near the sigmoid and the rectum, you may have to divert and have a diversion into a stoma sometimes. That's something to definitely think about. Stage one to stage three, we really just go colactomy and depending upon where it is and how much is involved determines the type of colactomy that we would do. Medical therapy is something that we can add on depending upon the stage. Stage one, you don't really need to add on anything. Colactomy would probably be enough. Stage two, only if they are high risk. I wouldn't even try to remember this. You can consider full fox, which is a type of chemotherapy regimen or full fury, which again, this is a chemotherapy regimen that you're probably not going to have to use here in stage two. When it would be most utilized is in stage three. Again, stage one, surgery only. Stage two, surgery, maybe chemotherapy with full fox or full fury. Stage three, surgery and definitely chemotherapy with full fox or full fury. With these usually is using things like flora uracil. You use like 5FU, you'll use other things like leukovorin, you'll use things like oxa-platin or arena-ticking. You're probably not going to be testing that. You'll probably just see chemotherapy or full fox or full fury. That's something that you can utilize. When we get to stage four, we're at metastatic. This thing is spread. Maybe it's gone to the liver, which is most often. If there's any metastatic site that's the most common, it's going to be the liver. The liver is the primary way that we're going to look for meth. You can see it in the lungs. You can see it in the paris name, but the liver is going to be the big one. Oftentimes with this surgery is not really something we go for. There is rare instances, and I'll talk about it a little bit later, where you can consider surgery. But oftentimes, it's not going to be up for curative intent. This is curative. If you remove it, you theoretically can cure the disease. In this stage four, you're only doing it if they have significant symptoms. You're just trying to help them to not be in pain or have some of the issues that comes with that tumor. For example, if they have a left-sided tumor that's really obstructing the lumen and they keep having obstructive symptoms, they keep having a lot of pain or a bowel obstruction, then I would say it's potential to go in a mennap by putting in a stent. You could actually go in. Here's the tumor. It's causing a significant narrowing here. I'm going to thread up a catheter, inflate a balloon, and I'm going to leave in a stent to help to keep that relatively patent so we can get feces to move. When we come to the medical therapy, really treating patients who have colorectal cancer, it can be chemotherapy as well. We have all these different ways that we can try to target it. PD1 inhibitor therapy, which is like Pembrolyzumab is a big one, this is becoming a really heavily utilized immune checkpoint inhibitor. It's becoming utilized in colorectal cancer, especially stage 4. This is one I would consider again. You talk about this one a lot in oncology. You have a tumor cell and you have a T cell. Well, T cells express PD1 and they also express T cell receptors. Tumor cells express their MHC complex with their antigen, and then they also express the PDL1. These can interact. It shuts the T cell off so it can't kill the tumor cell. It's kind of a way of masking itself. If I give a drug that binds to the PD1, then it doesn't allow for it to bind to the PDL1. That allows for the T cell to be active and it can start actually killing this actual tumor cell. That's the benefit here. We can do PD1 inhibitor monotherapy. There's just certain circumstances and I'll talk about that. That's why we order the KRAS, the BRAF analysis. That's why we order all of those things to determine, hey, do they have it? Do they have any of these abnormal mutations? That's the significance of doing that. Checking the macrosatellite instability, checking to see if they have the BRAF or the KRAS analysis kind of mutations.  eGFR-blocker, epidermal growth factor receptor blocker. We can think about epidermal growth factors as they bind onto a receptor, pretty straightforward. They send a signal inside via K-RAS that goes into the nucleus, activates the cell proliferation process. If we give a drug like satuximab that's going to block that growth factor at the receptor, it's going to shut down the K-RAS pathway and that's going to drop down the cell proliferation. This would be great if you have a way of doing that and this K-RAS isn't mutated in some way. That would be a potential benefit. Full-Fox or full-Fury plus a VEG-F inhibitor is another drug that you can give. It's pretty straightforward. When you think about VEG-F, that binds on, it's a growth factor, binds on to the VEG-F receptor, stimulates a pathway inside of the nucleus to help to increase the VEG-F release, and VEG-F will then say, okay, let me go ahead and stimulate endothelialization and help to make more blood vessels so it sprouts out all these little vessels. I got all these spaghetti tubes that are coming off of it and that's going to help to feed more blood to the tumor. That's called angiogenesis. If you feed more blood to the tumor, it's going to grow, man. If I give something like a VEG-F inhibitor, like bevacizumab, it's going to block that. It's going to shut down that pathway. It's going to reduce the VEG-F secretion from that to the endothelial cells. It's going to drop the angiogenesis and starve the tumor of blood so that it doesn't continue to grow. That's what I want you to think about. That's a lot, right? When we think about how we determine which one of these would we give, it goes back to why the heck that I ordered the macrosatellite instability, the MMR. Why did I order the BRAF and KRAS mutational analysis? For example, if they have the MMR mutation, this is going to be the one that you want to give. If you have a patient with stage four colorectal cancer because it shows that it's spread to the liver, you've got it confirmed on colonoscopy, you get the MMR and it comes back positive, PD1 inhibitors are going to be the way to go. Now, if they had a left-sided tumor and they had no KRAS or BRAF mutation, this is cool because when you think about it, no KRAS mutation. If you had a KRAS mutation, this wouldn't really work because you're trying to influence an already hyperactivated KRAS. Usually what happens is in this disease, as we talked about this on the whiteboard, KRAS is auto-activating it, it sends signals down to proliferate. It's not going to respond well to this drug because it's a little bit above. What I would want to do is in that situation, if they don't have the KRAS mutation, I can actually manipulate this then because it's not hyperactive. It's actually going to respond to my therapy. Left-sided tumors and no KRAS BRAF mutation, you give satuximab plus the full fox or the full fury. If they have no left-sided tumor, so it's probably right-sided and they do have the KRAS of the BRAF mutation, you're not going to be able to give them this because it's not going to respond well to the actual therapy because you have an already hyperactive KRAS. What I would say is give the VEGF inhibitor because it doesn't influence the KRAS pathway. You're going to give this because it's not even having any effect on the KRAS of the BRAF pathway. That's the beauty of this. All you're going to do is you're going to starve the tumor of blood supply and it's going to help it to prevent it from getting bigger and bigger. That's the beauty of this. If you have the MMR mutation, PD1 inhibitors. If you have left-sided tumor and no KRAS BRAF, satuximab because you're not going to be going after, in this case, an abnormal KRAS. If you have a KRAS BRAF mutation, then you can give a drug like a VEGF inhibitor because it's not influencing the KRAS pathway. Then again, if you have the satuximab and the bevacizumab, you combine that with chemotherapy. Two last things that I want to add on is an important side note. When a patient has familial adenomatosis polyposis, you have to give a collectimie. There is no decision about, okay, they're stage one. No, no, no. You do a prophylactic collectimie. There's a 100% chance of them developing colorectal cancer by 40 years of age. You do a prophylactic collectimie. It's very sad, but you have to in these patients. There is no waiting until they have stage none, no, no. You do a prophylactic collectimie. You do colonoscopy until you get that done. Last thing here is, I told you in stage four, colorectal cancer, we don't really do surgery unless it's palliative. You can consider it as a possible curative surgery if they have a colorectal lesion and maybe one or two mets in the liver that I can actually access and get to and remove. If you've got tons of hepatic mets or mets in other places, this is not an option. You can do a collectimie and you can do a metastectimie, but it's only offered if there's just a couple of those hepatic lesions and they're more accessible peripheral points where I can get to them, remove them without causing a lot of potential extensive damage and that there's no other mets anywhere else. That is something that could be considered, but I don't spend too much time thinking about that. It's just an option as an opportunity to think about. My friends, this is a ton of information on colorectal cancer. I really hope that you guys do understand it after this. I know that sometimes you get packed with information as a student and you're trying to really force feed your brain and prevent it from spilling out from your ear tubes. I get that, but I hope that we here at Ninja Nerd can make it a little bit easier for you. We can make it a little bit more enjoyable for you. Hopefully, you can remember this stuff a little bit better and longer so that when the exam comes, you're like, dude, roasted, killed it. I wish you guys the best. I love you guys. Thank you guys so much. Until next time.

=== FILE: Esophageal & Gastric Cancer ｜ Podcast [rbIHur5i4fw].txt ===

 packageddashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdash It's including almost multiple systems. And so you're kind of like going through multiple different systems. And unfortunately the cancers that plague those, you know, those organs. So yeah, it's a lot. There's a lot to talk about. But today I think we'll do a good job in talking about the esophageal and gastric cancer, which is, it's really sad because these are oftentimes, they're asymptomatic until the patient usually is getting towards like later stage or advanced stage. And that's usually when we catch it. So it's really important to be able to aware of the risk factors and any kind of like just subtle symptoms. Yeah. All right. Well, let's get into it here. We have our first case and we're gonna be starting with a, well, you're gonna have to guess. I'm not gonna give it away. Don't give it away. I'm not gonna give it away. You guys are ninjeners though. You'll crack this case immediately. Yeah. All right, Zach. We have a 56 year old man, 25 year GERD history. For three months he's had progressive dysphagia. His boy's been popping tums. Yeah. Oh, meppers all his whole life. Yeah. Half of his life. Half of his life, yeah. So with his dysphagia, it started with solids first. Having difficulty with solids. Now it's gone to some liquids and it's, he's had an unintentional eight pound weight loss. There is no oedinophagia, no bleeding. All right. I mean, that definitely is concerning. I mean, obviously we're talking about cancer. So the big things that really think about when you think about esophageal cancer, there is two types. There is esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and esophageal adenocarcinoma. It's important to know location and also the risk factors associated with each. This one seems more like esophageal adenocarcinoma which occurs in the lower third of the esophagus. Esophageal squamous cell is more upper two thirds. And so that one is usually associated with things like smoking, HPV, obesity. Those are usually really alcohol. Those are usually very common. So if you think about squamous cell carcinomas, a lot of the time smoking is very heavily associated with it because a lot of the head and neck cancers are common with that one. HPV is big with it as well. And again, alcohol. With esophageal adenocarcinoma, that's lower third. That's very, very commonly associated with any person who has GERD, chronic GERD. So if you have obesity, if you have Iatlehirnia, if you have some type of, I'd say, you know, anything that can cause incompetency of the lower esophageal sphincter. So usually it's obesity. Usually it's just poor eating habits that are things that are gonna trigger a lot of hydrochloric acid production and on top of that, Iatlehirnias. So those are really, really important things to think about. So that right there is making me think esophageal adenocarcinoma. And it's because of the GERD history. The dysphagia is really important. So whenever a patient's described dysphagia, it's a difficulty in swallowing, right? And there's two different types of oral pharyngeal. And the oral pharyngeal is usually like, you can imagine this, if you swallow and you ever have a lot of coughing or you have nasal regurgitation, like you ever had milk go up your nose or something like that. Yeah, things like that are usually associated more with oral pharyngeal. That's things like ALS. That's things like Parkinson's. That's things like multiple sclerosis strokes. Things like, that are more neurological in nature that controls the upper part of the deglutition pathway. For this kind of dysphagia, it's more esophageal. And it tells me that it could be structural, more so than functional. So functional dysphagia is like neuromuscular. Acolysis is a big one. Scleroderma, diffusosophageal spasm. Those usually are gonna be dysphagia that is not as progressive. And I think that's the big thing here. This one is a progressive dysphagia and it's going from solids first and then it's going to liquids. You can think about that structurally because let's say you have a tumor. Here's your lumen here, right? And then it starts off, well, I gotta be careful with the finger. Yeah, I was gonna say, I wasn't sure what you were talking about. But we gotta be careful with that. For a second there. Keep your minds clear, but just imagine here's the lumen. Imagine it only is occupying, the tumor's occupying like a quarter of the lumen, right? So it's earlier stage. Well, solids are gonna be harder to get through that point. If the tumor gets bigger, and now it's occupying, let's say, half or three quarters, now it's harder for liquids to get through. So that's why it makes me think structural. So I would say the first thing is, I always think barium swallows are just a quick way to go. They're probably not gonna be the best, cause they're not gonna tell me if this is cancer. But it's at least gonna give me an idea if I have a physical obstruction, and then I can go to an EGD. So that's probably what I'd start with first, is a barium swallow, just to give me an idea. And then the unintentional weight loss just seems like an ominous finding, where it's just a little scary where- Always bad. Your mind just goes to cancer, unfortunately. Yeah, I think that's the big one. And I think oftentimes when people develop cancer, as usually weight loss, there's a couple exceptions. I think the biggest one is ovarian cancer, where they actually bulk up. They get like a side-ease. So they really, really blow it up, and their waist size goes up. But yeah, usually this is probably a combination of just the tumor always releases cytokines, and causes like what's called cancer catechia. So they just have cytokines that shut down their hypothalamus and their desire to eat. But also, if you're having difficulty swallowing, that also may have caused some food aversion as well. Yeah, that makes sense. So yeah, there's definitely a lot of things that scream cancer to this. I just think when you think about the type, and this scenario, chronic gird is a really, really bad thing. That's gonna be more associated with lower one third, yeah, lower one third of the esophagus. And then again, I think that the way that this dysphagia is described seems structural, and esophageal like, and then the intentional weight loss is like you said, is ominous. So I'd start, see if we can find a structural cause of the barium swallow, and then go up with that. All right, with the barium swallow, we do have a barium swallow test result here. It shows a long irregular narrowing in the distal six centimeters of the esophagus. So your suspicions are confirmed. Yeah, so definitely there's something going on with the lower third, and again, I'm still concerned about esophageal adenocarcinoma. I think there could be other things, like strictures. You can even have things like, sometimes esophageal rings and webs and stuff like that. You could have just a regular peptic structure as well. So I think the best thing to do now is to get an EGD, because the EGD is gonna give me visualization to see if I see like a friable, like fungating esophageal mass, and then also I can biopsy it. And I'll show me if it's like normal tissue, if it's what's called pre-malignant condition, pre-malignant tissue, like barrett's esophagus. Or how is it actually said? Is it barrett or barrett's? I don't know. You like to add? Yeah, I like to add S's on things. Yeah, so for no reason, you just makes things plural, I don't know. Yeah, but that would be the best way to go, because it's gonna tell you if it's truly like metoplastic, or if it's like towards the end of displastic, or really it's a carcinoma at this point. So that's what I would do, I'd do an EGD, take a look, see if you can find it, and then biopsy it. All right, so we have EGD with pathology here. We, it shows a friable, ulcerated mass at the gastroesophageal junction. Biopsy result is invasive adenocarcinoma. Yeah. My next question though, Zach, is now that you know this, where do you go next? Are you able to stage this now? Yeah, you can. So I think the most important thing is the esophageal cancer can spread distantly, but it's more local and regional that you gotta worry about. So it can spread actually kind of to the bone, but mainly it's to the nint lymph nodes, and then what you have to really, really know is how deep in the esophagus it is. So it definitely can get into the blood, and get into the lungs, right, and go to the bones. I think you can go to the liver as well, but I think the big one is usually the lungs, and then the bones are a pretty common one, but what I would wanna know is, is how deep is it in the wall of the esophagus? And an EGD with biopsy doesn't really give you that answer as well, because we don't punch through all the way when we think of biopsy. So I would probably do an endoscopic ultrasound, and these are really fucking cool because they come down, and then when they go down the esophagus, they go to the mass, and then you get a probe, it turns the ultrasound on, and it shows you kind of imagine you're in the lumen, it shows you the layers. Like you can see the mucosa, you can see the submucosa, you can see the muscularous externa, you can see the adventitia, and so the cool thing about that is that it can tell you how deep the tumor is actually extended. Is it just mucosal, so like what we call T1, or is it past the mucosa into the muscularous externa? As, you can even see lymph nodes, has it spread to a parasophage or lymph node? The reason why that's important is it tells you if it's kind of like locally or regionally spread, and then from there you can get a CT, like if you have any concerns that they do have, especially if I see that it's invasive, like it's really going deep, I would probably get a CT, I'd probably do like a chest, that's a big one. I probably, you could probably add an abdomen and pelvis on as well, just because you can't roll out that it hasn't metastasized. Yeah, yeah, so that's probably what I'd start with first and see if it really has spread to anywhere else. I think the liver, the lungs, the bones, those are the pretty common ones, but yeah, the endoscopic ultrasound would probably be the way to go, biopsy a node if I have them, if I see one, and then from there I'd probably get a CT, chest, abdomen, pelvis to reflectively offer that. All right, well let's start off first with the endoscopic ultrasound, and quick question, if we're doing this another, in very invasive procedure, can we not combine this with the EGD? You can. Yeah, yeah. I'm like, why do you gotta do this twice to this core? Yeah, it's actually pretty cool. It's core guy, you're doing it twice. So obviously after you do an EGD with biopsy, if you have a high suspicion, you could just chuck and just throw a different probe down, because if they're already kind of intubated for the procedure. They're already there. Yep, you can definitely do that all in one fell swoop. Yep, just change it out to an ultrasound probe and then you can take a biopsy if you need to. You can get both while you're there, absolutely. Well the endoscopic ultrasound, it does show that the tumor invades the muscularis propria. Okay. There are two parahesophageal nodes, and then fine needle aspirate is positive. For our CT, we note that there is no liver or lung lesions. So at least it seems that it is local. For the most part. Yeah, it's definitely a little bit more, it's deep. So we're probably getting a little bit more, like if you're getting to the muscularis propria, that's unfortunate, but you're definitely deep, you're getting some nodes. So we're not far to the point of distimatastis, but we have some local regional spread here. So I don't want you guys to go crazy worrying about like staging and stuff like that. It's not super commonly tested. I think it's just important to know, has it gone beyond the mucosa, or is it not beyond the mucosa? That's really the reason why I say that is because it guides your decision-making of how you're gonna treat these patients. If it's like not beyond the mucosa, we can sometimes just do like little endoscopic resections of that area, because you can just take that piece of disease tissue out with an endoscopic resection. If it's only like mucosal involvement, if it's a little bit deeper, where it's gone beyond the mucosa, then sometimes you have to go a little bit further. That's when you start talking about like, do I need to do chemo radiation to shrink the tumor down enough that when I do a esophagectomy, I'm not removing too much. Because esophagectomy is they're not, I mean, you have to do what you have to do, but they don't always have the best outcomes. They're the thing that you unfortunately sometimes have to do, but the best way of being able to make sure that you have the best possible success with those is definitely shrinking it down. So if it's mucosa only, you can just resect it. If it's beyond that, you probably should shrink it down with like some chemo radiation prior and then refer them to a surgeon for like an esophagectomy. So had our patient been only mucosa, mucosa only, it's fairly curative, correct? Yeah, yeah, I think, and that's the hard part is that, I mean, usually you don't catch these early. Like this person was lucky that they weren't caught at like a distant stage. I mean, having symptoms, they probably had to have a pretty big mass to have symptoms and that's usually the problem. They start off really small and usually these symptoms are kind of like not thought of too often. You kind of just like brush it off, like, whatever. And sometimes I feel like I have difficulties with, I probably cause I eat food like way too fast. I was gonna say, you're taking down like four hot dogs. Yeah, just glizzy after glizzy. Yeah, yeah. But no, it does make sense when you think about it and the fact that if it is small enough, you're right. You kind of just are like, ah, no big deal, whatever. And then it gets to the point where you're like, wait a minute, I can't even drink my soda right now. Yeah, that's usually the problem is it's caught a little bit later. It's generally a lot of these cancers are pretty much asymptomatic until a little bit later, but this one was caught not too bad. I think that they're probably gonna need some chemo radiation and refer for an esophagectomy would probably be the best way to go. So systemic chemo, like you said, try and shrink it as much as you can. Yeah. And then go for the procedure. Yeah, I hit some radiation to the tumor, give them some chemo and then go from there. Usually if it's distant meds, which thank the Lord it isn't for this one, usually it's just like chemo. And if they really are having symptoms, you can always pallidively put in like a stent and stuff like that, but there's not much you can do once it's to metastasize. All right, case two. All right. We have another patient here. This one now we have a 63 year old woman, long standing H. pylori gastritis. Now she is six week history of epi-yastric discomfort, early satiety and a 12 pound unintentional weight loss. She notes dark stools twice now. So what are you thinking here? So I- Nothing good. No. The thing with this one is, again, we know that whenever we're talking about these cancers, it's really trying to think about what would make me be concerned for gastric cancer, right? Obviously you can have a differential off of this one. Like they could just have peptic ulcer disease. It's definitely possible. The 12 pound weight loss kind of unlikely. But they're presenting with symptoms of dyspepsia. And so dyspepsia is kind of like just imagine, it's not really pain. It can be pain, but it's more of like a discomfort kind of feeling, usually in the epigastric region. And it's associated with symptoms like nausea, maybe some vomiting sometimes. And just food aversion. You have satiety that's very quick. A lot of that could be due to a couple different things. Imagine usually these tumors, there's diffuse, which is not too common. And it usually starts like proximate. I'm not kidding. It just spreads throughout the stomach wall. That's less common. Intestinal type is the more common one. That usually forms near like the lesser, so you have the greater curvature and you have the lesser curvature. So we go usually body and then you kind of get down here as you get towards the end. I'm trying to draw this in the air. But you get to the pylorus. Usually where that lesser curvature and pylorus is where you can get a mass. You can get like a fungating mass there. And so that can kind of obstruct that outflow out of the stomach. So if you obstruct it a little bit, you can think about food staying in the stomach a little bit longer, distending the stomach a little bit longer. And that's gonna be kind of like, imagine eating a bunch of food. You just take down like four hot dogs, you know, a bucket of pierogies and, you know, you put down a two liter Coke. Sounds like a good picnic or something. After that, you feel very uncomfortable, right? You feel nauseous. Probably you feel a lot of discomfort in that area. And you don't feel like eating anymore. It's kind of similar to that with these potential tumors, but also just the tumor itself, it may cause just near local irritation of like tissue and nerves. So now it says here, longstanding history of H. pylori gastritis. Now, can't you have this be treated with a PPI and an antibiotic? You can, yeah. So sometimes with H. pylori, it's difficult to eradicate. It kind of, sometimes people can be on these and it just doesn't actually eradicate completely. And that's usually an unfortunate thing. So obviously you try to put them on things like a PPI. Usually they used to just do like clarithromycin, amoxicillin, you know, PPI. They're kind of going to quadruple therapy now. Like metronitazol is a big one. Usually you can combine that with like potentially like amoxicillin. Is that because it is so hard to eradicate? Yeah, there's probably degrees of resistance and stuff with this one, but metronitazol is a pretty big one that we kind of add on to this one now. You can do like bismuth, sub-sout, it's like peptopysmal. PPI's, sometimes amoxicillin added on to that as well. But yeah, those are usually the kind of things that we kind of treat this with, but sometimes it just unfortunately, it can be hard to completely eradicate. And so you have different ways of being able to test and see if they have eradicated it, like the stool testing, stool antigen testing, the urea breath test and stuff like that. But unfortunately this patient has had that. And with chronic inflammation comes risk of chronic dysplasia. So anytime you have inflammation of a tissue, that tissue can under fortunately go undergone mutations. When those mutations arise, dysplasia can occur, dysplasia can then over time lead to carcinoma. So that's what makes me concerned about this is the H-pylori. Any kind of H-pylori, chronically, autoimmune gastritis, which is kind of rare, but you definitely can see it. And you know what, they see this a lot in people who eat like foods that are, I mean, not good, salty foods. And that's where I am, baby. Living in the salty range, which is not great, but. You sure are. Salty foods and rich in nitrates. So like uncured meats, like hot dogs, glizzies and stuff. We're talking a lot about hot dogs today. But really high nitrate foods are really a high risk factor. Smoking is always a risk factor, but I think the big ones is H-pylori. Second one would be autoimmune gastritis, which they don't have that, and they usually are associated with things like thyroid disorders like Hashimoto's, and sometimes even diabetes or Vitaligo, but that'd be something you think about. And then if they're having high salty and high nitrate, like rich diets. But this one seems like it's H-pylori related. They have dyspepsia, and then they have the ominous weight loss. The weight loss is probably cancer catechia from the tumor releasing those cytokines, but it also is probably just because they feel discomfort and they don't have the desire to eat, they're satiated. And that's probably an unfortunate thing here. Now I have to ask about the dark stools. Is that because there's some potential bleeding in the stomach? And it's really the upper GI bleed? Yeah, so if esophageal cancer doesn't bleed too much, gastric cancers will bleed. So it's kind of rare for esophageal cancers to bleed. So if it does, it's not good. But gastric cancers will definitely bleed. So they're pretty fungating, they're exophytic, so they're pretty susceptible to bleeding. So the dark stools or malena wouldn't definitely make me be concerned about that. I'd probably order a CBC just to see if they have any chronic blood loss in this scenario. If they only notice it twice, OK. But you can still have unfortunately chronic anemia without having visible bloody stools or melanous stools. So yeah, I'd definitely be concerned with this one. They got anemia probably from having this blood loss. If not, either way, they have a GI bleed. That's super concerning. They have dyspepsia, they have weight loss. These are super, super scary. I'm going straight to an EGD. Like any kind of a patient has dyspepsia, that's not an indication enough to just go to an EGD. We don't just do that on people that, oh, my belly. Sour belly. You know? Throw a tube down a spro. Yeah, we don't do that. So if it's like they have dyspepsia and they have alarm symptoms, so weight loss is a big one. I'd say the early satiety, maybe even if they have nausea or vomiting, that'd be concerning. The GI bleed is super scary. I was going to say, her black stools are not good. Yeah, yeah, and some tar stools is not great. So yeah, from there, I'd say we just go straight to an EGD. I have a high degree of suspicion of this being gastric cancer. So EGD with biopsy, same question I asked before. Can we opt for that ultrasound during this procedure? Yeah. If you think it warrants it. Yeah, I'd say if I see a mass and it's like, all right, this is definitely in a regular appearing mass. Because sometimes they can be flat. So they can be like sessile. Yeah. But this one, I have a very strong suspicion that it's going to be a pretty nasty fungating exophitic mass that's bleeding. So that's what I would do. And if I see that, I biopsy it. And then I'd do an endoscopic ultrasound if you want to see if it's invaded. Because you again, you want to know if it's beyond mucosa. Yeah. Or if it's not. Well, here's some information for you. Hit me. We have on EGD, we have our fungating ulcerative mass on the lesser curvature. Kind of like what you were talking about. Biopsies show intestinal type adenocarcinoma. While we're there, we talked about this. We switch out the probe for the ultrasound. We also note there is a tumor into the sub mucosa. And there are no suspicious local nodes. All right, well, they got that going. Beyond the mucosa, it's into the sub mucosa. So it's a little bit of distance spread. It's not into the world. But I don't think we can endoscopically resect it. So I think it's going to be a little bit more involved. But the other thing I would do is, after we've kind of done this procedure, is just make sure it didn't spread anywhere else. I don't think it has given it's only in the sub mucosa. That was my next part is we do that. Yeah, we're very thorough practitioners. We order a CT, the chest abdomen and pelvis, for our metastatic survey. Nothing. CT's good. Liver's clear. And we know only focal thickening. And there really are no nodes greater than 1 centimeter. All right, yeah. I mean, that's definitely a positive thing. I think that this is something that we could probably, you could always talk with the surgeons and stuff like that. But I think an endoscopic resection, I don't know if it's going to be enough. I don't think that you'll get a good enough margin with that one, especially if it's into the sub mucosa. Because you just can probably get a lot of bleeding with that. So I'd probably say at this point, you probably need to talk to a surgeon and see if they're up for doing maybe a gastrectomy. You don't have to do a full wing. You don't have to fully remove the stomach. But I'd say maybe a partial gastrectomy would definitely be the way to go. And do they have any lymph nodes? You said no? No. So you can do lymph node dissection just in case you don't get all the margins clear. You can definitely remove some of those as well just in case you have any residual disease and you don't want it to spread to some nodes. So you could definitely do that. I would say at this point, just refer to a surgery, see if they would consider a partial gastrectomy is what I would say. And then maybe removing a couple of nodes while they're there. But that's what I would say. For this one, I think we have a pretty good overall prognosis. I'd say if it was pretty far down and a little bit deeper, and maybe they had some nodes, I probably would reach for some prior to that, some chemo radiation, some neo-adjuvant stuff. But I think we're pretty good here that we don't need to do that. I think we've caught it a little bit early. And I think it's definitely possible you can get away with just a gastrectomy. If it was a little bit deeper, it spread to unfortunately other organs. Then I think you got to go to the route of just systemic chemotherapy. But we're not there. So I think that this one's definitely doable with a subtotal gastrectomy, and maybe some lymph nodes cut out. All right. That is all I had for both case one and case two. I do want to just bother you real quick for a rapid recap. What I want to do for this rapid recap is as you're talking, I'm going to have a table pop up on screen so you can follow along as that goes through this whole thing. All right. I'd say a soft joke, carcinoma, especially adenos, since that was in the case here. You have to say, what's the two we're talking about? Yeah. So a soft joke, adenocarcinoma, for that one, I'd say you really want to think about this one with chronic GERD. That's really the biggest thing. Obviously, if you have a patient who has chronic GERD, you've had an EGD in the past, and they have Barrett or Barrett's, then that's another really big risk factor. There is a very high chance of Barrett's metaplasia turning into dysplasia and then cancer. A lot of these times, the patients can be completely asymptomatic until they are not. Then that's usually when they present with dysphagia. And again, the classic way is progressive, solids, then liquids, usually. The things to get concerned about is alarm symptoms. It's not common for these to bleed. But if they get bad enough that they're causing things like weight loss, nausea, vomiting, or they do happen to bleed, you don't want to wait for an EGD. You don't want to go, oh, let's do a barium swallow. And then we'll say, no, no, no. Go straight to an EGD. Otherwise, I'd say a barium swallow is fine if they just have some progressive dysphagia. Just see if they have anything structural. If they do, get the EGD, biopsy it while you're there. You see something. You're concerned doing the US, biopsy if you need to, any of the nodes. If you have concerns that it's distantly spreading, get some pan imaging. CT chest, abdomen, pelvis, we'll probably do well for that one. And then based upon the results of these things, if it's mucosal only, you can probably just resect it. If it's beyond that, you probably have to start discussing esophagectomies. Depending upon the depth of that, especially if you get into the muscle layer, you're probably going to have to shrink it down with some neodermic chemo radiation. But that's something that can all be worked apart and to disciplinaryly with your surgical team and your radiation oncology team. That's something I would do for that one. For the gastric one, again, we're talking about the intestinal in this one. Diffuse one is very uncommon. The big thing to know for diffuse, just so you guys are listening, is if you hear the word signet ring sign on their biopsy, boom, it's diffuse. That's like the key terminology. It's a signet ring cells. It's because they lose their e-cat herons. But we won't go down that rabbit hole. Alarm symptoms for this one are just in general symptoms is dyspepsia. Just because someone is dyspepsia doesn't mean they need to give an EGD. If they have dyspepsia, that general epigastric discomfort, they have some associated satiety, maybe some nausea. But they got weight loss. They got nausea, vomiting, GI bleeds. Pretty common with these ones. You've got to go get the EGD. While you're there, your biopsy, you can get pathology results. You can say, OK, let's do an EUS while we're there. See if we've got some local regional spread. Maybe some nodes, biopsy, those if needed. And if you see some concerns that it is spreading, like if that just got mucosal, I probably don't need to get imaging. I probably don't need to get a CT, like a pan scan. But if I got, hey, this is definitely into the musculareous layer, all right, there's possibility. Could have spread. Then you can go to CT, chest apel. But for these patients depending upon how deep it is, if it's like near the mucosa, resect it, just endoscopically. But if it's beyond that, you can't really safely do that. So then you have to start reaching out to surgery, interdisciplinary with radiation oncology, and say, hey, can we do a gastrectomy? Maybe it's a partial, depending upon the depth. Maybe you have to do a total. And then from there, neo-adjuvant chemo-radiation is kind of just dependent upon how deep it is. Usually if you get to that musculare, you probably got to hit it with that. But that's kind of the things I would say for these patients, a lot of the times if it gets too bad, whether it is metastatic, a lot of it is just systemic chemotherapy. Impalative surgeries, if it's really, really bad, like they got consistent gastric outlet obstruction, put an ascent. If they have consistent difficulty with dysphagia, put an ascent. Otherwise, you don't really do anything except just trying to give palliative care. But that's what I would say is a kind of hopefully a quick recap for a soft, gentle gastric cancer. Yeah, definitely a unfortunate cancer due to the asymptomatic presentation. Just sort of all of a sudden, boom, it kind of hits. And that's a tough one to talk about, but it's great to have an idea of what to do, how to diagnose, how to treat. So good episode. Yeah, man. So I think it's just important to always know that a lot of cancers, unfortunately, do present asymptomatically. But if you can find these ones early, cut them out. That's the big thing. If they're a little bit deeper, there's still possible operations like esophagectomies and gastrectomies and things like that. But I really hope that this made sense. And I hope that you can take away from this something that can maybe spread awareness. Maybe if you get hit with some questions like this on your exam, maybe you get pimped on this while you're walking through the hospital from your attending or your resident, you're going to be able to answer these questions effectively because an engineer done hooked you up. All right? I hope that we did. Yeah, big time. I hope that you had fun. I know I did. I know Rob did. And man, I just love you guys. I thank you guys. I hope you're having a great day. And as always, until next time.!

=== FILE: Esophageal and Gastric Cancer ｜ Clinical Medicine [ahvwhYMk3Ng].txt ===

 and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, trying to be able to afford these massive subscriptions just to learn something. But if you guys have the opportunity, we do offer some premium resources at an affordable price. If you guys go down the description box below, we have a link to our website. On there, we offer things like notes, illustrations, quiz questions, flashcards. Go check it out. I think you'll learn a lot. Without further ado, done with my little elevator pitch. Let's get into talking about esophageal and gastric cancer. All right, so let's talk a little bit about esophageal and gastric cancer here. When we talk about these, the unfortunate thing about these is that usually when they're diagnosed, they're oftentimes late stages because they don't usually present with symptoms most of the time because usually they're smaller tumors than as they kind of grow and grow and grow, they become obstructive and then that obstructive kind of nature of them precipitates symptoms. Sometimes dysphagia and esophageal cancer or dyspepsia, usually that's just the general abdominal, epigastric discomfort. You feel bloated, you feel full, and you just kind of have some discomfort there. Those don't usually come to the later stage. So when you see that, unfortunately, they're already kind of like almost stage three, stage four, etc. So that's the unfortunate thing about these. But the next thing that we have to talk about is that when it comes to these, they have different subtypes. So it's not just like esophageal cancer. Well, there's actually esophageal cancer that can be two subtypes of esophageal cancer. So squamous cell and adenocarcinoma. What I really, all I really need you to know about this is just location-wise. So we can break the esophagus up. So here's the upper esophageal sphincter and then here's just the entire esophagus tube and then we get down here to the lower esophageal sphincter. When we think about this, we can kind of break this up into two points here and into two points here. Squamous cell carcinoma oftentimes tends to involve the upper two-thirds of the esophagus. So here we're going to have like a nasty looking tumor and it's involving the upper two-thirds. Which one do you think that's more likely going to be? It's going to be the squamous cell carcinoma. So it's usually going to be the upper two-thirds of the esophagus. So that's the first thing I want you guys to know right here is that squamous cell carcinoma oftentimes upper two-thirds. Adenocarcinoma, you probably already guessed it, it's the lower one-third of the esophagus. So this is going to be near like the gaseous esophageal sphincter. So that gets into a point here when you start thinking about these things, what really causes these tissues to become abnormal? What causes the squamous cells to undergo dysplasia? What causes the squamous cells to turn into columnar cells? Because here's the thing, when we talk about esophageal tissue, you know what the inner the mucosa is made up of? It's stratified squamous. Non-charitonized stratified squamous epithelial tissue because it's designed to have you know resistance to friction and abrasion because we can swallow some pretty warm liquids. We can eat some really rough potato chips that could scratch that thing up right? So we needed to have that you know that resistance to abrasion and friction. Well unfortunately some of these tissues can change when they're put in a different type of environment. So what I want to do is okay I want to now say okay squamous cell carcinoma, I can kind of have that on location, adenocarcinoma, I can have that also off of kind of like location of where you can get this tumor. What I want to now talk about is the tissues, like the changes, the genetic changes for this some part. So let's say here I take a piece here, I just want to take and I want to look in and I want to say how does this thing really grow? How does this happen? So what I'm going to do is I'm going to kind of zoom in here. So as I zoom in I'm going to have a piece of the esophagus that I'm looking at. When we look at the tissue again I already told you like imagine there's no mass here. When you look at the cell types again I told you it's squamous cells. So it's going to be squamous cells and it's going to be layered and all that means is that it's stratified right? So when we look at this it's stratified squamous epithelial tissue. All of a sudden the patient starts to experience some dysplasia and that dysplasia is a change. It becomes abnormal, it becomes atypical types of squamous cells and that atypical squamous cell unfortunately develops more and more mutations and that mutation then brings about an opportunity for this cancer to be self surviving. It can evade death apoptosis because it's shut down the tumor suppressor genes or it can proliferate because it amped up the protanco genes and now this thing becomes a cancer. The question is is what in the heck led to this dysplasia? So squamous cell carcinoma you got to think about it. This thing is usually going to cause this change where it goes from a squamous cell and it's still squamous cells. It's just now it's abnormal squamous cells. So imagine here for just an example let's say here we represent these as brown that's normal. You may have a couple of these that remain abnormal but maybe some of these will represent it here in like this black color. They become mutated. These ones have the ability to grow and divide and survive like weird vampire cells. These ones maybe they kind of they stay the same but these ones they gain the ability to be independent. They start gaining vascular supply. That's what we start to see here. Question is why? So the real reasons usually behind this dysplasia or what triggers it is we could say what are these risk factors if you will? So what are the risk factors for squamous cell carcinoma? And I'd say the biggest thing is smoking. So it's anything that causes chronic irritation. Chronic irritation to that mucosa. Smoking is a really really big one. I'd say alcohol consumption is another really really big one. And the other unfortunate one and I'm not even trying to be like weird about it but it's HPV. Usually this is going to be 16 and 18. The human papillomavirus. I'm not trying to be weird but usually any kind of oral sex. Usually on a woman who has HPV that increases the susceptibility for the male to potentially get squamous cell carcinoma. I'd say the biggest risk factor is smoking. So these risk factors definitely increase the chance of these squamous cells becoming dysplastic that changes these normal squamous cells to becoming abnormal. Having the ability to become vampire cells to survive and grow and grow and grow. And then you get this nasty kind of mass present. All right. The next concept here is adenocarcinoma. Adenocarcinoma again what kind of cells will we be starting off with and we're really actually zooming in on is you're taking what kind of look right here and we're going to kind of zoom in on this. You're starting off with the same thing. So you're going to start off with some squamous cells. All right. So here's your stratified squamous layer. Your stratified squamous cells. And you can see here that we got a normal esophagus. What we start to notice is a little bit of a change. What we start to see is that the esophagus may start becoming a little bit more thick over time. Maybe it's a little bit thicker. And one of the concepts behind this is that maybe there was some kind of inflammation. Some kind of inflammation that was happening. And the squamous cells when they're exposed to like chronic acid. Think about it. Look at where the lower third of the esophagus is right next to the stomach. If for some terrible reason hydrochloric acid is kind of spilling back from the stomach into the esophagus. This thing is spilling up. It's going to cause chronic inflammation. And then what happens is these stratified squamous cells, they're saying, oh dude, I'm not equipped for this kind of exposure. I'm good with resisting friction and abrasion, but I ain't trying to bathe in hydrochloric acid, bro. So what does it do? It changes the tissue type to accommodate for that kind of scenario. So watch this. Usually there is, I'd say acid reflux. Lots and lots of acid reflux. This is the primary trigger here. And that's going to kind of cause it to change its tissue type. What do I mean? Now the squamous cells say, hi, bro, I'm going to start becoming columnar. And so then these cells start becoming columnar cells. And they also start expressing some goblet cells too. So they have lots of goblet cells as well, which we'll represent here in this greenish color. We're going to have some goblet cells that are going to be present here as well. So now look at this, dude. I got started off with some squamous cells and I turned it into a different tissue type. What is that called? This here is called metaplasia. So going from here to here is called metaplasia. And the thing that caused that metaplasia is the consistent acid reflux. It had to change its tissue type to change to the environment. So at this point, now what do we call this? We call this Barrett's esophagus. Now this is a very, I'd say a pre-malignant condition. It's where the patient is definitely at risk of this tissue becoming dysplastic and then turning into adenocarcinoma. So we took a squamous tissue, turned it into a columnar tissue, which is kind of like called intestinal metaplasia, if you will, as this process. Now it's Barrett's esophagus. We really got to be careful because all it takes is some of these cells to just get hit abnormally, decide to mutate, decide to turn off their tumor suppressor genes or turn on their proto-oncogenes. Boom, this thing becomes adenocarcinoma. So then all it takes is for this to happen and that dysplasia will then turn these cells. So maybe if you think about it, you got a couple, maybe we'll give a couple of these stragglers and then you can have maybe, let's just keep like one of these goblet cells, we'll keep one of these, but then all it took was just a little bit of dysplasia to turn some of these abnormal. And now these are going to start replicating and dividing and growing because they become vampire cells. And then you get this nasty mass that's easily able to breed. It's usually fungating and it can really, really bleed sometimes. So the question is, is what in the heck is causing all of this acid reflux? Gird, bro! So oftentimes I'm not kidding. When we think about this, we usually just say risk factors, if you will, I'm going to put it here. Risk factors for adenocarcinoma is just really, it's pretty, pretty simple. It's going to be chronic gastroesophageal reflux disease because that is going to cause that consistent, that consistent acid reflux that's going to change the tissue type to change to the environment. Now chronic Gird can definitely lead to barit's esophagus. That's why oftentimes when patients have repeated Gird, sometimes if we're doing lots of proton pump inhibitor trials, they're not going any better, we'll do an EGD. Oh crap, they got barit's. Now they're pre-religionate, super high risk of turning into adenocarcinoma. We should be very, very careful. Sometimes we can do ablations at that point. All right. So really, really important. So in Gird, we see this in patients with obesity. We see this in patients who have hiatal hernias. We see the patients who smoke. There's a lot of different reasons why. If you guys want to know, go watch that video. All right. But at this point, we've talked about esophageal cancer. We've discussed the two types. We've discussed the lowest common locations. We also discussed the potential precipitating factors with the underlying mechanism. Now, let's talk about gastric cancer. So with gastric cancer, there's again two types. There's intestinal type and there's diffuse type. With intestinal type, this is definitely the more common one. Just like if you were to ask which one of these are more common, squamous or adeno, you would say adeno. But if I were to say which one's more common for gastric cancer, you'd say intestinal or diffuse, you would say intestinal type. Now, location is kind of important here to think about for intestinal type. Oftentimes, it likes to go near the lesser curvature, probably even close to the pyloric. So I'd say like near the antrum and usually on the lesser curvature. So here, I'm going to represent, here's a intestinal type gastric ad, and these are both adenocarcinomas. All right. So that means that they have kind of like a glandular look to them. They consist of columnar apathilia tissue. They have lots of these goblet cells that are really accumulating. And that's usually the problem. All right. So we think about location wise, this intestinal type is usually going to be near the lesser curvature. All right. And usually, it's more of like a exophytic kind of mass. It can ulcerate, it can bleed, but that's going to be one big thing here for the intestinal type. The diffuse type is weird, dude, because with this one, I'm going to represent it here as like black right now, but it usually starts proximal. So here we'll have like this kind of like mass here. And then what it does is, is it starts to spread throughout the layers. So it actually spreads through the layers and moves kind of like distally throughout the wall of the GI tract. And so oftentimes this one, it usually involves an entire wall of the actual stomach. And so this can usually start proximally and then it spreads anywhere. It really can involve anywhere. And that's what the key thing here is. This can occur anywhere in the stomach. All right. But it's key that it's too important to remember that it's usually going to involve a lot of the stomach wall. All right. So diffuse type, it's within the name. It can be anywhere. What is important to remember is when you talk about these, intestinal type, definitely the most common, but let's say that we actually kind of examine and kind of look at this. So I take this area here. All right. I want to kind of examine how this can actually happen. I'll zoom in here for a second. So when we look at the stomach's mucosa, obviously we've talked about this in our basic physiology. I'm not going to go through a lot of that, but you have the mucosa, you have the submucosa, you have the muscularis external, and then you have the serosa, the adventitia, depending upon if it's intraparithenial or retroparithenial. Well, the mucosa is really consisting of like three layers. It's an epithelial tissue, a laminopropria, and a muscularis mucosa. I just want to focus on the epithelial tissue. Usually it's a columnar cell. So you can kind of see here you got a bunch of columnar cells. And then what happens is usually in the stomach, we get these things called these gastric pits. And these gastric pits, they lead down into areas called gastric glands. And there's a bunch of different cells here. I'm not going to go through all of them. You've got like parietal cells, you've got your chief cells, you've got your foveolar cells, you've got your enteroendocrine G cells. And these are really the ones that are making a lot of that gastric juice. So here that's the big thing is you're going to have these nice plump gastric glands, very, very nice plump gastric glands that are going to be present. But then what happens is a patient unfortunately gets exposed to things. And these things cause inflammation. And so what I'm going to say is the primary trigger here is there's going to be chronic inflammation. And that's going to cause a lot of stress to the epithelial tissue. So there's going to be a lot of chronic inflammation. And what that's going to do is it's going to take the gastric glands from being these plump, beautiful little glands that can produce parietal cells, produce hydrochloric acid, enteroendocrine G cells, produce gastrin, your chief cells produce pepsinogen, which can make pepsin, your foveolar cells produce like a mucus that lines nicely the stomach wall. But you're going to have chronic inflammation, which is going to cause gastric gland atrophy. These things are going to shrivel up like a prune. And so now look at this, look at this thing. You're going to get this little, it's definitely shriveled up, right? That's definitely some gastric gland atrophy. All right. And that's usually what can happen. You also can get just inflammation of the intestinal, I mean, I'm sorry, the gastric epithelium as well. But what you're going to see here is you'll be able to appreciate the gastric gland atrophy. And then what happens here, unfortunately, is that you get other cells that start to kind of like take the place. And usually what happens is you start to get some infiltration or involvement of goblet cells. All right. So now I'm going to get some goblet cells that are going to get in here. So my gastric glands are going to atrophy. And then what I'm going to get is I'm going to get an uptick in goblet cells. And this starts to give me a similar look to that intestinal tissue. Funny enough, we call this intestinal metoplasia to a degree, but there's going to be an uptick in the goblet cells. And there's going to be atrophy of the gastric glands. What this point, this tissue is very susceptible, super susceptible to mutations, super susceptible to where it can say, let me shut down my tumor suppressor genes, crank up my protalonco genes. One of the two, dysplasia comes into the mix. And if that happens, that's all it takes to turn these columnar cells and say, hey, let me go ahead and become malignant. And then you get this nasty mass that we see here. All right. So that's really a key thing. But the question is, what in the heck is causing the chronic inflammation? So usually we would say the biggest thing, the risk factors for intestinal type is two things. One is chronic H. pylori infections. So usually H. pylori causes what? It causes a peptic ulcer disease. So it causes gastric ulcers, a very, very common cause by the helical bactria, pylori bacteria. And so usually with that one, you see this in patients who have recurrent gastric ulcers or peptic ulcers. And we'll have to usually do this. We do things like urea breath test. We also can do the GM sustain. We can do the urease test. There's so many different ways that we can diagnose this. But usually that's the most common causes chronic H. pylori infections. Believe it or not, H. pylori not only can it lead to gastric adenocarcinoma, which usually the most common is intestinal type, but it can also lead to this super rare one called a gastric malt lymphoma. And so that's another one that we can see because it can involve the malt tissue, the mucosa, associated lymphatic tissue in the stomach. The other one is autoimmune gastritis. Autoimmune gastritis. So this is basically where you have autoantibodies that are attacking the parietal cells or usually attacking the parietal cells. And that is definitely a very, very common cause of gastric cancer as well. So when we think about this, chronic H. pylori infections, autoimmune gastritis are what's really amping up the chronic inflammation. And that's what's leading to this process here, the gastric gland atrophy, getting more goblet cells, making this a susceptible host to become dysplastic. All right. All right. Diffuse type is also interesting. It's not as common, but again, what you'll notice here is you have these columnar cells, right? So these are called columnar cells. Now what you'll notice is that these columnar cells, they're tight. They're tight, bro. And when columnar cells are tight, I'm going to represent it kind of like right here. I'll create just a little space, a theoretical space. This theoretical space is designed to represent proteins that are allowing these cells to adhere with one another. And these are called e-cadherins. So these are called e-cadherins. These are basically like the velcro that exists between these cells, right? So between these columnar cells, you got some e-cadherins. What happens if I lose the e-cadherins? Oh, shoot, man. That's really what starts to happen is that you start to lose the e-cadherins. So there is a loss of that function. When there's a loss of e-cadherins, now the cells, what actually happens is, let's say here, I got these cells, they're tight in it. They're two peas in a pot. But then you lose the e-cadherins between this cell and this other cell. Now this cell is floating around everywhere. And then you lose e-cadherins from this cell and this other cell. And this one's floating around everywhere. Maybe these two are connected, but you start noticing these cells just starting to kind of like separate and starting to not stick with one another anymore. All right? And this is because you lose the e-cadherins. So now these are sticking these nice together. These are sticking these together, but do you have any way of these sticking together? No. And so what happens is these kind of start floating off. But realistically, they don't actually float into the lumen. They actually float deeper into the tissue wall. So here's actually what happens is that these cells say, all right, let me move down here into the submucosa. Let me move down here into the muscularis layer. And it's really weird. They take on a super odd shape. So when you look at them, they have like this like signet ring look. And that's one of the key terms. If you ever hear that is a signet ring cell that's kind of appearing here, that's usually suggestive of the diffuse type. So what we say is you have these signet rings. And this is indicative of the break in the e-cadherins, right? And they start to infiltrate into the deeper layers of the stomach wall. As they start to infiltrate, all right, so these you get infiltration into the stomach wall. So it goes deeper down into the submucosa, the muscularis external. Look at the wall here. Thing is thick. You're going to get a super thick and rigid stomach wall. They actually call this linitis plastica. And this is basically, I'm not kidding, it's just a super thick and it's like a very thick rigid plastic bottle. That's how we're kind of calling this. So a very thick and rigid stomach wall is indicative of losing the e-cadherins. So because now these cells aren't sticking to one another. These aren't sticking to one another. These aren't sticking to one other. They're free to meander. Where do they meander? Deeper into the tissue wall. They take on a weird consortium of a shape called signet rings. They get deeper and deeper into the actual stomach wall layers and thicken it and make it super rigid. That is diffuse type, all right? Question is, what in the heck causes this e-cadherin loss? It's usually genetic. And so we don't really have a great reason, but what we suspect is that there's a gene. There's a gene called CDH1. And that CDH1 is designed to control the catherins, right? So if you lose the CDH1, then guess what? You then lead to the e-cadherin loss. And that's the key thing here. So that's going to lead to the e-cadherin loss. So the, let's say the risk factors, if you will, the risk factors for the diffuse type is what is this? It's called a CDH1 mutation. It's some type of familial condition. So it's a CDH1 mutation. And I wouldn't take it further than that. Oftentimes when you get tested, it's usually something regarding e-cadherins, the signet rings, or the identification of Linitis Plastica. All right? All right. That's gastric cancer. Now what I want to do is, is I want to take and say, okay, if a patient has esophageal cancer, I do get it that when they present, it's usually unfortunate at late stage, but I should still be able to identify it. What is the most common clinical appearance? When a patient presents with gastric cancer, what is the most common clinical appearance? And then also, what's the worst case presentation that if they could present, they could present to me in. And so I'm going to look through the complications with you together. Next thing here is when we talk about esophageal cancer and how it presents, again, dysphagia is definitely going to be the most common presentation. So with this, when you think about dysphagia, let's pretend here you got an esophageal mass, right? If you have an esophageal mass, one of the things is that first, these patients have dysphagia that's usually progressive. And so what I mean is, is that usually it starts off where maybe here they're their tumor, as I say in this case, I'm just using these as locations. I'm not saying, oh, they got a squamous and then an ad known they have different presentations. No, I'm saying, here's a tumor at one point in time in life, and here's a tumor at another point in time in life. The first thing is usually it starts off for solids. So solids are going to be the most affected. So let's say that the tumor is a little bit smaller, it's still going to be harder for solid, like a solid food bowl is to make it past this. And so that's one thing is it's going to make it difficulty. There's going to be bring about difficulty in being able to swallow food. And so usually the dysphagia, it starts off with solids first, and then over time, as maybe the mass gets bigger, or it gets more fibrous, or you lose some of the peristalsis because the mass starts to infiltrate, then what happens is, let's represent to here with just like a little little represented as a symbol, liquids. Now it's harder as the tumor gets more encroaching and obstructive, it's harder for liquids to get by. And so that brings about the difficulty in swallowing liquids. So it's solids first, and then it progresses over time, and then liquids come later. That is usually something that brings about a concern for a structural esophageal dysphagia. Now you can have a pretty wide differential diagnosis for this, right? You could have like things like esophagitis. That could definitely be a one that you got to think about. Usually it's associated with a dynophasia though. You could have a stricture. You could have an esophageal web. You could have an esophageal ring. There could be a lot of different things that can cause this type of presentation. The key thing here is that if this dysphagia continues to go on, you should evaluate it. And you should actually consider first, I'd say like a barium swallow. But if they have really bad alarm symptoms, and we'll talk about what some of those things are, like bleeding, if they have that, or if they have significant weight loss, if they have anemia, if they have persistent nausea and vomiting, I would say you're going to go to an EGD. But if they're presenting with dysphagia, you should consider saying, let me get a barium swallow. See if I see any structural abnormalities and then go from there. So usually something like this would persuade you to say, let me get a barium swallow. Now this is another one. I would say when you think about reasons for GI bleeds, especially upper GI bleed, the esophageal cancer would not be at the top. It would actually be pretty low. You're going to think more about esophageal varices. You're going to think more about gastric or duodenal ulcers. You're going to think more about like a delafoi lesion. You're going to think more about like things like that, then you would over something like esophageal cancer. Probably even a gastric cancer would likely more cause upper GI bleeds than esophageal cancer. But it's still something that you have to consider because I would consider an alarm symptom. Scary, got to go evaluate this kind of thing. So when a patient has a tumor, I'd say it's more often adenome and that's just probably because of adenocarcinoma being more common than squamous cell carcinoma. But if this thing bleeds, where could it move? Where could the blood move? That's what I want you guys to think about. It could move here and if it moves here, it's going to have to go through the GIT. And when it goes through the GIT, it gets oxidized and it's not going to be bright red. It's going to be dark tarry stools. What's that called? That's called malena. So if they got some dark tarry stools, that's one thing. If by some chance,  they got a pretty good bleed, and that's not gonna become with a softening of cancer, but if they did, they got a pretty brisk bleeding here, and they actually end up vomiting some of that blood out. What's that called? What's that? That's called hematemesis. These are definitely ways that they could present. The other thing is that they could just lose blood. What happens with chronic blood loss? If it is very slow chronic blood loss, they can cause some malena, they can, cause some hematemesis, I'd say this is more likely. But another thing is that sometimes you don't see them a little, and you don't see the hematemesis, and it's a slow trickle of blood that they keep losing. So we'll represent it like this one over here. Here's a slow trickle of this bleeding over time. That chronic blood loss, if you don't keep up with your iron intake and the amount of loss of iron is greater than the amount of iron that you take in, what can that lead to? Anemia, and the most common type of anemia. This situation is called iron deficiency anemia. So that's the things that you can potentially present. So for example, the reason why I tell you about alarm symptoms is that if a patient came in, they had dysphagia and they have hematemesis, iron deficiency anemia, and malena, you should be concerned. I would say that would be a reasonable scenario to say go get an EGD. Cause they're either like, they have a frank bleed that's coming, that's going down, or they have cancer. And so that's definitely an indication for me to say go get an EGD with a biopsy. All right? The next thing I would say that is possible, but it's really whenever the esophageal cancer gets pretty advanced. Like I'm not kidding, this thing's gotta be like a beast. Here you got the tumor, it starts to create a tunnel. And so now, anything that you decide that you're gonna go ahead and eat, that thing's just like, wee! Right down in here into the lungs. And so now, every time you eat, you got food just dropping down into the trachea. And whenever that happens, that's going to immediately trigger a cough reflex. So one of the most common presentations is when this happens, it's gonna irritate the trachea, and that's gonna cause a cough reflex. And so the most common presentation is coughing after eating. All right? That doesn't mean that you go and you eat a burger and a little bit went down my airway. I'm, you know, I got a tracheo esophageal fistula. No, it's persistent coughing after eating, persistently. That is really the big thing that I want you to remember. Now the other problem here is if this happens a lot, which it can in this scenario, this can get down into the lungs. And, you know, anything from your esophagus, there's an opportunity for bacteria to get in. And if that bacteria gets in there, one of the things that can happen is you can get an infection of the lung tissue. And so let's represent that kind of like this greenish color here. So now this gets in here and it starts to lead to infection. And now I got this raging pneumonia, but it's pretty recurrent, right? So you maybe get treated, you get some antibiotics, and it keeps happening. That's one of the ways that we could also see this is recurrent aspiration pneumonia. And it's kind of well known that the patient is an aspiration risk, but having that aspiration definitely is kind of nasty, and that can lead to pneumonia, all right? Not every time do you aspirate, do you get pneumonia, you can get pneumonitis, but if it happens consistently, or you have enough of this kind of bacterial source, it can cause pneumonia, all right? So tracheo esophageal fistula is usually, you have to have a pretty nasty advanced esophageal tumor to get something like that, and it actually creates a little tube tunnel, a little tissue tunnel between the esophagus and between the trachea. Now, metastasis of esophageal cancer. Again, unfortunately, when you do find this, it's usually either involving a significant chunk of the actual esophageal wall, so it's probably down to like the muscularis externa, or it's kind of gotten further into the lymph nodes, or it's kind of spread a little bit further out to other organs. This is unfortunate. So you have esophageal veins, and you have some gastric veins that kind of are supplying or draining the esophagus, and so this tumor can definitely kind of seed into these circulatory areas, and these oftentimes lead to going to the liver via like the portal system, and then that can kind of get into the inferior vena cava and go to the lungs. And so very common areas where these tumors do tend to kind of let go and seed is to the liver and to the lungs. Less common one is gonna be to the bones. And so if I get these tumors, and they're really kind of occurring here in the liver, what am I gonna get? Well, I may get like a bump in the LFTs. I may get some swelling of the liver if I got some good honkers that spread there. Definitely possible for me to get some kind of a patomegaly, but you may just notice like a very small bump in the LFTs. And so it's not often that you're gonna find this. You may end up getting like an ultrasound or a CT for another reason, and you find these. The liver unfortunately is a very common source of mets, a very common area where mets like to go. The lung, same thing. You can usually you're gonna get scattered ones. And that's usually often an identifier of potentially metastasis, but this can present with things like cough. Homoptasis is a kind of one potentially in dyspnea. And so it's all like, you know, very nonspecific symptoms. Sometimes recurrent pleural effusions too, is something to think about. But yeah, cough, homoptasis, dyspnea, very, very nonspecific symptoms unfortunately. And then so the bone, this one, you may get some mets here. And this can potentially precipitate things like bone pain. And again, I would watch out, consider the alkaline phosphatase if it's elevated. That could mean that there's a heavy amount of bone turnover. And that definitely may ring a bell to think about, could there be some bone metastasis there as well? All right, so that's some things to think about. Another one is it can go to the regional lymph nodes. So watch out for that as well. All right, when you think about it, it looks like they're vomiting up their actual tumor cells, but not trying to be funny. But a big thing here is watch out for these things. This really gives us the overall look at esophageal cancer, understanding that dysphagia is really going to be the most common symptom, but it's going to be advanced. You can get it up or GI bleed, not too common. You can get T.E. fishelus, really have to be advanced. And metastasis can occur if it does, it's usually liver and lungs. All right, let's move on to the gastric. All right, so we move on now to gastric cancer. So when we talk about gastric cancer again, it could be asymptomatic, you may not see any kind of presentation. The other thing is that oftentimes, we experience some of these like weird symptoms where you just think, I just got a little bit of belly pain, all the best hour belly, kind of things like that. But oftentimes it could be something more, and it's usually just you miss it because general abdominal discomfort, a sense of like bloating and feeling full, that's not always going to make you think, oh dude, I got cancer. No, you don't go that route. And so oftentimes that's why it's missed. But I'd say the more common presentations are probably related to somewhat to like obstruction or narrowing near the antrim or the pylor. So if you get a tumor, what happens is that generally this may cause a little bit of pain, right? But more discomfort, I'd say. So whenever food is coming down here, you can kind of block the flow of chym, right? Which is basically all of this kind of mixture of broken down food into like more of a fluid form, pushing it out into the duodenum. If you have something that's kind of like, really minimizing that nice flow or emptying of the stomach, guess what's gonna happen? Well then, this stuff is gonna kind of back up. And it's gonna build up and it's gonna start stretching out the stomach. And as the stomach starts kind of stretching outwards, it's gonna activate some specific nerves. What kind of nerves? Let's use this color, let's use this maroonish color. Woo, that was loud. This is gonna be usually like your Vegas. And so this can get activated, it can send signals all the way upwards, usually to your brainstem. And then what this may do is this may activate some signals to activate some unfortunate, I'd say discomfort, like sensations. And so this is definitely what we would see. As you would see, distension. So you would see maybe some distension. That distension would then lead to some discomfort from that area, from the brain. So this may precipitate some sensations of, let's say abdominal. Usually this is like epigastric area. Discomfort, usually it can precipitate things like nausea. It may even precipitate like early satiety where you feel full and you feel kind of bloated. So these are really like generic symptoms. And oftentimes we kind of put this all under the conglomerate of a description of what we would maybe call dyspapsia. Where you kind of just feel a general abdominal discomfort, you feel full and you just don't feel good at the moment. So this is usually due to maybe the tumor kind of obstructing the chym outflow leading to it building up, extending the stomach, sending signals via like the vagus nerve, activating things like nausea and discomfort and feelings of satiety, feeling full, feeling bloated. That's something I definitely want you guys to think about here. Now dyspapsia on its own does not necessarily mean gastric cancer. There's a lot of different things that it can be presenting with. Usually whenever you have things like dyspapsia and a patient who has chronic H. pylori, or they have a diagnosis of autoimmune gastritis or dyspapsia that never gets better with PPIs, or they have other complications like bleeds or perineoplastic syndromes that we'll talk about. Then I'm a little bit more concerned and I may go down that route to say, hey, let me evaluate this patient, especially if it's associated with weight loss. Because think about it, if a patient does nauseous, they don't feel like they want to eat anymore, what's the common manifestation from that? Weight loss, especially unintentionally. So weight loss is common in both of these and we usually think about that in patients who have cancer. Now upper GI bleeds, I say this is a little bit more common to occur in gastric cancer than I would say a soft Agile cancer, but whenever these bleed, it's the same kind of concept. Where's the blood gonna go? And so if you think about these, we already kind of hit it, so we'll be kind of quick. If it goes up this way, which I wouldn't say is super common, that's hematemesis. If it goes down this way and it gets black, that's malena. Hematemesis. And then again, if you have a slow dripper, you get like just a slow drip of blood that's consistently being lost. Over time, that chronic blood loss is gonna potentially lead to iron loss. If you don't keep up with your iron loss, what's that going to lead to? It's going to lead to iron deficiency anemia. So definitely something I would think about, especially in a person who presents with dyspepsia and they have iron deficiency anemia, I'd probably go the route of getting an EGD. So another big thing here, just to add on, is that whenever a patient who has dyspepsia, if they're less than 60 years of age, I'd say you should probably be looking for other kinds of associated symptoms, or bleeding, anemia, weight loss. Because if you have a new patient who's like greater than 60 years of age, and all of a sudden they present with just nuance and dyspepsia, that's pretty concerning. That could be an indication of gastric cancer. So something to think about there. All right, so the next thing that I wanna think about with gastric cancers, especially for the exam, they like to talk about this one. Definitely dyspepsia, that's a big one. And we'll talk a little bit about the metastasis to specific nodes, like lymph nodes. That's a really big one that they're gonna present on the exam, no matter what. Usually like esophageal cancer, you got a patient who's like a smoker, a chronic girth. They're coming in now with dysphagia. It's getting progressive from solids to liquids. And usually you can start to make an assumption of what the heck is going on. And you would get, usually a barium swalcy and something abnormal, get an EGD with the biopsy. Oh, there we go, we got esophageal cancer. Gastric cancer is usually gonna be someone who comes in, maybe some generalized dyspepsia. And then on top of that, they may have some weird skin manifestations and then some weird nodes that they find on their physical exam say, hey, something's weird here. You get an EGD with a biopsy, you find the cancer, you probably stage them just to make sure it's not somewhere else. And then boom, gastric cancer's done. So it's not too hard to really think about that once you have an idea of what you're looking for, the test that you order will give you the answer. So the thing here with this scenario is that you can have a tumor and it can produce growth factors. So it may produce things like epidermal growth factors, so epidermal growth factors. These will go to your epidermis, right? And you usually make a little bit of these, a little bit more than normal. Sometimes like transforming growth factor beta is another one that can make as well. So I'd say the primary one is just gonna be the epidermal growth factors. And so this will go to your skin, especially the keratinocytes, right? And so if we kind of like zoom in, if you kind of like zoom in on the tissue here and you say, all right, let me kind of just zoom in and see what the heck is happening here. The epidermal growth factors will bind on to these receptors that are present on the epithelial tissue. And then all that will happen is this epithelial tissue will literally go crazy and it'll start kind of replicating and you get these kind of abnormal skin lesions. And so you may just kind of get this increased cell replication, all right? And this can manifest in a couple of different ways. Once these epidermal growth factors like stimulate these cells, they start going into this replicative phase, then you can get two types of perineoplastic presentations. One is called lesser trilat. This is basically, and I'm not even kidding, they get hundreds of like suborhaic keratosis all over their back. So literally all over their back or on their trunk. It's really, that's the key thing is their trunk is you're gonna notice a ton of these suborhaic keratosis. It looks a little bit like this. So you can see how they can have that kind of look there. It's relatively itchy. It kind of is like a, like more of like a brownish, purplish kind of raised lesion that's very itchy. That could be suborhaic keratosis. And we see that kind of scenario like lesser trilat. With acanthosis nigra cans, you get a thickening of velvety tissue. It's very thick, hyperpigmented is the key terminology. Thicker, hyperpigmented, velvety tissue that usually affects the neck, usually in the back of the neck. So that's one thing is you'll get in the back of the neck. The armpits is another one and the groin is another one. So acanthosis nigra cans is a hyperpigmentation, thickening, velvety change in the skin tissue of the neck or of the axilla of the groin. All right, so as you see those things like acanthosis nigra cans or you see things like lesser trilat, you should consider gastric adenocarcinoma if they fit the bill. In other words, they present maybe with some dyspepsic symptoms. All right. Now, when we talk about again, gastric cancer, we said that H. pylori is the biggest one. Autoimmune gastritis is another really important one. There is other causes. They sometimes test them on the exam. Usually people who drink like eat a lot of salty foods or they have like cured meats, like deli meats that are rich in nitrates. Those are also considered. So you can add those into the list to think about them. But I really want you to think about H. pylori and really want you to think about autoimmune gastritis because they test that a little bit more. All right, but that's your perineoplastic. The last component here is metastasis. And this is actually, I'd say one of the higher yield portions to think about for gastric cancer and really for this lecture, believe it or not. When you talk about this thing spreading, it does spread and it can spread lymphatically. It can spread hematogenously or it can spread directly into the peritoneum. Like it can literally invade the peritoneum. So if it spreads via lymphatics, it can obviously get into the lymphatic circulation. And if this thing gets into the lymphatic circulation, we gotta represent this as kind of like a brown dot here. These can get into nodes and they can get your nodes to get all kinds of big. And if the nodes get big, there's a couple different nodes that we wanna know. One is the superclavicular node. It has to be the left one. What happens is you get drainage from the esophagus and usually that gets eventually into the thoracic duct. And the thoracic duct is a large lymphatic vessel that when it empties, it empties into the junction of the internal jugular and the subclavian vein where you make the brachiosophallic. So it likes to go right there. And that's where these tumor cells like to go. And they form something called, I'm gonna do this in red just to highlight it. It's called Virgo's node. And it looks a little bit like this. All right, so that's one thing that I want you to know. So that's one area of the lymph nodes. Another one is it actually can get near the periumbilical area. So it can get into the lymphatics and it can move along that to some of the areas around the umbilicus. And you can get a really like wonky looking area here. So it can actually form something where it looks, I'm not even kidding. It looks like you have a little cherry tomato hanging onto your belly button. And this one is called a sister Mary Joseph nodule. So it's called a sister Mary Joseph nodule. And this one's a little rough, but again, it's usually due to lymphatic spread where it gets near these areas, near the actual umbilicus. And it looks a little bit like this. Another area that these things can spread is if they do have the ability they can spread to the ovaries. And when they do that, they often occur bilaterally. That's why oftentimes with metastatic disease, it usually is scattered and it's usually bilateral. But when you have bilateral ovarian tumors, definitely that screams metastatic disease, but we actually have a special name for it. So bilateral ovarian cancer, it's called a Krockenberg tumor. So Krockenberg tumor is bilateral ovarian tumors and it could indicate that it came from a gastric cancer. Usually it's from the diffuse type because you see a lot of signet ring cells in there. But that's something else I just want you to know. Gastric cancer, if you see bilateral ovarian tumors, you have a patient with dyspepsia, maybe they have some perineoplastic, peri-presentations, maybe they have vercos node, maybe they have a sister Mary Joseph nodule. You may think that these ovarian tumors, they probably came from gastric adenocarcinoma. All right, so these are big things. They're really, really big ones. The next one is if it spreads via hematogenously. So if it spreads hematogenously, that means it's going through the blood, the areas it likes to go is the liver, the lungs and the bone. And for this one, it's pretty straightforward. You get into the liver, you can get a pad of megaline, maybe a bump in the LFTs. All right, that's one potential consideration. If you get into the lungs, it can cause cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea, you get into the bone, it can cause bone pain, elevated alfalfa. Let's write all that out so I can save you guys a little bit of time. That is the basic consensus there of how we would get for this metastatic disease, where it's spread to distant organs. All right, so for the last one, which this is really, really important as well, because they definitely want to test this one sometimes, is you can have that tumor directly kind of invade, if it gets past the wall, it can break its way into the peritoneum. So imagine, again, you got to go back to layers. When you look at the mucosa, submucosa, muscularis externa, adventitia, or serosa. So in this case, if you have a serosa lining, if that thing, if the tumor grows from the mucosa, submucosa, muscularis externa, gets to the serosa, it can break its way through and get into the peritoneum. And if that happens, where this tumor starts here, here's the stomach, I'm just doing like a sagittal section. Here's this portion of the stomach. Let's say that it breaks through the wall, and now these tumor cells are here. Where they like to flow and drop down to is this little area right here. It's this pouch, which I'm doing here in like this black dotted line, which can be between the rectum and the uterus, called the rectouterine space, or between the rectum and the bladder, called the rectovesicle space. This is called the pouch of Douglas. And this is a common area where these tumors can go and kind of reside inside of the peritoneum. And if you get a tumor like that, where it kind of gets in here and it kind of conglomerates and coalesces, and here you got like this little thing right here, this little tumor mass, whenever a patient gets a DRE, you can then palpate and feel, oh man, I feel this mass between the actual rectum and the vesicle, the bladder, or the space between the rectum and the uterus. And sometimes it'll feel very, very odd where you call this what's called a blummers shelf. It's basically there is a palpable mass in the pouch of Douglas. And that could be indicative of like a peritoneum metastasis. So what would this kind of give us a sign of? Blummers shelf. The big things I kept here in red for you guys is really, really important to remember. When a patient comes in with dyspapseum, right? So general abdominal discomfort, using the epigastric region, some associated nausea, some early satiety, so maybe some bloatedness, maybe they have associated weight loss. They come in, they got a left supracorbicular node that's as big as a golf ball, they got a little cantaloupe there. They got a cherry tomato hanging off the umbilicus with the systemary Joseph nodule. And then on top of that, when you do a digital rectal exam, and you can palpate a mass in that recto uterine, recto vesicle space, which is the pouch of Douglas, this is called a blummer shelf. These are things that may queue you up on the exam to think about gastric cancer. All right, dude, this is a lot of stuff. But what I wanna do is I wanna say that we can make this relatively easy to understand when we're clinicians. So now let's move on to talking about how to approach esophageal cancer and a diagnostic approach. How to think clinically when it comes to gastric cancer and having a good approach. Let's move on to that. So let's put all of this together. What is the most common classic presentation for esophageal cancer? Oftentimes it's usually asymptomatic, but that's in the earlier stages. Once they unfortunately get to the advanced stages and the tumor does protrude into the lumen enough, they start to experience dysphagia. So that's oftentimes gonna be one of the most common clinical presentations. Now dysphagia is a common symptom that doesn't have to be due to just esophageal cancer. It could be from a benign stricture. It could be due to, for example, like a reflux esophagitis. It could be due to a neuromuscular disorder, things like acolysia or things like potentially diffuse esophageal spasm. It could be due to things like scleroderma, so esophageal scleroderma. It could be due to Schatzky's rings. It could be due to esophageal webs. There could be a lot of different things that are potentially explaining this dysphagia. And so that's really important to consider. So what we wanna do oftentimes is to get a good image. And so barium swallows are kind of like your lit newspaper test. I wouldn't say that they're the best thing, but they at least give you an idea if there is a structural etiology. And so when I do a barium swallow, I do this because I wanna see, is there kind of any mass that's present? Is there any irregularity that's showing within the esophagus? But more specifically, is there a stricture? And where is it? Is it the upper two thirds? Is it the lower third? That kind of gives me a little bit more information. Acolysia, you see the bird speak. Diffuses esophageal spasm. You see that corkscrewing. Shotski's rings, esophageal webs. You see those based upon if it's complete circumferential, if it's kind of just only one-sided and also location. So there's a lot of things that this can give me. So what I'm looking for first is, is there any kind of irregularities in the lumen that suggests a mass? And is there a stricture where there's decreased movement of contrast through the esophagus? Now that being the case and also alarm symptoms would trigger me to get an EGD. So for example, if a patient had dysphagia and they also had things, for example, weight loss. Weight loss is obviously most likely secondary to the dysphagia. So if a person's having difficulty with swallowing and maybe even pain with swallowing, it can lead to aversion from eating. And so unfortunately they don't eat, they lose weight. So that's one thing. The other thing is that these masses can bleed. I say that that's less common with esophageal cancer, more common with gastric cancers and colorectal cancer. But you can get this bleeding aspect. And so I would watch out for symptoms of an upper GI bleed. That could be things like hematemesis or potentially melanin. Another way that bleeds can present is they can present a cult. So you don't have symptoms where you see visible blood this way or down from the poop chute. And so in those scenarios, you may see things like iron deficiency, anemia from just basic fatigue or pallor and dyspnea. And then lastly, nausea and vomiting. Particularly vomiting. And I'd say that if there is potentially a pretty good size tumor and it's obstructing that flow, this can lead to potentially aspiration, especially if they do not feel well or if they do vomit, that puts them at pretty high risk of aspiration. So these are all concerning features. And I would say that we would go to an EGD. If the barium swallow showed navnormality, I would get an EGD. So the EGD is gonna be probably the best test that you could do because what it's gonna tell you is, is there an esophageal mass? If it is, you can biopsy it and tell you is this adenocarcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, or something else like it's benign in general. So this is what you would see, for example, on an EGD. This is a pretty nasty fungating esophageal mass and it's also friable. So it's pretty nasty, one that's bleeding. It could suggest something like a squamous cell carcinoma if it's in the upper two thirds, or it could be adenocarcinoma if it's in that lower third. But either way, the biopsy will tell me that and tell me, oh, this is primarily squamous cell predominant or adeno, which is usually gonna be more of that mucin glandular type of tissue that you would see, the columnar tissue. Either way, we've determined that the patient has esophageal cancer from the EGD with the biopsy. The next question is, has it spread? That's usually what we wanna know. We wanna know if it's spread locally. So in other words, it usually starts in the mucosa with the epithelium and then it kinda moves into the submucosa, then to the muscular cisterna, then to the aventicia. There's also lymph nodes around the esophagus. Did it spread there? Did it get into the bloodstream and spread to the lungs, the liver, the bone? These are all common sites of local regional and distant metastasis. Distant metastasis is easier to be able to kind of like first thing we wanna think about here is you can assess for that by using a CT chest to add pelvis with IV contrast. That's gonna look at the lesions potentially in the liver, the lung, and you may even see some bone lesions as well. Either way, I wanna see if there is any. If there's no distant metastasis, then you have to assess as it leaked locally or regionally spread. That's where endoscopic ultrasounds are pretty great. And you can actually do these during the EGD. You already have potential access to their GIT. You just change out that probe and then run that down there to get a better look at where the mass is and see how far it's actually invaded. Is it invaded pretty deep? Has it gone to any lymph nodes? So for example, I got an esophageal mass here. I find that on EGD, I swap it with an ultrasound, endoscopic ultrasound probe, run that down. And what that's gonna do is that's gonna allow for me to either biopsy a parisophageal lymph node that's enlarged, or it's also gonna help to show an overall image circumferentially of the mass and then show how far it's actually kind of spread. So that's what I think is really beneficial about this. How deep has it gone into the actual alimentary canal and then on top of that, has it gone to any nearby nodes? So for example, this is a mucosal tumor. You can see, this is the circumferential kind of like section here. And you can see this inner lining here closest to the black portion or the anechoic portion, all this black, this is kind of the lumen. This right here would be the mucosa, this inner lining. Let's move our way around and we see something abnormal right here within that mucosa. That right there would be a mucosal esophageal tumor. And this is actually not bad because we could possibly resect this. We wouldn't have to do like an esophagectomy. But if you found something like this where the tumor, we can see you kind of look around, seem somewhat consistent, and then all of a sudden, wow, you see this deeper tumor. And so unfortunately, that one's gone a little bit deeper and this one has caused definitely a potential problem where that could be down to the muscular saccidermal. So that's what we get concerned about. Now, if we did dystomatastasis, in other words, we could pick up the CT chest at pelvis, we pick up lesions. In other words, we find like some liver mets. So you find here, we can see the liver here and that right quadrant. You can see, look, look, all these like hypodensities, all of those are suggestive of liver mets. Lungs, you can see that there's all of these hyperdensities all over the lungs, very scattered, pretty consistent with pulmonary mets. Bones, if we did get a bone scan, you can sometimes pick up lesions on CT chest at pelvis, especially if it's within the vertebrae. You'd be able to pick it up and see it here on the CT scans. It's pretty good at picking up bone. But if you got a bone scan, you could see here that there's a lot of different lesions that are potentially present. So these are the potential areas that would suggest hematogenist spread and usually.  and the esophagus and parasophageal tissues. At this point, we potentially would have metastatic esophageal cancer. Metastatic esophageal cancer, you can actually, let's say that you did a CT chest at Pelva, and you didn't find anything, a PET CT scan is something I like to go to as an alternative, because it's going to pick up any of the increased FDG uptake in other areas of the body that it may have spread to. For example, maybe some in the lung, maybe some in the liver. This is a benefit of why I would do a PET scan if the CT chest at Pelva came back negative. At this point, we've diagnosed metastatic esophageal cancer. It really comes down to what's the primary symptom? Do a workup for general dysphagia, but if they have something abnormal off of that, or they present with alarm symptoms, I need to go down and take a look. Biopsy, it tells me which kind it is. From there, has it spread distantly? Okay. I picked it up on the CT chest at Pelva. Has it not? Endoscopic ultrasound. Use that to tell me how deep it's invaded, and if there's other nodes that are involved. That really is going to help to guide treatment decisions. If it's metastatic, that's really going to guide treatment decisions as well, because oftentimes there's nothing surgical that I can do, and it often comes down to more palliative care and usually chemotherapy with some targeted therapy options. All right. Gastric cancer. Similar concept. Patient comes in. What would be more of their primary symptom? It's usually dyspepsia. That is that general abdominal discomfort. They feel bloated. They feel just unwell. They feel like they just don't want to eat as well. Usually they have food aversion and satiety and weight loss. These are all common symptoms. Dyspepsia is a general epigastric or abdominal discomfort associated with nausea, associated with maybe some vomiting, associated with anorexia or weight loss and things of that nature. Alarm symptoms again come back to this patient with gastric cancer. What are those? If a patient came in and they presented with epigastric abdominal discomfort, that doesn't mean that they get an EGD. I don't just do that for all of these people. Dysphagia is a little bit more concerning. Dyspepsia is just a generalized abdominal discomfort. Not super specific to tell me, oh, they got peptic ulcer disease. They got gastric cancer, bro. No. There could be a lot of things. Maybe they just ate too much food and they don't feel well. There's a lot of different things that come into play here. What I want is more dyspepsia plus concerning features that would trigger me to say, let's get an EGD. What are those alarm symptoms? Remind yourself. Weight loss is a big one. GI Bleeds is pretty common with gastric cancer. They really are friable. They really can bleed nasty. You want to watch out for upper GI Bleeds, Melana, hematemicis, and also that occult presentation, if they're not pulling out blood, watch for things like iron deficiency and anemia as well. Lastly, nausea and vomiting. This sometimes can be due to the tumor gets pretty large enough that it obstructs the gastric outlet. They literally can't get food and fluids out and have pretty nasty, like nausea and pretty good vomiting as well. That would be enough for me to say, get the EGD and do a biopsy if I see anything irregular. We'll thread the EGD down. That's basically just a scope. It's going to run down the esophagus. Obviously, we could pick up any esophageal masses, but also it's going to get down to the stomach and take a good look there. What we want to do is we want to take a good look here at the stomach, usually around the fundus, the body, and then where you're probably going to see most of the cancers is here in that antrumpiloric region. That's where you're going to see more of the intestinal type, as we talked about on the whiteboard, gastric adenocarcinomas. Here we can see that we have a pretty nasty looking tumor here. It looks really irregular. It looks nodular. It's fungating. It's not friable, so that's at least positive, but these things can bleed. This definitely looks irregular. I would 100% biopsy this. Then based upon the biopsy, that will tell me, hey, which type of cancer is it? Is it the intestinal type? You would see a lot of the simple columnar cells with lots of the gastric glands that have atrophied and they've been replaced with lots of your columnar cells. I'm sorry, they get replaced with a lot of the goblet cells. That usually would be a trigger. Or do I see that thick linitis plastica, the thickened layers of the actual stomach wall with the signet ring cells, which would suggest more of the rare diffuse type, which is usually due to a CHD1 mutation where that can really lose those e-cadherins and they can spread pretty nasty. That's what I'd be looking for off of the EGD to a CM mass. If I biopsy it, which kind is it? Intestinal or diffuse? That's really what I'm going to get from that. The other benefit here is once we've determined the patient has gastric cancer based upon the representation of a fungating mass that's been sent off to pathology and confirmed to be an adenocarcinoma, diffuse or intestinal, then you have to ask the same question. Has it spread? It can spread to a lot of the same areas. It can spread to the liver. It can spread to the lungs. It can spread to the bone. There's a lot of different areas that this thing can go to. I would do again a good pan scan and look to see if there's any metastasis. If you don't see any, it's the same work up. Throw the new probe down when you do the EGD and say, hey, has this gone and invaded beyond the mucosa to the muscularis externa. Then from there, I have already gained an understanding of can I do an endoscopic resection or do I have to do a gastrectomy? That's really what I want to know. When I do this, I'm really just trying to see how deep has it gone. When I look here, again, I can see that there's going to be the lumen. What you'll notice here is that you'll see there's a tumor here that's pretty decent size and it's going pretty deep. This is a pretty nasty gastric mass that's spread deep down way into the muscularis externa. That's pretty concerning for me. This is a patient that probably wouldn't be able to get an endoscopic resection. They would likely need a gastrectomy, maybe some kind of subtotal or partial gastrectomy. That's something that's really important because if it was more mucosal, I may get away with an endoscopic resection. The other thing is you could see potentially if there's any nodes and if there was, you could do the same thing. You could biopsy those and see if they've gone to the nodes because obviously you may need some further chemotherapy afterwards to really help out with that. If they do have distant metastasis, again, that changes how we treat these patients. We won't do any surgeries for them, unfortunately, unless it's just palliative to put a stent in if it's causing gastric outlet obstruction. A lot of it's just chemotherapy, really trying to reduce the recurrence, I'm sorry, reduce the progression of the disease. Also, you may have some targeted therapies that we could talk about. Again, you're looking to see, has it spread to the liver? Has it spread to the lungs? Has it potentially spread to the bones? That's going to tell you if you have metastatic gastric cancer. A lot of the times, unfortunately, these cancers are usually found a little bit later in stage. Either they've invaded deep into the gastric layers or the esophageal layers or they have spread and metastasize, unfortunately. Once we've diagnosed that a patient has a esophageal or gastric cancer, how do we treat it? Well, I think it comes down to, is it localized? In other words, what I mean is, has it not distantly metastasized? There is options. We can do something called an endoscopic resection, but when do you do that? It's only if it's in the mucosa. If that endoscopic ultrasound really helped to show you that this is only confined to the mucosa, we could do an endoscopic resection. You're essentially going in endoscopically and you're identifying this lesion. It hasn't gone beyond the mucosa into the sub-mucosa. What can we do? We can go in. We can actually help to physically remove this tumor and you could potentially have curative control. That's the benefit of this. Unfortunately, if it's gone beyond the mucosa, we can't do an endoscopic resection. There's going to be a lot more to it. That's when, unfortunately, we have to do things like esophagectomies. This is when it's gone beyond the mucosa. For example, if I had a tumor, it's definitely beyond the mucosa here. I'm going to have to cut out the portion of where that tumor is. I'm going to have to cut out that portion where the tumor is and a little bit beyond that. Then I'm going to have to enastomose this into the esophagus and I'm going to have to pull the stomach up here. I'm going to have to pull the stomach up and I'm going to have to enastomose that little portion there between the stomach and that remaining piece of the proximal portion of the esophagus after I ripped out this disease portion. Then from there, we have an esophagectomy. The other thing that's really important is chemo-radiation oftentimes is going to be followed up to kill any kind of residual microscopic metastatic disease that's present. Maybe if you didn't get a clean enough margin or there is some residual cells there, you're trying to basically do that to prevent recurrence. I'd say that's going to be something that you would oftentimes do. You can give it neo-adjuvantly, in other words, before you do the surgical procedure and you can give it up after. In other words, after the patient has had potentially esophagectomy done. Metastatic. Once it's spread to the liver, the lung, the bones, there isn't really any kind of surgical options unless it's more palliative. It's for symptom control. In other words, if they have significant enough dysphagia, they have severe weight loss, they have severe nausea, they have a lot of problems associated with that, then maybe because of that we could put a stent in to help to allow for that food and fluids to get passed. That's really going to be more if it's just an obstructive process that's causing this. Otherwise, it's pretty much you're stuck with systemic chemotherapy. That's going to be the way that these patients oftentimes are treated and you can consider treating them with Tristuzumab if they have potentially a HER2 positive disease. You'd have to test for that. If you go back to Tristuzumab, it's really great because what it does is it works against the HER2 receptor, which when activated by growth factors, which these tumor cells unfortunately can produce a lot of growth factors to allow for that cells, these zombie cells to replicate, replicate, replicate, you're essentially giving a drug that binds on to Tristuzumab and shuts down these signaling processes. On top of that, because it shuts down the signaling process, it also helps to down-regulate the HER2 receptors. You have less of them to bind to these ligands and these growth factors. If you bring them in, you don't have the ligand stimulating it. Another thing is actually triggers apoptotic pathways, trigger these actual cells to die and again shuts down that cell replication process to prevent them from continuing to make more tumor cells. These are options and it's interesting because when we talk about esophageal cancer here, we've really hit home and guess what we're going to do? We're going to go into gastric cancer and it's going to be pretty much the same exact thing. If the tumor is confined to the mucosa, it's an endoscopic resection. If you have a tumor in the stomach, all we're going to do is we're going to remove that lesion from the actual mucosal area only. There, we have potentially a curative treatment. If it's gone beyond the mucosa, we have to do a gastrectomy. With gastrectomies, they're pretty aggressive. Let's say that you had a tumor here. It's most often here in the antrim or the pyloric region. You'll have to cut. Sometimes you can do subtotal, you can do complete total ones, but you're going to cut out a good portion of the stomach which contains this cancer. You're going to remove that portion. Then what you're going to do is you're going to make an incision here a little bit further down, maybe into the duodenum or potentially into the jeuginum, potentially you might not have to go to. What you're going to do is you're going to suture this end where we have the remaining portions of the stomach. You're going to suture this down here so that way contents that are in the stomach can still get into the small intestine because we need to have absorption. Absorption occurs in the small intestine. I still need things to go from the stomach to the small intestine. I'll basically take a piece of the duodenum, maybe the jeuginum, and I'll make a slit, bring it up, and have it fused and actually anastomose that with the stomach. We have an area where that chyme from the stomach can dump into the small intestines. I still need bile to get into the small intestine. What I would do is I would take this residual portion right here from where I cut, and I would fuse it with the biliary duct system so that bile can still dump into the actual small intestine so I can actually emulsify fats, break down fats, and allow for fat absorption. This is what it would look like afterwards. That's a gastrectomy. It's usually when the tumor is again beyond the mucosa. When we have these patients who have gotten a gastrectomy, they get an endoscopic resection, you may need to hit them with some chemo radiation beforehand and potentially after. That's something to consider as well. If it's metastatic, you guessed it. Oftentimes, there's not a lot of surgical procedures we can do unless they have significant gastric outlet obstruction. We could put a stent in to help to move some of that chyme forward so that they're not having lots of nausea, vomiting, and weight loss. That's definitely an option. Again, oftentimes, they're stuck with systemic chemotherapy plus or minus your stuzumab if they come up positive for that HER2 metastatic disease. Again, it's just going back and showing you how does it work. HER2, when hit by a ligand, a growth factor of sorts, triggers a lot of cell replication inside of these tumor cells. All you're doing is giving a drug to bind to it. That's going to lead to downregulation of these HER2 receptors. You have less of them available to bind with the ligand, trigger apoptotic pathways to cause these cells to die, and then lastly, shut down a lot of the cell replication processes. These are the ways that we're going to go about treating gastric cancer. My friends, we covered a decent amount here with esophageal and gastric cancer. I really hope that it made sense. I hope that when you walk away from this, you feel confident, you feel comfortable, you feel that you're able to take on the task at hand. I really hope that you guys like this. I hope that you learned a lot. I just thank you guys for being such awesome followers, such amazing Ninjners. I pray that you're just really doing well with all of your studies. Thank you guys so much. Love you guys, dude. As always, until next time. Bye.

=== FILE: Gynecological Cancers ｜ Clinical Medicine [Ks-nMVgjrhs].txt ===

 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам What's up, Ninja Nerds? In this video today, we're going to be talking about gynecological cancers. There's a lot of them to discuss. We're going to talk a lot about ovarian cancer. We'll also talk about endometrial cancer. We'll spend a good amount of time talking about cervical cancer. The last two we won't spend a massive amount of time on, but I'll talk about a couple big things that you may see on the exam, like vaginal and vulvar cancer. All right, this is a part of our clinical medicine series, and you guys know that if you really are helping you, they're helping you to make sense of a complicated topic, there's a couple ways that you can easily support us. You can hit the like button. You can comment down in the comment section. You can subscribe. If you're looking to take your understanding of these topics to the next level, I urge you become a member, and you can do that by going down the description box below. There's a link that goes to our website. On there, you'll find things like notes, illustrations, quiz questions, much more that I think that'll take you to that next level if you're looking to get ninja and nerdy. All right, let's get past that part and get into the pathophys. All right, friends, let's talk about ovarian cancer. Ovarian cancer is a very, very unfortunate cancer. The reason why is as we've talked about, probably unfortunately, when it comes to oncology, you find out a little bit too late. Ovarian cancer is pretty much clinically asymptomatic until you start getting to the stages where it's kind of gone beyond the ovary. It's kind of gotten into the peritoneum. It's led to ascites. It's led to potentially pleural effusions. It's gotten all over the place. That's when we start to see more of the symptoms that start to appear. Ovarian cancer is interesting because when you talk about this one, it has a decent amount of pathophys to talk about a lot of complications. We'll dig into that. When we do that, ovarian cancer is interesting to know that when we talk about the ovary, if you were to imagine here, we're just looking at one of the ovaries. Obviously, it's connected to the uterus via the fimbria, the fallopian tubes, and you got the ampula. Then you get over here to the uterus. There's also connections too that hold the ovary in place. One we have here is called the suspensory ligament. This one here is called the uteroovarian ligament. It's really helpful for keeping that ovary in a nice suspended position. What I want to do is, I want to take, for example, when we talk about ovarian cancer, it's not just like, you can say, oh, it's going to occur in the ovary. Yes, it does. We don't look at it as more of a location sense. We look at it more of like a tissue tumor type or what kind of ovarian tumor is it? Because not every tumor is exactly the same. Let's say that we have a patient who has an ovarian tumor. Here's the mass. It's on the ovary. It's decent size. It's causing maybe no symptoms. But eventually, you end up, for some reason, working the patient up. You find the ovarian tumor. You do an oophorectomy and you send it to the pathologist and they look at it and they say, oh, this is this type of ovarian tumor. What do we look for? Well, you have to kind of go in and look at a little bit more of the basic structure of the ovary. So, we have here kind of like the outer layer of the ovary. This is kind of like the epithelial layer. All right? So, this is going to be called your epithelial layer. Now, the epithelial layer, when that tissue there decides to go undergo a little bit of changes. It's not a happy tissue. It's now an angry, sad, cancerous tissue. There was some kind of mutation that led to an uptick in the proto-oncogenes and a shutting down of the tumor suppressor genes. And likely, there was some mismatch repair genes that also got mutated, which we'll talk about a little bit later because those are actually really helpful. But whenever there's an abnormality in the epithelium, that can lead to epithelial tumors. Now, epithelial tumors are by far the most common. So whenever there is an abnormality or malignancy in these cells, so we'll represent it, here's the abnormality. It's in these cells. That can lead to epithelial tumors. Now, there's a bunch of these. But I'd say out of all of these, there's two that I think are worth remembering. One is the tumor is filled, like you have a bunch of these cells that are replicating, replicating, replicating the epithelial cells. When they start to become dysplastic, they become cancerous, they can accumulate a lot of fluid in them. And it could just be like a very thin, clearish fluid called a cirrhosis adenocarcinoma. So you can have a cirrhosis type, so a cirrhosis adenocarcinoma, or you can have a musinus, cyst adenocarcinoma. So these are going to be the most common types of ovarian tumors. These are the most common. Now what I want you to remember about these tumors is something kind of unfortunate. Actually it can be somewhat helpful. When we talk about these epithelial tumors, they can gain the capacity to secrete specific markers that may help us to think about this tumor as compared to all the other ones. What is that? Well the thing I want you to associate with this one is these tumors are associated with an increase in what's called CA125. So whenever you hear epithelial tumor, it's a tumor of the outer layer, the epithelium of the ovary. It's usually cirrhosis or musinus, cyst adenocarcinomas. And the tumor marker that we oftentimes associate with is CA125. All right, let's go to the next part. Well there's no vascular part. What the heck? They're big old ovarian follicles. Now in the follicles you have these things called oocytes. It's these right here. These are your oocytes. And then around them you have some different types of cells. These are technically they are the germ cell of the ovary. They're what it's going to determine the possibility whatever a female ovulates that of a sperm cell is present, it will combine with these oocytes and lead to a fertilized egg. So these whenever you have a cancer or mutation that occurs and these this leads to something called germ cell tumors. Germ cell tumors. Now germ cell tumors are very unfortunate because they can be pretty aggressive. Epithelial tumors are usually going to occur more often in postmenopausal women, a little bit more of the older age. Germ cell tumors are going to be appearing in more than the perimenopausal. So usually it's the younger individuals and they're very aggressive and there's a couple different types. So one of them is called a yolk sac tumor. You're like, wait, Zach we're talking about ovaries bro. We ain't talking about the testicles. I know, but yolk sac tumors were germ cell tumors for testicular tumors. It's the same concept. Another one that may sound familiar, a choreo carcinoma. You're like, Zach dude, you're talking about testicular tumors. No, I'm telling you this can be again another type of germ cell tumor for ovarian to cancer. Another one is called a teratoma. You're like, huh, a lot of this sounds familiar. Yes, because they are germ cell tumors. Another one is called a dish germinoma. This one's a really nasty one. It's a very aggressive, grows pretty quick, very, very quick growing one. These are tumors that whenever we look at them under the microscope, this has that classic idea as you remember, the shillard de vol bodies. This one is the syncytiotrophoblast and the cytotrophoblast. It looks like placental tissue. This one is the Frankenstein. You guys remember this one? This is the one that has muscle and bone and teeth and hair as all a part of this tumor. It's a really nasty one. And dish germinomas. These are interesting ones. They grow very rapidly, aggressively, and they can get pretty big. Unfortunately, it can cause twisting of the ovary. They can cause ovarian torsion. What really helps these besides what they look like on the microscope, these tumor markers can be somewhat helpful. For example, for yolk sac tumors, they're highly associated with AFP. AFP is a really important one. For choreocarcinomas, it's beta-HCG. This should sound relatively familiar, guys. For teratomas, there's nothing. You don't really have any specific tumor marker that we look at. It's really the histological makeup that we get kind of concerned with. So that's one thing. The other thing is dish germinomas. These have a heavy amount of cell turnover. Do you remember what that one marker was? It was more just a heavy, heavy cell turnover. We talk about it in tumor lysosynter. We talk about it in a lot of different cancers. LDH. LDH is heavily associated with dish germinomas. So whenever a patient has an increased AFP, then yolk sac, increased beta-HCG, then choreocarcinoma, no specific markers, teratoma, LDH, dish germinomas. All right. Now, we have other cells. You see these purple cells? These purple cells are called granulosa cells. These are cool dudes. These are cool little dudes. And the reason why I say that is that they have the capacity to make hormones. And that's going to be helpful. They can make things like estrogen. They can make things like inhibin, and there's inhibit A and there's inhibit B. And there's another cell, which is these pink ones right outside of it. And these are called theca cells. These are called your theca cells. Then you have these other ones here. These are pretty simple. They make lots of fibrous tissue. I bet you'd never guess what these are. These are called fibro. Let me actually draw it up above them. Fibroblast. All right. So here we have fibroblast. And this one is called, it's literally, it's just primitive gonadal stromal tissue. That's all it is. It's a primitive gonadal tissue. So we can write this one here. I'll actually write it here so I have some room because I can tell I'm not going to make it. Primitive gonadal, we call that stroma, which is just kind of like, it's like a supportive tissue essentially. So these cells make up something called your sex cord stromal tissue. All right. They make up something called your sex cord stromal tissue. And so whenever you have cancer or mutation that involves these cells, that's called sex cord stromal tumors. And guess what? It depends upon the tissue or the cells that we just talked about. So for example, if I say it involves the granulosa and the thika cells, that's a granulosa thika cell tumor. Sometimes we call them a granulosa thicoma. Sometimes you can just have the thical cells, which is a thicoma. But usually pretty simple is we have granulosa thica cell tumors. Now granulosa cells secrete something called estrogen. And estrogen is really, really important because estrogen is what helps the process of some of these oocytes, but also it goes to the uterus. And if you remember, it kind of gets the uterus prepared. And so the estrogen is really, really important whenever we have something like FSH that comes and tells the granulosa cells to produce estrogen. So granulosa cells, if they are having cancer of them, what theoretically could be produced in higher amounts? Estrogen. So there could be an elevation in the estrogen. And if this isn't a pre-puberty female, they could have estrogenic symptoms. They could have precocious puberty potentially. And so that's something to think about. The other one that they release is they release something called inhibin. Inhibin is supposed to basically help the controlling of the regulation of the feedback pathway for estrogen. And so inhibin could also be elevated in this type of cancer. So if you see these potential levels, it's kind of just kind of queuing you off to think about which type of cancer if they're presenting the vignette somehow. The next one is if it involves the fibroblasts. So I guess you wouldn't know what we'd call that one. We call that an ovarian fibroma. Now ovarian fibromas are kind of nasty. And the reason why is they can get kind of, without being weird, they can get slippery. And these can cause a couple of different issues. But what we talk about with ovarian fibromas is something really interesting because they'll try to bring this up in the exam some way or shape or form because it's got a name associated with it. It doesn't really have hormones that are really the markers. It's really something that we talk about with this called Meg's syndrome. So I'm going to write this down. It's called Meg's syndrome. And this is a triad of a presentation that we commonly associate with ovarian fibromas. What is that triad? They usually have three things. They have a fibroma. That's one thing. So they have an ovarian fibroma. The other thing is they have ascites. And the third thing is they have a pleural effusion. So this is called Meg's syndrome. The thing that is annoying about this is that you can get ascites and pleural effusion and ovarian cancer and it could be epithelial ovarian cancer. But they just like to throw this thing in there sometimes that if a patient has a fibroma along with a pleural effusion and they have ascites, we call that Meg's syndrome. So just think about that one. It's one of those things that they can throw on for the terminology. And what I'll do here is just to pay it a little bit of homage, I'll put a red box around it. All right. The last one is the primitive gonadostroma. You should not, and I repeat, you should not be having sertoli and lideg cells and the female ovary. But if for some reason you develop a mutation, this primitive gonadostroma that it turns into sertoli or lideg cells, you can get a sertoli lideg cell tumor. So sertoli lideg ovarian tumor. These could be associated with an increase in angiogens. You definitely want to consider that. But I don't want you to get too, too worked up about these ones. But yes, you could see a bump in angiogen levels. And what are these angiogen levels? That's usually things like DHEA is one, test, some testosterone, you know, those things could theoretically be a little bit elevated. All right. So watch out for potentially an increase in angiogen levels. But the ones that I really, really want you to think about is the CA125 with epitheliovarian tumors. CIFP with yolk sac, BDHCG with choryocarsanoma, and increased LDH with this germanomas. All right. So that's a lot. That's a lot, all right. All of these are primary ovarian tumors. What if by some chance, some crazy chance, you get a metastatic, metastatic ovarian cancer. Now ovarian cancer can be bilateral, primary ones, but I'd say it's more often unilateral. And so whenever you have a patient who comes in who has this theoretical presentation of bilateral ovarian cancer, I would think about something. So what happens is, let's say that a patient has gastric cancer, all right. And there's a specific type of gastric adenocarcinoma. You know, there's two types. I mean, we talked about this actually in the esophageal and gastric cancer lecture. And it's interesting because this one gets really, really thickened layer. Starts usually approximately, kind of moves its way distally. Do you guys remember what that was called? Diffuse, gastric adenocarcinoma. So we call this one, let's say, diffuse gastric adenocarcinoma. I'm going to test your memory a little bit. Do you guys remember what led to this being diffuse? It was the loss of, because I'm going to say diffuse because it has the loss of the e-cadherins. So e-cadherins are supposed to keep cells together, nicely tightly to get back together. All of a sudden you lose it. These cells are just, you know, moving around. And now they can move, they can infiltrate deeper. And whenever these cells infiltrate deeper, they get to the lymph nodes. So it represents some kind of like, due to brown stuff here, these are the cells. And these cells get into the lymphatics. And when they get to the lymphatics, they can move their way. Unfortunately, to an ovary. And not just one ovary, both ovaries. And let's give them a little bit of a whoop, therefore the fembrane attaches. These are going to go to the ovaries. And now you're going to have these tumors here from those gastric adenocarcinoma, the diffuse type. And it's going to be in both of the ovaries. So you're going to have bilateral ovarian tumors. You know what they call this? When it comes from a gastric adenocarcinoma, it's really important to remember this term, my friends. This is called a Krockenberg tumor. Krockenberg tumor. All right, that's what I want you guys to remember here. So Krockenberg tumor is associated with a metastatic cancer. Primary tumors usually one ovary. You get both involved and the patient has a history of diffuse gastric adenocarcinoma. Think about it. One of the ways that they would say that is when these cells break off, there is a specific name for these cells. And they're called signet. That's what you're looking for. The signet ring. So essentially you kind of like think about like this. It has like that kind of look to it. The signet ring cells. These are the cells of the gastric adenocarcinoma that broke off and they moved and they got to the ovaries. That's what these are. These are the signet ring cells. All right. So at this point, I know it's a lot. I know. I promise I know and we're going to get through this. We're going to understand that I promise. But I want you to know that ovarian tumors can be primary, all of these, or it could be metastatic. This is the most important ones. What I want you to then think about is what in the heck is causing that epithelial tissue? Causing the OSI tissue? Causing the granulosa cells, sthika cells, fibroblasts, primitive granatostroma, to all of a sudden go mad and decide to become cancerous. What's anything that's causing repetitive replication and repair? What do the ovaries do? They ovulate. That's what females are supposed to allow for that to do. The ovary function is to ovulate. It is to, essentially, imagine this. There is an egg. I want this to pop out an oocyte. And I really, theoretically, I want it to go this way because I want a sperm cell to meet it so that they can implant. But that's the whole point is that what I'm looking for this ovary to do is to do something called ovulation. To pop that egg out. But every single time it does that, every time you ovulate, every time the female ovulates, there has to be a repair process. You have to heal that tissue. After you heal the tissue, guess what? You make new tissue. So if I ovulate, repair, and heal, and I keep doing that, guess what's going to happen? There is an opportunity for mutations to arise for cancer to occur. So that's what you've got to think about. You've got to go back to this thought process. What's the trigger for ovulation? Well, here we have, this is not testicles. This is hypothalamus. You know that. Here we're going to have the hypothalamus and it secretes something called GNRH. And then GNRH is going to do what? It's going to go to the anterior pituitary. The anterior pituitary is going to trigger the production of two different hormones. It depends upon which phase in the ovulation cycle we're in. Let's say that we're in the beginning part, it would cause something called FSH to be produced. FSH would then go to what? To the ovaries. And then it would go to the granulosa cells and that would trigger the production of something called estrogen. And what we know is that when estrogen levels are high, it goes to the uterus and it causes the proliferation of the uterus. It causes them to get lots of blood vessels and help to get ready to allow for them to proliferate. But then what happens is over time, estrogen usually goes and you get closer to that point of where the female is getting ready to ovulate. And what it will do is, it will trigger this process where it will not shoot into what's called the LH surge. And then LH will rise. And then what LH will do is LH will come over here and it will tell this ovarian follicle to pressurize and to trigger this ovulation process. So this is kind of the basic, I'm just real quick, ovulatory phase of what we're talking about. So whenever a patient has these hormones, Gener H triggers FSH in the initial phases, causes estrogen to get produced. Regen can go eventually as it gets higher and higher and higher. It then triggers a negative feedback mechanism where it kind of shuts it down, but then triggers an LH surge. LH then causes ovulation. The whole point here is that usually after this, LH also is supposed to help with the progesterone production. So what happens is, is any time a patient has consistent ovulatory cycles, they get exposed to higher amounts of estrogen. So here's what I want you guys to think about. What puts a person at risk of having increased ovulatory cycles? That's really the trigger. So let's talk about that. Increased ovulation cycles. Another way that we like to think about this is increase in estrogen without proper opposition from progesterone. Because progesterone is supposed to suppress this process. Eventually what happens is progesterone should get produced, especially by the corpus luteum. And then the progesterone will go and it'll actually help to shut down the FSH production and shut down the estrogen production. It'll also tell the uterus to go into more of a secretory phase because you're theoretically preparing for implantation of the baby. But increased ovulation cycles is really what's going to cause this process because anything has to do with that. So now this is going to be a couple of different things. One is if you have early monarchy. You're like, okay, maybe some of you know what that means, some of you don't. I didn't know it initially, but it's early first menstrual cycle. Let's say that you started at like nine years old. If you start at nine and you don't end until you're about 50, that's a long period of time where you're having repeated ovulatory cycles. Every ovulatory cycle leads to ovulation and then scar tissue and then repair. So that's one trigger. Another one is what if you went into menopause later? That means that you no longer ovulate. You stopped that process. If you have that going until you're like 60 years old, theoretically you have more ovulatory cycles, more ovulation, more repair, more fibrous tissue, more healing, more chance for mutations to arise. Another one is if you did not have any babies. So null parity. So no babies. That means that whenever a woman is pregnant, they produce progesterone. Guess what progesterone is supposed to do? I just told you it's supposed to oppose this process. If you've never had any periods of where you were pregnant, guess what? You have no progesterone to oppose that estrogen process. Another one, and this is kind of interesting because it's not, it's kind of weird when you think about it, but we also think about this in obesity. So obesity can also be somewhat of a trigger. And the reason why is in obesity, you express more of something called aromatase enzymes. And aromatase enzymes help to be able to convert things like androgens into estrogen. So if you have more unopposed estrogen, that's also going to lead to this potential problem. So these are the things I really want you to think about that are really the triggers here. So more ovulatory cycles means more opportunity for mutations. More mutations means opportunity for cancer to arise. The things that I think are protective, so the things that actually prevent this from happening are things like oral contraceptives. Oral contraceptives are actually really, really helpful because they contain progestinous, as long as they contain that. That's going to be helpful. Breastfeeding, because it helps with the progesterone production. It helps with prolactin, which helps to shut down some of those pathways. So having those kinds of conditions like oral contraceptives, getting pregnant, breastfeeding, those things all reduce the risk of ovarian cancer. So these are things that unfortunately, if you increase the ovulatory cycles, so more of these, that brings about more opportunity for cancer to arise. Protective factors are things like oral contraceptives, like progestin, things like breastfeeding, things like getting pregnant. Really, really important to remember that. So I think from here we've covered what are the different types of primary tumors, how can you slightly differentiate them? What's the one metastatic one that we should then consider? When we talk about ovarian cancer, what's really the underlying trigger? It's those who have frequent or increased ovulatory cycles. More ovulatory cycles brings about opportunity for repair, healing, and then with that you can introduce an opportunity for DNA replication error. Something can go wrong and you can develop cancer. With that being said, one last thing to think about. What if it has nothing to do with ovulation cycles, but you unfortunately, you then introduce a genetic problem. So let's say that you have, you know, this is all normal. But then you have genes that are supposed to help in this repair process. Because once you have this ovulation, then what's going to have to happen is you're going to have to go through a repair process. And then that will hopefully help to heal the ovaries. So you should have ovulation, then you should have repair, and then you should have healing. What if I have some genes, and we'll just, I'm not picking any color, I'm just doing it like this, you have some genes that are not going to allow for you to repair. What if I have this, and I don't allow for that healing, that can allow for potential for mutations, that can allow for cancer to occur. So what are these? This I want you to remember two. One is called the BRCA mutations. So there's BRCA one, and there's BRCA two. These increase the risk of not just ovarian cancer, but what else? Breast cancer. And the last one is called, we call it a couple of different things, but hereditary, non-polyposis, colorectal cancer. That's another name for this. Lynch syndrome. Let's write that out, we'll write that one instead. Lynch syndrome. Lynch syndrome. So this is hereditary, non-polyposis, colorectal cancer. So what kind of cancer do you think it's associated with? Colorectal cancer? Guess what else? Endometrial cancer? Guess what else? Ovarian cancer. So I always want you to know BRCA, think breast and ovarian. All right, that's the ones that you increase the risk of. So BRCA mutations, boom. If I say Lynch, which is non, I mean, which is hereditary, non-polyposis, colorectal cancer, you increase the risk of, I want you to remember Merrill Lynch, which is the CEO. C for colorectal cancer, E for endometrial, and O for ovarian cancer. These are the things that I want you guys to associate with ovarian cancer. All right, I think we really hit this pretty hard. So now what I want to do is, let's say that we have a patient comes in, postmenopausal maybe, they're coming in, and they don't have any specific labs that are being drawn yet, but they don't have any other kind of symptoms. Maybe their symptoms are very, very subtle. They don't have any history of Lynch syndrome. They don't have any history of BRCA mutations. But they do have a history of having early menarchi or late menopausal that have never been pregnant or they were obese. And they start to come in with some potential symptoms. What are those symptoms? Well, again, symptoms can be very, very vague or completely asymptomatic in ovarian cancer. It's usually as they start getting past the ovary and usually starting to invade the perisoneum or the pelvic sidewall of the lymph nodes that we started to get some symptoms. But let's imagine here, you have a tumor. So here's the ovary. So here we have the bladder. Here we have the ovary. Here we have the fallopian tube. Here we have the uterus. And here we have the rectum and colon. Here's the ovarian tumor. The ovarian tumor can actually implant and seed into the perisoneum. That's one thing it can do. So it can start to break away and get into, it can actually cause what we call peritoneal implants. It can start to kind of seed and get into the peritoneum. The other thing that this...  and alfalfa. So, what this can do is it can secrete cytokines, things like VEGF, things like interleukin-6, and what happens here is when it starts to secrete these things, especially in a little bit of a higher amount, in combination with these implants. So, we're going to actually write these out here. These are implants, peritoneal implants. And I'm talking about like breast implants or anything. I'm talking about the tumor. It literally seeds and gets pieces of it on the peritoneum. This is a peritoneal implant. That can cause one issue, but these also cause an issue, because these cytokines, they go to the capillaries in the peritoneum. And so, in the peritoneum, you have these capillary system, and they start to get really leaky. And as they start to get really leaky, guess what starts to kind of come out of this? Peritoneal fluid. You start getting some secretion, some loss of protein-rich fluid from the peritoneum. That could be from these cytokines. The other thing is it could be from these tumors itself in the peritoneum, causing inflammation, causing leakiness. And so, now you get all this fluid that starts to kind of accumulate in the peritoneum. And eventually, we're going to just draw like a fluid level here. What is this called when you have this free-floating fluid in the peritoneum? Acides. So, that's one potential presentation that we get kind of nervous about with this disease is acides. Now, acides, unfortunately, when we talk about this one, acides here can present kind of like subtly. They may present with bloating. All right? So, I'm not kidding. I'm going to write bloat, because that's sometimes the way that we'll describe these patients is they feel bloated. They look bloated. They look like the Michelin man. They come in and they say that their waist size has been going up. So, you have an increase in the waist size. You have some sensation of bloating. They may even have some associated like pelvic pain down there, right? So, that's something I'll also think about. But the thing that we can start to consider is if a patient ever came in with acides, they would have potentially those signs of acides. Shifting dullness, fluid wave test. So, always look for that in the exam, because that's your classic stuff. So, your fluid wave test would be positive. You would have shifting dullness, right? Those are all definitely things that we could see on exam, if mentioned. But oftentimes, the key thing that we kind of hear in your exam questions is you're going to hear this term bloat. Now, another thing that can happen, I would say it's not as common, but because this is going to be a protein. So, I'm actually representing this as a fluid that's rich in protein. We're going to represent these proteins in pink. So, there's going to be not just like your water and plasma material, but there's going to be lots of albumin. Lots of proteins get leaked into this. And so, that changes what's called their SAG. And so, the other thing that you could say is if you really, really wanted to, is if you ever tapped this, if you did ever do the Parisian thesis and you tested this fluid, they would have a SAG, a series of societies of human gradient that would be less than 1.1. And all that tells me, and you can't really see that point there, 1.1, that just tells me that it's non-portal hypertension related. It's exudative. Something's making the capillaries leaky. There's a lot of different things, tuberculosis. Sometimes pancreatitis can do this, but malignancies are really, really the big one to think about. And one of the most common malignancies is a peritoneal carcinomatosis. And guess what this is? This is peritoneal carcinomatosis that's due to ovarian cancer seeding and causing implants or causing cytokines that's leading to leakage. But that's what I want you guys to think about is peritoneal carcinomatosis. Now, something else that's kind of really interesting with ovarian cancer, especially with the ascites, is that on the right side, you have these little, like, small holes and you also have more patent lymphatic channels. And so what happens is the diaphragm is kind of like the border between the abdominal cavity and the pleural cavity. But sometimes this fluid can move through these small little defects, these small little lymphatic channels, under the right hemidiaphragm. And if it does, you can start to get fluid that accumulates here in the pleural cavity. What is this called? Pleural effusion. All right? So they can get pleural effusions. So the two things that I really want you to remember is pleural effusions and ascites. Pleural effusions, obviously, they can present a bunch of different ways. If we really wanted to go into it, right, you'd have decreased breath sounds, right? You'd have, you know, usually if you really wanted to go there, you could have the decreased breath sounds. You would have dullness to percussion. If you were to percuss, I can't say I haven't done this too often, but it's something that helps you to make you very, very thorough. And the last one is obviously they may have some chief complaint. So dyspnea is a very common one as well. Maybe even some pleuridic chest pain. But pleural effusions and ascites are interesting because they kind of go hand in hand. And if you think about this, I talked about that with what's called MEGZ syndrome. So if a patient has an ovarian fibroma, ascites, and pleural effusion, that's called MEGZ syndrome. But we see this with really any kind of ovarian tumor, especially things like epithelial ovarian tumors, which are the most common type of ovarian tumor. All right. So that's really important. And the other thing I want you to remember is the pleural effusion. Just to have a little notation here, it's often right-sided. Just basically because of the smaller, because the, there's small little channels that are more patent on the right hemidiafram. And also they have more patent lymphatic channels for it to kind of move through. Probably enough, if you treat the ovarian cancer and the ascites goes away, the pleural effusion goes away without having to treat it. All right. That's that one. Now the next thing that I want you guys to think about is again, if a patient has ovarian cancer, here's their ovary. Here's the bladder. Here's the fallopian tube, uterus, and then the rectum and colon. Here's the tumor. Again, it can kind of break through the peritoneum and it can implant. So you can get some implants here, all right, all over here. And then again, we also know that it can secrete chemicals like VEGF and interleukin-6. And then what we know about these is that if these are released in higher than normal amounts, they do have the capability of acting on the peritoneum and doing what? Making the peritoneum a little bit more leaky. And that's what led to the ascites, right? And then theoretically even the pleural effusions. But that's one component here. The other thing is that there's, let's actually do it here in like this kind of orangish color here. There's a structure here called the omentum. You know you have your greater omentum and you have your lesser omentum. The ovarian tumors love the omentum. They like to go there and attach to the omentum. And so that's one thing. They can attach to the peritoneum, but they can also implant into the omentum. And so imagine here, you have a bunch of fluid. So here's some acidic fluid, right? And this is because of the implants, the peritoneal implants. But it's also because of these cytokines. So you have the ascites and that's kind of pushing on the bowels. And then you have these implants and it's kind of thickening the omentum and that's pushing on the bowels. If you compress on the bowels, what's going to happen? You're going to decrease the luminal caliber. And now the luminae's look like that. And now look at that. It's a tiny little guy. Because you're having extrinsic force that's compressing it. What can that do? That can lead to a bowel obstruction. So these patients can also present with symptoms of a small bowel obstruction or an SBO. I wouldn't have this at the top of your differential, but it's something to think about especially in this clinical vignette, that it could be due to the ascites that's smushing and it could be due to the peritoneal implants and the omental implants that's smushing on the small bowel. Obviously, what are some symptoms of small bowel obstruction? It's usually, remember the pneumonic cavo, so cramping abdominal pain is one presentation. So they may come in with some abdominal pain. They may have abdominal distention. And that obviously could be because of the gas that's building up and the air and the fluid and the food contents. And also could be due to the ascites. They could have vomiting or associated nausea. And this one's I'd say less likely unless it's more of a severe obstruction, but they could also have obstipation where they can't fart, can't pass gas. And sometimes they can't even have poops, so constipation. So small bowel obstruction is definitely something to think about, but I would want you to focus more of your energy on the pleural effusion and the ascites. And know that this can happen as a result of the implants and the ascites themselves. This is one of the problems, and that's why sometimes whenever patients have ovarian tumors, guess what we do? We remove the ovary, and then unfortunately we have to remove the fallopian tubes, and sometimes we've got to pretty much use it to remove the uterus as well. So you do what's called a total abdominus directumiae and a bilateral subhingo opherectomy. And then what happens is you have to go in and explore. And you have to see if these tumors went into the paritidium, if they have implants, and you have to remove those. And then sometimes you have to remove the omentum. So you have to do an omentectomy. So you're trying to basically reduce the risk of these areas. You do what's called a cytoreductive debulking. You're really trying to get as much of the tumor out of the paritidium as possible. The last complication that I want to quickly hit on here, and you can see this one with, I'd say it's more ovarian cis, but you can see it with dish Germanomas. What's that have here, ovarian tumor, it's a big one. And it's growing rapidly and aggressively. So you get a really, really quick one. So we're just going to, we'll call this one a dish Germanoma. This is usually the one that we would see just because of its increase in growth and the rapidity of it. Here is your dish Germanoma. Remember I told you the ovaries kind of held in place by two ligaments that are really kind of important here. Let's see if I can get these guys in here. I'm going to put this one as the utero ovarian ligament. And this one here is called your suspensory ligament. Now these are helpful for really helping to keep the ovary nicely in place. But let's say that this dish Germanoma starts kind of getting big and floppy and the ovary starts kind of like feeling like it's going to teeter-totter and it starts to rotate around these ligaments. Well then what happens is you got this big old honking tumor here that makes the tumor rotate, makes the ovary rotate around the ligament. So let's say here this ligament here which was the suspensory ligament. Now it's all the way over here. Alright. And then this one which is the utero ovarian ligament, it got crossed over, over here. And then this starts twisting around itself. What happens and this is why it's really important is when this torsus, you have an ovarian torsion, there's vessels that run through here. You have arteries that run through here. And you have veins that run through here. If you are pinching those off, what's going to happen? Well the first thing is if you pinch off the veins it's going to lead to edema of the ovary, congestion of the ovary. It's going to get it even bigger and more swollen. And then if you pinch the arteries enough, what's going to happen? Necrosis. So this here my friends is what we get scared about is ovarian torsion because ovarian torsion, oh man, they will present with severe sudden onset. So it'll be a really sudden onset pain. Sudden onset abdominal pain. They'll probably have some associated nausea and vomiting and if you don't get to this and if you don't reverse this, you could cause necrosis of the ovary and they could potentially lose, if it's bad enough, you obviously lose a potential ovary for ovulation. So you reduce the risk of fertility for these patients. And that's really, really important. So dish germinomas do carry a risk of ovarian torsion, but I would say you'll see this more likely with like large cysts. And we'll talk about some other ones when we get into the gynecology lectures. But here's what I want you to take away from this. When we talk about ovarian tumors or ovarian cancer, it's usually asymptomatic. If they do present with anything, look for this bloating, increase in waist size. Usually with cancers, you don't gain weight. That's not too often, right? This is the one where it's a little odd. Think about ascites, think about pleural effusions. If you've got the brain space, remember ovarian torsions can occur, but it's usually with dish germinomas. Remember all of the different types of tumors that can occur, but the most common one is epithelial ovarian tumors. Switch to tumor marker, C125. If you see AFB, you'll exact tumor. Coriocarsinoma, beta-HCG. LDH, dish germinoma, which is the one that comes from the gastric adenocarcinoma that has the signet ring cells, the Krockenberg tumor. What is the reason that these things occur? It's increased ovulatory cycles, high estrogen that's unopposed for a long period of time, or you didn't hit the genetic lottery when it came to these things like Lynch syndrome and BRCA mutations. Lots of stuff with ovarian cancer. I hope that you guys are still with me because now what we're going to do is we're going to move over and talk about endometrial cancer. All right, so endometrial cancer. This is again, like when we talk about ovarian cancer, similar. You're going to see this, like ovarian cancer is more epithelial ovarian tumors, which we see more in that postmenopausal. You're going to see this in definitely women who are above the age of like 50, 55 for ovarian cancer. It's going to be pretty much similar for endometrial cancer. You're going to see this more in the postmenopausal woman, much more common in that one. When we talk about these, there is two types of endometrial cancer. One that is extremely common. It makes up 80, 85% of them, and that's going to be the type one. You'll see this way more often. This is your 80, 85%. Could even be a little bit higher, but this is the endometroid carcinoma. Then you're going to have your type two. This is a very small percentage. It may be somewhere around 15, 20%. Very, very small percentage for this one. When we talk about these, one of the things that I think is important to remember is with endometrial cancer, it involves the endometrium. You have to have a little reminder, nothing crazy, a little reminder of your anatomy. Here we have the endometrium, which is the inner lining, which is your simple columnar epithelial tissue. If you were to zoom in on it, you definitely will have some areas where it invaginates and creates things like glands. I'm just representing that with this green cell given the space that we have. That's the one component. Then in the middle portion, which is this whiter portion, if I were to have it color-coded, I would probably put a red color. That's the myometrium. That's the contractile portion that helps during the portion of whenever you're trying to deliver a baby. You want that to contract to expel the baby out. Then this outer pinkish-purplish layer is the perimetrium. That's going to be the outer layer of the uterus. Whenever patients develop endometrial cancer, it's involving the inner lining. Here you're going to have some type of, usually it starts off with type one, as an endometrial hyperplasia. It's a thickening. It's an enlargement of the endometrium. Usually this will present more with a hyperplasia. This is going to be more likely to be hyperplasia. I told you that this is more common in post-metapausal women in general. That is 100% true. This one, usually what we think about here is interesting. Whenever there's hyperplasia, there's lots and lots of thickening of the actual endometrium. That's why we're going to use the term hyperplasia. The other thing is, with this, we want to know what's driving it. What's really driving this process? This one is extremely estrogen dependent. This one is going to be similarly to all the stuff that we talked about with ovarian cancer. The number of those ovulatory cycles, the amount of time that the patient is going with unopposed elevated estrogen exposure, puts them at a theoretical risk of not just ovarian cancer but also endometrial cancer. The other thing is that because of this type of tumor, it's usually a better prognosis. It's not as aggressive. So a better prognosis when it comes to comparing type 1 to type 2. This one, it doesn't metastasize as aggressively. It's not a scary one. When it comes to type 2, this one is usually not hyperplastic. Funnily enough, it's actually an atrophic endometrium. So it's an atrophic endometrium. So what I'll do is, honestly, I'm not kidding. I'll just show a little thin line here. This one, very, very thickened, hyperplastic tissue that eventually becomes cancer. It usually becomes a carcinoma eventually. This one, atrophic. And this one, it likes to actually invade deeper. So it may cause a carcinoma, but this one likes to invade very, very deep. And this one allows it to be very aggressive and to spread. The other thing is that estrogen has no bearing on it. Estrogen has no bearing. So it's estrogen independent. Estrogen independent. And the other thing is this one has a very poor prognosis. It is extremely aggressive. Usually when it's diagnosed, they've already metastasized because this one is very, very invasive. It's an aggressive one. So these are the things that I want you guys to think about. But either way, when you talk about the tissue that's being involved here, if we were to kind of zoom in on a piece of the endometrium, here is your simple columnar epithelium. And what really starts happening here is that you develop hyperplasia. So you increase the amount of columnar tissue and glandular tissue as compared to the surrounding stromal tissue. So what really happens in patients who develop endometrial cancer is that when you look at this, they end up with what's called, this is what we kind of call it, we call it an increased gland to stromal ratio. So increased gland to stromal ratio. So all that keeps happening is you keep having, usually, because this is going to be the one that we're going to be using as the primary example. This one's not too common. So this is not going to be super applicable to this concept. But for type 1, since it is hyperplastic, you're having constant replication. It is estrogen dependent that's doing this one. We see an increased gland to stromal ratio. All that means is, as we're developing more of this glandular tissue, more of this columnar tissue that's kind of popping around and replicating and eventually becoming dysplastic. And then surrounding tissue, like connective tissue, muscle tissue, all of that stuff, there's less of it. There's way more of this simple columnar tissue and way more of that glandular tissue as compared to the stromal tissue. And that's what I really want you guys to know is that when patients start to develop this carcinoma, it's an increased gland to stromal ratio. You have to start asking yourself the question, what in the world is causing these cells to become hyperplastic? Well, it's estrogen dependence. So here we have to remind ourselves. Here we have a hormone that's made by the hypothalamus called GNRH. GNRH then tells the antipyretuotery to make something called what? FSH. And then FSH then does what? It then goes to the ovary, where the ovary, specifically the granulosa cells, respond by producing something called estrogen. And then estrogen is important, obviously, because it has a lot of different effects. It definitely helps with the oocyte, beginning to kind of go through its metaphase process and kind of finish that off. But also, the other thing about estrogen is that it also really, really has a profound effect on the uterus. What it's going to want to do to the uterus is it's going to want to cause it to go into a proliferative phase. So it's going to help it to go into this proliferative phase. It's going to make it thicken up. It's going to increase the actual blood supply to it. So it's going to make it a proliferative tissue. If you keep having multiple time frames where estrogen is elevated and unopposed by progesterone and you keep having these events, guess what's going to happen? You keep undergoing excessive amounts of proliferation. Every single time a cell goes through its cell cycle, what happens? Oh, yeah, you make more cells, but you increase the risk for mutations. So here, every single time I proliferate, what do I do? I increase the risk of mutation. It's exactly the same thing that we talked about over there. So we increase risk of mutations. And that's what leads to cancer. That's what's going to cause this eventually to go from hyperplasia to then becoming nasty, displastic tissue and then carcinomas. So that's what I want you guys to understand. Now, here's the unfortunate thing. What's causing an increased estrogen exposure over time? So again, it's going to be an increased, what did I do? I do all red? No, I did not. So increased prolonged estrogen exposure. And it has to be really, really kind of like really accentuated that it is unopposed. There's no progesterone to really kind of oppose this as much. So again, this is a recap, dudes. It's the same exact thing. What is it? It's the person who is having multiple ovulatory cycles. And so that is going to be the early monarchy. That's definitely a big one. Another one is going to be late menopause. Another one is never getting pregnant. So null parity. And then the other one is obesity because again, they express increased amounts of aromatase enzymes. And those increased aromatase enzymes, especially postmenopausal, increases conversion of things like androgens into estrogen. And that leads to unopposed estrogen exposure, increased proliferation of the endometrium, increased risk of mutations, and carcinoma formation. So this is all that kind of stuff that I want you guys to think about. There's one other thing that's kind of interesting because it's a drug. So I kind of want to add this one on. We'll add it on. I won't put it right here. This is called tamoxifen. And you're like, wait a second. If you guys have been watching the oncology series, you guys will hear this term, tamoxifen. What is this one? Oh, that's that selective estrogen receptor modulator. It's a serum. Zach, you talked about that in breast cancer. We use that in breast cancer. And what it did is in that scenario, it actually helped to act as an antagonist that kind of blocked estrogen's effect. And it's a receptor. Here's what's weird. In the breast, in the breast, it inhibits. And in the endometrium, it stimulates. So in the breast, it is an antagonist in the breast. So that's why we use it. We use it kind of oftentimes as like a more of the targeted therapy that we can give in patients, especially who have ERP or positive breast cancer, especially if it's like metastatic or they're early stages. We can even do it in chemo prevention too. But for the actual endometrium, it is an agonist. Agonist in the endometrium. So basically, it decreases the risk of developing breast cancer while also increasing the risk of developing endometrial cancer. Son of a gun. So tamoxifen increases the risk of developing endometrial cancer while also opposing or trying to prevent breast cancer. That's actually one of the things that we did talk about in that lecture that you have to be considerate of. Now things that basically are protective, we talked about this with ovarian cancer, it's things that basically lead to progesterone being a little bit more elevated and opposing the estrogen. What was that again? Oral contraceptives that are progestin containing. That's going to block and oppose the estrogen. Being pregnant, that leads to prolactin production, that leads to progesterone production. That's going to oppose the estrogen. Breastfeeding is going to help with that process as well, especially with the prolactin. Again, progesterone production. So those are the things that I need you guys to think about. Now here's the other thing I want you guys to think about. When we talk about this, there's the mutation aspect. Again, what if I have here DNA, you have DNA repair genes. I have a mutation in one of these genes. I have a mutation. So now I don't have the ability that if there's proliferation and you get a mutation, I don't have the ability to allow for DNA repair. What this is going to do then is this is going to lead to an increase risk of mutations because I can't repair that break in the DNA. I can't repair some of those mismatches. That's a potential problem. What hereditary cancer syndrome puts you at risk, especially if they have mutations in the MLH gene or the MSH2 gene. This is Lynch syndrome. So Lynch syndrome or hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer, which is associated with again which three cancers. I'm just going to use this as a reminder to you. I'll put it in the apostrophes here. What was it? C E O. So colorectal cancer, endometrial cancer, ovarian cancer. This is associated with specific genes. There's MLH gene. So you can write it down. There's MLH. If you really want to, the MSH genes, these become abnormal. They become mutated. They become high risk that they don't allow for DNA repair. And then you get microsatellite instability and boom, you get these problems that we see here. All right. My friends, with endometrial cancer, type one is the most common. It's usually lots of hyperplastic tissue. It's usually estrogen dependent. And if you catch it, it has a better prognosis if you cut the dang uterus out. What is the big thing to remember with this one? What's causing a lot of this hyperplastic glans and simple columnar tissue? It's high, prolonged, unopposed estrogen exposure. And if you got that risk, the cancer syndromes, think about that. How will these patients present? It's a really important one to remember, right? Because ovarian cancer, it was that bloat, right? It was the increased waist size. It's especially in that postmenopausal female who maybe has a little bit of pelvic abdominal pain. But we think about ascites. We think about pleural effusions are the big things to think about there. But we know they have the risk factors. We know that they have the null parity, the early monarchy, the late menopause, the obesity, right? They have no protective factors. They've never been pregnant. They've never breastfed. They're not on oral contraceptives. They have cancer syndromes like BRCA mutations, so they have Lynch syndrome, so they have mutations there. Within a metriocancers, the same concept. It's all those same risk factors. Null parity, early monarchy, late menopause, obesity. Think about tamoxifen, especially don't they're going to present that somehow in the exam. I'm telling you, watch out for it where it's going to be a question where a patient's taking tamoxifen because they have ERP or positive breast cancer and they're monitoring for things like what? The big thing is obviously osteoporosis, but they're going to ask you what happens if you see that there's a postmenopausal bleeding or they're bleeding now. That's when I would start thinking about having endometrial cancer. I get that transvag ultrasound. All right. What would they present with? I kind of just, unfortunately, I gave it away here. These patients, usually if it's type one, they're going to have this nasty mass. These masses are pretty, since they're proliferative and...  amnestinator, because of the prolonged estrogen exposure, they're pretty vascular. And so what happens is they can definitely bleed. You're going to get bleeding. Now the way that they bleed is kind of important because if you bleed, and let's say that you're just, it's not a part of your normal menstrual cycle, we can call that abnormal uterine bleeding, right? So this can cause something called abnormal uterine bleeding. But that abnormal uterine bleeding, it doesn't mean anything if you don't put it in the right clinical context, right? You have to put it in the correct clinical context. So let's say here, I'm going to use this abnormal uterine bleeding. Let's say that I have a patient here, and let's use the example. Here's going to be where we have the kind of the dotted line, and this is going to be menopause. So they've already hit menopause, and this is kind of like peri. Menopause, right? If you have this point here where you're having, you know, your normal cycles, which were represented as these red spikes, and then you're supposed to not have any bleeding in postmenopause, right? And your menopause state, but you have some bleeding, that would make me concerned, right? So this right here would be one indication. If I have postmenopausal bleeding, funny enough, it's not really funny. But this is the most common way of abnormal uterine bleeding presenting. So postmenopausal bleeding, this is going to be the main way where a patient who hits menopause, they shouldn't be having any kind of bleeding, but all of a sudden they're having some bleeding or some spotting. You should definitely be concerned, and that should be the first thing that should pop into your mind when you hear the term postmenopausal bleeding is endometrial cancer. Now let's say that we take the next patient, all right? In this one, they're paramedopausal, so they don't have any bleeding here, no bleeding, but what we notice is that the amount of bleeding that they're having is heavy. They're having heavy, heavy, heavy bleeding. This is called menorrhagia. This is another way that a patient can present with abnormal uterine bleeding. So menorrhagia is another one. Now when a patient has menorrhagia, what is a potential concern that you should think about? What can a patient potentially present? Well, if you bleed enough, if you have chronic and heavy blood loss, so chronic blood loss, this is going to lead to anemia. And usually, which one? Come on, iron deficiency anemia, my friends, so they'll have a low MCV, their iron studies will come back abnormal. This is what I want you to think about. Anemia is another potential clinical clinical presentation, so they could have heavy, heavy bleeding, but if it's associated with anemia, that's another thing to be thinking about. Because they may present that in your work. Like, hey, you have a patient who has menorrhagia, all of a sudden you get a CBC and it shows that they're having anemia. That just may be something that kind of cues you off to think about that as well. But that should be a part of your differential. Endometrial cancer should definitely be a part of your differential. They have risk factors that we talked about here. The next one here is, let's say that here you have normal cycles. So we'll have this as a normal cycle. But then you have a little bit of bleeding in between, normal cycle. A little bit of bleeding in between, normal cycle. And you're not bleeding postmenopausal. These points here, which I'll represent with kind of like these blue asterisks here, that's intermenstrual bleeding. That intermenstrual bleeding could be concerning, right? So intermenstrual bleeding definitely makes me a little bit more concerned about a patient having some type of pathology. And what is the one that I want you to think about? Think about potentially endometrial cancer. But I have all of these, I have all of them, which is the one that I really need you to remember, postmenopausal bleeding. That's going to be the most classic clinical finding that they're going to present in the exam to think about. All right? So you shouldn't be bleeding during menopause. If you are or spotting, think about endometrial cancer. In these other ones, it should be a part of the differential. But it's not going to be high up on the differential unless you have potential risk factors that are making you think about that. Other things that can happen, I just don't want to go too crazy talking about them, is if the tumor is big enough and it obstructs this cervical oz, this portion here, this internal cervical oz, it can cause blood and pus to accumulate here. Especially, we'll start with blood. So just imagine for a second, let's say you have a tumor here and it gets big enough that it obstructs the cervical oz. Then what happens is blood, if you're still bleeding here, if you're bleeding, what will happen is, is this son of a gun, that blood will kind of start to accumulate here. It'll back up. And as it starts to back up, you get into tons of blood clots kind of accumulating inside of the uterus. The other thing is that you naturally have bacteria. It's a part of our flora that's going to be here as well. The bacteria, which we'll represent here in purple, that also can build up. You can get blood clots, which is called hematometra. Then you can even have bacteria that grow and grow and grow. Then you get pus material and that's called pyometra. Two scary complications, I don't want you to go too crazy, but if you've got lots of pus that's building up in there, it can cause something called a pyometra. They'll probably have some pretty, they may have a fever, they may have a white count, they may have some discharge that does able to squeeze through here. But if they have bloody kind of accumulation here, especially on your speculum exam or kind of evaluating there, then you can think about hematometra. These are also things that can happen, but this is the real, real critical thing I want you to remember and the most common way this occurs, this one. Alright, endometrial cancer, roasted. Let's now move on to the next one, cervical cancer. Cervical cancer. Now this is again, it's kind of similar if you guys watched our video on pancreatic and apatobiliary cancer. This is one that we oftentimes, we talk a lot about screening. So pathosalic carcinoma, you want to screen for, and patients who have cirrhosis, you want to screen for this, and patients who have chronic hepatitis B virus infections, and things like that. So this is actually one of those that we can screen for. Now oftentimes we screen based upon an age range, so usually anywhere from 21 years old to 29 years old, we'll do something called a pap smear. And then depending upon the results of that pap smear, we can do something called a reflex HPV testing, where you test for something called HPV 16 and 18. Those are the poor ones. There's other ones, like 31 and 33, but 16, 18 are the big ones. And then the other thing that we do is usually when they get to about 30, anywhere up to about 65 years of age, we'll do a pap smear. We can keep doing it every three years, or sometimes we can do a pap smear and you can do an HPV test. You can do that every five years. We'll get that in the screening section, but when I talk about cervical cancer, this is a cancer of the cervix. And so you kind of have, as the uterus kind of tapers down, so we had like, if you had the funness and you get to the body, and then you get to the cervix. So this portion here, if we were to kind of like, I'll do it like this. Here and here, that's your cervix, right? So that's the cervix of the uterus. Now the big thing to remember here is when we talk about the cervix here, the cervix has a couple of different like tissue where the tissues are, you know, it's something called the transformation zone. And the transformation zone, it kind of just, it moves, believe it or not, it moves depending upon a lot of the processes of which, you know, when women are going through their ovarian cycles and their uterine cycles, it does move a lot. And so what's really important to know about this is where there's kind of like this transformation zone or this junction where the swamous tissue and columnar tissue kind of come together. So if I were to look here, let's say that I kind of take this tissue right here and I kind of bring it over here, and then there's this deeper tissue closer to the vagina and I bring it over here. I'm not trying to be like inappropriate, but the vagina is meant to take a beating, all right? And what I mean by that is that the tissue type is meant to allow for friction. Whenever sexual intercourse occurs, there's lots of friction. There's resistance. There's abrasion. You want that tissue to be more of a stratified, squamous epithelial tissue. So here, this is going to be the vaginas. This is the upper like two thirds, but the cervix is going to be, you know, it's going to be taking a beating too. And so you want that tissue that's closest to where the penis will be poking it to be a little bit more of a tougher tissue. So right here, and I'll kind of represent this, let's do it in, let's do this bluish color. So like right here, right here, as I kind of come down, all of this is going to be that tissue here. And as I go here, I'm going inwards, I'm changing it. And this one is meant to be more uterine tissue. So uterine tissue is meant to be more for proliferative and secretory and able to secrete substances. That's where you're going to want simple columnar tissue. So what I'll do is, as I'll represent this, I know it's kind of usually a little odd because I usually use blue lines, but this one is going to be your columnar tissue. So this is your columnar tissue. All right. And then over here in the blue, this is going to be representing the squamous tissue. And so this is usually simple columnar, and this is usually stratified squamous. Now stratified squamous epithelial tissue is meant to allow for resistance to abrasion and friction. This one's more for the secretory function. You see how they kind of come to a point where they have a junction? That point where they have that junction should move. And so we're going to theoretically put this one in kind of like this box. We're going to call this the transformation zone. So it's called the transformation zone. The reason why I want you to know this is because it's usually right here, usually right there. That is where most of the cancers occur. Most of the time when a patient develops cervical cancer, it is involving that transformation zone. And usually it's going to be right around this area that a patient will develop a cervical cancer. All right. Now, of that, the tissue that it most often takes place of is the stratified squamous. That's the one that usually starts to, unfortunately, it gets hit. It undergoes lots of replication, so hyperplasia. And from hyperplasia, it then eventually develops into this plastic tissue and then cancer. So let's say that we take for a second and we zoom in on that kind of like, again, this is where the columnar tissue and the squamous tissue is. Something has to make this thing around the transformation zone decide to become malignant. What is that thing? It's HPV. So HPV 16 or HPV 18 are nasty little viruses. So theoretically, you can say that they are sexually transmitted infections. And what happens with these is that they like to go after this tissue, the squamous tissue, and they will infect it. All right. Now, whenever they infect this tissue, that's what usually starts causing some problems. Let me explain how. So what happens is HPV, it kind of releases, it kind of works on specific proteins that are in these cells. So what HPV will do is, HPV, and this is 16 and 18, it can work on two proteins and increase the activity of those. One is called E6. One is called E6 and the other one is called E7. Once these are activated, what they do is, is they target specific types of, you know, I'd say genes or proteins that are coming from genes that help play a role in the cell cycle. E6 likes to go and bind and inhibit P53. So this one's to inhibit the activity of the P53. What is that? That's from the tumor suppressor gene. So these are the proteins that come from the tumor suppressor genes. We're going to have this one bind to it. So here's the P53. And then what we're going to do is, is we're going to have this guy bind. And that's going to render this effective. Now P53, when it's suppressed, it's a tumor suppressor. So tumor suppressor genes, whenever you give them, you know, these are uncle proteins, whenever you have these tumor suppressor proteins, they're supposed to act in a way to inhibit excessive cell replication. If you shut that down, what's going to happen? Lots of cellular replication. So this is going to lead to lots of cell proliferation. All right. There's one problem. We've got cell proliferation that's occurring because we're shutting down that tumor suppressor. The other one is HPV acts on E7. And E7 leads to inhibiting the retinoblastoma protein. It binds to the retinoblastoma protein. When you bind to the retinoblastoma protein, what it does is, it leads to the release of a molecule called E2F. And E2F basically will help to lead to the cell cycle, kind of going through its phases from G1 to the S and the G2 and the mitosis. So that's really what's going to happen here is we're going to release the E2F, which is going to trigger cell proliferation. So you see how HPV, when it infects these cells, it starts off by infecting one cell, increase the expression of E67, shuts down the tumor suppressor gene, shuts down retinoblastoma. Leads to the expression of E2F now being on its own. These things then lead to the breaks of the cell proliferation not occurring. And instead, the cell going through its cell cycles repeatedly. Cell proliferation, guess what that leads to an opportunity for? I think I said it right here. Increase risk of mutations. You get a mutation, guess what? That's when dysplasia occurs. When dysplasia occurs, you increase the risk of carcinomas. Carcinoma, boom, you got cervical cancer. Now with cervical cancer, what happens here is usually you may hit like one cell, right, and it may become a little bit dysplastic. And then eventually it'll start working its way down and you get some neoplastic cells that work its way through. And then eventually you got neoplastic cells that work its way down further. And then eventually these neoplastic cells, I'll represent them as red, they start spreading. They start invading. I'm going to draw this here as kind of like the barrier. What is this called? We always use this as a way to describe like an invasive cancer, the basement membrane, right? So whenever the cancer starts and kind of works its way through, that's how we get to that invasive cervical cancer. We'll talk about a couple different cancers along the way, especially when we get into the diagnostic section. We'll talk about something called CIN. So this is cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. So it's the amount of kind of like cancerous appearing cells or dysplastic cells that depend upon how much of that epithelial tissue is involved. If it's only a small amount, it could be CIN1. If it's a good chunk, it could be CIN2, CIN3. But if it's broken past the basement membrane, that's when we start talking about invasive cervical cancer. So I want you to remember something that we'll talk about, which is we talk about something like CIN. So it usually goes CIN1, CIN2, CIN3, and then we get cervical cancer, the invasive cervical cancer. So we'll talk about that a little bit more when we get into the diagnostic section. But a lot of the times, these HPVs will cause a lot of weird appearing cells. It'll make the cells appear weird. And we'll talk about that when we get into the pap smear. Whenever you do a pap smear, which is you take this weird little, I'm not gonna lay it down, weird toothbrush and you scrape some cells off of the cervix and you look at them. You want to see if they look normal or if they look a little bit atypical. And so we'll talk about terms like atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance or low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions or high-grade squamous cell intraepithelial lesions. It's really important to remember that. And the reason why is we use those terms a lot for pap smears because we describe things like low-grade squamous cells, intra-epithelial lesions as CIN1. And we describe things like high-grade squamous cell intraepithelial lesions as CIN2 and 3. So again, we'll get into this more in that diagnostic section when we start taking and doing pap smears and doing what's called coposcopies with biopsies. But I really want you guys to think about this. All right. The next thing that we need to talk about is what in the heck brings about HPV16 and 18? How does this, because a lot of people have age, so when we talk about cervical cancer, I think it's like it's an alarming fact. It's like 95% or maybe even more of those patients have HPV. But that doesn't mean that just because you have HPV, you're going to develop cervical cancer. So it's certain people that are a little bit of a higher risk. And so when we talk about HPV, you usually get this because of, especially with Greek havoc in certain scenarios. Usually sexual intercourse is going to be a really important one. All right. So you definitely want to look for that. Insexual intercourse, multiple sexual partners, things of that nature. Another one is immunosuppression. So if a patient is immunosuppressed, they don't have the immune system. So in sexual intercourse, whether it's frequent, early, multiple sexual partners, you bring about the opportunity to give the individual HPV. Immunosuppression, you lose the ability, especially in patients who have HIV or AIDS. If you have a normal immune system, you should clear 16, 18. You should be able to clear it. If you frequently get exposed to it, or you have multiple sexual partners, or you got exposed to it very young, or you don't have an immune system to clear it, that's when it can wreak havoc. It's really important to remember that. We'll talk about this later. You know, there's a way that just like if patients become exposed to homophilus influenza or pneumococcus, we have vaccines for them, right? If you have, we have vaccines for hepatitis. We have vaccines for a lot of different things like meningitis. We have vaccines for HPV, especially nine different strains. It's just we really, really care about 16 and 18, because other HPVs can cause genital warts. HPV 16, 18, we just know can cause swamacil carcinoma, particularly of the cervix, vagina, and the vulva. So when you give them things like Gardasil 9 and you tell them, hey, try to use condoms and practice safe sex, you reduce not only the transmission, but you also generate an immune response capable of neutralizing those HPVs, which reduce the risk of this whole process causing cervical cancer, which can start off with nothing like this, can get to this, and eventually end up full blown cervical cancer. So my question then to you is how would cervical cancer present? We screen because if a lot of women unfortunately are at risk, sexual intercourse is very common, and sometimes you can get exposed to this. You have specific risk factors. So we like to do screening, but in the worst case scenario, where a patient is being screened, we're not being screened and they develop symptoms, and you have to know what to do. So one of the big things is because this cancer is near this portion here, it's usually fungating, which means it can be fungating. It doesn't have to be, but it can protrude. It can also be flat because it depends. If you have a neoplastic tissue and it's really only like C-Ain1 or 2, 3, or it's very, very early stages, it may not fungate and be visible. And sometimes that's why we have to do coposcopies, where we give them a little bit of acetic acid and it turns up white. And then we can biopsy that a little bit easier. But the other thing is that they're very friable and they bleed super easy. So let's say that we just have a little bit of a blood supply around this thing. So now, I'm not trying to be weird. Sexual intercourse occurs. Boom. You poke that puppy. You poke it a couple times. You give it a couple of good nails. What's going to happen? It's going to bleed. So because these masses are very, very friable, even though they may not be fungating, they're very friable, which means that they're super easy to bleed. So you poke it with a penis. Guess what's going to happen? You're going to have bleeding occur. But it's usually going to be after coitus. Something like Sheldon Cooper from the Big Bang Theory would say. Coitus. So after coitus, that is when you're going to notice, unfortunately, bleeding or spotting. Now this doesn't mean that you have cervical cancer. It could just be you got a rough nailing. But this is important to definitely think about. If a patient has post-coital spotting, especially if it's repeated, that's something I would definitely be concerned about. Go to your gynecologist. They should do a speculative exam. See if they can find a fungating friable mass. And if they don't, and you have those risk factors, you get a pap smear, shows up some concerns, then you may want to get a colp and a biopsy. But that's the big thing. That is the most classic way that they will present this on the exam is post-coital bleeding. All right? Now another way that they will try to bring this up somehow, some way, it's loved on your first aid books and a lot of different textbooks. But when cervical cancer occurs, especially as it's mainly for the invasive types, because usually if it's just confined to the cervix, it can drop a couple different places. So funny enough, vaginal cancer is more often than not metastasis from cervical cancer. So oftentimes it will drop down here into the vagina, the upper two thirds usually. But whenever this cervical cancer gets kind of invasive and invades past the perimetrium and into this pelvic sidewall area, well guess what? There's a couple different things that run through that little area and it's the ureters. And so if you get a pretty good enough size cervical cancer, it can move laterally and get into the pelvic sidewall and compress the ureters. So now I'm pinching the ureters. Guess what's going to happen? If I pinch these poppies, the urine is going to backflow. And if that urine backflows, guess what you're going to get? You're going to get some swollen kidneys. And then these kidneys are going to blow up. They're not going to pop. They're going to get a little bit enlarged. So what is that called? Hydroenophrosis. So you can definitely get hydroenophrosis as a potential complication due to the cervical cancer kind of spreading into the pelvic sidewall and then mashing on these ureters. And so hydroenophrosis isn't something that you're just like, oh they present with flank pain. They could present with flank pain. So they could be symptomatic. They could have things like flank pain. But oftentimes we don't diagnose it that way. It's usually on some type of ultrasound or a CT scan that it would come back positive and say, oh man, there's some hydroenophrosis. I can see some dilation of the ureters. As you can see, some enlargement of the renal calices in the pelvis and stuff like that. That's what would be concerning. But another way that hydroenophrosis can occur only if it's bilateral is if both of these get affected. You could increase the capsular hydrostatic pressure enough that you could cause an acute kidney injury. And the only way that we know about acute kidney injuries is by trending that creatinine. So you want to know did that creatinine bump greater than 0.3 within a 40-hour period is kind of concerning. Does their urine output go down? So if you are monitoring the urine output, do they have any oliguria or anuria? Because that just is a sign that you're not getting much urine coming down through the ureters and into the bladder. So these are definitely potentials for cervical cancer. So it's usually whenever the cervical cancer spreads to pelvic sidewall. They love this one on the exams. All right? With cervical cancer, yes, it can metastasize. I think this is the big one that they like to kind of test about is just how it can, and when we talk about it's local, so it does spread, it gets past the myometry and perimetry and gets into that pelvic sidewall kind of area, and that's where the ureter kind of runs through. But it also can invade nearby structures. So if you had like a cervical cancer here and it's getting pretty nasty and it's growing and it's invading past and it gets into the pelvic sidewall 100%, it can kind of get an encroach onto the rectum or near the colon. It can encroach near the bladder. It can start even spreading. So imagine here I get these things that are kind of seeding and they get and they move their way into the lymph nodes. So now I have some lymph nodes that are really involved. I got some retroperitoneal lymph nodes hitting. I can even get some of these cancers to spread hematogenously through the vascular system and then boop right in the lung, boop right in the liver, boop right in the bones. So there's different areas that can spread. I think the important things to remember is if it does spread, it's usually more regionally. So it's going to go to the colon or the rectum area. It may go to the bladder. So what are some potential symptoms here? Well, if you got a big enough tumor, it could cause constipation. If you got a tumor here, it can actually cause potentially dysuria, but more often it's hematuria. So I'd watch out for things like hematuria and maybe some dysuria. And if it gets into these pelvic lymph nodes and the pelvic lymph nodes get enlarged enough, it can actually cause pelvic pain. So a couple of different symptoms is constipation if it gets nearby and really gets in the area like the rectum. That's one. Another one is going to be the bladder. It may cause dysuria. If the tumor does get crazy enough, it can cause hematuria, but I would say that that's low on the likelihood of differentials. And if it gets into the pelvic nodes, that's where you can see things like pelvic pain. Now cervical cancer can hematogenously metastasize. 100%. It's definitely possible. It can go to the lungs, as we said. It can go to the liver. It can go to the bone. But I think it's important to remember that it's most likely going to be local or regional. But if it did go to the lungs, you're going to watch out for a patient who has a known history of cervical cancer and now comes in with a new one set of dyspnea or homoptysis or they have recurrent pleural effusions, things like that. Now what can happen is theoretically, if you're checking the patient's LFTs, they could have a bump in the LFTs. It's possible they could get some hepatomegaly as well. That's definitely something to consider. The other thing is if it gets into the bones, well, it's pretty common. We talked about this a million times. Bone pain, definitely if they get some really nasty lytic lesions. If they get enough osteolysis, it can cause weakening of the bone and fractures, especially pathological ones. If you happen to check their calcium level, it could be really high. If you happen to check the alkaline phosphate level, which is kind of like a harbinger of their overall bone turnover, that could also be high. So yeah, that's definitely something to think about when you're talking about metastasis to these potential locations, things like this. Now the last thing I will say with cervical cancer is again, when we talk about a patient with cervical cancer, it's usually not something that you're going to get to this. It's not something you usually get to this. You may see postcoital spotting if it is a little bit too late. What oftentimes is going to be the key way that they're going to try to test you is going to be on a patient who comes in who is of age and they're going to ask you what would be the next step in their screening or they'll give you what they've gotten done so far in the screening and then you need to figure out what the next step is. That's what I really want you to remember. We'll really harp on that in the diagnostic approach. What I want to finish off with is really quickly is to pay homage to the remaining part of what we've talked about for that female reproductive system. We really, when you think about it, we hit the ovaries, we came down and we hit the uterus and we talked about the endometrial cancer. We hit the last part of the uterus, which is the cervix. We talked about cervical cancer and then we're going to get downwards into the vagina. Interestingly enough, vaginal cancer, cervical cancer and vulvar cancer all have similar risk factors. So whenever a patient has a mass here in the vagina, usually it could be upper two-thirds. I'd say that's the more common location. It can get into the lower third, but I'd say more commonly you're going to have it occurring and the upper two-thirds is where you're going to see these potential lesions. Now, with this, with vaginal cancer, again, we know that it's going to be stratified scrimacephalophthalo tissue with the vulva. We talk about the cancer here. So when you look at general anatomy, leg, leg.  you got some fur there, you have the clitoris, and then you have this outer part here. So we'll put this one as the labia majora, right? So the big lips, and then you come here and then you have this next one here, which is the labia minora, the small lips. And with this, what I want you guys to understand is oftentimes, these lesions, these vulver lesions, they occur usually in the labia minora, or they can occur in the labia majora. But that's usually where vulvar cancer occurs. So vaginal cancer, usually more often, son of a gun, is going to occur in the upper two-thirds of the vagina. And again, I told you this already, but interestingly enough, primary vaginal cancer is quite rare. More often than not, a patient has cervical cancer, and that cervical cancer, I'm not kidding, boop, dropped off, boop, dropped off. More often than not, when you look at this, primary vaginal cancer, rare, right? Usually vaginal cancer is secondary to cervical metastasis. That's what I want you guys to remember. So primary vaginal cancer is relatively rare. It's more often secondary to it falling off from a cervical cancer, or metastasizing, if you will, for the proper vernacular. Now, when we think about that, what is the reason this happens? It's the same thing as cervical cancer. If oftentimes more than not, it's from cervical met, what's it likely due to? It's likely due to HPV. So when we talk about this, it's likely HPV, which one? 16 or 18. That is likely going to be the most common risk factor, because this virus is a nasty son of a gun, which is going to cause potentially cervical cancer. When it metastasizes, it can then spread to the upper two-thirds of the vagina, the lower third of the vagina, and you can have a patient presenting with vaginal cancer. Now, with vaginal cancer, the classic finding is that of cervical cancer. So what would you most likely have? You'll most likely have postcoital bleeding. It's the same concept. You've got a penis in here with a friable vaginal tumor, or here. Boom, you poke that thing a couple of times, and you're going to end up with postcoital bleeding. So it's the same thing. It's just if I were to then say they have postcoital bleeding, let me do a speculum exam. I do the speculum exam, and I see a vaginal mass. It could be vaginal cancer. But did it start primarily, or did it spread from cervical? I don't know. I have to look to see if they have a cervical mass around the cervix. If they don't, then I'll go to the next step, which is probably saying let me biopsy that actual cancer that's near the vagina. So again, that is the real important thing to remember there. Now, with vulvar cancer, this one's interesting, where vulvar cancer is the same concept. It's usually two different triggers, two different triggers for vulvar cancer. And let's actually write this in two different ways. So one is if it's, let's say I actually do red. So let's say a younger, a younger patient, and then an older. And when I say older, I'm referring more likely to the postmenopausal, 70s, things like that. For this patient, the common trigger is chronic inflammation or dermatoses around this area. And we call this lichen sclerosis. Lichen sclerosis. It's essentially a chronic dermatosis of the vulvar tissue that when it becomes inflamed over time, over time, over time, it increases the risk of dysplasia and it can become a carcinoma. So we can see this. I'm not kidding. The way they describe this lesion is a periodic lesion that looks and feels like parchment paper. Not kidding. The younger patient is more likely, and this is going to, it can be around the menopause age, but this is going to be your HPV, 16 or 18. So that's the things that I want you to remember is vulvar cancer is more often to occur in the labia majora and menora. They can be HPV related. If they're older and they have this kind of like periodic white parchment paper like lesion, think like in sclerosis. Vaginal cancer is more likely to be from cervical cancer than metastasized rather than primary, but it is due to HPV 16 or 18. With vulvar cancer, this one is usually going to be vulvar periodus. That is oftentimes the most common clinical finding is going to be vulvar periodus. So when we think about these patients, if a patient came in and I said vulvar periodus, you think about vulvar cancer. If I said post-coated bleeding, you could say vaginal or cervical cancer. If I said post-menopausal bleeding, you say endometrial cancer. If I say bloating and increased waist size, maybe some weird pleural effusions and ascites that occur, you think ovarian cancer. Those are the ways that these patients will oftentimes clinically present. Sometimes they won't present with any symptoms. In the scenarios of that, that's when we want to talk about screening. We don't really screen for any of these except for cervical cancer. What I want to do now is I want to take the time to say we've built a pretty strong foundation. Let's really talk about it more and go through a very thorough diagnostic approach, taking everything that we talked about and putting it into use. All right, my friends, let's now talk about the diagnostic approach. So we got a lot of these to go through. So when we think about the first one, ovarian cancer, ovarian cancer as we discussed, that usually when these patients come and they present with symptoms, they're usually at the later stages. And that's the unfortunate thing about this cancer. But if they do happen to present in the vignettes, they'll present with the classic findings of usually bloating. There may be some type of abnormal increase in their waist size. So they've been going up in their pants size or their short size pretty recently. And on top of that, they may present with some abdominal pelvic pain. And that usually may be again, due to the ovarian mass, maybe causing some compression of nearby nerves. So with all of this being said, if a patient has these symptoms and you have also the risk factors, what are those risk factors? Is that prolonged, unopposed estrogen exposure, early monarchy, late menopause, null parity, not breastfeeding, not any kind of contraceptives of any sort. Also could be due to genetic mutations, things like the BRCA mutations, the Lynch syndrome, et cetera. Other things that I think are a consideration, and usually these are in post-menopausal women as well, especially the epithelial ovarian cancer, which is the most common one. So if they have the risk factors, they have these symptoms, the best thing to do is first, let's just do a bimanual pelvic exam and an abdominal exam. Because with the abdominal exam, you're kind of feeling around, do I feel anything abnormal of any sorts? Do they have ascites, which is pretty common, and patients who have pretty advanced stages of ovarian cancer. And the bimanual pelvic exam is going to allow for me to palpate and see, do I feel any kind of like adnexal mass that's potentially present near the fallopian tubes or near the ovaries. And again, if I palpate that adnexal mass, if I appreciate some degree of like ascites on physical exam, this may bring about a concern of ovarian cancer. One of the things I should do is especially if I palpate an adnexal mass and they have these symptoms, they have risk factors for ovarian cancer, is to get a transvaginal ultrasound. And when you do that, you may show something like this, where you'll appreciate this kind of like weird, cystic and solid, you know, appearance of this mass here on transvaginal ultrasound. So this would definitely be concerning for an ovarian cancer. At this point, this is where you could likely say, I probably have ovarian cancer and kind of an exploratory laparotomy staging procedure would probably be the way to go. On the exams, they may try to ask other questions that come about. I wouldn't say that these are truly diagnostic markers. They're more prognostic and indicating how well someone's responding to treatment. But sometimes we like to talk about these on the exam. So I would order serum tumor markers because it may give me a possible inclination of which tumor it could be. This doesn't guarantee it though. For example, let's say that I got the CA125 and that was elevated and they also had a history of them being postmenopausal, the most common ovarian tumors, tumor is epithelial ovarian tumors. If I saw that the AFP was high, that suggests more likely a yolk sac tumor. If beta-HCG was high, that suggests more vacorrhocarcinoma. Which LDH is high? That means that there's a crazy amount of cell turnover. This thing is growing. If it grows rapidly and quickly enough, it can cause some twisting around the ligaments that are around the ovary and the uterus. That's when we get really concerned because the utero-ovarian ligament, the suspensory ligament can lead to twisting and that can lead to ovarian torsion. They would present with severe abdominal pain, maybe nausea, vomiting. This could be something that would make me think about a dish germinoma. The other thing is if I have increased estrogen, increased inhibit. These are less common, but you would definitely be concerned about a granulosa cell tumor that's pumping out estrogen, pumping out in hibin, and even associated with that is the theticoma. A granulosa thicacel tumor, really think about this when they have high estrogen levels and hibin levels and also estrogenic symptoms. How would that present? Well, if these tumors occur in the younger individual and the younger child, they may have precocious puberty. That's when I would think about this potential tumor. The last one is you have that primordial sex-core tissue that can put, I would say more of a stromal tissue. It's kind of like a primordial tissue. This can sometimes convert into sertoli-lidic cell tumors. That's normally an antisticular tumor and you shouldn't see these in females, but generally if it does become a tumor, these can pump out testosterone, especially the lidic cell component. When females pump out lots of testosterone, it can lead to things like acne. It can lead to deepening of their voice. A laryngeal prominence, it can lead to hair growth. They can have lots of herzitism, walk around with a full beard and they can cause clitoromegaly. They can cause increased libido. They can have acne. They can have oily skin. All of those things would be suggesting more of a masculinization effect, which could make you think about a sertoli-lidic cell tumor. Either way, these are things that we utilize more in the clinical vignettes as compared to in reality. If you see the ovary mass and transvaginal ultrasound, you're probably going to go more likely to maybe get a CT chest abdomen pelvis or you may go straight to an exploratory laparotomy or some type of staging procedure. Let's say that you get the CT chest abdomen pelvis. The whole point of this is looking to see has it spread. One of the problems with ovarian tumors, especially with these, is that if they do spread, they can spread to some nasty areas. What I mean by that is they can cause a lot of problems within the peritoneum. Let's say that we got a CT chest abdomen pelvis. Again, what that may show is it may show the ovarian mass. We can appreciate here that there's definitely a weird looking structure here in that right lower quadrant. That would be an ovarian mass. The other thing that I would say is with these, when ovarian masses are present, they do like to seed. When they seed, they can seed into the peritoneum. They can lead to peritoneal carcinomatosis. One of the ways that that presents is, as you can see this here, this is also some presence of ascites. That ascites is probably secondary to the ovarian cancer. To appreciate this more, that peritoneal involvement metastas can be further characterized. One of the things that we see with peritoneal carcinomatosis is you can appreciate the cites, but you can appreciate this thickening of the omentum. That's due to the peritoneal implants in the omentum. It loves the omentum. They can definitely get some omental caking, which is common here. Then again, you can appreciate that one of the big things here is that these patients, because of that abdominal bloating, that increased waist size, maybe they have shifting dullness, positive fluid wave test, they have a cites. That could be present here. One of the things with these a cites is that it can actually move through the right hemidiafran. Some small congenital holes there. There also can be some lymphatic ducts that are a little bit more patent there. It's easier for things to move through the right hemidiafran into the right pleural cavity, and they can get associated pleural effusions. You can see that this patient has a chest tube actually going in because of that. We can appreciate here that this patient has a significant degree of spread, and that's very, very concerning. Again, that omentum involvement, that's usually when we say that this patient is more stage three. That's pretty concerning. This would be something that if I was doing a cytoborductive debulking, it's greater than a centimeter. I could actually remove these tumors, especially the ovarian. I'd probably do an ophorectomy. You may even do a tomododontal hysterectomy. You didn't have to go over here and start removing some of these areas of the omentum. Sometimes you remove the entire omentum. It's really, really important to have a really strong idea of this. Sometimes the CT can tell you that, but sometimes you find this out when you go to the next step. What is that next step? It's usually an exploratory laparotomy. This is usually, you probably open them up. You can do this laparoscopically as well. But again, just giving you an idea, the whole concept here is that once we do this, we're kind of helping to look and evaluate. We're looking to say, hey, what's that ovarian mass look like? Okay, there is one. Let me take and remove that. Send it off to the pathologist. Why? Because that's the definitive way of telling us if it's ovarian cancer and what type of ovarian cancer it is. Is it epithelios, a germ cell, is it sex-court stromal tumor? That's going to be the definitive way. The other benefit of doing an exploratory laparotomy is it helps us to stage. We see any other areas that are involved. Is it involving the peritoneum? Is it involving the omentum? Is it spread outside of that? It's really, really helpful. While we're there, we can also do cytoreductive debulking. We can remove a lot of the visible tumors greater than a centimeter. So there's a lot of things that we can do during this process of an X-lab and a staging procedure. But either way, this is going to tell us if we have ovarian cancer. It's going to tell us how far the ovarian cancer is extended. It's going to tell us the type of ovarian cancer. So it really is the way to go here. All right. Indometrial cancer. This is something where if you think about the risk factors, it's pretty much the exact same as indometrial, I mean, sorry, ovarian cancer. It's a patient with prolonged, unopposed estrogen exposure, early monarchy, late menopause, there null parity, no breastfeeding. Again, also we can see this with the serums. So we can see this with things like tamoxifen use as well. You can see this in obesity. You can see this in patients who, again, are post-menopausal. And then also we can see this in the genetic conditions, especially things like Lynch syndrome. So there's a lot of things that put these patients at pretty high risk, but if they have that and they come in with abnormal uterine bleeding, and what do I mean by that? It's usually post-menopausal. That's the most common presentation. I would definitely have a degree of concern. And that's where I would get abnormal uterine bleeding examined. Make sure that you do a good exam. I do a pimanu pelvic exam. I may even do like a speculum exam. I may palpate around the abdomen. And what you're trying to do is do you feel anything abnormal? Do you see anything abnormal? I think one of the things is that on the speculum exam, you may not see anything. On the abdominal exam, it may be relatively kind of like benign. The bimanu pelvic exam, if it's a decent enough size tumor, so it's probably getting more to like the stage two or stage three, you may be able to palpate in an enlarged uterus. And that's something that could be palpated during your bimanu pelvic exam. If I do that, again, I think the biggest thing is when there's a post-menopausal bleeding, your first thing should be is doing a transvaginal ultrasound. And the reason why is when we do this, we get a really good look at the endometrial stripe. And what we're looking for is that stripe to be greater than or equals to four millimeters. If you look and appreciate this here, you can see that there's kind of a thickened stripe. And that's pretty concerning when we actually consider this. This would be a pretty concerning feature. Well, for example, if you had an increased endometrial stripe greater than or equal to four millimeters, that would be pretty concerning. And I would say that this is endometrial hyperplasia. It could be endometrial carcinoma. We have to biopsy that. So we'll do a suction curet. We'll go up. We'll actually take a piece of that tissue and send it off to the pathologist. And the whole point of that is telling me, hey, what kind of cancer it is? Is it cancer? Is it just hyperplasia? All right, cool. Is it type one or type two? Type one, significantly more common. 85% of the cases are usually this one. It's usually increased amounts of glands, increasing amounts of columnar tissue. So that gland to stromal ratio is pretty, pretty high. This is usually estrogen dependent. It's associated with a lot of thickening or endometrial hyperplasia. That's going to be the more common one, the type one. Type two is usually going to be the, you know, it's going to cause endometrial kind of like atrophy. This is usually going to be estrogen independent. It's not going to have as much of this gland to stromal ratio as we see here. And so this one's definitely going to be more aggressive and it's a scarier one, but it's going to be less common. And again, that biopsy would tell me which one it is. Once we've diagnosed endometrial cancer, this is not one of those that we oftentimes really go and think that it metastasizes very, very far. Oftentimes this one's pretty straightforward. All right. So at this point, we've diagnosed endometrial cancer. Cervical cancer is kind of another beast because it comes down a little bit more to visualizing the lesion if there is one. And if you don't visualize it, what do you do? So post-coital bleeding is the most common presentation of cervical cancer. And the reason why is you can have a friable mass. Maybe that's not a very visible, fungating mass. Maybe it's a friable mass that's kind of like relatively flat on that cervix and it's not visible as much. But whenever you have sexual intercourse, there's the friction against that, you know, that penile structure against that, you know, friable tissue, boom, it's going to bleed. And so that's a concerning feature. And when we have that, I think one of the best things to do is to do a bimanuapalic exam and to really evaluate with a specular exam. If there's anything in the vagina, anything along the cervix, that's usually visible in this case. And so that's really going to be the way to go. And if I do the bimanuapalic exam, I'm probably not going to feel anything like super abnormal unless this is a really large cervical mass. It's the specular exam that's really going to be the key thing. And if I do this and I visualize a lesion, something for example like this, this would be pretty concerning. And I'd probably go right to doing a punch biopsy of this area and send this off to the pathology lab and say, Hey, does this come back as invasive cervical cancer or not? And usually that's going to tell me if it is or is not invasive cervical cancer. Now, a lot of other patients, they don't really present with these visible cervical lesions. They may come in where they have postcoital bleeding. You do a specular exam. You don't see any visible friable, fungating mass. And so what do you do? And those particular situations, you should do a pap smear. And the reason why is the pap smear is going to kind of shave off a couple cells. We're going to kind of like, I'm not getting, take like a toothbrush like structure and kind of scrape off some of the tissue cells there and say, Hey, if I look at these tissue cells, they look abnormal. And on top of that, do any of these tissue cells have positive HPV 16, 18 phenotype? The reason why is the abnormal cells? That's concerning. You may need to do a coposcopy and a biopsy. HPV 16, 18, that is a scary HPV phenotype that carries the risk of pretty decently high risk of cervical cancer. Um, and so I think these are really, really important things to consider. So when we do the pap smear, again, what you're trying to do is you're using the speculum, you're inserting in like a little swab and you're going to be brushing. You're going to be doing kind of a rotational movement around that cervix. And the whole point is to kind of scrape off some of those cells and then collect it into a container, send it off to the pathology lab and then have them evaluate it and say, Hey, what types of cells do we have? And this is the ones right here. Just off the get go, we'll explain these a little bit more, but these are the ones that are pretty concerning. If any of these come back with high grade squamous intra-apithelial lesion, which is HSIL, atypical squamous cells of high grade dysplasia, that's a pretty concerning one, or atypical glandular cells. This could even be concerning about a potentially endometrial cancer that's involved. So with these, these are pretty high grade, man. These are definitely like what I would consider pre-malignant or right there on the edge of a malignant condition. And this is something that I would go straight and do a coposcopy and then biopsy based upon if I have any lesions. The other thing is if you have HPV 16 or 18. With HPV 16, 18, these are high grade phenotypes. And when patients are positive with these, you can't deny that. And you should have a degree of suspicion and probably say, let's go get a coposcopy with biopsy. Now, when we think about these kind of tissues, when you do a pap smear, there's different types of cells that they could list off. They could obviously list a normal intra, you know, intraepithelial tissue. They also could show low grade lesions. And these ones, they, they don't carry that same degree of concern unless you probably have them in the appropriate age range or they have the associated HPV 16 and 18. So when I see low grade lesions, it's usually LSIO, which is a low grade squamous intraepithelial lesion. Usually if they're like, they have this and they're greater than or equal to 25. I probably would do a coposcopy with a biopsy or if they came back positive. With HPV 16, I'd probably do it. Same thing for this one. If I had atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance, if they came back positive with HPV 16, 18, I probably would do a coposcopy. But if they have any of these high grade lesions, HSIL, the atypical squamous cells of high grade dysplasia or the atypical glandular cells, I'm going to go straight to a coposcopy. All right. Now, doing a coposcopy and a biopsy is beneficial because what it's going to do is you're going to give this like a little acetic acid to the cervix. And what it's going to do is it's going to show kind of like certain acetyl white changes. And so that's helpful because that's an area that is kind of concerning. It's atypical. And then we can biopsy that particular area and send it off to the pathologist and say, Hey, is this invasive or not? Okay. There is cancer and it's invaded past the basement memory. We have invasive cervical cancer. The benefit of also doing this is that when you, when you take a biopsy, you may see, okay, there is some abnormal intraepithelial cells in that cervical tissue, but it's not all the way down and invading past the basement membrane. So that's when we start talking about degrees of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. So it's like a type of carcinoma and situ pretty much. And so we talk about things like CIN1 and CIN2 and CIN3. So CIN2 or 3 is the concerning ones. These are pre-malignant conditions that I'd say like, these are relatively concerning. And usually when we get these, we should be considering things like colonization procedures. So we'll talk about these things, like the leap procedure, things like the cold knife therapy, where we remove the transformation zone or the squamal columnar juncture, where most of these malignancies occur. So just to give you an idea of what CIN2 or 3 means, let's say that we have here that cervical sample. When you take a look at the cervical sample, this is all your stratified scrimaceous epithelial cells. And this is kind of that basal layer. And then you'll have a basement membrane underneath this. This is normal. But let's say that these cells become infected with HPV, 16, 18, becomes abnormal. And then what happens is because of that, it decides to change its cellular look a little bit. And it starts to become dysplastic. And then it looks like this. Well, this is CIN1. It's not all of the entire interepithelial layer, but it's a good chunk of it. And then you get CIN2, which is, oh man, this is really involving a significant amount of the epithelium, but it's not the complete component of the epithelium. And then you have CIN3, which is almost involving the entire epithelial layer, but it hasn't invaded past this basal cell and get into the basement membrane. And then invasive cervical cancer is when we have invaded past the basal cells into the basement membrane. So now we have invasive cervical cancer. So doing the coposcopio biopsy will show us which one of those stages do we have. And then on top of that, it really helps us with CIN2 or 3. The reason why I say that is in a patient who has these conditions, we oftentimes try to do our best to use synonymous terms. So CIN1, we can consider to be kind of a low grade squamous intrepithelial lesion. It's kind of like if we had a pap smear and we got that cytology, could you theoretically say it could be CIN1? It could be. If you had, you know, the pap smear and it showed HSIL, you could say, oh, it could be CIN2, 3, but the coposcopy and biopsy is the only way that you can truly determine that. Here's the thing though. When we have CIN2 or 3, you can theoretically cure this, but you could also confirm that it truly is CIN2 or 3, or if it's invasive cervical cancer. And so we'll talk about something called a leap. And this is kind of like it's a loop, it's a loop, electro surgical excision kind of procedure. And I'm not kidding, you're taking like a little wire, a leap wire, and you're cutting a cone out right where that transformation zone is. So if you imagine here we have the cervix, let's take a closer look at it. You're taking this wire where let's say all of the abnormal cells are right here. You're just cutting that out and you're removing the areas where the malignancy is most often to occur. And so that's the benefit of this procedure. You also can do this where you can do with a knife. Now, it's not like it's not like the knife is coming out of a freeze or anything. We just say cold because it's again, you think about the steel, it's a cold blade, right? So we're doing a knife where it's a scalp and you're literally removing that area of the transformation zone, that squammal columnar junction. It's the same concept though, you're removing that tissue. The benefit of doing this is it can confirm if it's CIN2 or 3 and then if that is the case, you cured them. You actually treated and removed that intrepithelial neoplasia. But it also can say that when you send that cone off to the pathology lab and they look at it, they can say, oh, some of these actual neoplastic cells did invade the basement membrane. And they could be technically more of like a stage 1, 1A when we really think about that. And that's helpful because that's an invasive cervical cancer. And so that's the benefit of thinking about this with cervical cancer. Now, with cervical cancer, it can spread. And one of the ways that they're going to try and test you on this in the exam is that when it gets big enough, it can actually kind of, especially as you get to, I'd say, start getting to stage 3, it starts compressing on a structure that runs down near it called the ureter. And this can actually compress on the ureters and it can lead to backflow of urine into the kidney and cause enlargement of that kidney, especially the renal calices. And this can cause the hydranephrosis. And so that's something that we can consider. But I think a CT, chest, abdomen, pelvis will help to see if it's spread to the lungs, it's spread to the liver, is it spread to the bone, is it spread kind of outside of the cervix where it's gone into the rectum, it's gone into the colon, it's involved the pelvic wall. So it's not a bad test to do. And also evaluating during the speculum exam, do you see any lesions where it's spread to the vagina? Because sometimes it can actually spread to the upper two thirds or the lower third of the vagina. So I think this is a benefit to kind of looking for a degree of spread. One of the things, since we talked about vaginal cancer is we're not going to have a specific vaginal cancer workup, kind of like algorithm. And the reason why is it's pretty much the same as cervical cancer. They usually present with postcoital bleeding. If you see a visible vaginal lesion, you biopsy. If you don't see a visible lesion, you probably test them for HPV. Because oftentimes when we think about vaginal cancer, it's usually due to HPV, but also it could be due to cervical metastasis. So that cervical lesion fell off or it spread to the upper two thirds of the vagina or the lower third of the vagina. So that's one thing to consider is that if you see a vaginal lesion, you're just going to biopsy that is compared to a cervical lesion for vaginal cancer. But when we talk about cervical cancer kind of going off of this, when we get that CT or we kind of really try to do more of a thorough workup from a test, it's the benefit of knowing this next step as we talk about like phygo staging. And really the key thing is just knowing if it's like a simple stage one, two, three or four. I don't want to go too crazy. There's also some other data that you guys can have here to remember such as the five year survival rate, the stage of presentation. I really just want you to focus on how far has the tumor extended. So if it hasn't really broken past the basement membrane, it's stage zero. That's your carcinoma and cytosine, that's your CIN2, 3 technically. All right. Now, when we think about the next one, which is going to be your stage one, stage one is actually it's confined to just the cervix, right? So you're going to see kind of like a mass, probably just like right here. All right. That's the big one that I want you guys to know. When we talk about stage two, stage two is this is actually going to be a tumor that it's involving the cervix, right? But it's not going beyond to the point where it's going all the way out to the pelvic side wall. It's not going down all the way to like the lower third of the vagina. Usually it kind of can invade into the perimetrium. So that's one thing or it can involve the upper two thirds of the vagina. So you may get some perimetrial invasion. You may get some upper two thirds of the vagina involvement, but it doesn't go out to the pelvic side wall and it doesn't go down to the lower third of the vagina. That's the key way that I want you to distinguish that. I know it seems a little odd. The reason why is as we talk about stage three is now it does go to the pelvic side wall and it does involve the lower third of the vagina. So if it does not involve the lower third, if it does not involve the pelvic side wall and it's kind of in the cervix, but it's kind of going into the perimetrium upper two thirds at stage two, if it goes down to the lower third or to the pelvic side wall, that is stage three. And then the simplistic one to remember stage four is it's either very close proximity metastasso you have a big, big stink and tumor, but this thing spreads to the rectum. It spreads to the bladder, spreads to the lungs, the liver, the bone. That's when we call this metastatic or stage four cervical cancer. All right. And again, you can appreciate that obviously as you go down towards the stage four, that five year survival rate is going to be consistently plummeting down. And obviously stage of presentation, most people will kind of present at stage one. All right. When we talk about cervical cancer, it's important to remember that this is one of those cancers that we want to screen for because a lot of them, you know, it's unfortunate, but this is kind of a sexually transmitted infection. So usually people were having sex at a young age, people were having unprotected sex, those who are immunocompromised. These are people who are at high risk of HPV. And so 16, 18 is the primary phenotypes that we could concern because it contains that mutagenic potential or that carcinogenic potential as well. And so we want to screen these patients with pap smears. That's the primary way you can do HPV testing. It kind of just depends on what the USPST have guidelines tell you. So what are those guidelines? Well, the guidelines say that if the patient's 21 to 29 years of age, we should do a pap smears.  pap smear, every three years. We don't have to do any HPV co-testing unless something comes back really abnormal from the pap smear. And then we can go from there. The other thing is 30 to 65. And this, we have two options. You can do the pap smear every three years, or you can do the pap smear plus the HPV testing every five years. So those are the two options that you have to consider in this potential scenario. Now, you do the pap smear in these patients, again, based upon what is their age, 21 to 29, 30 to 65. You can add the HPV testing in if you want to go every five years of the pap smear, or you don't have to, and you can just do it every three years. When you do the pap smear, it's the same thing we talked about. If you're doing this in a patient who has postcoital bleeding and you want to do pap smear, you're taking that kind of brush down there, you're scraping off some cells, and you're going to evaluate it. You're going to look and see what kind of cells do I have. If you see that they have low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion, that's a low-grade lesion, but they are greater than or equal to 25 years of age, they probably need to go and get a coposcopy. If they have a high-grade lesion, H-S-I-L, A-S-C-H, or A-G-C, that is concerning, and they need to get a coposcopy with a biopsy. Or if they have positive HPV 16 or 18, this is a concerning phenotype. They need a coposcopy and a biopsy, right? Again, I think the importance of remembering these is that here's your normal cells. This is when you're getting into your low-grade lesions. This is the L-S-I-L. You also have your atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance. You have your high-grade lesions like H-S-I-L, and you have your atypical squamous cells with high-grade dysplasia. Again, you also have, as we see here, the atypical glandular cells. These, you go straight to coposcopy. These, usually with L-S-I-L, if they're greater than 25, you get a coposcopy. This one, which we'll talk about in just a second, you're actually going to want to get a reflex HPV testing to see if this comes back positive. If you have HPV testing for 16-18, you get the cope. That's the important thing to remember. Again, we talked about this just a second ago. This is a quick reminder. If they have atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance, you need to determine what's the significance. How do I do that? Do they have HPV 16 or 18? If you haven't done this yet, get it done. If that comes back positive, you get the coposcopy with the biopsy. Now, let's say that you get the cope, and this should sound really familiar. It comes back C-I-N2 or 3. What does that mean? Well, this is normal. Then you get a lot of the neoplastic cells that are involved in a small portion of it. Then they involve a really large portion, and then they involve the entire intreapithelial tissue. That's going to tell you if it's C-I-N1, 2, or 3. If it breaks past the basement membrane, we have invasive cervical cancer. The benefit of doing this is it's going to tell you which type of these things you have. Again, you can combine and say, how do I think about C-I-N1? Well, that can technically be classified as a low-grade squamous intreapithelial lesion. C-I-N2, 3 are more of your high-grade squamous intreapithelial lesions. The point of me telling you this is that if you see C-I-N2 or 3, that's a high-grade lesion. You need to do a colonization. There's two benefits to this. What is it? If I do the colonization, which is, again, what are the two options? I can do a cold knife, or I can do a leap. Take the leap wire, burn that puppy out. What's the point of doing all of this? The whole point of doing the colonization is to say, is this C-I-N2 or 3? If it is, guess what? When you do the leap procedure and you confirm on that cone, you set up the pathologist that it's C-I-N2, 3, that's curative. You're done. If it doesn't come back positive for C-I-N2, 3, and maybe it shows it in a way to the basement membrane, you have an invasive cervical cancer. That's why C-I-N2, 3, you do the colonization. If you do the Culp and it shows that there's an invasive cervical lesion, now I'm actually concerned. That could be that I have invasive cervical cancer. Again, the colonization procedure, it could prove that it's C-I-N2, 3, or it may show that you did invade a little bit of the basement membrane, and it can actually confirm that. These are the benefits of doing this screening process. Now, vulvar cancer. When we talk about vulvar cancer, this one is oftentimes most common. Again, you'll probably see this more and more likely post-menopausal, but it could be due to Lycan sclerosis. It could be due to HPV16, 18 as well. These patients oftentimes most often present with a puritic vulvar lesion. That's the way that they would oftentimes present. When you do that, you carefully inspect the vulva to see if you can visibly find that lesion. If you see that they have these widening plaques that could suggest the Lycan sclerosis and it's very erythematous and it's itchy for the patient, that'd be pretty concerning. What should you do? Biopsy it. If I see something like this on this patient, I am definitely going to biopsy it. By doing that punch biopsy, it's going to tell you what do you have. Is this squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva? All right, gotcha. It's vulvar cancer. I think we got down the diagnostic approaches. The ones that are probably going to be the more challenging one is the ovarian cancer, the cervical cancer. I think go through these a couple different times. But I think the big thing here is that now that we've gone through the diagnostic approach, it's about talking about treatment. How do I treat these patients? With ovarian cancer, it's oftentimes you have to remove the ovaries, but you also have to remove a source of estrogen production and the effect that it has on the uterus as well. Oftentimes, we'll do a total abdominal hysterectomy and a bilateral sappingo ophorectomy. This could be done for any stage of ovarian cancer. It doesn't matter. Stage one all the way to stage four. Again, what you're doing with the total abdominal hysterectomy is you're removing the uterus. What you're doing with the bilateral sappingo ophorectomy is you're removing the fallopian tubes and the ovaries. Obviously, doing this, the patient would no longer be able to have child birthing capabilities. That's obviously a discussion that you'd have to have with them. Another thing is that we talk about with this is that these patients, again, I told you, loves to go to the peritoneum. One area that it likes to go to is the omentum. Oftentimes, when we're doing that exploratory laparotomy, we're doing the staging procedure, we may remove the omentum. There could be an omentectomy that's also considered in stage one to stage four ovarian cancer, especially if you get into the later stages, stage three, stage four, it's probably already there in the omentum. You're removing it anyway, but stage one, stage two, you're probably just removing it before it even gets to that area. Again, with omentectomy, all you're doing is let's say that you have a tumor here, let's say that you have an ovarian cancer in one of these areas, and you have a tumor here in the omentum, all that you're going to be doing is cutting that omentum out. The next thing that we should do in these patients is consider things like chemotherapy. Carboplatin, passotaxyl, this is usually going to be adjuvant therapy. What does that mean? That means you're going to be giving it after they've gotten that surgical procedure. Once you've diagnosed that they have ovarian cancer, you do the exploratory laparotomy, the staging procedure, you remove the ovary, you remove the uterus, you remove the fallopian tubes, you remove the omentum, you do a lot of cytoreductive debulking to remove any kind of like paritoneal masses that are greater than a centimeter, then what do you do? You hit them with chemotherapy afterwards. It can be given prior to surgery, but it's usually in those where it's a decent size tumor and you're maybe trying to just decrease or downstage the size of the tumor before you do some type of surgery. You can consider that in stage three or stage four when they're a little bit of a larger tumor or you have lots of paritoneal implants or it's kind of a task size to some other areas. Targeted therapy is something you can consider. I wouldn't go too crazy remembering this, but we can use PARP inhibitors, oliparibid, and this may sound familiar. We talked about this in breast cancer. What's the type of mutation that we can see in both breast and ovarian cancer? That's BRCA. Patients who are getting chemotherapy, especially for ovarian cancer, we may keep them on maintenance therapy within oliparib for their BRCA mutation. Because again, BRCA mutations increase the risk of both breast and ovarian cancer. That's considerable to think about. A lot of the times when patients have these BRCA mutations, they can consider things like not just the total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral sauphingo opherectomy, but they can also consider a bilateral prophylactic mastectomy as well. That's a consideration as well. Again, what do PARP inhibitors really do? Well, think about it. Whenever you have BRCA mutations, you lose your ability to allow for fixes and DNA damage. The DNA repair genes become altered. Let's say you have a break in your DNA. Normally, what happens is the PARP enzyme is going to come in there and it's going to help with the repair process and that cell should survive. If you give something like a PARP inhibitor, let's say that you have a single-strand DNA break. What happens is you give a PARP inhibitor that binds on with that PARP enzyme. Now, it's going to lose that ability to allow for fixing of that break. What happens is you may get a double-stranded DNA break. In a normal cell who has normal repair genes, what would happen? Well, they'd probably be able to fix this somehow. But in patients who have BRCA mutations, they don't allow for that. They lose that ability to fix that double-stranded DNA break. Then the cells oftentimes die. This is where this drug can really help us to kill some of these cells that are actually going to be having these double-stranded DNA breaks. That's getting the whole point of giving this medication. Indometrial cancer, my friends. In this one, what we're doing is, again, we're treating it the same way. In patients who have indometrial cancer, a total abdominal hysterectomy and a bilateral subhingal refractomy is the way to go. An advanced stage of indometrial cancer will oftentimes do this in combination with radiation therapy. Again, with total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral subhingal refractomy, that you're removing the uterus and you're also removing the fallopian tubes and the ovaries. Chemotherapy, again, is the same concept. It's likely going to be given in those patients who have metastatic indometrial cancer. You're trying to kill as many and at least reduce the progression of that disease. High dose progestin therapy is something that you can offer to these patients. Again, this is usually if you have a person who has the desire to bear a child. Maybe they're pregnant and they don't want to get a total abdominal hysterectomy or a bilateral subhingal refractomy or they want to have a child first. You can consider things like high dose progestin therapy, at least until you get to where they have the child, they're past their childbearing age, and then you remove the uterus, the fallopian tubes, and the ovaries. You can do that if it's in more in the early stages of endometrial cancer and you still want to have the ability to bear a child. The concept behind this is that, well, your hypothalamus produces something called GnRH. GnRH tells the antripetuitary to make FSH. FSH goes to the ovary and that helps to increase estrogen production. That actually tells the uterus to what? Go through a proliferative stage. Problem with this is that in these patients over time and time and time and where there's no progestin to oppose this, it can lead to thickening of the endometrium so they can get endometrial hyperplasia. The other thing is that GnRH can tell the antripetuitary to produce LH. LH tells the ovary, it actually causes the secondary oocyte that's frozen in metaphase 2 to pop out, and it causes ovulation. The ovulation is what helps us to allow for the process of fertility to occur. More ovulation though increases the risk of ovarian cancer, obviously. Now, the big thing here is that when we talk about progestins, it actually can work to suppress GnRH. That's one benefit. If we suppress GnRH, that can suppress the FSH and LH, but progestins also can shut down that pathway in general. It can also shut down the antripetuitary. If we shut down FSH, what's going to happen to the ovary? That's going to have a reduction in estrogen. What's going to happen if we have a reduction in estrogen at the uterus level? That's going to lead to decreased proliferation. If we have decreased proliferation of the endometrium in the uterus, what's going to happen to that hyperplasia? It's going to theoretically decrease. So that's why getting progestins in patients who have endometrial hyperplasia is really the go-to. It's not as desirable in patients who have endometrial cancer unless we have a very valid reason that they want to preserve fertility for a certain amount of time. Again, the other benefit of giving progestins is that they also do what to the LH? They suppress LH production. That's going to cause a decrease in the ovulation. That decrease in ovulation is what gives you that contraceptive type of function. The other thing about progestin is it can work directly on the uterus. Progestin has more of an opposing action where it doesn't want to cause proliferation. It actually wants to trigger it more of a secretory effect, where it secretes more of a glycogen-rich broth that helps to allow for the fertilization processes, especially for implantation and feeding the embryo. That's the whole goal in there. When you do progestins, you're basically trying to oppose estrogen, lead to less proliferation, lead to more secretion, lead to less ovulation. That's the purpose of doing this, but you should only do it until a certain point where they bear child, and then you should remove the uterus, the ovary, and the fallopian tubes. Again, that is really the biggest thing. Again, it works saying here as an important note is that once childbearing is complete, you have to discontinue the progestin therapy and urge the patient to get a total abdominals direct amino byelodorsal pingoaffractomy. The next one is going to be cervical cancer. We actually talked a little bit about some of these, but the leap or the cold knife colonization, what is that going to be truly given for? We do that in the diagnostic approach because if we see that a patient has CIN2, 3, we should do the leap procedure. The whole goal of that is you can remove that cone and remove that transformations and where most of that neoplasia can actually occur. It's really going to be the gold standard for your CIN2, your CIN3. You can use it in the early stage cervical cancer like stage 1A, especially if you have the fertility desire, but I wouldn't say it's your first line. I would say that that's not going to be the preferable first line, but it can be considered if you still want to try and have a baby because obviously what's the goal in cervical cancer? If you have it, you're probably going to have to remove the uterus. Historic amino would be the way to go here, but if you have the desire to have a child and you have a very, very early stage, I'm probably saying like stage 1A, you could consider doing a leap or a cold knife. Again, when we talk about these, the leap wire, you're using that cold knife, you're using a scalpel, and that's going to be allowing for you to remove that cone, that area of the transformations and where most often the malignancies occur. Again, this is just kind of paying homage to that process we've talked about. Now, hysterectomy is really going to be the first line. You should really utilize this in early stage cervical cancer, especially if the fertility is not desired or it's really, really invasive. I'd say anything when we talk about stage 1, I'm talking about stage 1 all the way you should consider a hysterectomy. That's going to be the removal of the uterus. That would be the primary way that I would treat these patients. Chemo radiation therapy is going to be a consideration. The chemo agent would be cis-platin, but that can really be given in the more advanced stages of cervical cancer, so you can definitely consider that one as well. Now, vaginal cancer, I would say that this one, again, when we talk about this one, we would think, oh, it would be like you're going to be doing a surgical excision, right? No, it's actually quite interesting. These patients are going to respond better to chemo radiation. That's the first line therapy. When you talk about vulvar cancer, though, on the other hand, it's the exact opposite. So, vulvar cancer responds better to surgery. Vaginal cancer responds better to chemo radiation therapy. So, vulvar cancer, vulvectomy would be the primary way of which you would be removing parts of the vulva where that actual cancerous mass is. This could be partial or it could be a radical vulvectomy. Now, one last thing that I want to take some time to talk about, because obviously prevention is key in a lot of these kinds of ecological cancers, because vaginal cancer, vulvar cancer, and cervical cancer all carry that risk of if you have HPV, and so any HPV-related gynecological cancer, you should try to do your best to prevent that. How do we do that? One of them is by giving a vaccine, and that is the HPV vaccine Gardasil 9. So, it's against nine different types of phenotypes. And so usually this is given around ages 11 to 12 years of age. Obviously, you can have it as a catch-up if they're getting it later on in life, but this is really the goal. You're trying to reduce the risk of that kind of causing that transmission of HPV, or at least giving them the immunity to fight off. I should say more specifically, giving the immunity to fight off the HPV. When you try to reduce the transmission, that's when it comes to safe sex practices. Obviously, abstinence or utilizing condoms, this is going to reduce that transmission of the HPV. And then routine screening is going to allow for us to identify any kind of abnormal, what? High-grade, low-grade squamous interoperative lesions, identify HVV16, 18 phenotyping so that we can go through the steps to say, hey, they have cervical cancer, hey, they have CIN2, 3, let's do a leave, let's do a colonization, let's do a hysterectomy, et cetera. We want to catch this before the patient has stage 4, and it's spread all over the place. So utilizing a pap smear every three years for 20 to 29, or doing it every three years, or a pap smear plus an HPV testing every five years for those who are 30 to 65 years of age is going to be the way to go. And again, you're just doing that pap smear is a way of being able to test for specific types of cytology like low-grade squamous interoperative lesions or high-grade squamous interoperative lesions. All right. My friends, this was a monster lecture. I know it was a lot. I know it can be challenging. Again, I hope that it really made sense. If you guys want, I think one of the ways that you'll help you to really solidify your understanding is go to our website. On our website, we have a lot of things like notes, where you can follow along with me, illustrations, draw these things as we go through it together, and then quiz questions. I think that's one of the best ways to truly test your knowledge. A lot of a lot of spaced repetition and see if you understand that concept. So go to the website, check those out, become a member, and I really think that'll benefit you. But man, I really thank you guys so much for hanging in there, watching this and learning with me. And I hope that you feel more comfortable. And I feel like you are going to be able to crush any exam on gynecological cancers that come your way. But I love you guys. Thank you guys. And as always, until next time.

=== FILE: Gynecological Cancers ｜ Podcast [31YDTMFc-no].txt ===

 mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere with three months of progressive abdominal bloating, early satiety, pelvic discomfort, and a 12-pound weight loss. Based on this information, Zach, can you kind of go through maybe some of your differential diagnoses just based on a brief history like this one? Yeah, I think if you, you know, if we're talking about gynecological cancers, and so when you think about that, obviously you're kind of limited to, you know, in this case ovarian cancer, endometrial cancer, and then obviously we can go a little bit further and we can talk about vaginal cancer and vulvar cancer, etc. So there's obviously a certain limited amount with that one. I think one of the big things that makes me kind of consider likely ovarian cancer is given the fact that this is a postmenopausal woman, so there's likely some degree of like, you know, prolonged estrogen exposure, and then the presence of abdominal bloating, early satiety, pelvic discomfort. That makes me a little bit more concerned possibly about an ascites process, which is very common whenever a patient's diagnosed with ovarian cancer, usually they're found much later. They're usually found by that time at least late stages, stage three, stage four, when it's already spread to the omentum, it's spread all over the place. And so that's what I'm thinking. There could be other reasons, especially when you have like ascites, that could be due to cirrhosis, it could be due to things like heart failure, it could be due to things like, I mean, there's many different reasons what that could be from. In this case, it could even be ascites that's due to a malignant process, like an exudative process, and we can talk about those as well. But that's what I'm starting to think about. I'm thinking that this is likely a patient with ovarian cancer, given the actual risk factors, given the presentation. What tests would you consider ordering first? Are there any things that you kind of want to prioritize? I think anytime you have a patient who presents with pelvic discomfort, you have, again, this concern of possibly ovarian cancer, a bimanual like pelvic exam and abdominal exam is going to do you very, very well. The reason why is you're going to try and be able to assess, is there anything that I feel along like the cervix? Am I concerned about any kind of like mass there? Or especially the uterus itself? Is it enlarged? Do I feel like anything weird, irregular? That would be helpful for potentially like an endometrial cancer of some sort. And then feeling the adnexa, feeling the ovary to see, hey, I feel like an adnexal mass is potentially present. That may then urge me to say, okay, if I feel something concerning, I should then ultrasound it. And usually a transvaginal ultrasound will do you very, very well to help to say, hey, what's going on along the adnexa? What's going on along the uterus? What's going on with the ovary? And then by doing that transvaginal ultrasound, it's going to be helpful because it will help me to say, hey, is there any kind of concerns with the endometrial stripe? Okay, no. Is there something where I can see the fallopian tubes are kind of like maybe twisted or am I seeing like there's a large ovarian mass that's present? That's going to be super helpful. And then I think serum tumor markers, they only come into play for your exams. They're not super helpful in real life. I think one of the benefits of them is that they may help you to differentiate, I'd say the subtype of ovarian carcinoma. So is this some type of problem where, you know, we're talking about the different types of ovarian cancers? That's where I think the serum tumor markers would be helpful. So I probably get like a CA125. I probably get an LDH. I'd get an AFP. I would check the beta HCG, estrogen, and Hib, and testosterone. That's going to help me to determine is there any kind of choreocarcinoma? Is there any kind of yolk sac tumor? Is this an epithelial tumor? Is this some type of sertoli, lydig cell tumor, etc. So that's what I would do then. And then after that, I would say given the concern that I have for this patient having likely metastasis to the omentum, I would probably get a CT scan, especially of the abdomen, pelvis, and consider the chest. The reason why is that will help me to see if I see any areas where there is potentially some tumors that metastasize to the omentum. Did it actually cause an ascites? Did that ascites lead to a pleural effusion? That's going to be super helpful. And then lastly, the only thing I would say that is beneficial to kind of a workup in these patients is an exploratory laparotomy. The reason why is it's going to definitively, that's why the serum tumor markers are helpful for the exam, but oftentimes the histology is going to tell me exactly what type of subtype of tumor I have. And then also while you're there, you can try and do a lot of cytoreduction, removing a lot of this mass around the ovary, the fallopian tube. Sometimes you have to remove the uterus as well. And then removing potentially the omentum, getting as many kind of bulky tumors as I can out of there to reduce that risk of mortality for these patients. So I know that's a long kind of way I'd be answering it, but yeah, there's a lot of things that I would go into this step by step. Let's just say we first started with that pelvic exam. So you did the bimanual pelvic and abdominal exam. Upon exam, you find a couple of things. We know a shifting dolness and a palpable right adnexal mass. What are you thinking here then? I think for this one, I would say, okay, get the transvaginal ultrasound. The only reason I say that is I'm concerned that there's potentially like an ovarian mass. The ascites, again, that's going to be helpful again, as likely as a potential cause of metastasizing. But again, I think that this is concerning for at least getting an image. So I'd proceed to the transvaginal ultrasound. All right. And when you get the transvaginal ultrasound, it reveals bilateral complex cystic solid adnexal masses with moderate ascites. What would you then do after that? At this point, I think that there's definitely a concern for ovarian cancer. Again, I wouldn't, you don't have to, but for the exam, I'd get the tumor markers. I'd get all those labs. All right. And just for argument's sake, let's say we have the results of that. We have a CA125, which is 850. Normal is less than 35. LDH, AFP, beta-HCG, estrogen, inhibin, testosterone are all normal. So really the only thing we're seeing that's abnormal is that CA125. And what is that telling you? I mean, that tells me it's probably more like an epithelial tumor that's likely there. So that's what I'm concerned about. But again, I think that LDH, that's usually screaming more like, is it going to be a dish germinoma? AFP screams a gilxac tumor. HCG screams like a choreocarsinoma. And then estrogen, inhibins, testosterone, those are all more of like the, those are random type of tumors, potentially like involving primitive tissue that convert into sertoldi, liged, exhaled tumors. So again, I think it would tell me that it's an epithelial cell tumor is a likely cause. But again, I still think that from this point, it's not definitive. I would then say, do I need to consider doing some type of exploratory laparotomy? And before I do that, I want to know the extent of what's going on. I want to help with the surgical planning process. And so I probably get a CT scan to determine what does this truly look like? How far outside of the ovarian area and tubes is this kind of extending to to help my guidance there? Okay, so we do order a CT chest, abdomen and pelvis. And this comes back with the results of Omental Kaking and peritoneal nodularity. There is no distant organ metastases. What is that telling you? I think it just tells me that there's a variancarcinoma and it's metastasized. I don't think it tells me anything yet. I think I would still have to go forward and do like an exploratory lap. Again, I think yes, you could have a degree of suspicion off of the presence of the CA125, but oftentimes the best definitive answer is to go ahead and say, let me get this exploratory lap to send off that actual sample, confirm it. And then also while I'm there, I'm going to be doing a lot of like cytoreductive kind of processes as well. But yeah, I'd say it's likely ovariancarcinoma. You could make an argument that it's epithelial based prior to even doing it, but I'm going to confirm that with the X-Lap. And let's just say we do confirm it and we have advanced epithelial ovariancarcinoma. How do you treat that? Usually you have to remove the uterus, you have to remove the fallopian tubes, and you have to remove the ovaries. Okay, so definitely surgical. Yeah, it's almost in this case, chemo therapy can only work so much. It's usually going to help with the progression, but in this case, you got to remove the total abdominals directed me with a bilateral pingo forectomy. And then oftentimes, in this patient's case, it's spread to the omentum. So I got to do an omentectomy. And then any other kind of tumors that are kind of written, there's also saying that there's peritoneal nodularity. So I'm probably going to have to do a little bit of debulking of the peritoneal areas as well. So that's that. And then after that, you'd follow it up with some chemo. Okay, and let's just say, again, for argument's sake, what happens if it did spread beyond the pelvis? Is there anything you would do differently based upon what you initially said? Well, I'd say that you probably should do chemo first, maybe to help a little bit. But I think at that point, usually when it's metastasized, it's pretty aggressive. You're kind of limited with surgical intervention, you can still try and do your best to do that. A lot of the times you're kind of stuck with chemotherapy as the primary therapy. Gotcha. Okay. And lastly, are there any complications we should be aware of with this type of carcinoma? I mean, asides is probably the likely thing for this patient. I think that's what they're experiencing right now. There's something that you have to do for it. If you treat the underlying disease, then the asides over time should resolve. And oftentimes, they develop pleural effusions, oftentimes more likely right dominant and more than left, just because of the overall anatomy. And those again, resolve with the asides resolving, you can tap into the asides and you can send off like a, you know, you do a pair of synthesis and send off the labs and stuff. But if you know that they have like ovarian cancer, it's unlikely that it's going to tell you anything else, you know, helpful. So that would be something I would say is watch out for asides, watch out for pleural effusions. I'd say it's unlikely to get a bowel obstruction. You can get it if you got a significant enough asides that's actually compressing down on the bowels. And also, if you have some of those tumors that spread from the ovary and the fallopian tubes, if they get over into the area and they start causing compression in that way, it's possible. I'd say it's unlikely. I don't say, I think that ovarian torsion is also extremely unlikely as well, unless it's a really, really big one, like a dished germinoma, that's possible as well. But I'd say the biggest thing is watching out for asides and pleural effusions. That's probably the big thing. All right, well, let's move on to the case two that was, you really hammered that one, that was perfect. Thank you. We have a 65 year old woman with two months of heavy postmenopausal bleeding. What are your first thoughts, kind of, I guess, again, your differentials out loud? Yeah, I think when you talk about gynecological cancers, this one is like, it usually screams likely some type of like uterine cancer. That's probably the likely one. So endometrial cancer early if you want to be specific. There's a lot of other things that could be there that I just don't think I have enough of their history to kind of like tell me that sometimes you can have like polyps, sometimes it could be drugs. Sometimes it could be as they get older, they can have an atrophic endometrium. But again, I think more than likely, it's, you know, and especially in this case of two months of postmenopausal bleeding that's heavy, at always you should consider that to be endometrial cancer until proven otherwise. Would you do a similar examination like the first patient? Maybe start with a bimanual pelvic exam and then maybe transition into a transvaginal ultrasound? Yeah, that's probably all you should need here. You shouldn't have to go the whole lengths of sending off any tumor markers and CT scans and explore it like this one's actually pretty straightforward that you can get away with a bimanual pelvic and a transvaginal ultrasound. Okay, great. Well, let's just go ahead and say that we do the the exam and particularly we're interested here in the transvaginal ultrasound. Okay, we have an endometrial stripe that measures 12 millimeters. Okay, what does that tell you, Zach? Anything greater than or equal to four millimeters is concerning for endometrial cancer. So you should always then proceed with a biopsy and you know, because that's that's screaming that it's endometrial cancer. That's what you need. And once you get that biopsy, that should tell you if you're like a type one or a type two endometrial cancer. Okay, the next test, let's just say we do the endometrial biopsy. We get the biopsy back and it shows endometrioid adenocarcinoma that is confined to the uterus. Talk a little bit about this diagnosis. That's all these good news. Type one is usually a positive one. Type two is usually more aggressive. It's also less common. And how do you tell the difference between the types? Histology. You have to actually look at the histology and differentiate that between like an atrophic and an endometroid usually ones like heavily, heavily proliferated. And that's the endometroid one. But the fact that it's confined to the uterus is actually pretty good. That means that we have pretty early case we caught a good the proper time. And so we can oftentimes offer things to this patient besides surgery, but oftentimes surgery is going to be the best way to go for this patient. That's fantastic. So would we go then with the surgical option then? Yeah, you can offer like, you know, sometimes if a patient has like, if they have like, like a viable reason, like I want to actually get pregnant. Okay, well, then we can for right now, we can do high dose progestin to kind of at least kind of keep the endometrial endometrial hyperplasia at bay. But eventually, we have to make a decision to do a total abdominal hysterectomy. Sometimes you could do the bilateral sopingo ophrectomy as well, just because again, it's going to be beneficial. But a lot of the times you're going to have to more likely than not remove the uterus. What complications are you most concerned about with this patient? I think if they're bleeding a lot anemia, oh, okay, that's that's probably the most likely one is that iron deficiency anemia with very, very heavy aggressive bleeding is something that I would watch out for. So I'd probably be keeping this patient on a quick, you know, not quick, but I'd be doing serial CBCs to make sure that I'm keeping an eye on that treating them with the proper iron supplementation to make sure that they don't develop any severe anemia kind of related complications. If sometimes the tumor is big enough that it obstructs the outflow of certain types of secretions, they can get a pymetra, which is like an infectious complication, a pus kind of like pocket that develops inside of the endometrial area, that cavity, but that's pretty rare. So I'd definitely be watching out for anemia. That's for sure. All right, great. Well, that covers case two. That then leads us now into case three. Our next patient, Zach, is Ms. T. She's a 34 year old woman with a three month history of postcoital spotting. Again, when you hear that, these are some buzzword terms, but what are your differentials for this patient? I think it's, you know, cervical cancer is definitely one. Vaginal cancer is another one. Those are usually conspiring postcoital bleeding. And so whenever a patient's had sexual activity, there is these tumors that are right along the cervix, they're in the vagina. And whenever there is a irritation due to friction that's kind of hitting those actual tumors, they're friable. They can bleed very easily. And that's why postcoital bleeding is concerning for cervical cancer or vaginal cancer. You're probably going to see cervical cancer more often than vaginal cancer, just overall and, you know, I'd say overall common occurrence, but either way, that's what I'm thinking between those two. All right. Are there any tests that really jump out that you really want to go after here? I'd start off at least by doing a speculum exam. I take a look. I'd see if I see any kind of tumors that are sitting within the vagina. See if I see any tumors or any kind of like concerning lesions that are present on the cervix at least first. If I don't see anything that's actually there, then I would kind of reach to doing something like, you know, we could do an acetyl white staining to see if I can find any kind of lesions that pop up along the cervix. From there, if I do see something either visibly or the acetyl white stain confirms like a lesion that I can't visibly see, then I'd probably reach to do something like like a colposcopy with a biopsy. Now, and also the other thing that you really want to do is pap smears. Pap smears and HPV testing. Just the reason why is pap smears can tell you about cytological changes that are helpful. In other words, am I seeing things like, you know, some type of like squamous intraepithelial lesion of sort. So that's what I would say is going to be beneficial there. For example, is this like atypical squamous cells? Is this some type of atypical glangular cells? Is this a low grade squamous intraepithelial lesion? Is it a high grade squamous intraepithelial lesion? So those are kind of beneficial. And then knowing if they have HPV 16 and 18 really increases the concern for cervical cancer and also vaginal cancer. So look to see if they have a lesion on speculum exam. If they don't have one, I'd consider the acetyl white staining. I would do a pap smear HPV testing. And if they have the acetyl white staining, I'm definitely going to go ahead and get a coposcopy with a biopsy. That is going to tell me, do they have any cervical intraepithelial neoplasia? And what type is it? One, two, three? Or is this cancer invasive at this point? So that's the benefit of the coposcopy. From there, based upon what I find there, it will determine if I do kind of imaging for distant meds. But I think that's, it's not even common for these things to usually distantly metastasize. They can spread more likely within the pelvis themselves. And that can help you to kind of stage it. That's the only benefit of giving it a CT scan. But oftentimes, to at least diagnose what do I have going on? Speculum, take a look. Do I see anything? If I do, biopsy it. If I don't see something, acetyl white stain, no matter what, get the pap smear, do the HPV testing. And then if I see something, or if I acetyl white stain pops up, cope with a biopsy. And then after that, again, based upon what I find, if I find cervical cancer, may do metastatic imaging if I'm concerned. All right. Well, let's start with the examination in the pap smear. Okay. On the biomanual pelvic exam, we have a friable ulcer on the cervix. And for a pap smear, we show HSIL and a positive HPV 16. What are you thinking? At least now, what are you thinking? Well, I mean, okay. So if I see something, I don't have to do the acetyl white kind of like staining. So that's good. Because it's showing me a visible lesion. It's unfortunate that I see a visible lesion. But if I see that, that's concerning for cervical cancer. The pap showing a high grade squamous intrepithelial lesion, it's concerning. And then the presence of HPV 16 is very concerning for cervical cancer. I definitely need the coposcopy of biopsy because I know that I have some abnormal atypical cells that are there in the actual cervix. And because of that, I need to know, is it just cervical intrepithelial neoplasia? It didn't break the basement membrane or it did. That's what I need. And a pulp is the only thing that's really going to tell me that. All right. So the biopsy shows invasive squamous carcinoma. All right. So then they have invasive squamous carcinoma. So that means that they don't have like CIN1, CIN2, CIN3. Those are ones that you can probably get away with like doing like a leap procedure, which is kind of helpful. And you kind of reduce the risk of a lot of these unfortunate kind of things that you'll have to do for them. But yeah, sometimes if they have CIN2, 3, you can actually curatively treat them with what's called a leap procedure. That's one. But unfortunately, that's not going to work. And sometimes you can actually do like a surgical procedure as well. But I think in this scenario here, I'd probably say, is there any extension? Because that may guide my treatment. So I'd probably do a CT scan, at least of the abdomen and pelvis, to see if there's any local or regional spread. Well, we do the CT of the chest, abdomen and pelvis. The results we get are no perimetrial evasion, no distant metastases. So that's good. Yeah. So those are usually that's where it spreads is the perimetrium spreads to the actual pelvis, it spreads to the walls, spreads to the vagina. And so the fact that it hasn't, and it's actually maintained its actual origin within the uterus, especially that cervical portion, that's good. I mean, in this scenario, I'd say you could probably, you know, I'd say you can get away with this potential scenario with a radical hysterectomy. And I know that sounds terrible. Now, if you want to get, if you're trying to get pregnant, you can consider things like a colonization procedure, that is possible. But again, I think they're still going to try to push you after that to do a radical hysterectomy. But that's what I would say for this patient. If you got that CIN2, CIN3, you can probably do like a, what's called a cold knife surgery, or you can do a leap procedure, but you're not going to be able to do that with this one, you're probably going to have to reach for a radical hysterectomy for that one. This may seem odd, but is the patient, and maybe if they want to bear a child, are they able to get pregnant and then have the surgery after pregnancy? Yeah, I mean, it definitely complicates things. But yeah, you can try and then you can do the colonization therapy if they want to get pregnant. And then afterwards, you can do the radical hysterectomy. That's at least nice to know that there are options. Yeah, but maybe it can complicate things. It makes things really complicated. So speaking of complications, what are we going to be worried about here? The thing that they're going to test you on the exam is hydronephrosis. It always comes up on the exam. And so the concept here is that whenever you have cervical cancer, given the location and the way that the actual ureters run, especially if you have a pretty decent size cervical mass, it can compress the ureters as they run down to empty into the bladder. And so if you compress the ureter, you'll end up getting backflow of the ureters. You get hydronephrosis. So sometimes, I don't know, the vignette may present with flake pain. Sometimes it may present, if you get bilateral involvement, which is not always common, you could get an acute kidney injury like a post-renal aki. That's not too common. But I'd say flank pain, if they say like they got a renal ultrasound that showed hydronephrosis, and they have this kind of clinical picture, definitely keep on your mind a potentially an ovarian cancer. But that's the big thing. Metastatic wise, it's not a common one to spread like the ovarian cancer. That's great to hear. Yeah. All right. Next case then. Next patient comes in to use Zach. She is 62 years of age, and she's been having two months of intermittent vaginal spotting and malodorous discharge with prior cervical dysplasia. Usually, again, with them 62, like we postmenopausal, and these potential patients, you definitely get worried about vaginal cancer, especially when you hear like the vaginal spotting, the malodorous discharge, and they had prior cervical dysplasia. The reason why that's important to know is that cervical cancer, if it does spread, it actually spreads commonly to the vagina. And that's why when we talk about like metastatic disease for cervical cancer, it can spread. It's just usually more locally or regionally. It's not usually distant as often. But anyway, to this patient, I'm definitely concerned for like vaginal cancer. So this patient most likely did have some local metastasis, if you will. It's possible. Okay. It's possible. So then if you are thinking that route, what test would you order first? I mean, I'd still do the same thing I did for the cervical cancer patient. So I would definitely get a speculum exam and take a look, see if I see any kind of mass still at the cervix, or if I see somewhere in the vagina, if I see something, biopsy. And then again, I would still send off like an HPV co-testing, because oftentimes usually vaginal cancers do the 16 and 18 HPV 16 18 as well. That's probably the big thing. You don't need to do any kind of distant imaging for this one, unless you really, really have concern that they have symptoms of distant metastasis, oftentimes, speculum exam, pelvic exam, and the biopsy, if you find something is going to be fine. All right. Well, let's jump right to the biopsy. Okay. What that shows is invasive vaginal squamous cell carcinoma. What would you do next? I mean, you can, if you really, really want to, you can go ahead and kind of send off. You could do imaging. I don't think it's really necessary for this patient, because no matter what, you're going to probably be hitting them with some degree of chemotherapy and radiation. So no matter what, I think it's going to be the same thing where you can do the MRI, but I don't think it's going to be helpful. All right. Well, we have, you know, early primary vaginal carcinoma. How would you treat this patient? I'd chemo radiation. That's probably going to be the primary thing I would do for this patient. That's going to be the first line. Usually vaginal cancer responds well to chemo and radiation therapy, whereas vulvar cancer, which I imagine we're going to be getting to, that one responds better to surgical therapy than chemo radiation. Okay. So is there anything like specifically as far as the chemo radiation regimen? Anything with a platinum agent is going to be good. Okay. Anything with a platinum agent is going to be good. Just like, you know, ovarian cancer responds pretty well to, you know, usually like a pachylo taxil and cisplatin or doxyl taxil and cisplatin. So yeah, any kind of solid organ tumors respond pretty well to platinum-based agents. Okay. Great. Let's move on to case five. We have another patient coming into you. She's 72 years of age and she has six months of vulvar peritis and a one and a half centimeter ulcerated labial lesion. Yeah. So when I hear vulvar peritis and again, a very elderly individual, it concerns me for vulvar cancer. You know, vulvar peritis is really, really common with vulvar cancer. And again, having that labial lesion also kind of is really concerning. Could it still be vaginal cancer? That's possible. Sometimes you can even have something called lichen sclerosis can happen with this, especially as individuals get older and they have the estrogen deficiencies, the skin of the vulva and the vaginal vagina start to get really, really thin and then get irritated. So I'm thinking it's probably vulvar cancer given our context. That's the only one that we have left, but that's what I'm going to go. And what tests are you thinking about for this patient? I do a very close inspection. You don't have, you can do, I'd still probably be throwing into a speculative exam. Make sure I'm not missing anything, but I would do a very careful inspection, especially with that ulcerated labial lesion. I mean, that right there is going to be the area that I'm just going to biopsy right off the get go. And I, you shouldn't have to do imaging. If you do, if you do, it's really because this is a pretty deep lesion. But oftentimes just do a speculative exam inspect the vulva, look to see if you see a lesion. If you got one biopsia. All right. So we do get a punch biopsy of the lesion that is in question. And this is revealing a keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma, three millimeter depth, no lymph vascular invasion, which sounds pretty good. I mean, the, this scenario here, we have vulvar carcinoma. It's not, it's not a vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia because it's obviously broken through the basement membrane because it's three millimeters in depth. So it is invasive, but at least I don't, I wouldn't be likely that this thing is spread. And then you, again, it's not being negative or anything like that, but vaginal vulvar cancers, they can spread. You should definitely always consider imaging to kind of look to see if there's any kind of concern for local regional spread. But for the purpose of an exam, it's really more important for you to know what's the step by step process. And then once you've kind of determined that with usually a speculative exam, usually some type of biopsia of sorts, then from there, the imaging is going to come more with clinical presentations that suggest metastasis ovarian cancer is just the one that usually by the time you identify, it's usually metastasized. So it's not to say that these can't actually spread. It's just less likely. And the one that I want you to remember most often for this exam that spreads is going to be ovarian cancer. And when I said fortunately, I just mean like, it just sounds like they're catching this a little earlier, which is great. But unfortunately, yes, like you said, it has, it has most likely spread. But at least maybe we can go ahead and prevent the further progression of this disease. Yeah. And the best thing to do with that is to just cut it out. Cut the actual lesion out. So I do a wide local excision, try and in these scenarios, sometimes if you have to, you may even have to remove the vulva. So like a radical vulvectomy sometimes may be the option. But a wide local excision is going to be preferred if you have to evolve active. It would be the option as well. All right. Well, that was all the cases that I had for you. And you kind of worked it up in a stepwise fashion. And everything made perfect sense. So thank you. Yeah, I think the biggest thing when it comes to gynecological cancers is having a systematic approach. Yeah. It's understanding that when a patient comes in, for example, they're coming in with maybe a CITES, they're coming in with bloating, they're coming in with a weird weight gain. And they have a clinical picture that screams some type of prolonged estrogen exposure, which is a postmenopausal woman or they're on tomoxifen or something like that. Those things concern you for ovarian cancer. The best thing to do is to again, always do a bimanual exam, a pelvic exam, consider a speculum exam. But I think the big thing for that one is it's going to be a transvaginal ultrasound. You're going to see some concerning things there. You can do the tumor markers, but oftentimes that's not completely necessary because ovarian cancer spreads very aggressively. I would do CT scans to see if it's distantly spread. An exploratory laparotomy would be the definitive way to diagnose it. When patients present with endometrial cancer, you're always hearing the word postmenopausal bleeding. And those scenarios do your same exam, your bimanual, your pelvic, your speculum. And I think the biggest thing here is it's going to lead you to get a transvaginal ultrasound. You won't see anything wrong, particularly with ovary, the fallopian tubes, you'll see that the stripe, the endometrial stripe is really big. That's going to scream something that's concerning, get the biopsy. When a patient comes in with postcoital bleeding, think is it vaginal or is it cervical? In those scenarios, you're going to do the same thing. You're going to do a bimanual pelvic. You're going to go ahead and do a speculum exam. You're going to look for lesions. If you see the lesion, great. Do a Culp biopsy yet or if it's a vaginal lesion, biopsy yet. No matter what, always do a pap smear to look to see if you have intraepithelial neoplasia. That's our intraepithelial lesions present and it can kind of help you look to see if they're positive for HPV 1618 because those things scream to you, get a coposcopy with a biopsy. When I get the coposcopy with a biopsy, it's going to confirm, is it invasive or is it intraepithelial neoplasia? Same thing. If I have a patient with vaginal cancer and I have biopsy, it's going to tell me, is it a vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia or is it an invasive one? Those things are going to tell you the likely cause or the likely lesion that you have. Then again, is it necessary for you to get distant imaging? You can if they have a local regional spread symptoms that concern you for that. Volvar cancer always be concerned when you hear the term volvar, pirates and an elderly individual. Then oftentimes it's a close inspection. You'll see a potential lesion that's either red, it's irritated, it's usually also thin labia that would suggest they have some risk factors. I should consider a biopsy of this and that will then tell you, is it an intraepithelial neoplasia of the volvar or is it actually an invasive one? Again, only do the distant imaging if they have concerning symptoms that it's local or regionally spread. But either way, I think at the end of the day, treatments for these can sometimes be dependent upon the patient's desire for fertility. In scenarios of that, you may need to consider alternative therapies. Endometrial cancer, progestin, if they have cervical cancer, you may consider something like a colonization procedure. But oftentimes the primary way that we treat these is surgical, which is removal of the tumor and sometimes the associated structures. For ovarian and endometrial cancer, oftentimes it means removing the uterus, the fallopian tubes, the ovaries. And cervical cancer sometimes means doing like, unfortunately, maybe a hysterectomy. And in certain situations of vulvar cancer, it means doing a wide excision or a radical vulvectomy. The only one that you may actually not have to do surgery for is...  is the vaginal cancer, which you can get away with with chemo and radiation. I think this was a helpful kind of podcast to kind of just, I think, think clinically about gynecological cancers, have a systematic approach. It's always going to make things easier. It's always going to help you to kind of actually at least think clinically and know why you're doing this thing and what it's going to tell you. And how is it going to help you overall with your patient? But man, I hope you guys liked this podcast. I hope you learned a lot. And I love you guys. And thank you guys. And as always, until next time. Bye.

=== FILE: Lung Cancer ｜ Clinical Medicine [41rLAXnlVq4].txt ===

 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам On our website, we'll have things like notes, illustrations, quiz questions, so many things that we can offer you that will truly help you to understand that concept. So go check that out. Without further ado, down with my sales pitch, let's get right into the pathophys. All right, so let's discuss the pathophys and we'll discuss some causes when it comes to lung cancer. We discussed pathophys, the two big things that I want you guys to understand is the types. So there's the subtypes of lung cancer, we say small cell, non-small cell. And we really can define this, yes, based upon the actual histopathology. When you look at these cells, they look small, they look hyperchromatic, they're poorly differentiated. But the other really important thing for small versus non-small cell is very, very rapid, aggressive growth. This one, it's not going to be as rapid, it may be slower kind of progressive growth. That's the real big difference between these. Because again, yes, it is going to be small, oval, round, hyperchromatic cells, but these things proliferate like rabbits. This one, not as fast, not as proliferative and as rapid. Big key difference. Now, we talk about small cell and really any of these lung cancers, we got to know where they're locating or where they actually start to form. Because one is it actually helps us with the exam. If you read in the exam and you say, oh, there's a central mass, there's really only two types of lung cancers that most likely present within the central portion of the lung. If you think peripheral, then there's some other ones. That's really, really helpful for your exam and in the actual wards. Small cell lung cancer, it prefers the central airways. A central hyalur mass is going to be what you want to really be looking for. Central hyalur mass. For example, we'll represent this in a pink color. Let me get my pink marker here. We're going to say here is going to be a bronchus and we're going to have some cells that malignally transform and these things start growing like crazy. Here I have a big mass in the central part of my airways near the hyalur. Because the hyalur is that entryway where what? The primary bronchi, the pulmonary artery and veins kind of come in and out of the lung. That's going to be my central occasion. I'm going to zoom in on this one. So histopathology wise, when I take a biopsy, so this one I would do a bronchoscopy. I would take and I would biopsy this tissue. After I do a biopsy, what would you be looking for? You're probably like, Zach, why in the heck are we talking about diagnostics here? Well, I think it's crucial that we get some headway into actually having some identifiers or classifiers that things that when we look under the microscope, this is a little bit more of the initial step one stuff that you think about how would I see under the microscope the types of cells that represent small cell, adeno, large cell, etc. So for small cell, the cells that this actually derives from, if you took a piece of the epithelium, you'd have these blue cells, what are those? Pseudo stratified ciliate of the columnar. You'd have these green cells, those are your gobble cells that make a lot of mucin. You have these red cells, which are your basal cells, they're the progenitor cells and they can make really any of these. And then you got these little pink buggers, these little sons of guns. These little freckles right here are called the neuroendocrine cells. What are they called? They're called the neuroendocrine cells. Now we also give them what's called the colchitsky cells. Now these cells, the neuroendocrine cells, the happenst is, is these guys are really the problematic issue. They undergo malignant transformation, maybe you smoke, maybe you have some radon exposure, some asbestos, whatever it is, they undergo some mutations. When they mutate, they gain that capacity to either shut off tumor suppressor genes or turn on proto-oncogenes and guess what starts happening, man? These things start rapidly, rapidly proliferating. And that's the really important thing to consider with this one. So again, I want you to know which of the cells that are really going to be the problematic issue here and it's those neuroendocrine cells or the colchitsky cells that undergo this malignant transformation and make this big mass that we see. So when you look at these, they're going to be the colchitsky cells, which when you look at these cells under microscopy, they're small, round, kind of like hyperchromatic cells. That's a really important thing. Now the other thing is that when you take these cells and you do what's called immunohistochemistry, you try to look in tag specific types of molecules that are present in this one. It's almost always positive for a very specific type of molecule called Chromogranin A. All right, Chromogranin A. Now, here's what I want you guys to think about. When we got this small cell, what do I want you to take away from it? Central mass. If I take an Ibiopsy, that thing, what am I going to see? I'm going to see those neuroendocrine colchitsky cells. If I stain them, what is going to come up? Chromogranin A. This is a really big thing to take away from this. All right. Now, you're probably going to start asking the question, Zach, I'm really kind of confused as to how these cells actually proliferate. Well, we'll talk about it. Oftentimes, there's some type of carcinogen. And then therefore, that carcinogen causes damage to the DNA, which leads to a mutation. That mutation then leads to a loss of function or gain of function of a particular type of gene, and that will cause this proliferation. We'll talk about that in a little bit. But before we do that, let's move on to the next component here, which is the non-small cell lung cancer. So with this one, we have adenocarcinoid, squamous, and large cell. So there's four different subtypes to this one. How am I supposed to remember this, bro? Don't worry. I got you. Adenocarcinoma, most common. It is the most common lung cancer in general. And actually, when you compare non-small cell and small cell, non-small cell is significantly more common. Maybe 15, this accounts for maybe around 85%. Now, adenocarcinoma location, this one loves the peripheral locations. So what happens with this puppy is it loves to really involve more of the bronchoalveolar tree. And so you're going to get a tumor that's most likely going to form within the periphery. So this is going to give you more of your peripheral tumors or masses. All right? Now, if I took that tissue, zoomed in on it to take a look at it, what would I see? All right? If I took that tissue and I zoomed in on it, what we're actually looking at is we're looking at this bronchoalveolar tree. So here you're going to have like a respiratory bronchial. And then here, you're going to have the alveoli. Right? These are my alveoli. When I take these and I zoom in on it, you guys remember what are the primary cells that make up an alveoli, right? It's your blue squamous ones, which is the type one. And one of these little black, you would want the type two. This is called my type two pneumocytes or my type two alveolar cells. Should we play a little game, my friends? And say, hey, what do these cells do? Do you guys remember? They make, what is it? They make surfactant. In this case, they're going to jack everything up because they're going to make something else. Now, type two alveolar cells in this disease, they get hit usually with a mutation. It's not oftentimes smoking, which is interesting with this one. They have a spontaneous mutation that occurs that causes these cells to just rapidly proliferate. Now when they do, they kind of proliferate and then they kind of differentiate. And what they do is it's very interesting. They make somewhat, because these are simple cuboidal, they make somewhat of a glandular type of structure. And then these cells, they gain the capacity to actually produce a lot of mucin, which can actually increase the risk for pneumonia in certain scenarios, funny enough. But yeah, these guys are going to be alveolar cells that start to do what? They start to proliferate and they give off this glandular look. So this is going to give off this glandular appearance. And then the other thing is that these glandular cells, these cuboidal cells, they actually start to secrete what? They secrete mucin. How should we represent mucin? Green. And it releases all this mucin. And sometimes the mucin, you can actually stain it when you do immunohistochemistry. It actually could be in these cells too. But it's going to have a lot of mucin. It's going to have an increased amount of mucin. So you guys get the point here. We take these type 2 alveolar cells, they start making like a glandular type of appearance, and then they can contain and secrete mucin. Now when I look at this histopathology, I kind of already hit you with some of the introductions here that this is going to have a glandular type of appearance of those type 2 alveolar cells. So let's write down here, that's going to be a glandular appearance. Now let's add on to this. If I did immunohistochemistry and I stained, mucin technically is a protein that I could tag for. So they'll have positive mucin staining. And you know what else is another protein or another kind of marker actually I should say for adenocarcinoma which is actually kind of high yield. It's called TTF1. TTF1. If a patient comes here and you see this, you see the mucin or you see the TTF1. You think adenocarcinoma. Now I don't want to go crazy on this, but there is a subtype of adenocarcinoma called bronchial alveolar carcinoma in situ. I mean it kind of stays within this kind of alveolar area. It doesn't invade the basement membrane and spread. So that's when it can have a kind of a decent prognosis, but one of the problems is it produces tons and tons of mucin in the airways and it can cause a lot of pneumonia. But that's something to just keep in mind is bronchial alveolar carcinoma in situ. It's kind of like a little tweener where it's about to become adeno, but it's again it's not breaking through the basement membrane. Alright, so next one is carcinoma tumors. Now carcinoma tumors usually with these they're not super common. They're very I'd say relatively rare. But one of the things about these is they are also a central mass, but they're usually kind of endobronchial. They don't usually get too big. So it's going to be more of a central kind of endobronchial mass. With these masses, one of the things I want you guys to remember is again not super, super common as compared to things like squamous and adeno and large cell. But when we actually take this one, this is going to sound kind of familiar. If we take and we were to actually biopsy this tissue. And if we did the biopsy, we would see again, pseudotratified cilidic alumina. These ones are your basal cells, the progenitor ones. This is going to be the ones that are making a lot of our mucus production. So goblet cells. And then this guy, neuroendocrine cells. So it's funny because this is the tumor. This is the one that actually makes this mass. It undergoes a malignant transformation and it makes this tumor right here that you see. And you're like, wait a second, weren't these the cells for small cell? Yeah. The difference here is that these become a little bit more well differentiated. They don't get super, super aggressive. So this is actually going to be, again, our neuroendocrine cells. What are these cells called again? They're called the colchitsky. The colchitsky cells. With this, if we took the histopathology, we would find these colchitsky cells are the neuroendocrine cells. So you'd find these colchitsky cells that'd be positive for them. The big difference between this one and this one is that this one is very well differentiated. And so well differentiated means it's not going to be as severe of a prognosis. Poorly differentiated means it's a little bit more aggressive. Now the other thing is immune-histochemistry-wise, this is going to come up similarly. What kind of stain will we find in neuroendocrine cells? Chromograndon A. So we would actually stain this and we would see what's called chromograndon, a positive staining. And again, I need you guys to really remember something super important. For the colchitsky cells, what's the big difference with these? These ones I need you to remember are well differentiated. So let's actually remember an important distinction. So when we say carcinoid versus small cell lung cancer, the big thing here is that this is going to be what? For carcinoid, it is well differentiated cells. That is a pretty high yield thing to take away from this. Now carcinoid tumors, again, you'll see this a little bit later, they have a very distinct presentation where sometimes they can present with this classic triad that we'll talk about a little bit later. That's carcinoid tumors. So when I say, okay, location so far, central hyalur mass, you say small cell. If I say peripheral tumor, you're saying I say adenov, I say central endobronchial tumor, you're going to say carcinoid. If I say which ones are neuroendocrine cells, you'd say small cell and carcinoid. If I say which ones are really well differentiated, you would say carcinoid. If I say they stain chromograndon A positive, you would say carcinoid and small cell. If I say they stain positive for mucin or TTF1, you would say adenov. Now we come down to this son of a gun here, the good old squamous cell. Squamous cell is a nasty one too. It's pretty bad. This one is a central mass. So this is going to give you a central, but here's the big term that you want to see. So central cavitary. It's a cavitary mass. So it likes to cavitate. And when we see this one, again, it's actually kind of important to remember that this one is usually going to be, again, pretty nasty looking mass here in the central portion. So here we'll draw a decent central sized mass, but what's the big difference? What do I have to have in the center of it? I'm going to have a little cavity. So I'm going to have a little bit of a cavitary mass. So that's a really, really important thing to remember. Now I'm drawing these things color coordinated. Do you guys notice how adenocarcinone was black and how neuroendocrine and carcinomy cells were pink? This one's red. So if I actually did a biopsy of this one, and I took a look at this biopsy, I see pseudor stratified cilidic aluminar. I see my basal cells or the progenitor cells. I see the cells that are making a lot of my mucous, right? My goblet cells. And I see the neuroendocrine cells. Which cell out of this do you think is malignantly transformed? The basal cells. That's the one that gets affected here is it's going to be our basal cells. These are the progenitor cells. They make some of these cells here a part of our epithelium. So it's the progenitor cell, essentially. These ones undergo malignant transformation. And what they transform into is squamous cells, like the tissue that's on our skin or in our esophagus. Can you imagine that? And you know what squamous cells? They're kind of unique in that they make a very significant amount of a protein that kind of makes our skin or maybe even parts of our esophagus really resistant to abrasion. It makes it tough. Do you remember what that protein is called? Keratin. Keratin. So this is going to transform, man. And what you're going to get is you're going to get a lot of squamous cells and they are going to be filled with keratin. All right? We call them keratin pearls sometimes. It's actually kind of interesting. So here, I would represent this. Let's do it like a little bit of orange, maybe a little bit of contrast here. You're going to see all these like things here. There's going to be these like little keratin pearls. And this is just chunks of keratin that these cells are meant to actually secrete. But they should not be secreting this in the lungs. You see why that's a problem? They also have something else here called intracellular bridges. They're kind of like these little desmosomes that stick them together to hold them nice and tight. But here's the thing. If I were to look for a tag, so if I said TTF1, mucin, adenote. If I said the chromogranin A, you'd say carcinoid and small cell. For P40, P40, that squamous cell. So this is going to come up with a P40 positive staining. I know this is a lot. I know, but we will recap this when we get into the diagnostic section. But again, really important thing to remember here is that when you look at these squamous cells and you look at them, they're going to be filled with what? Let's just remind ourselves here. What are they going to be filled with? What is this orange structure here? These are keratin pearls. And then they're going to have little connections between them. What are these little guys here? Are desmosomes. So when you look at these, the key thing to remember is these squamous cells are going to have lots of what's called keratin pearls. And they're also going to have intercellular bridges, which are basically just these desmosomes. And that's some characteristic findings that you want to be aware of when they talk about this. Sometimes they'll bring step one questions into this, but you want to be aware of this on your step two exam, especially in the diagnostic section. All right, squamous cell. Boom, roasted. Let's go over here to the large cell. Large cell is a son of a gun because when we think about this one, location-wise, it can occur really most often in the periphery. So it's most often going to be in the periphery. Now when we get this lesion, here's the thing that's weird about this one. It don't look like nothing. It don't look like nothing. I don't know where the heck this thing came from. And so when you actually take a look at this, again, it's going to be more of a peripheral tumor, a peripheral tumor or mass. But when you take and you biopsy this thing, you're like, dude, it doesn't look like anything I've seen so far. That's the key. Looks nothing like it. You're like, I don't know what in the Sam heck this tumor is. I really, really don't. It doesn't look like anything I've really ever seen. And it doesn't stain with any of the other things that I've seen. So I'm not even kidding. Within the name, these are large, poorly differentiated cells. So on histopathology, you're going to see large, poorly differentiated cells. And here's the key thing. When they tag this thing, it doesn't tag for a chat. All right? That means that you're going to get negative P40. So it's not going to come up with a squamous. You're going to get negative TTF1, which means it's not going to show anything for. Adeno. You're going to get negative for the musin. You're going to get negative for what else? I can't fit it, so I'm going to bring it down here. You'll get negative for Chromogranin A. That's the key, big kind of takeaway. For this son of a gun here, is it's not going to have any kind of markers. It doesn't look like any of the cells. So what I want you to take away from this is, when I tell you central tumors, I want you to think of S, squamous and small cell. They like to be central. They want to be near the smoke. They want all the smoke, right? Because usually they're smoking associated. Your peripheral is going to be adeno and large. The one that's kind of a funky one that we kind of just find a way to fit in there is carcinoid. Carcinoid technically likes to be an endobronchial central tumor. All right, we've hit the path of Fizz, but we've got to really kind of talk now what in the Sam heck is causing these cells to just start replicating and proliferating undesirably? All right, so causes of lung cancer, what's really making these cells? Again, the neuroendocrine cells, the type 2 alveolar cells, the basal cells. What's triggering, per se, them to go from being a normal cell to all dying. I'm going to jack this lung tissue up kind of thing. So what's triggering this malignant transformation? That's what we need to really know. And oftentimes what makes this endocrine cell kind of become very poorly differentiated called chisely cells that grow or the type 2 alveolar cells or the basal cells to grow is going to be carcinogens. These are the real reasons and these basically are kind of coming here and triggering these cells to undergo mutations. The mutations cause loss of function of specific types of tumor suppressor genes and then these cancers grow. Sometimes it can't even be pertoanco genes too. But what are these carcinogens? So there's a couple of them, but I think there's three primary ones. So obviously smoking is going to be accounting for the bulk of it. All right? So if you're out there taking down three sigs at a time, you probably should stop, bro, because 80 to 90% of lung cancers is due to smoking. Now the other one is radon. Radon will probably come in as a close second. So make sure that you're kind of monitoring those, like Toby in the office. And then the other one is asbestos. All right? Now with this kind of thing, you'd see this more in like insulation and ship builders and things like that. Smoking radon and asbestos are going to be carcinogens, meaning that what happens is that these guys get exposed and they kind of damage the DNA in these cells. When they damage the DNA, they can cause a mutation. That mutation may potentially lead to these cells proliferating. So when I say that mutations are present, carcinogens can actually cause mutations. So that's what I want you to remember is carcinogens have the capability of triggering mutations. When I talk about mutations on its own though, it's really, really crucial that you can remember that mutations don't always have to be triggered by a carcinogen. They can happen spontaneously and we have no control over that. When I talk about mutations in general, these things can also individually cause this. But these could be, and I want to be a little bit more careful. When I say mutations, it could be spontaneous. So let's say for example, I take a patient who is a non-smoker, a non-smoker. So if I take a non-smoker or they don't have any type of true exposure from radon or asbestos, but this is going to be the most common one. This is oftentimes associated with adenu. Adenu carcinoma. So usually small cells, squamous cells, large cells, they're almost always inclusively associated with carcinogens like smoking. Adenu carcinoma can be seen in non-smokers. And the reason behind this is they may have specific acquired mutations in certain types of proliferative pathways. And so there's a lot of these, man. I don't want to go through all of them. Please, for the love of goodness, don't memorize these. There's only a couple, but there's things like the eGFR mutation. That's really an important one because this probably counts for most of the mutations that we see. Another one could be the KRAS. So there's a KRAS mutation. This one, not as, you know, probably as high yield, but something to consider. And there's also the alkary arrangement that sometimes can be asked about. But I'd say that, again, that eGFR is going to be the really, really important one. I'd say that this is going to be the key one here, the eGFR mutation. This is also a potential one. This is also a potential one. But the question that you're probably going to start asking is, okay, carcinogens can cause mutations. What are the difference in the mutations from these as compared to the carcinogens causing these other spontaneous mutations? Well, here, I'll quickly remind you guys that if it's smoking, are carcinogen related. So this is non-smoker. If I bring this back up and I bring this to the smoker, if I bring this to the smoker, which is really almost all the other ones, this is associated with other distinct mutations. So this is going to be ones like your P53, your RB, your retinoblastoma protein. It also can be associated with another one called CMYC. So CMIC, this one's heavily associated with small cell lung cancer. But really, any of these mutations where there is a loss of function here or a gain of function, these things can cause the cells to rapidly proliferate. So if they're a non-smoker associated with these, if they're a smoker associated with these, that's the key difference here. Non-smoker here, smoker here. These are the ones that we can target. We can't really target these as well. That's the big difference. When I think about carcinogens causing malignant transformation or mutations causing malignant transformation or carcinogens causing mutations that lead to this malignant transformation, the big thing to remember here is when we talk about these mutations, what are they really affecting? These guys here are causing abnormalities within the tyrosine kinase pathway. So here I'm going to have what's called a tyrosine kinase receptor. And you guys remember that this receptor, it can trigger so many different pathways. You can have some type of ligand bind to this receptor, and it can trigger multiple different intracellular pathways. I don't think it's worth mentioning all of them. There is the RAZ, there's the PI3KAKT pathway, there's the jack stat pathway. Another way that's not really relevant here, they send signals to the nucleus and this will tell the cell to undergo intense cell proliferation. So it'll increase your cell proliferation. And so the abnormalities really exist in some point in this pathway. These guys here. So these mutations alter maybe a component of the receptor or some of the signal transducers. So it's at some point here of this receptor or along this pathway that these things are triggering this, which is causing an increase in cell proliferation. It's causing the receptor to be constituently activated. So imagine this thing is just like, oh baby, I'm stimulated as can be. And because of that, it's going to cause a massive kind of increase in this pathway. And that's where we see this. So these types of mutations here are associated with an abnormality in the tyrosine kinase receptor. So again, let's just quickly recap to make sure. When you take these cells and transform them, what's the reason why? It's a carcinogen. Most of the time, these carcinogens will cause the malignant transformation. But just remember, the way that they truly do that is they cause mutations. Usually if you're a smoker, it's in these genes. And when these genes get hit, that causes this malignant transformation. You can also have mutations that occur, nothing to do with smoking. These mutations would alter the tyrosine kinase receptor. If that happens, this triggers cell proliferation and these cells will malignantly transform and you'll get this big tumor. That's the big thing to remember. So what I want you to take away from it, smokers, they have these mutations. Non-smokers, they have mutations that they have no control over, even if they didn't smoke one cigarette their entire life, they still have a risk of lung cancer. And that's an adenote. That's the one I can't let you forget. All right. Now, I move on and talk about, I got a tumor, how would I present and what are the complications? All right. So we're going to get to the part of complications. You got to get this goober in your lungs, right? Unfortunately, and this thing is compressing things. Or it's kind of obstructing airways. We got to think about how would this potentially present. Oftentimes, we probably don't really have a truly symptomatic patient. So they may come in with some classic findings of cough and wheezing and dyspnea. But there's a lot of diseases that can come in with cough, wheezing and dyspnea. That could be asthma. That could be COPD. And tuberculosis. How do you know? In some ways, if they present on the exam, this is where I want you to listen. You listening? If they have cough, wheezing, dyspnea and an unintentional weight loss, it may have you have a stronger suspicion for malignancy than other kinds of conditions, especially if they're a heavy smoker. So yes, in a classic patient on the exam, they may come in, been smoking 50 siggies, you know, packier history, coming in now all of a sudden with cough, wheezing, dyspnea and maybe even some unintentional weight loss. That should make you have a suspicion of malignancy. But that's not always the case. Sometimes they come in with complications and then you find it incidentally on imaging. So what are some of those things? So one is if a tumor is central, it's going to obstruct bronchi. And bronchi are really, really important to airflow and mucus flow and getting bacteria out of the lungs, etc. So one of the big things here is if let's say I have endobronchial tumors, let's say the first off, I got a tumor and it's starting right here. Here's the tumor. It's kind of an endobronchial tumor. It's somewhere within the central airway. Ooh, what's our central ones? Come on, think about it. Squamous and small cell, you got it. Now if I take these puppies here and what happens is we have bronchial arteries, which are high pressure arteries that are kind of supplying some of these.  and the other two cells, if this tumor invades, this thing invades into those arteries, it's game over. So that's what I want you to remember, is does the tumor, tumor invasion, so tumor invasion into bronchial arteries, if so, watch out, man, because you could actually have these guys erode. So let's say here I kind of zoom in on it, right? And then this patient can get hemoptysis. The reason why is here's the tumor. Here's the bronchial artery. If this thing kind of starts invading out here to that bronchial artery, guess what can start happening? Blood can start leaking into the bronchus. And then what can happen is that could be coughed up. So that's the big thing here, is hemoptysis could be a presentation. Now clinically, hemoptysis is coughing up blood. So it's different from hematemicis, which is vomiting up blood, but it's gonna be coughing up blood. Now it is rare for this to be massive, and that can help somewhat in the differential. If you have a little bit of streaking of blood on your hand or a Kleenex or a napkin or something like that when you cough into it, that's definitely gonna be more likely a presentation. It's a very mild type of hemoptysis, because it's a slow, gradual tumor invasion into the bronchial arteries that's causing this type of presentation, because it erodes into the vessels, and that's gonna lead to this blood leaking into the bronchial tree. If it was massive, large amounts of hemoptysis, you think about tuberculosis, you think about bronchiectasis, you think about an anchovascularitis, you don't think about malignancy. All right, now, if a tumor is pretty big, man, and I've actually seen this in the ICU a lot, maybe not necessarily from tumors, but from mucus plugs, it can kinda act the same way. Here you have a tumor that may be almost partially or completely obstructs that bronchial tree. Now, you know that if I do that, we naturally are supposed to move mucus through this to be spit out. Now, in this scenario, what did we just do? This thing was bleeding, this one, it was bleeding because the tumor invaded into the bronchial arteries. So this patient is gonna be coughing up some blood. But what if I had a patient who wasn't coughing up blood for you, homoptysis, what if, in this scenario, I have so much bacteria and mucus that can't be mobilized here because this tumor is obstructing it. Then what happens is this mucus and bacteria, this thing's just stay, man. And as they stay, they really kinda colonize and eventually they start to cause infection and inflammation. And then before you know it, what just started off is just a tumor there, blocked all this bacteria and mucus and you end up with an infection of the lung tissue. If this tumor happens right here, it basically obstructs mucus flow. And that mucus flow, if I'm obstructing, so normally you have cilia, right? So let's say that I wanna move this big mucus chunk right here. And you know mucus and you know, come on, think about it. Bacteria is present in pretty much any lining of the tissue. It's supposed to be a natural committal relationship. So there's gonna be some bacteria that are present here, which I'll represent in kind of this maroon color. But if I can't move the bacteria this way, because of why, because I got this goober here that's occluding it, this is gonna start building up. Mucous bacteria are gonna build up just past this or post to where this obstruction is. And you got a recipe for pneumonia, dude. And so post-obstructive pneumonia is a pretty scary one. And funny enough, this actually tends to be one of the most common presentations, especially in your textbooks. But you wanna look for this in a patient who comes in with like fever. You wanna look for it in like cough or dyspnea. Now, that cough is usually productive. So most of the time in this scenario, I want you to think about this illustration as someone hacking up kind of a purulent type of material. All right? The other thing here is, I only do that fever, cough, and dyspnea, but here's the other thing. If you get a chest x-ray on this patient because they come in with features of pneumonia, they'll have pneumonia in the same lobe, right? So you're gonna see oftentimes recurrent pneumonia. And that recurrent pneumonia is gonna be in the same location. So for example, let's say I had a patient, I just found, I diagnosed them with pneumonia. And it's in their left lower lobe. They come back a couple months later. They got an infection in that left lower lobe again. And then an infection in that left lower lobe again. That should have a high degree of suspicion of malignancy. So when I say recurrent pneumonia in same location, what should you start to have, like little pings going off in your brain? Location, you think malignancy. And then you start kind of investigating this. So recurrent pneumonia in the same location, malignancy. You gotta figure out what in the heck is obstructing this. Because oftentimes what happens in ICU is we get patients, we get mucus plugs. And the mucus plug, you can't get air flow in. So what do you think happens to this portion of the lung? It shrivels up, right? And that's called atolectasis. So post obstructive atolectasis is also something that you could see with these tumors. And if you have the atolectasis, guess what? That also is a potential risk for infection occurring there. So post obstructive atolectasis and post obstructive pneumonia are very common presentations of patients coming in with these central endobronchial tumors. So peripheral tumors, you wouldn't think about adenocarcinoma, you wouldn't think about large cell carcinoma. As compared to central tumors, you think about squamous and you think about small cell. Now, if I got a peripheral tumor, come on, let's just think about this a little bit, guys. We got a tumor hanging out here near the periphery. What is it next to? Come on, it's next to the pleura. So I can get some pleural invasion. And if I invade the pleura, then I'm gonna start getting effusions and that's oftentimes a pretty scary one. So if this tumor starts to invade the pleura, that's when you can get these malignant pleural effusions. So again, we were worrying about pleural invasion. So that's a concerning feature. Now let's say here we kind of zoom in a little bit on this area. So here's the blood vessel. Here's the alveolar kind of like, or the perincoma of the lung. And then here is the visceral pleura. Here is the parietal pleura. And here's the pleural cavity. You see this tumor was supposed to be confined to the lung perincoma, but it invaded here into that visceral pleura. At that point, you cause injury. That's injury. And also, these tumors, they also are capable of producing small amounts of cytokines. And so what they'll do is, whenever there's kind of injury, it will release different things like interleukin-1, it'll release things like tumor necrotic factor alpha, it can even release things like interleukin-6. And just in general, it's gonna cause localized injury. But either way, this tumor can gain the capacity to secrete these cytokines. These cytokines can go and act on the vessels and do what? Make them leaky as a son of a gun. If I make this thing leaky, so I increase the permeability, I increase the permeability of these capillaries that are sitting near the pleura, what do you think is gonna happen? Things are gonna start leaking out. And I'm gonna get things like proteins, which can actually fit through these big spaces now. I'm gonna get things like LDH that can sit fit within these spaces. And so you're gonna get things like lots of LDH and lots of proteins that are gonna really, really accumulate out here. And it's gonna be a recipe for making fluid build up in the pleural cavity. And what's that call whenever you got lots and lots of fluid in the pleural cavity? A pleural effusion. And if it continues to keep happening over and over and over again, that's what we call a malignant pleural effusion. Now, malignant pleural effusions, once this happens, it's very important to remember that this point, we have stage four lung cancer, which regardless of which type it is, this is stage four lung cancer. All right, so that's a really important thing to remember. Once we get to this point, it's stage four. Just like when I told you guys inflammatory breast cancer, inflammatory breast cancer, when usually when it presents, it's oftentimes stage three. If you have a malignant pleural effusion, this patient's already stage four. So that's pretty sad. Now, the other thing is that you can also have a lot of these malignant cells that flake off. So you see how these malignant cells are kind of like here? What if they flaked off? They could also be in here. And so sometimes they can even invade this vessel too, and you can even get blood. So when I think about clinical presentation for these patients, oftentimes, think about how a pleural effusion would present. It's not always super obvious, but you may have some dullness to percussion, right? What else? What else is another potential presentation? If I were to go and I would actually listen to that side, what would I hear if I have a lot of fluid that's kind of between the pleura and the lung? I would have decreased breath sounds. So there may also be some decreased breath sounds. So that's the other thing I would want you guys to remember is that they can present with this, but oftentimes that's not very specific. There's a lot of things that could do this. So then what you'd have to do is you'd have to get some type of chest x-ray. And this chest x-ray would likely reveal a large pleural effusion, and probably an associated lung mass. But either way, we're gonna see a pretty decent pleural effusion. When you get pleural effusions, what do you have to do to determine the type of it? You have to do a thoracic enthesis. Do you guys remember that from the pleural disease? I know you do. And then in terms of its transudative or exudative. So in order for me to truly figure out what this is, I would need to do a thoracenthesis. And the thoracenthesis, you use something, come on spit it out, the light's criteria. And the light's criteria in simplicity tells me, what's the LDH? What's the protein? All right, and if I got a lot of LDH and a lot of protein in this pleural fluid, it tells me a permeability problem, a leaky problem, not a pressure problem. So if I have lots of LDH and lots of protein, usually LDH greater than 0.5 protein, greater than 0.6 when you compare it to the serum, and there's two thirds the upper limit of normal of the LDH in the pleural fluid as compared to the serum, this is really, really high yield for an exudative effusion. This is exudative, man. This is exudative. That's where we use the light's criteria, because if it was low LDH, low protein, that would say transitive. You think about CHF, cirrhosis, nephrodic syndrome. But what's the key thing that I would need to do? I'd need to send a psychology. If I sent and I actually looked for cells, what kind of cells would I find here? Would I find white cells and bacteria and stuff like that that would suggest a parenomonic effusion? No, I would get cancer cells. So I would do psychology, and the psychology would show malignant cells. So this is kind of a nice little recap here of when we talked about pleural diseases. So when a patient comes in and they have a pleural effusion, you definitely can't always rule out that it could be malignancy related. If it's recurrent, if it's continuously happening, you should do a thoracentesis and figure out how it's actually gonna be presenting. All right? Now, you'll see this with adenome, you'll see this with large cell. For the central tumors, you're gonna see squamous and small cell. All right, what if these tumors are near the apex? You see, you know, cancer, malignant tumors, they're usually more upper lobe, whereas more of like benign nodule kind of appearances are usually middle lower lobe. So if you get tumors up here near the upper lobe, especially near the thoracic outlet, what can I mash on? Oh, there's a bunch of nerves and vessels. Let's talk about that. Compressive effects of these tumors are sometimes classic exam questions and things that'll tip you off to really think about a tumor that's a little bit more apical. So a lot of the times we think about upper lobe tumors, especially if they're near the superior sulcus, we call those pencoast tumors, right? And these tumors can mash on a lot of different nerves. And so let's think about some of these. The first way that this can happen is if you compress what's called the sympathetic chain ganglia. So let's say here's an apical tumor. And again, we can call these apical tumors, we can call them apical, or we can call them pencoast tumors. Now, I ask you the question, my friends, which types of tumors would you associate an apical or a pencoast tumor with? I want you to write them down, please pay attention. It's used to be squamous, which was the primary one. Nowadays, we're seeing an uptick in ADNO. Squamous, ADNO, squamous, ADNO, associated with apical, pencoast tumors. Now, this apical, pencoast tumor, look at this thing. Look at this son of a gun. It's just mashing on this thing right here. What the heck is this thing? This is our sympathetic chain ganglia. This is again, what is this called? This is called the sympathetic chain ganglia. Gang, gang, gang. So we got this thing here. When these guys come up, you have some ganglia here that they'll synapse on, but this one, this nerve, this is your sympathetic nerves. Now imagine, if I have some nerves running up through this thing, it actually goes to your face. So just for now, I promise, I'll make it a little bit more detailed, but this is gonna give sympathetic supply. So this is the sympathetic supply, SNS supply to the face. And there's specific structures, right? There's this hole on. If I mash on this puppy here, I'm going to decrease the flow to the face. I'm gonna decrease that sympathetic nervous system supply to the face. How is this going to present? Well, let's think about it here for a second. If I have this thing mashing, and here I'm gonna have a nerve, and this nerve actually runs through here, and it goes and supplies the iris, the pupil. It's supposed to control the pupil. And then there's another one here that's gonna go and supply a muscle. So let's say here I have a muscle. This is for the levator palpiparous superiors. And then here I'm gonna have a muscle, which is gonna be for the iris, for us to have pupillary constriction or dilation. When I have damage or compression of this nerve and this nerve, what's gonna happen? If this is supposed to elevate my eyelid, I know it looks freaky right now, but it doesn't do that anymore because it supplies damage to what's gonna happen. I think it's gonna droop. And so because of this, this is actually gonna cause injury to the sympathetic nervous supplies, the levator palpiparous superiors. What's gonna happen? This is gonna cause ptosis. It's gonna cause ptosis of the upper eyelid. From this component here, this is also supplying sympathetic supply to the pupil. Now sympathetic dilates, parasympathetic usually is going to constrict. But in this scenario, what happens if you lose the sympathetic supply? Will you be able to dilate now? No, so what will start happening is it'll start kind of constricting and getting smaller. So in this scenario, what's gonna happen if I lose my sympathetic supply? I'll get meiosis, which is pupillary constriction. Again, not supplying the levator palpiparous superiors, not causing dilation of the pupil, leads to ptosis and meiosis respectively. You know what else? The sympathetic nerves are also supposed to supply, let's represent this in blue here, you're supposed to be able to control the sweat glands. So here is going to be some sweating. On this side, what are you gonna have? No sweating. There will be no sweating that occurs here because the sympathetic supply that's supposed to go to the sweat glands is lost. So you get what's called anhydrosis. Anhydrosis. So if a patient comes in with PAM, PAM, PAM, PAM, right? Tosis, meiosis and anhydrosis, you need to be thinking about Horner syndrome. Horner syndrome could be due to a lot of different things. There could be some kind of compression of this nerve and there's a lot of things that could do that. Dissections can do that. But if I think about a tumor, a pancoast tumor near the upper parts of the lobe, that can definitely smash on that. So Horner syndrome, think about that and patients with apical lung tumors. Okay, we got this one done, right? So we mashed on the sympathetic chain. What if we mash on the frenic nerve? What happens then? Well, let's think about this. I got a tumor again. This could be apical, it could even be central. So it doesn't have to just be apical. Again, the frenic nerve comes down through the thoracic outlet, but it also moves down through the medius diatom. So if there's compression at any one of these points, you can get frenic nerve paralysis. It doesn't just have to be at the apex. But usually these tumors are gonna be a little bit more within the central or again, usually the apical portion where they're gonna mash on the frenic nerve. Now, frenic nerve comes from what roots? C3 to C5 nerve roots. Comes down, moves through the thoracic outlet into what? Into the superior medius diatom and then it goes into the middle medius diatom and goes down and supplies the diaphragm. So what's it supposed to do? This is your right hemi diaphragm. Diaphragm is such an annoying word to spell, right guys? Come on, I have to spell like Fragum from a, don't know if for me to do this thing. So right hemi diaphragm and over here is gonna be the left hemi diaphragm. In this scenario, I have a tumor that's compressing on the right frenic nerve. If it's compressing on the right frenic nerve, I'm going to get decreased supply to the right hemi diaphragm. I want you to think about this for a second. What does the diaphragm do whenever it contracts? Come on, domes down so that you can increase the cavity of your thoracic, your increase the volume of your thoracic cavity. In this situation, will the right hemi diaphragm go down? No, will this one go down? Yes. So the common clinical presentation is when you get a chest X, right? You'll see an elevated hemi diaphragm on the chest X, right? So you'll have a elevated hemi diaphragm. Now, you're probably like, okay, that's good to know, but there's a lot of things that can cause a elevated hemi diaphragm. Is that, can't atylactasis do that? Yeah, so how do we really confirm this? We actually have to do something called a sniff test. So they have what's called a positive sniff test. You're probably like, okay, cool, what's this mean, bro? Come on, hit me. A positive sniff test is kind of more of like a fluoro study where you actually see things happening live. You literally take them, have them take a sniff. If you take a sniff, your diaphragm should contract enough to domed down and open up your volume for your thoracic cavity. If the right's paralyzed, the right friend of nerve is paralyzed, is that right diaphragm going to depress? No, it remains elevated during the sniff test. Other ways that these patients present is dyspnea, especially when they're flat. So think about that as well. And the patient who presents with dyspnea and a elevated hemi diaphragm on the affected side, think about phrenic nerve paralysis. All right, come down here. Brachial Plexopathy, this one is apical. So remember, apical, apical, apical, apical, 100%. This one could be apical or central. So here, let's right over here. We got it apical, or what else? Can we call it, come on? Pencoast tumor. And this is near that superior sulcus, right? This thing is, oh my gosh, look at this. You see this? These are nerve roots, C8, T1, T2, usually that level. And so what you do is, these things are just, oh my gosh, look at this. They're just mashing on these nerve roots. So this is your brachial plexus, which is going to come down and supply the arm, right? If I compress some of these things, the arm, right? If I compress some of the nerve roots, I can get a bunch of different symptoms. And so usually what happens here is you compress, as there is compression, I'd say oftentimes more than not, compression of C8 to T2, all right, of the brachial plexus. Now, when you compress this, this area is most often going to cause referred neurologic pain to the shoulder, all right? So you're going to get some shoulder and arm pain. It's usually going to refer to the shoulder and the arm, some pain there. But then remember, what distribution often comes from this portion of the brachial plexus? And it comes down to the pinky side, the ulnar distribution. So you can get some palsy effect here. So if I get some ulnar nerve palsy, what could happen here? I could have some weakness, I could have some atrophy, and I could even have some sensory deficits of that ulnar nerve distribution. So you could even get some ulnar nerve palsy. This is really important. So again, think about some weakness and atrophy, potentially of the muscles here in the forearm, or even within the hypothermogenase, or some of the digits. And think about sensory distribution. You may get some numbness, some tingling, some peristeges that could also present. And patients who have Pancos tumors, oftentimes they present with a combination of these two. It's called Pancos syndrome. Pancos syndrome is oftentimes a combination of brachial plexopathy and Horner syndrome. All right, the last nerve is the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Now this one is kind of an interesting one. You got, they're coming from the vagus, right? So here is your right vagus. Here is your left vagus. And with these, they come down. So the right vagus comes down and swoops right underneath the right subclavian artery, and then comes back as the right, and I'm gonna abbreviate this because I don't have enough speech, right recurrent laryngeal nerve, right? This one here, then that goes up to the cricothyroid of the larynx, right? And then this one, left vagus, and here, let me actually do this so we can kind of really identify. You see how I swoop it? Swoop it there. Swoop it, and then we'll swoop this one here. This is going to be which one? Comes down, left vagus, swoops underneath the aortic arch, and comes up. This is the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Textbooks will say that you're oftentimes gonna get more likely compression of the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. It doesn't really matter too much, I just want you to know. They usually, these apical tumors, they're gonna compress one of these recurrent laryngeal nerves. The recurrent laryngeal nerves is they come back, they supply the vocal cords, really the cricothyroid, and that controls your vocal cords, right? To control your speech. What can happen here is, if I have compression of these dang things, look, I'm mashing this son of a gun here, mashing it. Am I gonna get good supply to this actual, what? The voice box, no. So what can happen here is you can actually get what's called vocal cord paralysis. Now, it's usually, since you're most often the tumors in the right lung, it's gonna be unilateral. So it's ipsilateral vocal cord paralysis. The most often way, or common way, that these patients will present is one of two ways. So let's actually do this. With vocal cord paralysis, they may present with hoarseness of the voice and very rare scenarios they can aspirate. Because again, your vocal cords are supposed to close when you're swallowing. But if this one's paralyzed, can it actually close properly? No. So you have the risk of food and fluids getting down there. Nasty recipe for pneumonia. So it increases the risk of a hoarse voice, but also increases, I don't know how to happen there, aspiration. And aspiration breeds a ground for pneumonitis or pneumonia. So that's something you really wanna be thinking about. So if a patient comes in, they're saying, man, cough, wheezing, dyspnea. I got some unintentional weight loss. And then now, they say, oh, I've noticed a change in my voice. It's really hoarse. I've been aspirating when I eat food or drinking liquids. I've also noticed that I have some dyspnea. And particularly when I got my chest x-ray last time, they said that my hemidifera was elevated. They probably wouldn't say that, but you can give them a say. And they also endorse other potential features like ptosis, meiosis, and hydrosis. And then lastly, maybe they also endorse some pain running into the shoulder, the arm, and some weakness of the ulnar nerve distribution. Those are things to start thinking about as compressive symptoms. This is gonna come up in the exam, I promise, one way or the other. So really commit this to memory. The four nerves that are gonna be potentially pinched is going to be which ones again? The sympathetic chain, the phrenic nerve, the brachial plexus, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. What else can be compressed? Let's talk about that next, and that's the superior vena cava. All right, my friends, let's move on now to talk about the compressive effects, particularly the vascular compression. So we talked a lot about the nerve compression. The vascular compression, this is a really, really scary one. So SVC syndrome is basically when a patient has extrinsic compression of the SVC. So what is it again? They have extrinsic, so usually a tumor compressing on the SVC. Let's write that out. Now the question that arises here is what is actually doing it? So remember I talked to you a little bit about how usually apical tumors will compress things like the brachial plexus, they'll compress things like the sympathetic chain, and then you can get something like a panko syndrome with that. We also talked about phrenic nerve compression, recurrent laryngeal nerve compression, so things like that. In this scenario, again, it's more of a central mass, and usually these things have to grow pretty darn big. This is usually seen with small cell lung cancer and squamous cell carcinoma. So again, which types of tumors will be causing something like this? This is something that you would usually see with a central mass, and usually these central masses, the most common are going to be which two? Small cell lung cancer, which will abbreviate as SCLC, and squamous cell carcinoma, which will abbreviate SCC. So with this, we got this big old honker here, and look at this puppy, just straight mashing on the SVC. Can you get a drop of blood down through that puppy? No, sirree. And so what happens is blood wants to rush this way, but it's blocked. And what happens is it starts to move upwards and backflow via the internal jugular vein, or it also starts to backflow via the subclavian vein. And what happens is you're gonna start getting some symptoms, and so you're gonna get a lot of edema or a backflow, so you're gonna get backflow through the internal jugular vein, and you're also gonna get backflow via the subclavian vein. And we'll talk about what that looks like, though, which you can get backflow through subclavian vein. Now, if you get all of this backflow, what's this gonna present as? Well, clinical presentation is, if I get backflow via the internal jugular vein, it's gonna cause swelling, and a lot of types of distention, particularly of the jugular vein. So one way that this will actually present, let's say that this is via backflow, so let's abbreviate this as the internal jugular vein is the one that's being affected here. And that scenario, this patient will get what's called a JVD, jugular venous distention. That jugular vein will be popping. The other thing that will also happen is, is they'll get a lot of face and neck swelling. So they'll get a lot of face and neck edema. The other thing that can really be scary with these, and we'll talk about it, is sometimes, as blood starts to back up via the internal jugular vein, it can start to fill these small venous collaterals near the larynx, and that can get super ademinacy, it can cause laryngeal edema as well. That's a very scary complication. If it backs up via the subclavian vein, where will this one go? It'll go to the arms, the upper extremities. And so with this, the patient can start having arm and chest swelling. So this will cause arm and upper chest swelling. And sometimes, this can even produce more of like a bluish, like hue to it, it actually looks a little bit like this. So if you have a patient who looks like this, what is the biggest concern? Like what could actually cause this patient to potentially die? Well, the emergent component, because this is kind of like, I'd say an urgency, the emergent component of this, the scary, scary stuff, so scary complications, is if this swelling occurs enough, that I told you it backs up via the venous collaterals near the neck, it can cause laryngeal edema. And that can cause a lot of respiratory distress. So laryngeal edema is the thing that you gotta be careful of. This is the scary one. The other thing here is the internal jug of the vein. What else does it drain? Come on, think about this. You have your cerebral veins, right? So you have your sigmoid, your transversal,  synosis, they all dump in and they go via the internal jug of the vein. If you have a back flow in the internal jug of the vein, you can't drain those synoses. What happens if you keep a lot of blood inside of the brain? The pressure goes up, of course, according to the monorekeli doctrine. So another thing that can happen is this can definitely increase people's intracranial pressure. One of the things that when I worked in the ICU is we never wanted to plug up or put a central venous catheter in the internal jug of the vein if they have high intracranial pressure because you're impeding that drainage. Same thing here. If you have a big, big pressure dam because of this compression, you're not able to drain that vein. And because of that, that sounds really funny, drain the vein. But if you can't, you can't release the pressure from the brain. That can really be disastrous in certain patients. All right. SVC syndrome, we've got it. Compressing SVC, blood backflows. That's where the issue exists is right here. You're compressing on this area and blood can't move through. So it backs up. Looks like this. Real quick, let's do a quick, quick, quick recap because I know we talk about a lot of stuff and I know it can sometimes be really, really stressful. When you're a student, you have to learn all this stuff and you've got to take it for an exam, it stings. I get it. Let's remind ourselves though. If we have compression and we compress the nerves, what were the nerves? Well, the first one we talked about was the, what? We talked about the sympathetic chain, right? That was a big one. So we'll say the sympathetic chain. What else did we compress? We compressed the recurrent laryngeal nerve. So we compressed the recurrent laryngeal. What else did we compress? The phrenic nerve was another really, really important one. And then what was the last one? The brachial plexus. So again, it's really important to remember that with these, you're compressing these and usually what type of scenario? The sympathetic chain, the brachial plexus are usually apical tumors. With this, these are usually central tumors or more hyalur tumors. All right. With this one, you get Horner syndrome. With this one, you get voice paral, or vocal paral, cord paralysis. With this one, you get a asymmetric elevation of the hemidiaphragm. And this one, you can get arm, shoulder pain, and then peristegias in the ulnar distribution. With the vessels, what are you compressing? The superior vena cava. Where would this one be? More of a central hyalur mass. Small cell lung cancer is the most common, but also considered squamous cell. All right. We've compressed the vessels. We compressed the nerves. That's the last type of complications that we have to be worried about with a tumor, besides them spreading. Another thing is that these tumors, some of them gain the capacity to make hormones. What? Yeah. And if they can make hormones, they can cause a lot of different perineoplastic syndrome. Let's talk about that. All right. So perineoplastic syndrome are basically whenever a tumor gains the capacity to produce hormones. That's where it's kind of nerve wrecking. And this is really, really high yield. So if you're taking your exams, there's at least 100% chance that one of these are going to come up. This is the time it's going to be focusing on small cell carcinoma or small cell lung cancer. So really, really pay attention here. But again, perineoplastic syndrome is very, very common board questions that are going to come up. Now, how will they look? Well, again, the patients will come in, and usually in the vignettes, they're going to come in with some type of like non-specific symptoms. Maybe a cough, maybe shortness of breath, maybe some wheezing due to the endobronchial kind of obstruction, or they could come in with some other complications like pneumonia, right? So post obstructive pneumonia, hemoptysis. They could come in with compressive symptoms, compressing specific nerves, compressing specific vessels. But another way that you want to look for them to present is potentially with a perineoplastic syndrome. How will that look? All right. Let's say you have small cell lung cancer. Now, small cell lung cancer is the most aggressive lung cancer. When this is present, what this thing has the capability of doing is producing hormones. Now one of them, and again, it's because they're neuroendocrine cells. Remember the Cluchitzky cells? The Cluchitzky cells, they are neuroendocrine cells. They have the ability to produce hormones. And what they can gain the capacity to do is make a hormone. One of them is ADH. Now if they produce too much ADH, this ectopic ADH is a problematic thing. The reason why is if you guys remember, ADH will then circulate through the bloodstream. And what it'll do is it'll go over here and it'll bind onto this ADH receptor. You guys remember what kind of receptor this is, right? This is a vaso2 receptor, vasopressin2 receptor. This ADH will bind to the vasopressin2 receptor and stimulate it. When it stimulates it, it sends signals that activate aquaporins. And aquaporins will open up, and when you open up this aquaporin, it's going to allow water that's moving through the collecting duct to start flowing through these puppies. So now water that's rushing through this area, here's going to be the water. It's normally not supposed to be able to go through here. It's kind of impermeable or dependent upon hormones. If ADH is present, it's going to open up that aquaporin and it's going to flush that guy in. And when the water moves here, what's going to happen? We're going to end up getting a lot more water into the bloodstream. And so you get more water into the bloodstream and less of the water goes into the urine. So you're going to get more water in the blood and you get less water that goes into the urine. Less of this is going to, look, it'll have a little bit of drippiness here. A little bit of drippiness here. And you're going to have less water in the urine, more water in the bloodstream. What this does is this makes a super, super concentrated urine. And when we look at concentrated urines on specific tests, is we look at what's called urine osmolality, which I'll talk about a little bit later because this is, you know, something that we just need to focus on the SADH. Another thing that happens is when water gets into the bloodstream, that will actually do what to the bloodstream? Well, if you get lots of water, it actually kind of reduces the osmolality of the actual blood, the serum. And that's one thing. But the other thing that happens here is there's two things. One is going to reduce the serum osmolality. But the other thing is it's going to dilute down the amount of sodium that's present within the bloodstream. And so it can drop the sodium, but it can also decrease the serum osmolality. So it decreases the osmolality and it also is going to decrease the serum sodium. So here's what I want you guys to remember. If a patient comes in and they have a history of lung cancer and all of a sudden they present with hyponatremia, all right, which is a sodium that is less than one 35 mL equivalence per liter, then you say, okay, they got hyponatremia. How do I know if it's SADH? I send off a serum osmolality. What would my serum osmolality be? It'll be low, less than 300 usually. So they're going to have a low and I'm going to abbreviate the serum osmolality. Then what you're going to do is you're going to then say, okay, I have a hypotonic hyponatremia. The next thing I need to do is look at the urine. What's the urine tell me? It's very concentrated and that tells me that the urine osmolality is going to be pretty, really high. So I'm going to have a high urine osmolality, usually greater than at least 100 to 300. It's definitely going to be high. If that's the case, then I have right here a hypotonic hyponatremia, which is ADH dependent. Then what do I do? I look at volume status. What's the volume status of this patient? Uvolemic. Look at their history. They have lung cancer. That's how it proved that this is SADH. All right. Next component here. It also can make other hormones. What are the hormones you say? All right. This can also make what's called ACTH. Now this is kind of problematic because ACTH is normally supposed to be produced by the antipotuitary. This is supposed to be produced by the what? The posterior pituitary. So when ACTH is released in large amounts, ACTH will go to the adrenal glands, the zona fasciculata. It'll act on the zona fasciculata and tell the zona fasciculata cells to make what? It'll tell it to make another hormone here called cortisol. And cortisol levels will go up. And when cortisol goes up, what does it do? I don't want to focus too much because we talk about this in the Cushing's Disease and Cushing Syndrome lecture. But what we know about cortisol is it has so many different multifactorial effects. It causes what? It causes lipolysis and distribution. So they get the moon face, the buffalo hump. They get abdominal obesity with Shri-A. They also get a lot of muscle wasting. It also causes hyperglycemia. And what else? It can cause a lot of sympathetic activation. So it can cause patients to have a lot of hypertension. And so you're going to see a lot of these features with patients who have a Cushing's type of picture. The key thing here is when you have Cushing's, you always want to know is it coming from the adrenal gland or is it coming from the pituitary or somewhere else? And so what you'll do is, is the patient will have a high cortisol. And then you'll also check their ACTH. What would their ACTH levels be? That'll be high. Problem is, is you don't know if this is coming from the pituitary or if it's coming from a lung tumor. How do you determine this? You have to do what's called a high dose dexamethasone suppression test. And this will not suppress. So if you do what's called a high dose dexamethasone suppression test, you'll still have cortisol that's elevated despite that. So cortisol will still be increased, ooh son of a gun, will be increased despite high dose dexamethasone suppression. That's usually a telltale sign. All right. So if a patient comes in and they have Cushing's like features, check their cortisol, check their ACTH. And then from there, you may have a high dose dexamethasone. And then you may have a high dose dexamethasone. So if you have a high dose dexamethasone, check their ACTH. And then from there, you may have to do a dexamethasone suppression test, high dose to see if it suppresses. If it suppresses the pituitary, cool. Then it's definitely from the cancer, the lung cancer. All right. What's one more? Another potential picture here is that this tumor, it doesn't make hormones or make, I mean it doesn't make an antibody. What happens is, your immune system, on this, you have what's called tumor antigens. So let's say here is a tumor antigen. And this tumor antigen is viewed as foreign. And when it's viewed as foreign, the problem with that is, is that our immune system will produce antibodies against that tumor antigen. So here, it's going to pump out a couple different antibodies. Here's one, this is an ugly blue, let's get a different blue here. This is going to be a better blue. So here, that's a dark color there, my friends. We're going to have here some antibodies. When we produce these antibodies, these antibodies are going to be made and directed against these tumor antigens. So they're going to like this. And what they're going to do is they're going to try to go and bind to this tumor antigen, because you know, you don't want this to be there. So it'll activate your immune system cells, your immune system cells will come and try to fight this off. Here's the problem. Sometimes these antibodies can look like other proteins. There's a protein that's present on our synaptic neurons that go to our muscles of the neuromuscular junction. So here, this is all a part of our neuromuscular, this is part of our neuromuscular junction. This part here, all right? Now, at the neuromuscular junction, there is a channel here. And this channel is called a voltage-gated calcium channel. We actually give it a specific name. We give it a PQ voltage-gated calcium channel. The point of this is that it opens up, brings calcium in, and helps to trigger the release of acetylcholine onto the muscle. These patients produce antibodies, and unfortunately, these are supposed to go here. They're supposed to go and interact. But sometimes they may go rogue. And they say, oh, I'm in meander over here. And that's what it may do. And it may bind onto this PQ voltage-gated calcium channel. If you do that, you block the channel. If you block this channel, it doesn't work. I can't get calcium in. If I don't get calcium in here, then this fusion here, where I take this vesicle and I fuse it to release the acetylcholine, doesn't happen. If that doesn't happen, I don't make these neurotransmitters. If I don't make these neurotransmitters, this neurotransmitter will not bind onto, the acetylcholine will not bind onto this protein here. If it doesn't bind onto the protein, so it's supposed to come here and bind. It's supposed to come right here and bind to this puppy. Guess what? It's not going to. I'm going to block it because I'm not going to allow the acetylcholine to get released. If it can't do that, it can't take this channel because you know what it's supposed to do. It's supposed to sit in here like a seesaw and whip it up. It's not going to. It's going to stay closed. And if it stays closed, can I bring sodium into the cell and depolarize it? No. And so the sodium won't be able to do that. And so because of that, I don't get any positive ions here. So there's going to be no depolarization. Let's actually just do this. Let's do it. There's no depolarization. We'll do this simple here. No depolarization. Now, if there's no depolarization of the muscle, it's going to be able to contract. No. And so what happens with this is if I can't depolarize the muscle, you're not going to get muscle contraction. And if I don't get muscle contraction, what's going to happen to them? They're going to be super, super weak. So oftentimes what this does is this causes weakness in these patients. And it's called Lambert Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome. All right. It's very interesting. So for this one, they'll have proximal muscle weakness. Usually at the it's usually upper and lower extremities. Lower extremities is a little bit more predominant. But proximal muscle weakness. So it's going to affect more the shoulder girdle and the pelvic girdle. Here's the big difference. With Lambert Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome, the patient's weakness gets better with exertion. Myasthenia gravis, it gets worse with exertion. So that's a really, really important thing to remember here. So if it gets better. So if weakness improves with exertion, that suggests more of the Lambert Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome rather than Myasthenia gravis. Another thing is that both of these can also present with some of the bulbar stuff. So they can present with the diplopia. They can also present with dysphagia and dysarthria. So also remember that. But again, the biggest thing is weakness at the proximal extremities that improves with exertion is Lambert Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome. Whereas Myasthenia gravis is it gets worse with exertion. It usually gets worse throughout the day. You can also check for this type of channel antibody. So this antibody is being directed against this antibody, against this protein. You could actually check for that. You could check for the antibody against the PQ voltage Gidecalsim channels. But that is small cell lung cancer. Now we come to the next one. Now again, if you're going to get tested on one, it's going to be these three slides. Really wanted you to focus on these and think about it. Okay? Adenocarcinoma doesn't come up as much. This one is actually not as high yield, but I want to quickly talk about it. Adenocarcinoma, this one does have the ability to produce different types of procoagulants. These are usually tissue factor. So tissue factor is probably going to be one of the big ones, but there is other different types of procoagulants. Now, when you make tissue factor, what we know is the tissue factor is a part of the extrinsic pathway. It activates factor 7. Factor 7 helps to activate factor 10. Factor 10 in the combination with factor 5 helps to be able to convert what? Prothroman and the thrombot. Thrombot activates eventually fibrin and fibrin helps with forming a clot. So what's going to happen here? These patients will lead to the formation of clots. So this is going to cause more of a hypercoagulable state. Right? And this can induce basically a higher risk of thrombosis. Now this thrombosis you would think, oh, it's going to cause DVTs and PEs. It can. But it's actually more likely to cause superficial venous thrombus and it causes the vessels to get pretty inflamed. So it can cause something called superficial, superficial, venous, thrombo, phlebitis. Okay? And it actually looks a little bit like this. So you can see there that the patient has these hard, tender, red kind of cords. That's where the clots occur in the superficial veins. They get really blocked and then cause inflammation of that vein. Other things that, yeah, you definitely have to be considering is that any kind of patient with cancer or malignancy carries that risk of thrombosis of a lower leg vein that can then spread and cause a PE. There's one other one that can sometimes be tested and you want to think about it. If a patient comes in and they have endocarditis and you have negative cultures and your echo is showing that you have some type of small vegetation there, you want to think about what's called non-bacterial thrombotic endocarditis. Sometimes they call this morantic endocarditis. So MBTE, it's non-bacterial thrombotic endocarditis, also known as a morantic endocarditis. Now this is one that I actually would take into consideration and remember here. Another thing that can happen is this tumor can make something called Transforming Growth Factor Beta. So Transforming Growth Factor Beta is a kind of like a weird cytokine that can act on periosteal cells and different types of osteoclasts. So it's going to come over here and it's going to act on different bone cells and different types of periosteal cells. And what it's going to do is it's going to cause these cells to start depositing calcium and collagen like matrix into the bone. So what it will do is it will tell these cells to start depositing calcium and collagen into the bone. Now when it starts to do that right, so you're going to activate different bone cells and you're going to also activate different types of fibroblasts and this is going to start producing lots of, again collagen and lots of calcium. So you're going to produce lots of calcium and lots of collagen, a lot of different types of extracellular matrix here and what's going to happen is all of this stuff is going to start just depositing into the bone tissue. When it deposits into the bone tissue what you're going to get is you're going to get a thickening of the bone tissue. That bone tissue is going to really, really thicken. And what happens is when you get thickened bone tissue so thickened bone tissue, it tends to happen most often around the digits. And what it will look like is it will produce something called finger clubbing. So it's called finger clubbing. And I'm not even kidding, they're walking around with spoons for fingers, right? They can dip into their pesto or all their different stuff with their fingernails. And I'm not even kidding, if you take a look at this, it's actually pretty sad they have significant finger clubbing and it's usually due to a lot of this process here where they're producing lots of transforming growth factor beta that's causing different types of periosteal bone cells and fibroblasts to produce lots of calcium and collagen that gets deposited into the bone. Really thickens the bone up, usually around the digits. So that covers adenocarcinoma now let's move on to the next component which is squamous cell. Alright my friends, so now we go into the next one which is squamous cell. This one is a nasty cancer and I think the biggest thing that you could be tested on is actually this one too. So small cell lung cancer there's almost always a question on something like you know, cushions or SADH or potentially even that Lambert eating myosinic syndrome. But another one that's really high yield for the perineal plastic syndrome is definitely the squamous cell carcinoma. It can cause hypercalcemia malignancy. Now the reason why this happens is this tumor it actually gains the capacity to produce something called PTHRP. So this is called parathyroid hormone related peptide. Now this son of a gun right here it's kind of like parathyroid hormone. It just it doesn't really act too much on the kidneys to hydroxylate, increase the activity of the one alpha hydroxylase enzyme. But this one right here what it's going to do is is it's going to go to the bones and it's going to act on these osteoclasts right? And so when you activate these osteoclasts what do osteoclasts do? Come on you know this right? Scream it out just at home you're like I know it breaks down the bone! So osteoclasts they're going to release things different types of acid phosphatases and things like that that are going to start breaking and eating away at the bone. And so as I start kind of chewing away at the bone what's going to happen? Well if I cause bone resorption right? I'm going to start kind of liberating calcium and phosphates and stuff like that from the bone. So this is going to lead to a lot of like bone kind of resorption. And when you increase your bone resorption the whole point of that bone resorption is to liberate calcium from the bone. Now that calcium once it's kind of resorbed and removed it's going to start getting into the bloodstream. And if we mobilize this into the bloodstream what's going to happen to the amount of calcium inside of the blood it's going to go up and that's one of the ways that we can get hypercalcemia right? So osteoclasts definitely going to start kind of triggering this bone destruction. The other thing here is pthrp also can act here on the kidneys really at the distal convoluted tubular receptors that act like you know just like pth they can act on this and they can increase calcium reabsorption. So what they'll do is is they'll stimulate calcium reabsorption in the distal convoluted tubular. And if I increase calcium reabsorption that's where we kind of get a problem here because now we got a two-fold problem here. We're reabsorbing calcium across the kidneys and then we're removing calcium from the bone. By doing that I bring calcium into the bloodstream and I really really pump this dude up. Now when calcium is high obviously there's a lot of different ways that this can present. It could be completely asymptomatic but it could also present potentially with the stones, bones, groans, thorns, psychiatric overtone presentation right? We talked about that in the calcium disorder lecture. But the other thing that you have to remember is when you have high pthrp that's liberating this calcium high calcium does what to your pth levels? Well you have to remember that high calcium is going to inhibit the parathyroid gland from producing pth. And so what will happen is this will shut down the parathyroid gland and tell the parathyroid glands to not make parathyroid hormone because the calcium is high. And that's really really important. So one of the things that we'll see here is we'll have a patient who comes in, they may have symptoms, they may not, they may get a workup and on their chemistry we find that they have a high calcium level right? Then we check the pth because we always want to make sure O is their calcium really high because of pth. And what we'll do is, is we'll check the pth. And we'll find that their pth is low. And you should also check other things, you should check their vitamin D levels as well because their vitamin D would have no contribution in this whatsoever. Because remember pthrp doesn't hydroxylate that it doesn't increase the expression of 1F hydroxylate so it doesn't actually increase the vitamin D. So if their vitamin D will also probably be like low or normal, that won't be the issue. This is not the one that's high, right? So it could either be low or it could be normal. But the whole point is that it's not going to be high and this one's not going to be high. What you would have to check is the pthrp. And so if you see that this patient has a very high pthrp that is going to suggest that this is a hypercalcium malignancy due to likely a squamous cell carcinoma. You'd also have to check to see if they have any metastasis as well. So check for any kind of lytic lesions of the bone that could also be something to consider. But this is kind of a really, really big one to remember. Alright. Boom! Shaka Laka. Let's move on to the next one. Large cell carcinoma. Large cell carcinoma isn't really known too well for causing a lot of these different types of problems like perineoplastic syndrome. But what it has been shown is that it actually may release things like beta-HCG. And beta-HCG potentially can cause a couple different issues. One is it may increase the patient's estrogen levels. And what that may do is this elevated beta-HCG may cause potential, you know, sexual dysfunction. Right? And so what happens is this may cause things like gynecomastia. Right? And gynecomastia, usually what we would see here as you would see that these patients, if you check, you may check and say, okay, what could be other reasons of why they would have this? Now, when we check large cell carcinoma, one of the things that you would do is you would say, okay, they have this, let me check the prolactin. And the prolactin shouldn't be the problem. This one should be kind of like normal. Right? That's not going to be the issue. The other thing that you would do is you would check their FSH and LH to make sure that there's nothing kind of going on weird there. And this should be appropriately like normal or it should be kind of like low or should be normal or suppressed appropriately. The thing that you would check is you would say, oh, let's check the beta-HCG. The beta-HCG is the one that's going to be potentially high. And that's also going to be associated with an increase in estrogen. So these patients will have increased beta-HCG and this beta-HCG is going to increase their estrogen production. That's going to cause things like gynecomastia and males. Right? So they're going to have this in large breast tissue. The other thing is it also can cause certain changes potentially within the testes. So it may cause potentially like infertility as well. But here, another thing that we would want to remember is the beta-HCG, again, it's also going to go here and it's going to cause changes within the testes. So it may cause certain types of infertility issues or difficulty in being able to get a woman pregnant. Right? So they may cause the patient to become more sterile. And reduction in libido. Alright? So it may cause sterility and it may also reduce, again, their testosterone production because you're increasing their estrogen production. This may also cause a reduction in libido. Alright, sweet. So large cell carcinoma, again, remember, it's a pump up in the beta-HCG. That's going to cause their granicomast. And when a patient presents with large breast tissue, you should always check to see if their prolactin is high, their FSH and LH is high, or if the beta-HCG is high. If their esthion is high, okay, cool. Figure out if it's from FSH and LH. If that's normal, cool. Check the beta-HCG. The other thing is watch for other types of secondary sex effects such as are there problems with fertility or libido changes? Alright. The last perineal plastic syndrome is carcinoid tumors. Now, carcinoid tumors are interesting in the sense that they have the capability of producing a hormone called 5-hydroxy tryptamine. And 5-hydroxy tryptamine can actually be converted into serotonin pretty easily, actually. And so these things can pump out a decent amount of serotonin. Now, again, it's important to remember carcinoid tumors can occur in the lungs and they can occur in the GIT. Which one's more common? GIT, lung less common. But 5-hydroxy tryptamine it actually gets metabolized. And one of the things that can happen is with 5-hydroxy tryptamine is this can act in a bunch of different ways because it can actually increase your serotonin. So it's going to actually get converted eventually into what's called serotonin. And so serotonin is really where the problem exists because increased serotonin can produce specific effects on the body. One of the things that can happen is serotonin can produce some changes. So it can act on a couple of different tissues. One is it can act in the lungs it can act in the GIT it can also act on the skin and it's going to produce a very classic triad. Let's remember this triad. The triad if it acts on the lungs is it's going to precipitate wheezing. So it'll precipitate a wheezing effect. If it acts on the GIT it's going to produce diarrhea. It'll produce more of a secretory diarrhea it's going to cause a lot of secretion. And the last thing is it can actually act on the skin and this may be the niacin reactant. And the last thing is it can actually act on the skin and this may be the niacin reaction. It can also cause flushing. So this is a very common triad like picture. Now carcinoid syndrome with this also is really important that you pick up something else. Serotonin gets metabolized via the liver. And when it gets metabolized via the liver it gets metabolized via what's called monoamine oxidases. And the monoamine oxidase is convert this serotonin so here we'll put like a little cute little enzyme. This is called a mono amine oxidase. Mono amine oxidase enzyme. It's going to catalyze this conversion. When it does that it converts this into what's called 5 hydroxy indole acetic acid. And this poppy is going to go right to the kidneys where it gets urinated out. So it goes into the urine. So you'll have high what's called 5 hydroxy indole acetic acid in the urine. In the urine. That's actually really helpful because this should not normally be that high. So when a patient comes in with wheezing, diarrhea, flushing, endobronchial obstruction, you think they have a carcinoid tumor, what could you check? Check this level. And if they have an increased 5 hydroxy indole acetic acid, you can do further testing. There's a bunch of other tests. We'll talk about that more in another lecture. Particularly when we get into the gastrointestinal stuff like cancers. But this one is a really really important thing to remember. So check this and if it's elevated in the urine, that can kind of be like a little initial test to see what's the  likelihood of them having carcinoid syndrome. All right, cool. That's our perineal plastics. The last thing that I wanna talk about here with complications of lung cancer is the ability of this cancer to have the little cells, those little cancer cells, break off, get into the bloodstream ortholomphatic system and cause tumors to settle in other organs of the body. Let's talk about that last. All right, so now metastasis. This is really, really important that you have to remember this. So when a patient has lung cancer and they come in and you potentially see that they have features of lung cancer, you get potential imaging. So you start off maybe with a chest x-ray, you say, oh, there's a weird opacity there. Then you get a CT scan of the chest and you get a better characterization. You say, oh, wow, there's a big honkin' master. Maybe even see some lymphenopathy. The next concern is, is do I start ordering tests for other potential areas that spread? You can, however, a lot of the guidelines say that you should order that test based upon potential symptomatology. A lot of the times we're gonna do a PET CT scan to look and see the degree of metastasis. Anyway, but again, it kinda just depends on the degree of what their chest CT shows us. And the nodes really have a lot to do with a lot of that. So when a patient has cancer of the lung, it can definitely spread. And so the things that we worry about is that these cancer cells, you have so many lymph nodes nearby. So you have so many different lymph nodes. And if these things just happen to spread enough that they get into a lymph node, this can spread via the lymphatic vessels, right? And so this can cause these lymph nodes to get really, really enlarged because they can get contained with tumor cells. And so let's just say, for example, that these cancers, they spread via the lymph nodes. Where could they go? Well, you have a lot of lymph nodes that are kind of located along these peribronchial tree, right? So a lot of these are near the hyalum that we have a lot of these lymph nodes. They're near the hyalum. And so if you see a lot of these, these are definitely the ones that are gonna get hit the first, right? So when the patient has a lot of hyalur lymph nodes that are involved, that's what we define as what's called N1 stage. So N1 stage is when you have a lot of hyalur nodes that are positive. So you have positive hyalur nodes. And these things are pretty, pretty filled with cancerous material. Now, if this spreads, so let's say it starts off here, let's say you have a tumor right here. And that tumor, again, it's spread to these hyalur lymph nodes, right? So the spread to the hyalur lymph nodes, that's gonna be N1. Now, if it then spread from the hyalur lymph nodes into the medial stynum. So now it's still on the same side. So we'll kinda cut this in half. Let's say that I cut this right here in half. Here's the tumor, spread to the ipsilateral hyalur nodes. If it then spread into the nodes here that sit in the medial stynum, right? Then it goes here, spreads to this one. That's N2, all right? So N2 is your involving the medial stynum. So the medial stynum nodes. But it's still ipsilateral. So it's on the same side as the tumor. What happens is when we start moving. So here we have N1, here we have N2. The point where it spreads to the lymph nodes on the other side, so it's contralateral. So it moves over here. It spreads to this medial stynum node, or spreads here to these paratracheal or hyalur nodes. Then we have N3. Another thing that could happen is it could spread up above the clavicle. And so if it spreads up above the clavicle, then we have something called supraclavicular nodes. And so the way that we define the last one is N3. And N3 is its supraclavicular nodes are positive. Or you have contralateral. Doesn't matter which one, but the contralateral nodes are positive. So if you have supraclavicular nodes that are filled with cancerous material, or your contralateral nodes, medial stynum, hyalur, are positive, then you're N3. So it's really, really important to remember, because it helps us determine the stage of the patient's lung cancer. So it can spread via the lymphatics. Via the lymphatics. And if it does, it can cause a lot of lymph adenopathy. Now, if it spreads via the bloodstream hematogenus, so then it's hematogenus, this is where we get a lot of other scary things. So let's say that this thing goes and it spreads over here to the brain. Or it spreads to the liver. Or it spreads to the adrenal glands. Or it potentially goes and spreads to the bone. This is the most common organs or sites of metastasis. You remember this via the mnemonic blab. So blab is for the brain, the liver, the adrenals, and the bone. Now, how would this potentially look? Brain mats, if these cancerous tumors get here, they typically like to involve the gray-white junction. They can kind of be scattered, they can be all over the place. And so this can present a bunch of different ways. This could actually hit an area and cause focal deficits. This could also potentially cause like just generalized symptoms like headache. Or in some scenarios, which I've seen in the neuro ICU, it can cause seizures like a new onset. So you really wanna be careful of this. As a patient's coming in with focal deficits and headache and seizures, they may have metastasis to the brain. And you probably have to go and get a brain MRI with and without contrast to really see those ring-enhancing lesions. The liver, it can deposit here. And if it does deposit here, oftentimes it doesn't really cause a lot of symptoms. You may get a light increase in the LFTs. So you may have a slight LFT bump, that you wanna take into consideration, just like in breast cancer, you'd have to check for them. And especially alkyphos, that may be a little bit bumped. But oftentimes it's pretty much asymptomatic. The adrenal glands, this is another one though. When these go, usually it involves bilateral. So it can cause bilateral mets, right? Bilateral metastasis. And usually this doesn't cause any symptoms. But if it's enough that enough of the mets have incorporated into about 90% of the adrenal cortex, it can happen, it's relatively rare, but you do have to watch out for what's called adrenal insufficiency. Also known as Addison's disease. That's rare, but you wanna watch out for that. So the patient can start having a drop in their cortisol, a drop in their aldosterone, right? They can have hypotremia, hyperkalemia, they can have hypoglycemia, they can have hypotension, hypovolemia. It's a really, really nasty disease. The last one is bone mets. If the cancer actually does have the ability to get into the bones, the problem with this is that this metastasis, it can activate, they release things like osteoclastic activating factor and a bunch of other things that cause the activation of our bone cells. And what's gonna happen is the bone cells, your osteoclasts are gonna get activated and they're gonna start chewing through the bone. And you're gonna get all these nasty lytic lesions, right? And these lytic lesions are gonna start chewing through the bone. When they chew through the bone, this is gonna cause a couple of different types of symptoms. One is it can cause pain. The other thing is it can cause fractures, right? Pathological fractures where they have undesirable fractures that occur and it doesn't usually make sense. And the last one is that sometimes with these lytic lesions, they can chew enough of the bone up that they can liberate calcium from the bone. Especially if you chew enough of this bone up, you can definitely liberate calcium from the bone. So you also wanna watch out for elevated calcium or hypercalcemia. So these are the things that you definitely would wanna consider and I'd even consider checking like an alkaline phosphatase as well. So when a patient has metastasis from the lung to other different areas, what are you looking for? Lymphadenopathy is one. Oftentimes, this is not something that's usually gonna be easily found like we wouldn't breast cancer where we can palpate a node. This is something that you'd probably pick up on a chest CT. And if it was missed on a chest CT, you could pick up on a PET CT scan, right? The other thing is the other organs. This is usually symptom driven. Now with these, you may not have a lot of symptoms, but with these, you may have a lot of symptoms. So oftentimes what we look for, because some of them can be completely asymptomatic, is doing PET CTs to see if the tumor lights up in the liver, lights up in the adrenals, or lights up in the bone. The brain is a little bit more specific. This is the one where unless the patient presents with symptoms, we may not go getting a brain MRI unless we have good reason, meaning they're presenting with neuro deficits, neurological symptoms, or they were diagnosed with small cell lung cancer, which can easily spread to the brain, all right? My friends, that covers the complications. I know it's a lot, but hang in with me, because now what I wanna do is I wanna take you down through the most proper diagnostic framework to think about how would a patient who comes in with, what I think may have some symptomatology of lung cancer, how do I diagnose it? But also, it is crucial for us as clinicians to know how to screen those patients who are at high risk, and to know what are the different modalities that we use to screen for pulmonary nodules or lung cancer, and catch it before it's too late. Let's talk about that now. All right, so let's now move into the diagnostic approach. So we wanna first start off with the concept of pulmonary nodules. So whenever a patient comes in, and they have a smoking history, obviously we determine that smoking history based upon the past per year, and it really also considers their age too. When we think about that, we can put these patients into a higher risk category, saying that these patients who smoke, who are older, they have a higher risk of lung cancer, and I may identify a beginning stages of it, like a nodule, or maybe it's a little bit more of an identifier of a mass, and so we have to always consider this as a way of being able to catch lung cancer before it's too late, not picking it up when it's stage three, stage four. So this is what we're gonna talk a little bit about the approach to pulmonary nodules, and then considering what happens if these nodules are low risk, intermediate risk, high risk, what do we do? So the first thing is you have to know which patients you actually screen to look for these dang coin lesions and nodules that are in their lungs. So what would that be? So this is A-50 to 80 year old patient with a 20 plus pack year smoking history. That is the way that I want you guys to consider that. If they got a 20 plus year pack year smoking history, 50 to 80 years of age, you need to start considering doing low-dose CT scans annually. Now the other thing that's gonna be important to remember is you do this even if they're a current smoker or they quit within the past 15 years. So that's also really important. So this could be a current, or if they quit within the past 15 years, you still need to consider pushing these patients to get an annual low-dose CT scan of the chest, because this is gonna help me, it's gonna be lower dose, you're not exposing them to as much radiation, which is also beneficial. And it's gonna help us to see if we see any masses or lung nodules. Now if I do this and I find a mass, usually we kind of define that as the irregularity of the mass, the size of the mass, the kind of the overall look of the mass, the contents of it, that would actually help me to be very, very considerate. So if I had a greater than three centimeter of pairing mass, and maybe it appeared irregular, maybe it was speculated or scalloped, maybe it had some heterogeneous kind of component, or it was very, very high density kind of opacity, then I'm gonna be concerned with the lung mass, right? An example of that is if we look here, this is gonna be a CT scan, I'm taking axial kind of section, you can see here in the right lung, look at this. This thing is like speculated, and it's a very, very homogenous kind of like appearing tissue. And so this is definitely very, very considerate of a, I'd say a malignant kind of like presentation. This is definitely, definitely high risk. And I would say that this is a patient who likely has a right lung cancer, all right? Now, in the other hand, if I see a mass that appears like it's less than or equal to three centimeters, that could be considered of a pulmonary nodule. And so here you can see the same kind of situation here, here's the left lung, here's the right lung, you can appreciate right there, there is this well circumscribed kind of round opacity in the right lung. And that really would suggest more pulmonary nodule, where this one that's really kind of like large, speculated, this would definitely be concerning of like a carcinoma, especially something like adenocarcinoma, or depending upon overall, I don't have a complete look at the location, but this would definitely be a little bit more peripheral. So I would definitely be concerned with something like adenocarcinoma. The next thing is we wanna know, is this a new or known pulmonary nodule? The reason why is if it's new, this is something that we have to start kind of maybe tracking a little bit sooner, being a little bit more careful with. If it's a known nodule, then we just wanna know, has it gotten any bigger or has it stayed the same? Because if it's gotten bigger, we need to be a little bit more aggressive. If it hasn't gotten any bigger, it hasn't changed, then we can probably just continue to go with their normal annual low-dose CT scans. And so it's important to know, is it new, or has it gotten bigger if we have a prior chest x-ray or CT scan to compare it to? So that's the first thing is knowing, is there any prior imaging available? If it's not, then we have to treat this as though this is a new pulmonary nodule. If there is prior imaging, again, I just wanna know, has it gotten any bigger within the past two years? If there has been no growth, that's okay. That's a little bit more of a benign appearing nodule, and I can just kind of go back to doing my annual low-dose CT scans. If there is growth and it's gotten bigger over the past two years, well then I need to start being a little bit more aggressive. This is a suspicious nodule that's getting a little bit bigger. So with these two, we kind of treat them somewhat the same, which is then from there, we got to let's get a standard dose CT scan of the chest, and we get really, really thin slices. Get a good look at this, and also consider their malignancy risk, because now these patients I have to fit into, are they low risk, are they intermediate risk, are they high risk? Because if it's low risk, I can continue the low-dose CT scans. But if it's more intermediate or high risk, I may have to go to the route of a PET CT, I may have to go to the route of a biopsy. And so that's what we wanna do next. So let's say that we get the standard dose CT scan of the chest, and we start looking at the actual nodule that's gotten bigger, or it's a new one, we can then use that as a way of looking at the size of it, the overall kind of like appearance of it, the location of it, and combine that with their history. So we have three categories, low risk, intermediate risk, and high risk. The patient history is obviously key. We wanna know age, we wanna know smoking, those are really gonna be the big things. So age, we wanna know if they're less than 40, that puts them at a lower risk. The older you get towards that 50 to 80 year old range, you get more of that higher risk kind of category. Smoking is we're looking at have they ever smoked? If they haven't, that puts them at a lower risk. You can still get adenocarcinoma, even when you don't smoke. But again, it is really important to know that smoking is a very, very strong risk factor. So for those who are a current or former, meaning within the past 15 years, and they have a 20 pack your smoking history, it puts them at a pretty decent risk, intermediate and high risk. Now the last thing is now we're gonna use that CT scan to the chest. And we're gonna start looking at the overall size, because size plays a big role. I always say size don't matter, in this case it actually does, because it helps us to stratify them. So we would say if I saw a nodule, and here I have this one, and let's say that it's smaller, it's like less than eight millimeters, that would make me think it's more of a lower risk pulmonary nodule. If I got one that's a little bit bigger, you can pair this one to this one. They definitely look different, and also size-wise it's a little bit bigger. And then this one's a pretty nasty looking pairing one, and it's a big goober here. This is definitely gonna be a high risk nodule. Now it's not just size, it's also just the general kind of location as well. So we've found that usually in the lower lobes, those are gonna be more of the lower risk. They're more likely to be potentially benign, and even if it involves like the middle lobes as well. But if you look here, these are gonna be involving the upper lobes, and so the upper lobes tend to be more of a potential from malignancy. So if you see small and lower middle lobes, you're thinking more benign appearing, lower risk. If you think more upper lobes and bigger, you're gonna be thinking potentially more of the intermediate and high risk. And the last thing is also just kind of the overall appearance of that kind of like mass or nodule, I should say. So what does the margins look like, meaning the edge of the tumor? So this one's pretty round, and rounded always is a good thing. If it looks more scalloped, like a scalloped potato here, this would be more consistent with an intermediate risk. And if you see this one, which has all these like little divots, and kind of looks like a little amoeba, the speculated appearance, that's always pretty concerning for a high risk kind of nodule. So these are the ways that we'd like to stratify and put these patients into categories. So if I said, hey, I have a patient, they are 40 to 60 years of age, they're a current smoker, 25 pack your history, we have that they also have a decent size nodule, maybe it's 15 millimeters, it's in the upper lobe, and it appears scalloped. And that would fit them into that intermediate risk category. And so that's kind of how we would do that, kind of determining what we would do next. So now that we've categorized them, we can then figure out what we want to do with them. So if it's usually the less than eight millimeter, they're in that low to intermediate risk kind of category, we can just do a low dose CT scan. You can still do it in a year, or you can do it a little bit earlier, maybe six months, and then again at 12 months, all right? So that's something that we could do just to make sure that we get a just a quick little interval in between, and then we can go back to just our low dose annual CT scans if everything's normal. And so again, that's what we're gonna try to do here, right? The next thing is that we have, it's a little bit bigger. So maybe it's eight millimeters or greater, and they're low to intermediate risk. So that size is a little bit bigger. In this scenario, what I would say is this patient should probably be getting a PET CT scan. The PET CT is always gonna be great because it's gonna help us to really, really look for any kind of like look of that lesion, and particularly look to see if there's a lot of uptake of that FDG, and the FDG uptake is really concerning. If it's a pretty decent size one, and they really have all the high risk features, they're greater than 60, it's speculated, it's greater than eight, so maybe it's a greater than 20 millimeters, it's in the upper lobes. They have a current 20, a packier smoking history or a greater. These are all things that really put them at risk of having a malignant kind of disease. And so for them, we should just go straight to a biopsy. Now what I wanna say is that sometimes you can get a PET CT, and if you get that PET CT and it shows, look, oh my gosh, here's these like nodules that I have, and they're really taking up all of that tracer. That's really concerning, that means it's a super hyper metabolic type of tissue, and that usually screams cancer. And so for them, I would go straight to a biopsy if I had something like that. So that's really, really important to remember. You get a positive PET CT that shows this kind of like presentation, a very significant uptake in these nodules. You should probably just get a biopsy because there's a high chance it's malignancy. All right, so that's kinda how I want you guys to think about this. The biggest thing to take away out of this is that you need to know when you scream. If it's 50 to 80, 20 pack, year, history, or greater, current or they quit within the past 15 years, you need to do annual low dose CT scans. Look at prior imaging if they have it. If it's new or it's gotten bigger, you get a standard CT, and then look at the risk stratification. If it's low risk and it's a small one, you just keep doing your skeet CT scans, maybe just a little bit sooner, six months. If it's a little bit bigger, low intermediate, you should get a pet CT scan. If that comes back positive, you get a biopsy. If it's high risk and greater than or equal to eight millimeters, then you should be going straight to a biopsy. If you have the pictures and they don't look like they're any different, they haven't grown, just continue with your normal annual low dose CT scans. It's all a way of being able to make sure that we determine which ones we should go and really be aggressive with and which ones we should just hold back and keep monitoring so that we don't catch this when it's too late. Now let's say that we have a patient that we unfortunately we caught this too late. We don't have a patient who's asymptomatic and we're trying to screen. They unfortunately come in with some symptoms. A lot of the times with lung cancer, it can be relatively nonspecific. They can come in with things like cough, because of an endobronchial kind of obstruction, wheezing and dyspnea. And these are sometimes that when a patient has something like this, you think that they have something else going on. Maybe they have pneumonia. That's something you could definitely think about. Maybe they have COPD because they're a smoker. And so oftentimes what ends up happening is with these nonspecific symptoms, you're looking for something going on with the lungs. And so you end up getting a chest x-ray. It's a common initial test. It is not a diagnostic in the sense it's first line. You may pick up something. Oftentimes what happens, this is something that's really, really important to remember, is patients can get recurrent kind of like post-obstructive pneumonia. And that's really, really important. Whenever a patient has recurrent pneumonia in the same lobe, something we talked about on the whiteboard, recurrent pneumonia in the same lobe, especially upper lobes. And maybe they have some type of hazy opacity. So you can appreciate here on this chest x-ray, you can see that there's kind of like this opacity here. And it may be obstructing a part of the bronchus, which is supposed to be getting secretions and bacteria moving and spit out. If it's not, it's obstructing that leading to fluid, leading to bacteria becoming static, colonizing. Eventually that can really lead to an infection. And so you can get recurrent pneumonia in the same lobe. That really screams some type of like endobronchial tumor, like adenocarcinoma or like a bronchogenic carcinoma. So that's something I would definitely, definitely consider here, so we can definitely appreciate that. Now if you see a suspicious lesion, it's always important to consider, do they fit the bill? In other words, you can have a patient who has, maybe something else that looks like that could be a mass, but you have to consider their history. And so for these patients, you want to know, no, do they have a heavy smoking history? Are they 50 to 80 years of age? These are gonna be patients who are more in that high risk category. So you always want to look at their history. We want to know, are they a heavy smoker? Do they have some of these classic findings that we talked about? And then also be a really good investigator. The things that we talked about on the whiteboard are like the complications. Are they presenting with post-substructive pneumonia in the same lobe? That recurrent pneumonia in the same lobe really screams lung cancer, especially adenome. Do they have any homoptysis? This can sometimes present if you have a pretty nasty tumor. Usually it's got to be a bronchogenic, so it's got to be somewhere within that lumen. So you can definitely see this in things like squamous cell or small cell, maybe an adenome. Compressive symptoms is another really important one. Do they have compression of the recurrent laryngeal nerve causing hoarseness of the voice? Do they have compression of the brachial plexus, causing brachial plexopathy? Do they have compression of the phrenic nerve leading to a asymmetric in a movement of the diaphragm? Right, that kind of problem where you can see it on chest X-ray where they have an elevated hemidiaphragm and maybe some shortness of breath when laying flat. Do they have compression of the sympathetic changanglia causing Horner syndrome? So they have meiosis and ptosis and anhydrosis. Do they have compression of the superior vena cava causing SVC syndrome, causing distention of the jugular vein, causing swelling of the face, the neck and the arms with that bluish hue to it? These are all things that you want to think about that could be consistent with compressive symptoms from a large tumor. Usually things that are going to be in this scenario you think about, they're going to be a little bit more centrally and more apically located, which you can see with squamous cell, with small cell with adenocarcinoma. Now recurrent pleural effusions are something that you can definitely also see with peripheral lesions. Things like large cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma can also cause peripheral involvement of the lung tissue and that can lead to again, a lot of exudative properties, fluid leaking out, proteins leaking out, LDH leaking out into the exudative fluid or the pleural cavity that's leading to these recurrent pleural effusions. Oftentimes you'll tap these, you'll get maybe a bloody aspirate, you'll send it off for cytology and you'll send it off for the LICE criteria that will suggest exudative and your cytology will come back and you'll show some evidence of some malignant cells. And lastly is perineoplastic syndrome. This is a classic one you have to remember. Again, it's talking about that patient with small cell who comes in with SIADH. That's a really, really big one. You can't forget that. The Lambert Eaton syndrome is another one that they can present with as well, which is the kind of the weird presentation of the myasthenia gravis. You can even present with like a Cushing's type of appearance because they can present with a lot of high ACTH levels. So those are definitely things to think about. Whereas, you know, the squamous cell, they present with the hypercalcemia. And so these are definitely things I would kind of try to put together. If you have a patient who comes in, there's a heavy, heavy smoker. They have some of these non-specific symptoms. They've had recurrent pneumonia in the same lobe. They have now also, you see on their BMP, a low sodium. And you also notice they have Cushing-like features. And then on top of that, they also have maybe some compressive symptoms like recurrent laryngeal nerve or maybe some phrenic nerve. That would make me start thinking about a tumor that's in the lungs that's causing a lot of these problems. And then from there, I gotta get one of the best tests to really determine that. A chest X-ray is not gonna be the one. Chest X-ray may show me an abnormal, like opacity, but the CT scan's gonna be the best. And what it's gonna really do is it's gonna help me to elucidate the overall look of it. Look at this nasty-looking mass here in the right upper lobe. This is a really, really nasty-looking mass. And it's definitely a decent-sized one. It definitely has an irregular type of appearance. It's super decent-sized. And it's likely causing some obstruction here, because you can definitely lead to pneumonia in a lot of these patients as well. But this is pretty, pretty concerning. That's a pretty scary-looking one right there. So that's definitely a lung mass. Another thing that you can sometimes see on the CT scan is you may be able to see if there's any lymph nodes involved, like any hyalurlymph nodes involved, or other associated lymph nodes, because that can help you to determine if there's a significant amount of beginning of some local spread or metastasis. Now, once I see this, it's straight to a biopsy. You gotta get a biopsy, but the biopsy, the way that we do a biopsy on a viscera like this, kinda depends upon where the lesion is. So if it's centrally located, like this one is, I'd probably just do a bronchoscopy. And then you can go down there and you can do a biopsy of that tumor, especially if it's in the lumen. And so you're basically taking a bronchoscopy, you're gonna run that thing down into these bronchi. And you can't get super far. You can probably maybe get to the secondary, maybe tertiary bronchi, but that's pretty far down. You're gonna get down there and you're gonna see if you can find that tumor indoluminately and you're gonna help to take a piece of it out and then send that off to pathology. That's what I would say is the best thing to do for a centrally located lesion is a bronchoscopy with a biopsy. Now, if it's more peripherally, so it's towards the wall, towards the chest wall, then running that bronchoscope, you're not gonna be able to get that thing far enough down to the level of where you want it. You need to go from the outside. And so we can do CT guided finding laspirations where we use things like CT scans to locate and pinpoint that and then use real time we can stick a needle down through the chest wall and then help to pull that actual sample out with the biopsy needle. So that's something that we can try to do there. Another one that's pretty aggressive, we don't really do this unless it's truly something that you can't do with a CT guided FNA, but you'll do a VATS, a video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery. And you'll go in literally and you'll try to utilize a different source where you can visualize the mass and you'll take four steps and take a piece of that actual tissue out. This one's pretty aggressive, but you can do this for decent size. I'd say a little bit more complicated cases. It should be a CT guided FNA first. This would probably be a little bit more of the latter one in a complicated patient. All right. Now for the pleural effusion, which is still kind of peripheral, but they don't have maybe a obvious peripheral lesion or maybe they do, but you have maybe a peripheral lesion with a malignant associated pleural effusion, you can tap that and you can pull it off. And if it comes back positive with a bloody aspirate, which show a little bit of more of that malignant cells, that's immediately that's stage four lung cancer. So you definitely can do that with a thoracentesis. And so again, let's say that they had a tumor here, they had associated pleural effusion that was kind of accumulating some bloody cells. You could take your needle, pop right in, take some of that sample off and then send it and if it comes back positive with any kind of malignant cells, so you have right there, you have cancer. And so from there, we then say, okay, let's take all of these different samples, whether it's the bronchoscopy or biopsy from the central lesion, the CT guided FNA or the VATS from the peripheral lesion, the cytology from the thoracentesis from the pleural effusion. Let's send it off to the pathologist, have them take a look at it, figure out what type of cancer it is. Is it large cell, is it small cell, is it squamous cell, is it adeno, is it carcinoid, all of those things. And sometimes we even throw in immunohistochemistry. This is a little bit more for your step one. I wouldn't say that you're gonna get as heavily tested in this in the step two, but I'm gonna briefly kind of recap it in the sense that when we think about carcinoid tumors, they're really well differentiated. It's a neuroendocrine type of tumor. Neuroendocrine tumors usually present with a, on a stain, they have a chromogranin A that comes up positive. And there's another tumor that's kind of similar to carcinoid tumors called small cell. They're also neuroendocrine tumors, but they're very, very poorly differentiated as compared to the carcinoid tumors. But if you look, it'll still have that chromogranin A stain. Then we have squamous cell carcinoid. Squamous cell carcinoid is gonna be squamous cells. They're gonna have these carotimple, these bright pink kind of appearing, kind of like lesions that you'll see on the actual histology. Again, that's gonna be more step one. What I do want you to know is that if you test the immunohistochemistry, it'll come back positive for a specific molecule called P40 that'll be positive there. Now with adenocarcinoma, this is gonna be glandular cells. They're gonna have tons and tons of mucin staining. And when you check the immunohistochemistry, it should be for the TTF1. And lastly, there's large cell carcinoma. These will have these poorly differentiated large cells. And you shouldn't have any  chromogranin-a, you shouldn't have any P40 that comes positive on this one, or even any TTF1. So from there, we've said, okay, we took the actual sample, we send it off to pathologists, they'll give me the diagnosis of the type of lung cancer. And then from there, I just need to determine, has this lung cancer, and you should sometimes be able to pick it up from your CT scan, is it involved other areas? Sometimes you can see it, sometimes you can't, and you've got to start extending your CT scan parameters to get a little bit more of the chest, maybe get more of the abdomen, get other imaging if needed to see if this thing has spread. So a CT abdomen and pelvis is pretty good. The literature is actually starting to suggest that the PET CT is even better, because you can still do the CT chest abdomen and pelvis, and then if it really doesn't give you anything, sometimes PET CT is good for picking up some things that you couldn't see, it's a little bit more occult, it's a little bit harder to see. So the PET CT scan would probably have the better sensitivity, but oftentimes we just go with the CT abdomen and pelvis first. Now if you did that CT abdomen and pelvis, and you don't find any distant meds, or you want to then go the next step, you can do a PET CT after that if you still have a high degree of suspicion for meds, but if there's no distant meds, then we say that that's usually stage one to stage three, non-small cell lung cancer. So that really only includes the ones that we talked about, which is going to be, again in this case, it's going to be your adenocarcinoma, your large cell, and then your large unsquamma cell. Those are going to be the primary ones that I want you to remember for your non-small cell lung cancer. The limited small cell lung cancer, and that's going to be small cell, and that means that it probably hasn't spread very much beyond one side of the lung, and we'll define this, right? But at this point, if they don't have distant meds, it could be anywhere from stage one to stage three non-small cell, or limited small cell. To give you a little bit more on that, so let's say that a patient has non-small cell lung cancer. We want to determine if it is stage one to stage three. Well, we know it's not based off distant meds. How do we determine it then? Well, then it's to paste upon the tumor size, and if there's multiple different types of lymph nodes involved. So for example, if I have a tumor here, and there is some nodes, but none of the nodes are involved, it's just the tumor itself, that's more likely to be stage one, all right? Now, if the tumors may be a little bit bigger, and it's starting to involve other nodes that are in the same side, so like these peribronchial nodes, that's going to be stage two. If it's stage three A, you're getting a decent size tumor, but now what's starting to happen is we're starting to go from peribronchial, and we're starting to venture our way outwards here into the mediastinum. So then what I would probably start seeing is more of the mediastinal lymph nodes being involved, on the FC lateral side, all right? Stage three B is you have now the problem is that some of these nodes can start spreading over to the contralateral lung. So now, if you had a tumor in the left lung with all the nodes in the left lung that are getting involved, because this tumor is spreading into these lymph nodes, right? Now, if it starts to spread to the other side, or it goes upwards into the clavicular nodes, now you have stage three B, all right? So that covers your stages one to stage three. We don't determine it based upon if it's spread to the other areas of the body, like the brain, the bones, the liver, things like that. We determine it based upon the size of the tumor, and more particularly the nodes that are being involved, all right? With small cell lung cancer, it's actually very simple because there's only two stages. It's limited and extensive, and limited is simple. It's just that tumor in the nodes, it's only in one side of the lung. So you could have a tumor that's gargantuous, and you could have nodes that are involved in that entire lung, but as long as it hasn't, tumor hasn't gone to the other lung, the nodes haven't spread to the other lung, it hasn't distantly metastasized, you have limited stage small cell lung cancer, all right? Now, when we have distant meds, now we're talking about a potential problem here. So that means that this tumor has gotten into the bloodstream and it's spread to other organs. A very common one is the bilateral adrenal glands. Look at these, look at these, they're gargantuous. So your adrenal glands are like just cantaloupes down there. This is very, very consistent with metastasis, especially if it's bilateral. If you get adrenal megalin, it's bilateral, you should always be concerned about this kind of presentation about a metastasis, right? Another one is hepatic metastasis. As you can see, all these like hypodense kind of lesions here on CT scan, they're super scattered. This is pretty consistent with hepatic metastasis as well. And then here we got a bone scan, because it loves the bones, it loves the liver, loves the adrenal glands, loves the bones. You're going to see here there is a primary tumor. Look at all these areas that this thing is spread to. So it's involved a lot of different types of bones, some of the pelvis, some of the vertebrae. So they're probably going to have some bone pain, some increased alfalfa. Those are definitely things that I would say this is distant metastasis. So when you got distant meds, now it's stage four or it's extensive. It's that's pretty much how we kind of get to this point. So we got stage four or we got extensive small cell lung cancer. Well, let's say how do we determine stage four? It's usually if it's distant meds, there is other ways. And so I just need you to know that we don't always just base it on distant meds. Sometimes the exam will say distant meds is the biggest reason, but it also could be due to let's say here, I consider that I have a tumor, right? And it started to spread to other nodes, but I'd say the biggest one here is it started to distantly metastasize. But what if this tumor broke off, went through these nodes and went to the other side? Oh, tumor in the contralateral lobe, that also a stage four. So if you have a tumor in one side and it then it's spread to the other side, that stage four lung cancer. The other one is if it broke through, if it broke through and got into the pleural cavity, so you got pleural invasion, dude, that is stage four non small cell lung cancer. All right. So we got an idea of the stage four now that it's distant meds, but it's also the tumor went to the other lobe or if it went to the pleura. For extensive, we had a tumor that was here and it was a big honker. And if it distantly metastasized, that was one reason we said it could be stage four. But it's the same concept if these nodes go beyond or you get a tumor in the contralateral lobe. Now this one usually small cell doesn't get close enough to the pleura to ever cause pleural effusions, but it is going to be one that it can spread to the contralateral lobe or involve nodes of the contralateral lung. So if you got a contralateral tumor or you have nodes in the other lung, it's beyond the hemithorax. We now have extensive small cell lung cancer. All right. So those are the ways I want you to think about it. So it's not just this it's meds. It's if the tumor is in the other lobe or if the pleura got invaded. That's the big thing to remember. For extensive, we just say did the nodes go also to the other side as well. All right, cool. Now that we've hit that, my friends, we've covered a decent chunk here of staging. The next thing is also important to remember when it comes to staging is we determine how we're going to kind of treat these and we're going to get into it a little bit. But we just say how likely these patients already get surgery depends upon their stage. Stage one to three a we can say pretty decently that with stage one, stage two, you could go straight to surgery for these patients. With stage three a we may have to shrink the tumor down a little bit, give them some neo-adjuvant chemotherapy and then do surgery. But there's always a chance of resecting those, especially if they do well to the chemo and the radiation. With these, it's not often likely that they're going to respond well to chemo and radiation. They're probably going to chemo radiation, immunotherapy, different types of targeted therapy as well. So these are not usually resectable. All right. Now one other thing that's really important to remember is the brain is a very common area for the lung to spread to. So if they have small cell lung cancer, you should always have a high degree of suspicion of it spreading to the brain. That's probably the biggest one. So small cell lung cancer, you should probably consider checking these patients for a brain MRI. If they got stage four, that's also a risk, but definitely not as high as small cell lung cancer. But the biggest one is if they present with neurological symptoms, you should definitely get a brain MRI. If you see something like this where they got all these different lesions everywhere, that's definitely metastatic disease. And so this thing has spread to the brain as well. And that would consider them to be an extensive case. So you can have a patient come in, you don't know that they have distimates, but they have lung cancer. All of a sudden they come in with neurological symptoms, you get a brain MRI, boom, you got distimates. They're now stage four. All right. But if they have small cell, they have stage four, you should consider getting a brain MRI to see if it is present there, because this is a very, very high risk one. All right. Now, last thing is if a patient has stage four, not small cell lung cancer, it's also really important at this point, because they're not resectable. We need to know what's the best kind of targeted therapy or immunotherapy that I can use for this patient, because that's really when we talked about the eGFR, the Alkrea arrangement. And there's another one that we'll discuss a little bit called the PDL1, which is the Program Death Ligan, which is really, really important in determining how T cells are either going to be, you know, not to be weird, but like turned on or turned off, and that determines if they're going to kill the tumor cell or not. These are really, really, really important things to remember. So we should always get these like molecular genetic testing to see which one should we actually treat these patients with. So for example, if they have the eGFR mutation or the Alkrea arrangement, those are going to respond well to targeted therapies, like the receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Those are going to be really, really good ones that we'll talk about, osometinib, electanib. Those are going to be best for those scenarios. If they have the PDL1 kind of like involvement, and it's a little bit higher, these are patients where I should target, I should target their PD1 on the T cells. And that's something where Pembrolizumab is really, really good, and they're going to respond to immunotherapy. So depending upon these, determine which type of drugs we'll give, we're going to target the receptor tyrosine kinase, or we're going to target the PD1 protein that's on the actual T cells. So these are definitely really, really important things to remember. Whew, that was a lot, right? All right, so that's really taking into consideration a patient who presents with symptoms, and maybe it's nonspecific, but you find a mass, you get to that point, you say, what do I do? How do I biopsy it? Okay, I have biopsy, I found the type of tumor, how do I stage it? Okay, I found that they have no distant meds. Well, how do I know if it's stage one, two, three, A3B are limited? Okay, I've done that based upon the lymph node involvement, and if, you know, that's the primary thing. And then, okay, they have distant meds that tells me if it's stage four, if it's extensive. But there's also other things like pleural invasion and contralateral lobe tumors and nodes in the other one that could make me think that it could also be stage four extensive. And then from there, I got to say, if it is non small cell lung cancer, how do I know if it's going to respond to targeted therapy or immunotherapy? Lots of stuff, right? Let's move into the treatment of lung cancer. So we're going to dig into non small cell lung cancer first. With non small cell lung cancer, there's obviously different stages, stage one, two, two, three A3B and four. We need to have an idea of what is the goal in treating these dependent upon that stage. So stage one, again, you're talking about you're having a tumor, usually no kind of like nodes are involved. What is the primary way that we treat this is surgery. And there's different ways that we can surgically remove this tumor. We can do like a wedge resection, we could do a segmental resection, we could do a lobectomy where you remove the right upper lobe in this case, or you could remove the entire lung. So that's pretty aggressive to do in stage one. Oftentimes, just a wedge or segmental resection may be just the way to go with the stage one non small cell lung cancer. Now, another thing that's also really important is you can consider in patients who maybe aren't surgically fit because what you have to do is you always have to see if these patients are medically able to survive, I'd say, or do well with a surgical resection. And oftentimes it depends upon what their pulmonary reserve is. You're removing lung tissue so you can take away some of their pulmonary reserve. So oftentimes we'll do pre-surgical PFTs to see where they're at. And based upon those PFTs, they're multiple kind of like if they have multiple comorbidities and how well they'll do, we'll determine if we do a surgery or if it's really not a good idea and they're not really about doing a surgery. Maybe they want to go the non-surgical option. You can do a stereotactic ablative radiation therapy where you literally target on that tumor and you hit it with radiation to try to be able to shrink and kill some of those tumor cells. So that definitely is an ideal way if you don't want to go the operating route. You don't have maybe that PFT reserve, then they won't do that. They'll usually go to an SABR. All right. Now, stage two is you got the tumor. You got some peri-bronchial kind of nodes that are involved now. And so this one, again, surgery is going to be the best way to go. And I would say that's going to be preferable. The other thing is that afterwards you can hit them with some adjuvant chemotherapy. Now, the chemotherapy agents of choice in this scenario is usually going to be cisplatin and otoposide. And again, you can use it adjuvantly, meaning that you use it after they get the surgical procedure. So after you get like a wedge resection, a segmental resection, a lebecdomy, depending upon the severity of the tumor, how invasive it is, you will then follow it up with a couple different cycles of cisplatin and otoposide. All right. Now, stage three A is we got a tumor. It's a decent size. It's starting to involve mediastinal lymph nodes on the same side, some peri-bronchial nodes. It's getting a little bit more aggressive at this point. You can still do surgery, but at this point, we want to start shrinking that tumor. And so we hit them with neo-adjuvant chemotherapy and oftentimes radiation therapy as well. You're going to, goals to get the tumor to shrink down, get a little bit better, get them to the point where we can do surgery. See if it's receptable. So you're going to do your best, shrink the tumor down, see if you can get them to be a receptable candidate, then send them to get the surgery. After the surgery, follow up with a couple different cycles of the same chemotherapy occasion. So you'll hit them with chemo, radiation, cisplatin, otoposide, radiation therapy, shrink the tumor, cut it if able, and then follow up with adjuvant chemotherapy. If they're stage three B, these are patients that are not going to be really be medically operable. That's just, they're going to have a huge tumor. It's going to be involving nodes on the same side and the opposite side. So it's going to be pretty extensive at this point. So surgery really isn't going to be the way to go for them. You're going to do the same thing that you would do with stage three A, except it's not neo-adjuvant chemotherapy. It's just definitive chemo-radiation therapy. And then afterwards, you're going to see if you can do some consolidation with immunotherapy to kind of really reduce the growth and the development of that tumor. And so oftentimes we'll do that with Durvalamab. Now, stage four on the other hand, surgery is not really an option. You got either distan-met. You got a tumor in the contralateral lobe. You got pleural invasion. You got multiple nodes involved. It's just trying to go in a resect. That's going to be a nightmare. It's not going to be very, very helpful. Sometimes it can be for palliative reasons if there's very, very specific reasons like significant pain or recurrent pneumonia, things like that. You can go after some of them. But usually surgery is not an option. And so with these patients, we oftentimes just do targeted therapy. And so we tried that's when that kind of the discussion of knowing if they have the eGFR, the Alkary arrangement, the PDL-1 is really the key thing. So again, if they have the eGFR mutation, OsomitNib is going to be the way to go. That's going to be the way to go where you're going to be targeting this type of pathway. And this is really, really important on this one. So OsomitNib is going to be helping with that. Electinib is going to be for the Alkary arrangement mutations. And so these are both receptor tyrosine kinases, just knowing which one of these they have that can help. But overall, the targeted chemotherapy agents is going to be receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. So you can think about like this here, as in cancer cells, you're going to have different types of growth factors binding on to these receptor tyrosine kinases. They're going to be activating this pathway, the PI3K, the AKT, the mTOR pathway, that's going to help to stimulate genes to increase your cellular proliferation, survival, increase blood flow to that tumor, and helping it to be able to unfortunately metastasize. So all of these things are what's happening when you have the receptor tyrosine kinase firing in that cancer cell. If I target this receptor to reduce its autophosphorylation, reduce this pathway, then I'm going to then inhibit all of these processes. I'm going to shut down cell proliferation, cell survival, increase blood flow to the tumor, and it being able to metastasize. So this goal is preventing the progression of the disease, not necessarily curing it or removing it. It's just trying to reduce the progression. All right. This is a pathway that's really, really heavily involved in eGFR because what happens is in eGFR mutations are out rearrangement. This pathway is firing like crazy because you have some type of receptor abnormality where it's auto-activating or in out rearrangements you maybe have an abnormality in that kind of receptor where again, it's just auto-activating. If you can try to shut that pathway down, that will definitely be helpful. All right. Now immunotherapy is really good if the PDL1 percentage is greater than or equal to 50%. That means that you have a really, really strong chance to target the PD1 because if that percentage is pretty high, I can give anti-PD1 antibodies and they're going to like Pembrolizumab and that's going to nail that PD1 and it's not going to allow it to interact with the PD1. So let me show you what I mean. Here we have a tumor cell when they express lots of the PDL1 because your T cell expresses PD1 protein and this is a program death receptor. You have a T cell receptor on the tumor cell. It's going to have an MHC2 complex which connects with an antigen but here the PD1 is supposed to interact with the PDL1 and this is a way of the tumor cell. It increases the expression to shut down the T cell, turns it off so it can't kill it. If I give a drug that binds the PD1, it can't bind to the PDL1. If it can't bind to the PDL1, you lose that ability to turn the T cell off. This thing's active. It's ramping up. It's like, all right baby and it starts ripping the T cells. That's when we would do this is when you have a high degree of PDL1 expression. If your PDL1 expression is on the lower end, you're unfortunately going to need to kickstart it and give it some more help. You can still do the Pembrolizumab but you're probably going to have to add on some chemotherapy like the cisplatin and the atopicide to really help with that process. All right, that's a crap ton of information and I get it. I'd be overloaded too. Let's put this together. If you got a receptable tumor, we're thinking stage one, stage two. Could even be stage three as well, right? Especially stage three A. But in stage one to two, you want to first determine what's their PFTs. Are they a good surgical candidate? If they aren't, they don't have good PFTs. They just don't want to get the surgery. The SABR is the best way to go. If they're stage two, you're going to have to follow up with adjuvant chemotherapy. If they're medically operable, they're a good candidate, good PFTs, they want the surgery, you'll then go the surgical route. Whether it's the segmental, the wedge resection, the lepectomy, the pneumonectomy, that's pretty aggressive, but we would do those and then follow it up with adjuvant chemotherapy if they're stage two. Now again, if a patient's stage two, oftentimes they're going to get surgery more likely than the SABR but just still can get this in stage two. All right, it's just it's going to be more common to get the surgical procedure. Now, if they're theoretically unresectable initially, that doesn't mean that stage three, stage three A can be resectable but you have to see if it is. Let's say that it's theoretically unresectable. Then all we want to know is is it metastatic or not because if it's metastatic, I can't do any kind of surgery whatsoever. If it's not, okay, there is a chance. This could be stage three but I don't know if it's stage three A, stage three B. If there's medial steinal nodes, that's the stage three A. If it's starting to really get to the point where it's getting to the contralateral, the clavicular nodes that we're getting into stage three B. Stage three A, you can hit them with neo-adjuvant chemotherapy, cis-platinotiposide radiation therapy, shrink that puppy down. If it gets to the point where they are a surgical candidate and you get a good response, you can do surgery. All right, and then you can follow up with some adjuvant chemo as well. For stage three B, though, that's the problem. No, sorry. Now, if you don't get a good response, we're not going to be going the route of surgery. That's why theoretically, stage three A is receptable. But if you don't get a good response here, you're not going to be going to a surgical procedure. If you didn't shrink it, if you didn't actually get that thing down and they still are in too. So you didn't get rid of any of the nodes. Unfortunately, at this point, you really just got to say we're just going to stick with the immunotherapy, the consolidated immunotherapy like develop map. All right. Now, stage three B is you got contralateral nodes. You got the supraclavicular nodes you're hitting. That's stage three B, right? At this point, we don't have any option of surgery. It's just you're hitting them with definitive chemo radiation therapy. And then you're going to follow up with some call it, consolidated therapy. Now, here we got metastasis, right? We got it spreading. This poppy is spread to the bones, maybe it's spread to the adrenal glands, maybe it's spread to the liver, maybe it's spread to the brain. At this point, you're stage four. With stage four, we don't do surgery. We don't do definitive in the sense of chemotherapy and radiation. It really comes down to what type of targeted therapy would we go for. If they got the eGFR, the alkyree arrangement, it's the receptor tyrosine kinases. Osometinib for the eGFR, electinib for the ALK. If they got the PDL1 with the heavy expression, brother, the pembrolizumab is the way to go. But if the PDL1 expression isn't high, it's going to need a little bit of help. That's where you're going to get the pembrolizumab and the chemotherapy as an additive effect. This is a way of kind of taking and looking at everything we talked about in the table, the images, and just giving you more of a straightforward, hopefully a systematic way of thinking about it. I really hope this helped. All right, small cell lung cancer, thank goodness, is so much simpler. When we think about this one, it comes down to if it's limited or extensive. There's not stage one, two, three, four, all these different things. It's limited. It's in the one hemithorax. This one's chemo and radiation. It's really the only way that we go about this one. There is a big goal here, all right, where with small cell lung cancer, you can try to prevent the brain metastasis. That's why you try to get, if you have the diagnosis of small cell, you should get a brain MRI as a baseline. Because if they get neurological symptoms, oh, shoot, they got metastasis. It's extensive. You can't do this anymore. If you check it and they don't have any brain metastasis, you can do prophylactic cranial radiation. You literally are radiating the brain to prevent some of the micro metastasis from the lungs to the brain. This is a very, very, very high yield to remember that for limited stage, always try to consider prophylactic cranial radiation with the goal of trying to mitigate and prevent to a degree brain metastasis. Now, extensive is chemo. Radiation therapy isn't really going to help at this point. What can be considered as immunotherapy? Immunotherapy, a tessellism ab is very interesting. It's a PDL1, an anti-PDL1 antibody. Remember, the PDL1 is the one where it's on the tumor cell, right? So you get your t-cell expressing the PDL1, the t-cell receptor. You get the tumor cell expressing the MHC with the antigen, and you get it also expressing the PDL1. From here, if I give a drug now that blocks the PDL1 on the tumor cell, now the PDL1 can't interact, that still activates the t-cell, starts getting ready, it's getting cooking, and it kills that tumor cell. Boom, baby! That can help. That can help to reduce the growth of the tumor, reduce the kind of extensive growth and nastiness of that small cell lung cancer. My friends, this was a monster lecture, and I really hope that it helped. I really mean that. I really hope that you guys enjoyed these videos. I hope it made sense. I hope that when you guys get an exam and you see anything on lung cancer, you feel confident that whenever there's any question, nothing can stand in your way. Man, I love you guys. Thank you guys for being so supportive and just love you. As always, until next time, my friends.

=== FILE: Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) ｜ Clinical Medicine [HjyAGaUN_TY].txt ===

 packageddashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdash Let's say that you take, for example, in the red bone marrow, which is the site of hematopoiesis, right? You have a hematopoietic stem cell. Sometimes if that hematopoietic stem cell develops mutations for some reason, and it becomes abnormal, let's say it becomes dysplastic, that dysplastic stem cell is nasty in the sense that it can release cytokines. These cytokines have the ability to suppress the hematopoietic stem cell from continuing to divide and differentiate into further myeloid stem cells or lymphoid stem cells, right? The issue with that is that now if that hematopoietic stem cell undergoes apoptosis, that thing was supposed to go and make red cells and white cells and platelets. But if you kill it off, now you lose the ability to make red cells, white cells and platelets, and I mean normal ones. So because of that, you can get a decrease in red blood cells, you can get a decrease in platelets, and you can get a decrease in white cells. This collectively, the reduction in all cell lines is called pancytopenia. It's usually an ominous sign that something's going on with the bone marrow potentially. Now, the other sucky thing with MDS is that these dysplastic stem cells, they try to take over as a normal hematopoietic stem cell. It says, ah, I can do it. And what it tries to do is it tries to make red blood cells, but it's not very good. And it has an ineffective, is the terminology we say of making good red blood cells. So you get these like abnormal red blood cells that are usually very large, and you don't make enough of them. And so you get what's called a macrosidic anemia, which is a very common presentation of MDS. Another one is you may have a reduction in effective platelets, which are supposed to help you at a clot. And so these patients can get a thrombocytopenia. And lastly, they may have ineffective leukopoiesis. And so they may have a low number of white blood cells, especially neutrophils, which can lead to neutropenia. And again, this contributes to that underlying pancytopenia. So one of the big things with MDS is it may present with pancytopenia, but oftentimes don't ever discount a patient coming in with just macrosidic anemia that it's not due to B12 or folate deficiency. So that's really, really important to remember. Another thing about these dysplastic stem cells is not only can they kill normal stem cells, not only do they make less effective red cells, white cells and platelets, but they also can further mutate. And if they mutate enough, they can develop the conversion into what's called myeloblasts. And then these things get locked into a myeloblast stage where they just, they keep developing, proliferating, proliferating without further differentiating. The problem is when you get enough of these myeloblasts, where the amount of it in the bone marrow exceeds 20% or more, you increase the risk of this patient developing acute myeloid leukemia. And so two of the biggest problems with MDS is reduction in cell lines or conversion over time to acute myeloid leukemia. So what are the reasons that these things happen? Sometimes we don't have a good reason. It just happens. It's idiopathic. We say that there is a potential deletion on the number five chromosome, that there's a specific locus on the long arm that could have a deletion and that could be causing that. Believe it or not, if that is the case, this carries more of a decent prognosis. For another one is it could be damaged. So if you have persistent chemo radiation that's causing damage to the DNA that can lead to mutations over time that increases this risk. And believe it or not, benzene exposures, which can happen to like glue factors or different types of chemicals, that can also lead to this as well. Now when we talk about MDS, pansytopenia is definitely a complication that we can see. Oftentimes more than not potentially. You want to watch out for macrosidic anemia. Sometimes it's sole presentation. But with pansytopenia, we know again, your bone marrow is supposed to make platelets, but it's not either because you're suppressing or killing the hematopoietic stem cells, the normal ones, or you're ineffectively making platelets and red cells. And so that can lead to bleeding and bruising when it comes to thrombocytopenia. So when a patient comes in with patechial beating and papera and gingival bleeding and epistaxis and minna-rasia, you want to think about a platelet-related bleeding and you'll get a CBC and you'll see that all cell lines are low. It could lead you eventually down the line of saying, could this be due to MDS. Because they have also concomitant low-rev blood cells and those rev blood cells, they're large. That really brings about the concern and usually these patients will present with fatigue, pallor, sometimes dyspnea if it's severe enough. One of the other things is that they can have a reduction in the white blood cells and especially the effect of white blood cells. And that brings about the increased risk of infections and recurrent fevers. And we really got to watch out for that in another patient as well. Now one of the things about pancytopenia is we say that this can happen but oftentimes again just to stress this, anemia can sometimes be the most common and sometimes sole cytopenia. And so when you see a patient who comes in with anemia, the first thing you do is okay, they're hemoglobin hematocritz low, check their MCV. If the MCV is high, you have a macrosidic anemia potentially. So what you do is you check their B12, you check their folate and you do a peripheral blood smear to look to see if there's hypersegmented or no hypersegmented neutrophils. If I see hypersegmented neutrophils, that tells me that this is a problem with DNA synthesis and maturation and I'm missing B12 and folate. So that's called megaloblastic anemia. From there, I should check a B12. And if that's deficient, well B12 deficiency, I should check a folate. If the folate's low, it could be folate deficiency. If they're equivocal or borderline low normal, I check an MMA level and a homocysteine level to look to see which one that leads me to, right? And that's really, really important to consider. Now if you have no hypersegmented neutrophils, then that leads me to the non-megaloblastic types. This could be due to so many different types of medications. It could be due to liver disease. It could be due to thyroid disease. It could be due to MDS. It could be due to alcoholism. There are so many things. Oftentimes what leads us to consider MDS is when you check their peripheral blood smear. And what you see is you see these things called a pseudo-pelgar hewitt neutrophil. They're really weird looking neutrophils and it brings about the possibility of MDS, which then may prompt you to say, let me get a bone marrow biopsy to confirm, all right? Another complication is AML. So you may have a patient who comes in with MDS. And then this brings about the question, okay, if a patient has AML, that's a serious type of leukemia. MDS, funny enough, it's not funny, but interesting enough, a patient has MDS, 30% of those patients due to MDS can convert over time into AML. It is more likely that patients with MDS will die before developing AML from MDS-related complications such as anemia or bleeding or infections due to neutropenia, believe it or not. So that's really important to remember. But again, there is that possibility. And so that's why when a patient has MDS, we should continue to keep monitoring these patients because AML is very aggressive. You'll notice an acute change because what happens is those MDS cells mutate and they develop myoblasts. And if you get enough of these that really crowd out the marrow, you'll get a very severe pancytopenia and that's really where it changes. Oftentimes MDS has a mild kind of anemia. When you go full-on pancytopenia, that's when we really get scared about AML. Another thing with AML is that they may present with an oncologic emergency. They may develop a blast crisis where enough of these myoblasts crowd up the blood and they can get potentially leukostasis or they can develop tumor lyso syndrome. And so if you have enough of these hyperleucocytosis and the cells blast open, what do you release? Well, you release things like phosphate, which binds up calcium, leads to tetany. You get higher acid, which can lead to acute kidney injury. You can get potassium bumping up, which can lead to EKG changes and arrhythmias. And so these are really important things to remember. Also, if you get enough of these white blood cells or myoblasts, clogging up the small vessels, they can get stuck in the brain vessels, the lung vessels, and you can get leukostasis because they clog it up. And now imagine clogging up these pipes. You can't get oxygen to the tissues. They can develop ischemia, especially the brain. You can develop strokes, TIAs, strokes, or you can even develop pulmonary emboli-like symptoms. And that's pretty scary that we really got to consider that in these patients. Another one, I'd say it's not as common. You can see this. It's usually more common in the APL variant. The DIC is another complication of AML where you have the increased production of tissue factor and you consume a lot of the clotting proteins and the playlist to make clots and so much of it that whenever you have a break in the vessel, you don't have the playlets and the clotting proteins to stop that clot from continuing to, I mean stopping that break in the vessel from bleeding. And so these patients can bleed, but they also paradoxically have lots of widespread thrombi. So they have a combination of tons of clots and they also bleed and they have a lot of coagulation abnormalities. These are really important things to remember for MDS. Oftentimes, MDS is relatively clinically silent and more times than not, they won't develop AML. They'll probably develop death before they convert an AML from things usually related to cell line reductions. What would a patient look like if they had myelodysplastic syndrome? And oftentimes it really is just going to be a patient who you may find incidentally. So you get a CBC with a peripheral blood smear and you find that they have like anemia or maybe they have other cell lines affected like pancytopenia. Sometimes you may have a patient coming in with symptoms of anemia. They may have fatigue, they may have pallor, they may have some type of dyspnea and then you get a CBC or another workup and you happen to meander upon a patient having myelodysplastic syndrome. But really what we have to start off with is finding those affected cell lines and a CBC with a peripheral smear is going to be great because the CBC will tell me what the white cell line, the red cell line, the platelets are doing and the peripheral smear will show me, is there any other reasons why they could be anemic? Is there any other reasons why they could have other cell lines affected? Is there a chance that there's those weird pseudo-pelgar hewitt anomaly like neutrophils? These are all things that we can put together. So first thing is, do we see macrosidic anemia? That's oftentimes probably one of the most common presentations of developing myelodysplastic syndrome. Whenever we see that they have that macrosidic anemia, so in other words we see a low hemoglobin and hematocrit and we also see a combined increased MCV, that would suggest again macrosidic anemia. Usually sometimes what we would do is we would go a little bit further and we would investigate why do they have a macrosidic anemia. So we would check their B12, we'd check their folate, see if they don't have a B12 folate deficiency and we'd also look for hypersegmented neutrophils. And this patient, they don't have hypersegmented neutrophils, they don't have a B12 and folate deficiency. What they do have is they have these pseudo-pelgar hewitt neutrophils. This suggests a non-megaloblastic type of macrosidic anemia of which MDS is a part of that differential. So when I see this, I already have a strong possibility of suspecting that they could have MDS. They may have other cell lines affected, they may have thrombocytopenia and they may have leukopenia. But oftentimes the most common presentation is macrosidic anemia with this somewhat of a pathodendemonic term seeing the pseudo-pelgar hewitt neutrophils or anomaly. That would really, really highly suggest that. You can see those right here. Look at this. Looks at these, these are staring into your soul. That's a neutrophil with a bio-lobed nucleus and a lot of dense chromatin in the center. So that right there would really signal that concern. Now in order to really determine if this is due to a dysplastic hematopoietic stem cell in the bone marrow that's suppressing normal hematopoietic stem cells or triggering ineffective erythropoiesis or killing those normal hematopoietic stem cells, I need to get a bone marrow biopsy to find those dysplastic appearing cells and see if there's also a lot of myeloblasts. Because remember, what happens is these dysplastic cells, not only do they suppress normal hematopoietic stem cells, not only do they trigger ineffective erythropoiesis, leukopoiesis, thrombopoiesis, but they also get converted into myeloblasts running the risk that MDS can convert into AML. So what do I want to see? When I take a bone marrow biopsy, I'm really trying to target into that bone marrow where a lot of the hematopoietic stem cells are at. I'm going to take that sample and I'm going to examine it. What I want to examine this for is what is the marrow look like? I want to know if it's hypercellular. Hypercellular marrow can tell me that it could be leukemia or it could be MDS. But how do I know if it's leukemia, like AML, or how do I know if it's MDS? I look at the number of myeloblasts and I look for dysplastic cell lines. In other words, is there abnormal red cells, white cells and platelets? And on top of that, is there less than 20% myeloblasts? If there is highly, highly suggestive of MDS. Whereas if we went the other route where it was hypercellular and it was greater than 20% myeloblasts, that could suggest something like AML. Now, once I've determined that a patient has myelodysplastic syndrome, I want to get cytogenetics. And the reason why is it determines my treatment. I want to know if they have that five-q deletion because that determines if it's a good or poor prognosis and determines what kind of drug I'm going to give them, linolytomide, So I'm going to get the cytogenetics and look to see if they have the five-q deletion. If they do, that's low risk. These are patients I could probably treat them with a very specific drug that we'll talk about. If they don't have the five-q deletion, they're more of a high-risk MDS patient. I'm probably going to have to be a little bit more aggressive with them and give them a specific drug. This one's usually linolytomide, this one's usually azocytody. We will get into that. Now, again, what if I say that I have a hypercellular marrow? I have greater than equal to 20% myeloblasts. Oh, shoot. Well, that's AML. That means that this patient maybe could have had MDS and converted into AML. That is a very possible scenario. Again, I told you that 30% of patients who have myeloblastics syndrome can convert to AML where 70% of them usually die. Maybe it's related to disease. Maybe it's due to other non-disease-related causes. There could be a lot of different things that they passed away from, not necessarily from MDS. Let's move into the treatment of myeloblastics syndrome. A lot of the times, you're really just treating some of the associated cytopenias with the ultimate goal of curative intent, which is a stem cell transplant. How do we treat the cytopenias? Well, it just depends on which one's low. Usually the most common one is anemia. If a patient's anemic to the point where their hemoglobin is less than seven, they're bleeding and they're hypotensive, or their hemoglobin is less than eight, and they're symptomatic or they have preexisting coronary artery disease, things like that, we transfuse them. Most patients will get this. They'll usually just get this. They'll get transfusions. If it's like their EPO levels are on the low end, you could theoretically say, I can find a benefit to giving EPO agents. But most of the times, most patients' EPO levels are appropriate, and we just transfuse to get their hemoglobin to appropriate normal levels or treat their symptoms. Same thing. If a patient has MDS and they're actually bleeding because their platelets are low, then we just give a platelet transfusion, but we do that based upon thresholds. If it's less than 10,000 and they're asymptomatic, we give them a platelet transfusion. If they're less than 50,000 and they're bleeding or they're getting ready for a surgery, platelet transfusion. If it's less than 100,000 and they're bleeding in the brain, they're getting ready for a neurosurgery, platelet transfusion. Oftentimes other than that, we don't really transfuse unless it's needed. The other one with leukopenias or neutropenias, these aren't super common. I haven't really seen them often used, but sometimes we'll talk about it in literature that granulocytic colony-stimulating factors can be given. It's something that you give to really just give a jumpstart to the bone marrow to say, hey, can you make more white blood cells, especially neutrophils? So that they can be better at fighting off infections and preventing fevers and things like that. Now, something I often see, I do say that the most common thing is going to be pack, route, cell and transfusions for these patients. Now, with that being said, sometimes we obviously would love to avoid getting transfusions to a patient because you run the risk of mismatched blood transfusions. You run the risk of transfusion reactions. You run the risk of volume overload, iron overload. There's so many things that can happen with a transfusion and we obviously want to avoid any of those things. So sometimes if a patient fits the criteria where the EPO levels are on the lower end, we can consider giving them erythropoietin. It's an erythropoid stimulating agent. Basically, it binds on to an EPO receptor on that stem cell and says, hey, can you go ahead and if I signal these things internally, can you go ahead and proliferate and make more red blood cells? That's theoretically what it'll do. Another scenario is especially if a patient's getting transfusions or their EPO levels or they're getting erythropoietin and they're still not getting any better, we may escalate. Especially if they have the 5Q deletion, we may go to suppress any dysplastic cells that are either inhibiting our normal hematopoietic stem cells or suppressing those dysplastic cells from undergoing ineffective erythropoiesis. And that's the drug called linalidomide. It has a dual function. One is it does cell signaling that leads to inhibition of apoptosis. It basically triggers apoptosis of these dysplastic cells. So it kills them so that they stop signaling normal hematopoietic stem cells and they stop making less effective red blood cells. Another one is it kind of puts the cell cycle in an arrest phase. And it does that by inhibiting specific enzymes. And so the cells don't undergo their kind of like proliferative response. And so those are ways that we can do that. Another drug that's given and it's really only given if this is like a high risk MDAs patient who doesn't have a 5Q deletion, they got really bad cytopenias. They have a really, really high risk kind of like IPSS score. We may go with a drug called azacytidine and it's a hypomethalating agent that's a DNA methyl transferase. Basically is working via that enzyme and that stops the cell cycle again from undergoing that proliferative response. The last thing I'd say that we use for patients is really a bone marrow transplant. And so we're trying to basically get rid of the abnormal stem cells that is plastic stem cells and replace it with normal stem cells. We'll find a recipient, we'll take their stem cells and we'll kind of transfuse it into the recipient in hopes that those stem cells will take over, make normal red blood cells, normal platelets, normal white blood cells. So that's the curative intent. All right, let's move on to how we can really take into consideration all of these pieces, all of these different drugs, all of these different therapies. How do I know which one do they get? When do they get it? I need an organized way. Ninja nerd's here to help. So let me drop some knowledge on you with the first thing is you need to determine their risk. Are they low risk? Are they high risk? How do we really determine that? Well, we talked a little bit about it with the cytogenetics. Those who have the 5Q deletion, they're at a more of a lower standard risk and we can actually give them specific therapies. The other thing is if you don't have a lot of cytopenia, so if a patient just has anemia, that's a better prognosis. If they have pancytopenia, that's a very poor prognosis. And the other thing going with that pancytopenia is the number of blasts that are in the bone marrow that's crowding it out. If they have tons and tons of blasts on their bone marrow biopsy, that portends a poor prognosis. So if I said that I have less blasts on their bone marrow biopsies, less than 20%, I'd only let's say anemia. There's not a lot of cytopenias that are involved and they have that 5Q deletion. This is a patient who has low risk. I can likely just do supportive care initially. So the way that we look at this is we can give transfusions because oftentimes the most common cytopenia is anemia. So one way that we look at this to make sure that their rithropoietin isn't low because if it's on the lower end, we can give them a rithropoietic stimulating agents because that can help to stimulate the bone marrow to make more red blood cells. But if the epolevels are high and that's not the cause, it's not a low epolevel, oftentimes we just transfuse them with PAC red blood cells. So again, if epolevels on the low end, you'll give them epo. If the epolevel is normal on the high end, you're not going to be giving them epo, you're just going to transfuse them. Most patients will be just getting these frequent transfusions. Now if a patient keeps getting PAC red blood cell transfusions because they keep having a hemoglobin left than seven or less than eight with particular risk factors, then you have to start asking yourself the question, especially if they're getting frequent transfusions where they're developing iron overload or other kinds of transfusion associated complications. And that's an area we then have to say, okay, they're still refractory to this and we're still having to give them this transfusion. That's where linalidomide comes into play. So what I want you to remember is on a patient has low risk, the first thing you should do is say, okay, are they low in epo? That's not telling their bone marrow to make red blood cells. Oh, they are giving epo. Their epo is fine. So it's not that we just need to unfortunately replace what they don't have or what they're losing. All right, give them PAC red cells. They're continuously needing transfusions and they have that 5q deletion. They would be a good candidate for linalidomide to really help to suppress that hematopoietic stem cell that's dysplastic from continuing to develop and occur. All right. Now, let's say we go to the high risk scenario. Patient does have a lot of blasts. They have more than one cell line affected and they don't have the 5q deletion. That's a high risk patient. The first thing that you need to tell this patient is that we can probably get you a transplant. Linalidic stem cell transplant would be the theoretical cure. It's just harder to get that for patients that usually have this disease. They're older, but that would be the goal. So if they are eligible, get them a transplant. It's the patient that's not eligible for a transplant that we medically manage. And so what do I mean? Well, again, the most common sight opinion is usually going to be anemia and they can develop severe anemias. But since they do not have the 5q deletion, we can't give them linalidomide. So what we do is we give them as a sighted. And again, that's going to help to suppress those hematopoietic stem cells that are dysplastic from proliferating, developing and making more of these dysplastic appearing cells. And that causes this ineffective erythropoiesis and suppresses normal erythropoiesis, etc. So that's what I want you to remember. Low risk with 5q transfuse, linalidomide, if they become dependent. High risk, can you get the transplant? Yes, cool. If you can't and they don't have the 5q as a sighted. That's the way that I want you to think about it. That's the way you can be tested on MDS. All right my friends, that covers MDS. I really hope it made sense. I hope that you guys enjoyed it and learned a lot. Love you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Oncologic Emergencies ｜ Clinical Medicine [TXy9mQWQYRY].txt ===

 alfalfa, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, n is neutropenia, so it decreases the number of neutrophils and we'll give the exact number or definition of that. And then fever, a fever is an elevated body temperature, which again, we'll give a number to that as well. And based upon this, what this does, this puts the patient at risk of very, very severe infections, especially back to Remy, which can lend to itself the risk of sepsis. So we talk about neutropenic fever. We have to remember that the bone marrow, right? So this is our bone marrow and we have the red bone marrow, that's the really, really important one. I'll write that up here above. The red bone marrow is the site of blood cell production, but the really important one that we actually care about here is going to be our neutrophils. These are the cells that play a very significant role in phagocytosis and how do we recognize neutrophils? Just a little test of your knowledge. You have the red eosin acid there and the blue methylene blue base. So they have kind of a mixture of that. And then they have a polymorphone nucleus. They have multiple different lobes, usually a couple, three to five lobes. So the bone marrow is the site of white blood cell production, red blood cell production, right? That's where you're supposed to produce these puppies. So here we're gonna have some neutrophils. And neutrophils, what we know about these is that these are very, very critical. What's critical about neutrophils is that they help with our first line of like, I'd say you're innate immunity. So in other words, innate immunity is whenever we have no need for our T cells to get involved, there's really no antibody involvement that's kind of triggering this process. It's not a lot of your cytotoxic T cells, T helper cells. It's really just things like your natural killer cells, your neutrophils in this case. And so what I wanna talk to you about is what happens with neutrophils is, let's make this look really nice here. When these neutrophils get out of the bloodstream and they get into the tissue space, is what neutrophils are supposed to do is be a very important line of defense against different types of pathogens. And so we got a bunch of different pathogens here that I'm just using as an example. And these can get into the bloodstream, unfortunately a couple different ways. So then get into the tissue space is a couple different ways. But you can have a bunch of these, right? So you can have your gram negative bacteria, right? So these are usually gonna be, I'm sorry, we can talk about gram positive actually, we'll put gram positive. And you can have things like streptococcus, right? Let's actually do it like this. Let's put gram positive here, bacteria, and then here we can have staphylococcus aureus, that's a very common gram positive bacteria. And then you can have things like pseudomonas, E. coli, clebsiella, all of those. And these are gonna be your gram negative bacteria. But what neutrophils are supposed to do is they're supposed to help us by doing what? Well, what they do is they'll take some of these bacteria and they'll undergo a process where they take it inside, they take it inside of their cell and they put it into this thing called a phagosome, right? And they break that bacteria down. So they're supposed to help with a process called phagocytosis. That's really what their job is, is to help with the process of phagocytosis. And this is critical to your innate immune system. And that's what's really, really important here. So let's pretend for a scenario here that we got a problem where there's a drop in the neutrophils, because that's where we get the term neutropenic fever, there's neutropenia, right? So let's say for some reason, a patient experiences some chemo radiation therapy. So let's say that a patient gets chemo radiation. When that happens, and maybe they're getting it because they have an underlying malignancy, right? Very, very common. So if you have chemo radiation, you're hitting the bone. What that's gonna do is, is that's going to injure the red bone marrow. Now the red bone marrow starts crying. And you get a decrease in the function of the red bone marrow. What's the red bone marrow supposed to produce? Neutrophils. And if I destroy the bone marrow and I decrease this production of neutrophils, and a patient who already has maybe a little bit of neutropenia. So this is why it's really, really important. Patients who have underlying neutropenias like leukemias, they're at super high risk. So if you have a condition where you already have neutropenia or less functional neutrophils, and you hit them with chemo radiation, you then decrease the number of neutrophils that are being produced. Then we get a decrease in the neutrophils. So usually what you need to have here is chemo radiation plus an underlying neutropenia at baseline, or at least a decreasing number of neutrophils. Then what happens is if you have decreased neutrophils, guess what? This dude ain't gonna be able to undergo phagocytosis. So you're gonna lead to a decrease in phagocytosis. And your innate immunity is no longer gonna be beneficial. So all the bacteria that are on our skin surface, that are part of our gut flora, our urinary tract flora, our respiratory flora, all of those potentially, if there's a break in the barrier, they can get into the bloodstream and they can wreak havoc. Now, when these do that, guess what they do? They cause damage to tissue. This could be through endotoxins or exotoxins, but there's some type of toxin damage. And then what happens is when the tissues get damaged, what do they do? Well, they alert the immune system. And then they start to try and alert the immune system by secreting specific chemicals into the bloodstream. And these chemicals, yeah, they're supposed to help to alert the immune system, but what are these chemicals and what happens as a result? These are gonna be things like interleukin-1, things like interleukin-6, things like tumor necrotic factor alpha. Their job is to try and go and really, really ramp up your immune response, right? And that's where we start seeing a bump in these. The problem with these is that these have a lot of effects on our circulatory system and on our hypothalamus. And that's where it's really, really important. So when a patient has a decrease in neutrophils, and we should actually define what that consists of to have neutropenia, neutropenia is defined as having a absolute neutrophil count less than 500 cells per microliter. That is the true definition of neutropenias. We have to absolute neutrophil count less than 500 cells per microliter. So patient who has maybe some baseline, decreased neutrophils. But if not less than this, gets chemo-radiation, damages the bone marrow, drops the neutrophils even more, they lose their ability to allow for basic phagocytosis, innate immunity. And again, another thing with these is that they're supposed to also not just kill, not only eat the bacteria, but they're also supposed to release things like reactive oxygen species. And so it's not just phagocytosis, but we'll talk about this later. It's a decrease in other things. Cause they release things like reactive oxygen species and proteases and these, and even things like nets, neutrophilic extracellular traps. All of this leads to here, it's actually add this, all of this leads to a plummet in the innate immunity. And that's when these patients become susceptible to infections. So the bacteria, if they're not getting killed because of being eaten or broken down, they can start causing tissue damage, alerting the immune system and causing an inflammatory reaction, really ramping up your cytokines. Here's another thing. When we think about this, the bacteria, they're normally coming, usually they're on like our skin, they have it a part of your mucosal linings. What happens if you have something like, for example, you have a severe, let's say cellulitis, or you have a surgical site, a surgical wound, that is maybe a little bit open, maybe it's a little de-hist, maybe it looks a little rough. And these types of scenarios, when a patient has things like cellulitis or a surgical wound, you can have little bacteria here will represent in these green dots. They're normally a part of our skin flora. And if you have an immune system, guess what? These bacteria, as they try to jump in, who's gonna come and eat these suckers? The neutrophils. Do you got the neutrophils? No. What happens is they start to work their way through here and they get into the bloodstream. Same thing here. When working in the ICU or patients who have cancer, guess what else they have? So in ICU's, you see a lot of patients who have like central venous catheters, usually in the internal jugular vein, the subclavine vein, the femoral vein, that's all part of the skin. And there's usually a little tunnel when you dilate the skin, it can create like a little space where bacteria can kind of tunnel through there. Another thing is when you have indwelling catheters that sit in for a long period of time, that's a potential source. So sometimes if there's a little bit of space, maybe there's some bacteria that's on one of the caps, maybe there's some skin here that the bacteria kind of like tunnels and gets its way through. Either way, these things can get into your bloodstream. And if you had like a normal immune system for the most part, you'd probably be able to clear some of these. Either way, this is a risk. So having indwelling catheters, it's a terrifying thing, especially on a patient who has neutropenia or some malignancy and just got hit with some chemo radiation. So, and dwelling catheters is another big one. So either way, let's say that a patient has an underlying malignancy such as, let's just say for example, they had AML, they get chemo radiation, but then on top of that, they have an indwelling catheter. They may get the chemo, drop their neutrophils, lose the ability to fight off infections. They have an indwelling catheter, the skin floor gets into the circulation, boom, you have an opportunity for bacteria and not enough neutrophils capable of clearing that. That's when you're gonna start seeing these issues. Either way, what I want you to remember is, and these scenarios, these bacteria are critical to know. So usually skin and indwelling catheters, these are really important to know that these are usually gonna be your gram positive bacteria. So these are gonna be your gram positive bacteria. So which one are those? That's your streptococcus, that's your staphylococcus aureus, which is the one that we get really, really terrified with, though, the scary one. It can really wreak havoc. This is the scary one that I think we think about in patients because we don't wanna miss is MRSA, methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus. So we got bacteremia this way. What's another way that you can get bacteremia? Another one is, you know what, it's interesting. Whenever people get chemo radiation, especially chemotherapy, it can cause colitis. So it can cause that, it can even hit some of the small bowel a little bit too. But whenever you cause mucositis, so there's a mucositis from chemo radiation therapy, and then on top of that, you create little holes now. So now you have breakdowns. If you have mucositis, you could potentially create a little breakdown in the mucosa. So any kind of bacteria that's present in your GI flora, guess what, they're gonna move right through there, and they're gonna get right into your bloodstream, right? So having situations where a patient has colitis, usually this is after, so it's secondary to, that's what the two by two is, secondary to, chemo therapy. We see this a lot, sometimes even radiation therapy. This is important because then it just causes a mucositis. You get a breakdown in this barrier, and guess who can just come flying right out into the bloodstream, your bacteria. It's important to know what kind of bacteria are part of your GI flora, primarily gram-negative rods. So this is gonna be your gram-negative, bacteria, these are the scary ones, right there. They can be really, really nasty. So gram-negative bacteria. What are some examples of these? E. coli, C. lepsiella, right? You could have so many more chagella. You could go down the line, but there's really one scary one that we don't wanna miss because there's specific antibiotics, and it can be a really nasty one. And that's called pseudomonas. Particularly pseudomonas originosa. So we can have a colitis, which is very common. So if you get chemotherapy, not only does it knock down your neutrophils, it causes a mucositis. And this is not just in the GIT. This could be colitis. When I say GIT, I mean the actual small intestine, large intestine. Sometimes it can even be lesions in the oral cavity as well. So watch out for that too. I would even watch out, and when I say these, let's just actually be more general for the GIT. Let's say mucositis. Let's actually say mucositis. And so that can include anything from the oropharynx, the esophagus, the stomach, the small intestine, and the large intestine. It just happens to be the colon is a pretty common one. All right, there's that one. Another thing is the urinary tract. This could be a couple different things. Anytime you have foreign material that's present, what could this be? A foley catheter. So foley catheters, introduced opportunities because they can travel along the actual tissue, whether it's along the areas of the urethra, for the male or the female, it can travel its way up sometimes and get into that actual urine stream, right here into the bladder. What's another one? Let's say I got a stone or some type of obstruction here. The bacteria will back up and it'll build up here and then what will happen? It'll then move into your circulation. So in patients who have a foley catheter, which is introducing foreign material or an obstruction. So let's say a urinary tract obstruction. And you know what, it's funny, when I worked in the ICU, one of the primary problems I never thought that foley catheters truly cause as much of what we see of the catheter, associated urinary tract infections as long as they were patent and they were being switched out after a certain amount of time, I found that we're never gonna have a kinked foley. That was actually more problematic because then you can't drain it and then it backs up and then it moves its way backwards and then that gets into the kidney, that kidney then spills that into the bloodstream and then that's how you get the actual bacteria into the bloodstream. So I found that usually kinked foley catheters and urinary tract obstruction create an opportunity for bacteria to get in. And again, usually you should have an immune system to kind of clear this, but if you have neutropenia, it's gonna be very, very fast and accelerated. The last one is usually some type of breakdown in your lung tissue. So these are patients who are definitely a little bit more predisposed than risk. You have normal bacteria, part of your flora here, part of your respiratory flora. But if you have that drop down in the neutrophils, then it's gonna be an easier opportunity for some of these bacteria to kind of seed into the bloodstream. So these are the things I really want you guys to remember is when we talk about patients who have the bacterial source, a lot of the times really look at the skin, look at surgical site wounds, think about indwelling catheters. If they got chemo radiation therapy, think about mucocytus, look for sores or lesions in the mouth and the pharynx, and think about do they have any abdominal pain diarrhea? It could be that they have some colitis as well. Do they have any history of dysuria, flank pain? That could be something, consider your analyses, and do they have any potential symptoms of respiratory distress? Oftentimes a neutropenic fear, they don't produce a lot of localizing signs and symptoms. That's what makes it challenging because generally neutrophils are, guess what they're supposed to do? Amp up your immune response. So you don't see a lot of those localizing signs and symptoms. Usually what happens is they get very, very sick and they become septic. So now that we've talked about this, we got a patient who got chemo radiation, they have probably some underlying hematologic malignancy that puts them at risk of neutropenia. Chemo radiation shut it down more. They don't have the immune response to clear the bacteria if they're present instead. Because of the bacteria, they're really creating a cytokine storm, but it's not creating the best localizing signs and symptoms. It's usually more systemic infection symptoms or SERS and septic-like symptoms. Sources, skin, and dwelling catheters for gram-positive bacteria. The mucocytus is the really important one for the gram-negative bacteria, especially from some part of the colon, the small intestine, or some oral cavity for angiol areas. Now that we've gotten that, and we've gotten the two big scary bacteria that can have a lot of mortality on these patients, what would be a way that they would present? Well, we kind of talked about it. If you have these bacteria, so here I'm gonna represent this as your gram-negative bacteria. I'm gonna represent this as your streptococcus, which is your gram-positive bacteria. I'll represent this as kind of like your cluster, so this is gonna be another, your staphylococcus aureus, your gram-positive bacteria. You don't have that immune system to really help you, right? So what are they doing? They're producing that unfortunate toxin-mediated destruction of tissue cells. And I told you that these tissue cells respond by alerting other areas, maybe telling macrophages, other immune system cells, hey, bro, I need some help. And so they secrete these different types of cytokines, even the endothelial cells do this a lot too. This is usually interleukin one, interleukin six, two-monochronic factor alpha. These are really pumped up. And the problem with these is that they have a lot of different targets. And I find this as the interleukin six plays a pretty big role in this. But what happens is that these love your hypothalamus. And they're gonna go to the hypothalamus and they're gonna stimulate the hypothalamus. And they're gonna type the hypothalamus, hey, bro, there's a lot of inflammation go on. Can you rev up the body's kind of like internal body temperature and make it a little bit harder for some of these bacteria to survive? When it does that, it increases your body temperature. All right, it does that in multiple different ways, which we're not gonna go into, but obviously V-through changes in vasoconstriction is one of the big ones. And so it's gonna definitely increase the body temperature. And it's gonna do it to a point where the patient starts to exhibit a fever. Now, how do we define a fever? Well, a fever in these patients is usually greater than 38 degrees Celsius. Whether that is a, usually in this potential scenario, is if they have a fever, as we look for this to be kind of consistent. So they've had a fever for maybe at least two days. But another thing is, is that we can have a one time. So like, let's say that you have a one time temperature where it's like 101 degrees Fahrenheit. And that scenario, we actually could say that that's considered also a fever. Even if it's one reading, that's something, especially if the patient has neutropenia. So fever is a really scary one. So when you have a patient who has a fever, greater than 38 degrees Celsius, plus neutropenia, absolutely neutral for a count less than 500 cells per microliter, you got neutropenic fever, right? The scary thing that we truly get worried about with this disease is that sometimes it can be kind of silent. And what will happen is, is that they'll act on the vessels. So they have little receptors on different capillaries, I'm sorry, arterials. And so let's say here I have an arterial and I got some receptors for it. When these chemicals hit these receptors, it can trigger two things. One is vasodilation, right? So it makes the vessels bigger, more larger diameter within the lumen. And the other thing is it makes the capillaries super leaky. So it's easier for things to leak out. And the whole point of that is that if you have an inflammatory response, like let's say in this area, you want this vessel to be leaky so that white blood cells can get into the area and fight off whatever it is that's going on. So it's gonna have a increased vasodilation, an increased capillary permeability in these vessels. And the problem with that is, is that what this will do is, is this will cause like a drop in your systemic vascular resistance and it'll drop your blood volume, your effective arterial blood volume. So your systemic vascular resistance will go down and your blood volume will go down. Because now you have less resistance because the larger the diameter, the less resistance to flow. The combination of these, we know blood volume and blood pressure are very, I'd say directly proportional. And so if there's a drop in blood volume, there is a drop in blood pressure. And whenever systemic vascular resistance goes down, so does your blood pressure. And so what we start to see is that patients can start to experience a drop in blood pressure. And so this may kind of rear its ugly head in the form of hypotension, right? And so that's where we kind of get a little scared. Could this be a patient who's starting to exhibit signs of shock? And then this is a very specific type of shock, right? So whenever I have a patient who we have, we could define something, which we can say is sepsis. There's a lot of different criteria out there, but I'd say this criteria is really kind of concerning. If I have a fever, if I have a decreased number of my neutrophils, which is gonna kind of overall, it's gonna drop my number of white blood cells, right? And if I have a fever, and if I have bacteremia, if I have bacteremia, I have positive blood cultures. So I test, I actually test their blood and I test it for bacteria. If it comes back with bacteremia, then we technically have sepsis, my friends. It's when we get into the combination of hypotension, that is when we start getting concerned of, has it progressed to shock? And so sometimes patients may come in with a fever, a neutropenia, and a bacteremia, but then they can get sicker and sicker and sicker, and then eventually progress to shock. And this is where we get worried. Let me actually kind of redefine this one. Let's redefine this as a septic, septic shock. So that's what I want you guys to take away from neutropenic fever. So taking away from neutropenic fever is a patient who usually has an underlying hematologic malignancy, where they already have a slightly lower neutrophil count, get hit with chemo-radiation, shut down the bone marrow, more suppression in neutrophil production, that drops, can't clear infections as well, because of an innate immunity, it decreases. Because of that bacteria that are getting their way into the bloodstream, to be at this different ways, can then thrive and cause tissue damage. This tissue damage sometimes doesn't cause a lot of localizing signs and symptoms. It may cause a fever, but sometimes it can get progressive enough that this patient can go to develop sepsis, and then sometimes precipitously, and I mean quickly develop septic shock. So really important to identify that. When neutropenia fever, we talked a lot about this. We see this primarily in a patient who has some underlying malignancy. Usually it's a leukemia of some sort. That's really the big one. And what happens is, is usually they have some type of malignancy and they're getting hit with chemotherapy as well. And when you get hit with chemotherapy, what happens as a result of that is that you cause myelosuppression, especially even radiation therapy. So you suppress their bone marrow from producing neutrophils. And if they have some type of like hematologic malignancy like leukemia that already is producing less functional white blood cells, that's gonna create an opportunity where they just don't have the immune system to fight off infections. And plus, when you get chemo radiation therapy, it breaks down that mucosal lining and it allows bacteria to translocate. They get into the bloodstream, you get bacteremia, you run the risk of infection, because you just don't got the immune system to fight it off. And so, I see this a lot in patients with sepsis. So patients who come in with septic and we start working them up and we end up finding that they have neutropenia, and they also have an underlying malignancy. They just got chemotherapy recently. That's a potential source of that sepsis. But again, I really want you to think about this more in the vignettes as a patient who comes in with a new onset fever who has a history of malignancy. More likely kind of a hematologic one and they've gotten chemotherapy. So they're suppressing their immune system, destroying the bone marrow that's causing myelosuppression. They may already have a reduced functional white blood cells in the first place. Now creates an opportunity, bacteria translocate, they get into the bloodstream, and that's when they get the fever. What's a fever? Usually greater than 38 centigrade. So now I got a patient with a fever. You got a patient with sepsis. They have a history of malignancy. They have a way of having that mucocytus or breakdown and a barrier that allows for bacterial translocation. How do you prove that the white blood cells are low? You get a CBC with a diff. That's gonna tell you if the white blood cell counts low and the differential is gonna tell you which one of the white blood cells, the neutrophils. But what I really want is that absolute neutrophil count. That's less than 500 cells per microliter. We have a diagnosis of fever plus neutropenia. We got a neutropenia fever. The question here then becomes what do I do next? At this point, you really have diagnosis. You don't have to go further. I think if you're ever asked, well, what do you do once you've diagnosed the patient with neutropenia fever? Well, the most likely thing is you start them on broad spectrum antibiotics. But once you start them on broad spectrum antibiotics, you can't keep them on that forever. You can make keep them on it for like, maybe a week or two or something like that. Usually at some point though, we would like to narrow down antibiotics to be more specifically geared towards that pathogen. And that's where blood cultures are gonna come into play. So you're gonna start them on antibiotics once you diagnose it. After they get there, after they've, you know, you've done that, you order the antibiotics, they're getting ready to come, you quick get blood cultures. You do the blood cultures and you order cultures from other areas or sites depending upon their symptoms. But blood cultures is gonna be the first one. Another one I like to do is a chest x-ray, right off the get go. So I like to get a chest x-ray to see if they have any kind of diffuse pulmonary infiltrates because that's a very common area as well. So some kind of pneumonia bacteria can easily spread across. So I like to do blood cultures and I like to do a chest x-ray right off the get go. And if I see these things, I'm pretty concerned. Now, I think the really, really important thing here is you wanna try and figure out, do I order further tests? You only do that if they have specific signs and symptoms to point to that area. So for example, if they have cellulitis and abscess, a big surgical wound that looks gnarly wound culture it, if they have a urine analysis that's very abnormal with Paiuria, leukocytesterase and nitrates that are positive, they have dysuria, frequency, urgency, get a urine culture, right? If they've been a long-term chronic catheter patient, get a urine culture potentially. I think those are really, really important to consider. If they have abdominal pain, severe diarrhea, I would consider getting a stu culture. I would also get a sputum culture if they have any kinds of respiratory symptoms and their chest x-ray came back abnormal to. The whole purpose of this is that once I get my blood cultures, that'll tell me they're back to remia. But then I also can get other cultures to find out where is this potential source coming from? Cause maybe it's not in the blood yet. Maybe their blood cultures come back negative, but they have another source in their body. And so these are always kind of things to consider because it helps you to tailor your antibiotics towards the specific pathogen. Cause we'll start them on vancomycin to cover MRSA. We'll start them on the Pipericinotasobactam or Cephapim to cover your Pseudomonas and a lot of your other gram negative rods. But once we've done that, that's the broadest spectrum. At some point, we want to narrow it down to the specific pathogen. And that's what the cultures are going to help us with. Blood cultures are going to be the main one. These other ones you can do based if they have symptoms and signs. But either way, this is really the way of determining their sepsis and infection. How all of these patients will likely most often present, which is a fever or a septic patient with a nomenolignancy and they've gotten some kind of chemo radiation therapy that broke down a barrier that allowed for translocation. So you've gone through, you have a patient who has neutropenic fever, right? We talked about that, they probably have a hematologic malignancy, they got chemotherapy, they now have a fever, they got an absolute neutrophic count less than 500. What do you do? You ordered the blood cultures, you're waiting for those to come back. You maybe got other cultures depending upon localizing signs and symptoms. In the meantime, you have to put them on empiric antibiotics. This is going to be vancomycin, most often to cover MRSA, and then piparicilentaseobactym or cephapim to cover your pseudomonas and a lot of other gram negative rods. That's going to be what you're going to do until you get the cultures back, which says what kind of bacteria you have, and then you narrow down to what it's susceptible for. All right, so let's talk about tumor lyso syndrome. So tumor lyso syndrome is a really important way to get rid of the symptoms.  an oncologic emergency. What you really wouldn't be thinking about with this one is that there's obviously, it's pretty easy. I mean, it says within the name, there is lysis of tumor cells. And so I think that begs the question of, okay, we're obviously talking about oncology here. So what kind of tumor cells is popping is the question. And this is usually when we think about tumor lysis syndrome, we see this in patients who have what's called ALL. So acute lymphoblastic leukemia is a pretty common one. Another one is lymphoma. And there is different types of lymphoma. So if I were going to tell you which one, I would say things like non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, things like Birket, things like, you know, diffuse large B cell lymphoma, those are gonna be the more likely ones. So if a patient has ALL lymphoma, they have a pretty heavy, let's say tumor burden. So they have an increased tumor burden. They already got some heavy, heavy amounts of tumor cells that are constantly, you know, going through their replication cycles. So if you have a lot of tumor cells and you hit them with chemo, so then let's say that you give them a pretty good dose of chemotherapy. What's that chemotherapy gonna do to these cells? Well, we already know, I got to point it right at them. It's going to pop these dudes, right? And so now we bust open these cells. When you bust open these cells, you release their intracellular contents. One of the really important ones is going to be phosphate. All right, so phosphate's gonna be one of these that'll go up, all right? The next one is uric acid. So we'll write here uric acid. And this is just because of a lot of the DNA processes that are going on, right? A lot of the nucleotide metabolism from whenever you have a lot of cell replication, right? So a bump in the uric acid would be a pretty scary one. And then the last one is what is the most abundant extracellular cation that's, I'm sorry, what is the most abundant intracellular cation that we have? That's gonna be potassium. We're just bags of potassium, these cells of ours, right? So these are gonna be the primary things that leak out of these bust open cells. Once they get released, things like phosphate, you know, it's one of these that'll actually bind with calcium. So what it does is it binds the calcium. And when you bind up calcium, because that basically it kind of causes like a chelation mechanism, essentially, you're gonna do what to the free ionized calcium levels. You're gonna drop them because now it's bound to phosphate, right? So now you're gonna drop what you're calling your ionized or your true like free calcium. So we'll put this as your ionized calcium, right? So you can start to see patients having hyperphosphatemia with hypo-calcemia. The other thing is that uric acid, this is pretty nephrotoxic, it actually crystallizes. And so what happens is it'll actually kind of get into your nephrons. And when it gets into the nephrons, it causes a lot of nasty damage to your proximal tubular cells. And if you don't actually get enough of this filtered out, but you have a good amount of uric acid crystals, it causes uric acid nephropathy. And uric acid nephropathy usually presents in the form of an acute kidney injury. And the most common type is acute tubular necrosis, which is an intra-renal akii. And then the last thing is, in the potassium, we know that it is super critical to our cardiac activity. Obviously it plays a role in our deep, while repolarization mechanisms. And so what happens is it changes a lot of that. And so these patients become very, very high risk for cardiac arrhythmias. So arrhythmias is a big one, but I think when we talk about arrhythmias, obviously the scariest thing is that these patients can develop things like, well, VTAC, V-Fib, P-E-A arrest. So that's kind of our scary things that we actually get concerned about. Sometimes, obviously, acystole is another one. But another thing that we'll talk about with arrhythmias is that they can really be something that we can pick up on the exam with EKG changes. So we will talk about that. So big thing that I want you guys to remember here is when our patient has tumor lyso syndrome, they have to have a heavy tumor burden. And it's usually like a hematologic malignancy, such as ALL and FOMA. They get chemo, bust them open, release these things, and they start to cause a lot of different downstream consequences. So let's talk about that, because I think that will kind of like, really hammer down the point of what's gonna happen with the high phosphate. Well, we kind of know, right? These cells pop open. What was that first one that I told you about? It was the phosphate, right? So we had a lot of phosphate. Now, phosphate, one of the things about this is that we already talked about it. It's going to lower the ionized calcium. So it'll bind with the calcium. And whenever it binds with calcium, it lowers the true ionized version of calcium. So they got low calcium. The problem is when you have lower amounts of ionized calcium, calcium is very peculiar. And what happens is, is it kind of controls your voltage-gated sodium channels. So imagine calcium is, if calcium is really high, it can block some of the sodium, because it competes with it to a degree. And so it can block that sodium, because it can repel the sodium from actually moving into these channels. But if you have less calcium, are you gonna have as much of that repelling it and competing with the sodium there at that channel? No. So what happens to the activity of that sodium channel? It goes up. And so what happens is, you get more sodium, you get an increase in sodium influx. And these voltage-gated sodium channels. So more sodium is gonna be pumping into these neurons. This is a neuron, right? So you're gonna have a, we'll use a positive symbol here, positive symbol here, positive symbol here. These things are rushing. Not rushing, you know, like, you know, like rushing. Like, oh, look, look, look, look. No, this is rushing into the neuron, causing it to depolarize. When it depolarizes, it sends signals down and increases action potentials, bro. When we get more action potentials in these nerves, the problem with this is, is this leads to a lot of neuromuscular irritability. That's a heck of a word, right? So it's gonna lead to a lot of things called neuromuscular irritability. Let's write that down. Neuromuscular. Irritability. All right, so what are these people just like mad at life? No, no, no. There's specific clinical symptoms that can sometimes be seen. For example, one, and this is, I think, a classic one that you see on the exams because it's just easy to kind of like talk about, it's perioral peristhesia. So you get kind of like some numbness and some tingling around the oral area. The other one, as it can lead to what's called Shove Stex sign. Shove Stex sign. What the heck is Shove Stex sign? Shove Stex sign is basically when you have facial nerve irritation. You take, and you tap over where the facial nerve, because the facial nerve kind of runs right here through that parodic. You tap around that area and then they get kind of contraction of that facial muscles because the facial nerve is getting activated. And so it's changing the muscles of the facial expression. You're getting all yanked up right there. That's one sign. So a positive Shove Stex sign. Another one is a positive Trussoes sign. A positive Trussoes sign. And this is when you inflate the blood pressure cuff over the brachial artery, there's a nerve there, and you start to compress that nerve. And then guess what happens? Some of the nerves that run down, obviously we'll kind of get to like that median nerve. It starts to kind of get compressed. And then what happens is, is you start to have flexion at the wrist and then the flexion of the actual phalanges. So you get what's called a carpopetal spasm. And that's usually as you inflate the blood pressure cuff up high enough, it starts to compress in those nerves. You activate it and it's already kind of like a little sensitive. Boom! So it's like you get sensitive nerves and you're trying to mess with them. I think the biggest thing, and I would say it's not common, that's what I'd be scared of, is that in worst case scenarios, this can cause seizures. I haven't seen it, but it's something that I would say that would be considered the emergency aspect. All right, the next one is you are pumping out that uric acid. Now the uric acid is where I think a lot of the problems lie in tumor lyso syndrome. That and I think the potassium. But I think uric acid can contribute to that as well, interestingly enough. So the uric acid, what happens is that this is, it's pretty nasty, man. And basically what it happens is, is it can cause uric acid crystals. So let's actually just kind of represent these. Here, let's do like this. Let's say here we got like a little bit of, you know, uric acid crystals that you get here. So here's our uric acid crystals. This kind of moves across the glomerulus, gets into the proximal tubules, right? And then what it does is, it actually gets into these proximal tubular cells. And when it gets into the proximal tubular cells, here we'll do it like this, kind of like that. It gets into these cells and it causes damage. The cells aren't a great fan of it. It can actually cause nephrotoxicity. And then these cells start dying. As these cells start dying, they sloth off. So now let's imagine here's the damaged cells. Here's the damaged cells. These are all damaged. What are they gonna do? They start to sloth off. So now let's imagine I got a bunch of these cells that slothed off, cause I'm only showing you a couple, but there's obviously thousands upon thousands of cells here. They start kind of clumping. And as they clump, these cells, they form a kind of like, shape of the proximal tubular cell, proximal tubular lumen. So these start kind of dumping here in. And what happens is they make what we would call a cast. So they make something called muddy brown cast. And the problem with these cast is, is that they block the flow of urine moving down. And as they block that flow of urine over time, what that does is that drops the ability to filter things off from the glomerulus, right? So then you lose this ability. And as you lose this ability, what happens if you can't filter things across the glomerulus? That's called your GFR, right? So your GFR drops. If your GFR drops and you got these damaged cells, that's when you start seeing potential problems. Cause these cells are damaged and now you can't secrete things and the GFR is lost. And so now you're having a hard time filtering things. So there's decreased secretion because of these damaged cells. And there's a decrease in the GFR. Bruh, guess what this is gonna lead to. If I can't secrete things like creatinine, potassium, urea, water, all of these things, if I can't filter off potassium, urea, water, et cetera, this is where you're gonna start to see AKIs. So acute kidney injuries. And how do we truly define an acute kidney injury? How do we truly define it? If you had to define an AKI, how do you do it? It's an increase in the serum creatinine. Usually we say greater than 0.3 milligrams per DL within at least a 20, usually a 48 hour period, right? That's how we would be concerned about this. So if I started seeing a really, really sharp rise in the serum creatinine, I would be concerned about acute kidney injury. And if uric acid was elevated, that could be the potential cause. I got uric acid nephropathy. So that's where we get concerned is, these uric acid nephropathy. Here's the other thing, is with uric acid nephropathy, when you get an acute kidney injury, guess what else that happens? If you get a severe enough one, obviously we know the AEIOU, right? Acidosis, electrolyte abnormalities, which is the electrolyte? Potassium. So a patient who gets tumor license syndrome, they can cause AKIs, guess what AKI can do? Increase potassium. What do they already have spilling out of these busted open cells? Potassium. And so if I have potassium that's rising because of the busted open cells, and because of an acute kidney injury, I can't filter and secrete potassium as well. Primarily filter it though. What is gonna be the issue here? We get an exacerbated effect here. And that's gonna cause this hyperkalemia to worsen the cardiac arrhythmias. So that's what we get scared about as a Culean. This potassium rises enough, you can get cardiac arrhythmias. But if the AKI continues to progress and you still have this, you know, let's say concerning potassium, but it's not life threatening at the moment, this can worsen it. Problem with that is we already talked about it. It can cause cardiac arrhythmias. So obviously we get worried about things like V-Tac. We get worried about V-Fib. We get worried about PEA or acystole, right? But the problem is that oftentimes, yeah, most patients will present this way and you'll have to proceed with CPR. But oftentimes we get these kind of like EKG changes that are worth talking about. Because this is sometimes how they'll talk about this on the exam because they wanna figure out a way of how we can talk about this. So one of the first ways is that these patients will peak their T-waves. Then they'll prolong their PR interval. Then they'll lose their P-wave and then they'll widen out their QRS complex. Then they go into what's called a sine wave pattern and they can break down the V-Tac or V-Fib. They can go into a complete flat line. So these are the things that we worry about is do they have a peaked T-wave? That's the first one. Do they have a prolonged PR interval? Do they have a flat P-wave? Do they have a wide QRS complex? Are they presenting an a sine wave pattern? These are the things I want you guys to think about with this because this is what they'll try to test on. So they have a patient who comes in, has a history of ALL or non-Hodgkin's Lephoma, got chemotherapy. All of a sudden they have an EKG and it shows peak T-waves. What is potentially going on? They may have tumor-licer syndrome and that's because of the potassium leaking out of the cells. All right? And then they could also say they have an acute kidney injury or there's a uric acid nephropathy. How is that contributing to it? Because an acute kidney injury loses the ability to filter off and excrete potassium now. And that's accentuating the effect that they already have from the hyperkalemia. So that's what I want you to take you guys through here with tumor-licer syndrome. All right, tumor-licer syndrome, ALL, enphoma, big heavy tumor burden, you bust open the cells, release out which ones, phosphorus, uric acid, potassium, and which one drops as a result of high phosphorus, calcium. Neuromuscular ability, AKI, and lastly, cardiac arrhythmia. All right, tumor-licer syndrome. We think about this in a patient who, again, has an underlying malignancy. I'd say the most common ones are gonna be things like an acute leukemia of sorts, right? I'd say ALL is a really big one, lymphoma is a really big one, especially your diffuse large B cell, your Birkett lymphoma, anything like that where they've gotten chemotherapy, right? And in this case, they're not coming with a fever, they're coming with most often things like an acute kidney injury. So if you hear that, you hear things like cardiac arrhythmias or neuromuscular irritability. These may pique your thoughts to think about, ooh, could it be TLS? Well, how do I prove that? Well, the primary reason this happens is when you hit those cells, they bust open and they release things like phosphorus, uric acid, and potassium. The phosphorus keelates the calcium, and so they end up with hypocalceamy that cause the neuromuscular irritability. The uric acid causes the acute kidney injury and the hypotassium causes the arrhythmias. Either way, in these patients, you wanna think about that if they have a new malign, or they have a known malignancy, and especially if they've gotten some kind of recent chemo therapy. Now, I'm gonna get a CMP because that's gonna tell me my renal function, if they have an acute kidney injury, right? It's gonna tell me my potassium, it's gonna tell me my total calcium. I'm gonna get my phosphorus to see if that's high. I'm gonna get an ionized calcium if the total calcium comes back a little elevated, and I'm gonna get a uric acid. All of these things are gonna help me because what I need is I want to see PUK. I wanna see phosphorus high, uric acid high, potassium high, and I wanna see calcium low. That's what I wanna see. So phosphorus is high, uric acid is high, potassium is high, and calcium is low, I have tumor lyceus syndrome. And that's it, the diagnosis has been made. Again, this is more of a thing where you have to have a high degree of suspicion for this. Patient comes in, they got a nuance at AKI, that's not a quick thing that you're like, oh, it's TLS, no, you have to go through. Is it post-renal, is it pre-renal, is it intra-renal? Oftentimes, you'll start and you'll work them up. You wanna say, let me get a bladder and a renal ultrasound, make sure it's not post-renal. Let me look at their volume status to see if they're hypovolemic. Let me look at their medication history, and go through that to see if they have any kind of drugs, NSAIDs. If they're on some type of ACE inhibitor, if they're on an ARB, if they have some type of hypotension or shock, we go through all of these different things. We do phenols, we do urine sodiums, we do urine microscopy to look for any kind of cast, all of those things come up. But once you've gotten to the patient who has a intra-renal AKI, this should be something to think about. When you have a patient who comes with a rhythm, is you're thinking about potassium-related changes, peak T waves, flattening of the P wave, pro-long PR interval, YQRS, sine wave, cardiac arrest, et cetera. Neuromuscular ability, you're thinking about this in the patient who has Shov sex sign, trisosine, perioral peristhesias, maybe worst case scenario, a nuance at seizure. These are things I want you guys to be thinking about. So you have a patient who comes in, they have some type of malignancy, usually this is things like ALL, lymphoma, they got chemo, now all of a sudden they come in with an AKI, they have cardiac arrhythmias with T wave changes, and you diagnose this, what do you do? Well the big thing here is that the things that will kill them is going to be most likely the arrhythmias, as well as the acute kidney injuries. But when you think about these patients, the big problem here is that a lot of the times you have to try and do the best you can to treat the kidneys first. Because if you treat the kidneys, one of the benefits of that is that you reduce that risk of the further kidney injury, and the more kidney injury you get, the more risk you'll need for dialysis, the more risk that they'll have of hyperkalemia, and so you're really trying to go after that. So the first thing I like to do is I like to consider fluids. Fluids for the patient who's maybe getting ready to get chemotherapy and they're high risk, they're already a high risk of getting tumor license syndrome, I'll give them fluids. Usually things like lactator ringer is normal sailing one of those. The other situation of when I would give IV fluids, more likely, a little bit more volume, is when they have an acute tumor license syndrome. We're not, it's really, I think a misconception, when you give fluids to a patient with TLS, it's not because they're massively dehydrated, it's not because you're trying to flush these toxins or electrolytes out of their body. That's not really what you're doing, you're helping to maintain uvelemia, you're helping to improve renal perfusion to the kidneys. Because in that scenario, you already have the uric acid crystals destroying the kidney tubules. And what you're trying to also do is say, let me just give them enough volume where I don't further worsen their kidney injury. I wanna keep renal perfusion normal so I don't exacerbate their already present acute tubular necrosis and acute kidney injury. That's all you're trying to do. So you prevent a lot of this by keeping them volume resuscitated, just kind of normal uvelemia and acute tumor license syndrome, you're giving them again volume to just maintain uvelemia. It's not for this theoretical flushing out of toxins. That's really important to remember. The thing I like to talk about though in this scenario is whenever a patient has tumor license syndrome, you gotta think about it. They're busting open these cells. They got chemo, pop. There comes things like nucleotides. These nucleotides get broken down eventually into uric acid. Uric acid is the nephrotoxic devil. This is the one that's gonna cause those crystals. It's the one that's gonna cause the acute tubular necrosis. The next drug here is allopurinol. And allopurinol is kind of interesting because what it's gonna do is it's gonna act on this enzyme called xanthinoxidase. And xanthinoxidase is interesting because if you inhibit this enzyme, what you're gonna do is you're gonna inhibit the conversion of hypoxanthine and xanthine into uric acid. And so you're gonna get less uric acid, which means less nephrotoxicity. And so it's really good at decreasing uric acid before it's formed. And so that means it's not really good in the acute stages when uric acid is already formed in high amounts, right? You may reduce a little bit of it being formed, but once you have a massive amount of the spilling out of your cells, it's kind of too late. So this is more of a preventative drug. Those who are high risk, I'd probably give this more in the prevention of tumor license syndrome plus the fluids, I would do this drug. If the patient has acute tumor license syndrome, it's already too late. These things are spilling out uric acid, uric acid is already formed. Then what would I do? And that scenario, I'd use a drug called raspberry case. Raspberry case is kind of an enzyme where it's gonna convert uric acid into allantoin. Allantoin is not nephrotoxic. This is actually easy to urinate, doesn't cause any destruction or injury to the kidneys. So now by converting uric acid to allantoin, it happens to my uric acid levels, drops. What happens to my nephrotoxicity? Drops. And so that's the beauty of this drug is it's really good in the acute tumor license syndrome. So IV fluids in both conditions, allopurinol preventative, raspberry case more for the acute scenarios. All right. If the patient has things like hyperkalemia, we treat them the same way we treat hyperkalemia. What do you do? Well, first thing you gotta do is you gotta see, okay, let me give them some insulin to shuttle the potassium into the cells, give them dextrose if they have any hypoglycemia they're near the range of normal glycemia. On top of that, I would also consider things like albuterol and that's gonna help to shuttle the potassium into the cells. If they're acidotic, you can give them bicarb, but really the key thing that you'll be doing in those scenarios is giving them things like chiaxylate to help excrete it through the feces or you give them things like ferosimide to pee that potassium out. And in worst case scenarios, you do dialysis. So you're treating the patient who has hyperkalemia the same way if they have tumor license. Again, tumor license is just the reason for the hyperkalemia. And if they have instability of their cardiac membrane, so they have any kind of potassium related EKG changes, you give them calcium gluconate as well. All right, so let's not talk about leukostasis. So again, you probably noticed that we've talked about a lot of these oncologic emergencies in various different types of clinical lectures, right? So this should sound very familiar if you go back to our hematology lecture. We really talked about a lot of problems with neutropenic fever, especially with your acute leukemias. That's a really big one. We talked about tumor lysosin germolot and non-Hodgkins lymphoma. We talked about a lot in acute leukemias. And again, you'll appreciate leukostasis. Again, we talked about that in acute leukemias. So with that, what is the one that we see it most often associated with? Well, it's the one where you have just a massive, and I mean a massive amount of white blood cells, a tons of leukocytes. And that's usually, we tend to see this, we, you can see this in ALL. So any acute leukemia, yes. But for your exam, I want you to try and remember which one it's more associated with. And if you guys go back, we talked about one called AML, acute myeloid leukemia. And so this one has tons and tons of these blast cells. And we know that blast cells, what's different about these is if you kind of go back to them, if you really remember, what were these things that were kind of on the side? The auras, right? So your myeloblasts with a lot of the auras. So here, you're gonna have a patient who has tons and tons of myeloblasts. And it gets to the point where the number of myeloblasts causes the total white blood cell count to be extremely high. Now we actually define this as hyper leukocytosis. So that bone marrow be pumping these things out to the point that whenever these get into the bloodstream, and if we were to take account of the number of white blood cells that are in your entire circulation here, I'm just gonna draw a bunch of different cells. Here's a bunch of different cells. Do you take a sample of their blood? What you're gonna find is that their white blood cell count is going to be greater than 100,000. That's absolutely insane given that they should usually be somewhere from four to like 11 or 12, right? So usually four to 11. So we call this terminology wise, hyper leukocytosis. I mean, this is just a astronomically high white blood cell count. But again, the proportion of it is being made up by the myeloblasts. Now myeloblasts, they're not mature, they're bigger. They also don't have a lot of the ability to kind of stretch and move and twist and get through smaller capillaries. So because they're larger, because they're less, I'd say they're more fragile and they're not as bendy, these are gonna get stuck in a lot of your smaller vessels. So they may be floating through this arterial fine, but as they get to your smaller kind of like vessels, and they're the capillaries, they're gonna start occluding. And as they start occluding, because what happens is, when your white blood cell count goes up enough, you gotta think about this. I mean, think about this pretty straightforward wise. When you got a white blood cell count that is so high, there's only so much in your vessel. Now you're making less room for basic plasma. What happens to the viscosity of the blood? It goes up. So whenever you have white blood cell count as this high, you can expect the viscosity to be through the roof. So now this patient will have a crazy high blood viscosity. What's gonna happen now to their blood flow? Well, I'm telling you, it's gonna suck. So they're gonna have a reduced blood flow because of this increase in viscosity. And the problem with this is, when that viscosity is high enough, it's gonna start occluding the vessels. So then you start getting what's called micro vascular occlusion. Which is what we see here, right? So now these vessels are all kinds of occluded. If that happens, because it's by the way, blood cells, what's gonna happen to your oxygen delivery? To the brain. The ability to drain venous blood out of the retina. Or oxygen delivery to the alveoli. It's gonna suck. It's gonna suck real bad. So now because of that, these patients start to experience organ ischemia. And that organ ischemia will manifest in a couple different ways. Because it affects your central nervous system. It affects the retina. And it affects your lungs. And so that's what we get really, really concerned about in this disease process. Is that if there's enough of these white blood cells that they're really, really starting to cause this potential issue, we can see some scary, scary symptoms, dude. You can get patients, and we'll talk about this a little bit later, they can have stroke-like symptoms. Sometimes they may present mildly with a little bit of a headache, maybe a little bit of confusion. So like a slight change in their mental status. They may come with just a slight bit of blurred vision. Sometimes they can actually have complete vision loss, scatomas, they could have papillodema because of pressure being too high. They can maybe come in with a little bit of shortness of breath, but then they can come on full, blown respiratory distress, hypoxemia, chest x-ray with infiltrates, dude. It can be pretty bad. So that's why it's really important to remember that in patients who have AML, they're at risk for these lots of mild blasts, really, really high amounts of them that they really plug up the vessels because of high viscosity from total amounts of big blasts obstructing those microvessals, and then you get organ ischemia. So let's talk about what this would look like. So I told you it can block off vessels to the CNS. Let's imagine here, right? You take a second, and you imagine here's a central nervous system, right? You obviously have a bunch of parts of the circle, Wills. If I occlude off some of the MCA, and it's usually the smaller ones, you're not gonna occlude off a large vessel. You don't usually get that. You get more distally, maybe an ACA, maybe a little bit distal down that one, maybe kind of a more of a distal PCA, things like that. Because of that, you're gonna cause decreased oxygen delivery to the brain. So what that can look like is sometimes, yes, they can have things like a headache, right? You can have things like an alter mental status. But you can have, and I'm not kidding, you can develop stroke-like symptoms. I think that's where we get kind of concerned, and that's when we start getting to the point of where this is like severe symptoms. Because headache, yeah, it's not nice. It's not great. Alter mental status is not great, but if you start developing stroke-like symptoms, where you're developing weakness, you're developing sensory changes, that's when I would be concerned, because that could potentially, it's not as common, but potentially, you could cause a stroke if it goes along enough. Another thing you can also do is, is sometimes these can even cause small amounts of hemorrhage. I've seen this, where it can even cause small amounts of microhemorrhages. So this is where I'd be concerned about its effect on the central nervous system is clotting off these small vessels, where it starts off with headache, a little bit of a change in their mental status, but then it proceeds to stroke-like symptoms, and in worst case scenario, they can develop a stroke, they can develop microhemorrhages in the brain. Another one here, the lungs. I think about these guys clogging up the  pulmonary arterials. So now you have less blood flow here, going to get gas exchange. So now your gas exchange is impaired. As a result, where you're supposed to be allowing for, oxygen to move here, CO2 to move here, and to leave out of this with proper oxygenated red blood cells, now you lead to decreased oxygenated red blood cells. And this can precipitate in the form of hypoxemia. And that's what we get concerned about, is if you have a decrease in gas exchange here, because you're kind of blocking off this process, then you end up with less oxygenation, and you end up causing hypoxemia. Problem with hypoxemia is that, yes, it may present mildly. So you may start off with just a little bit of dyspnea. But the problem is that this can progress. You can get to the point where your respiratory rate goes up, or your breathing so fast and so deeply. So it can lead to things like tachypnea, right? So that's where I'd be a little bit concerned, is as the patient kind of gone into the point of where they're dead tachypnic. Or they're breathing so fast and so hard, that they're utilizing a lot of other muscles of, respiration, so they're causing nasal flaring. There's a lot of paradoxical movement of the chest. Their work of breathing, they're really, really struggling. It's visible. That's concerning, right? So that's what I'd be concerned about. Sometimes these can clog off enough of these vessels where it sometimes can cause infiltrates on the chest x-ray. So that's another thing to definitely consider is it can cause chest x-ray infiltrates, but it's not super common. A lot of the times this is really a clinical diagnosis where you have a patient who has hyperlucositosis, as defined here, and then other clinical symptoms. Usually it's neurological symptoms or pulmonary symptoms. And so this is what I'd be concerned about. Yes, I will write it down here. Sometimes you can get a chest x-ray with infiltrates. I'd say that that is not as common as you would have written in the textbooks. The bigger thing is that they may have some degree of respiratory distress. And this is the ones that I get really, really scary about is whenever their O2 saturation is really low. So if they have a really decreased SPO2, when you're reading that on their oxygen saturation, their respiratory rate is really high, their work or breathing is high, that's when I get concerned about things like respiratory distress. And it's important to kind of know the differences. And the reason why I tell you this is that in patients who kind of present with this, we need to escalate their therapy. If I got a patient who comes in with stroke-like symptoms and respiratory distress, I can start them on a drug called hydroxyurea, which will drop down their number of white blood cells, but it's gonna take a little bit longer. I need something very, very quick acting that's gonna rapidly drop their white blood cells and prevent this excessive neurological and pulmonary symptoms. That's what you use something called leukofarisa. So it is important to know the gambit of how they can present. All right, the last part coming down here is gonna be the eyeball. So when we talk about this one with the retina, the biggest thing here is that whenever you have these myeloblasts and they really can clawed off these vessels, we can see that it really can claw off the veins more so than the arteries. Cause we talked about arteries here, right? So we talked about the cerebral vessels. We talked about the pulmonary vessels and these are usually the arterial circulation. It's more often gonna block off the retinal veins. So usually you'll get retinal vein occlusion. And when you occlude off a retinal vein, what that does is it causes vein engorgement. And when the veins get engorged, the problem with that is is that it can increase the pressure inside of these veins. And then if you imagine, let's say that the pressure is really, really high cause blood isn't getting out here, it can cause like little micro hemorrhages. So that's some things that can actually start to happen is you can start to get micro hemorrhages that can occur. That's one thing that I would be concerned about is the patient developing micro hemorrhages. The other thing that we get concerned about is that obviously micro hemorrhages can cause things like visual changes, right? So they could experience things like visual changes as a result of that. Maybe some blurry vision, maybe some skatomas can start to pop up. But another thing here is when you engorge these, and especially if it's like, let's say that you have an occlusion a little bit more distal down here, then you're gonna get engorgement right here. And what that's gonna do is it's gonna cause a lot of swelling here at the papilla. And so sometimes they can even get something called papillodema. Then get something called papillodema. And again, this also can cause some visual changes, but it's also something that's very easily picked up on fundoscopy. So I watch out for that. It's can you see this on fundoscopy? Because oftentimes what will happen is when you have a patient who has these presentations, you can get a fundoscopy, like these maybe have a hyperleucosytosis, and you decide to do a fundoscopy on them. And with the fundoscopy, you end up picking up, oh, okay, they got a lot of these like enlarge and engorge retinal veins. And then they have some micro hemorrhages, and they have papillodema. This is the one that is easier to talk about on the exam, but do realize you can pick this up as well on fundoscopy. All right, so leukostasis is what I really want you to remember is white blood cell count greater than 100,000, high viscosity, clogs off the small vessels, which ones, brain, lungs, and retina. With that, you can have a gambit of presentation. Depending upon that presentation determines if you do therapy that's, I got time, or if I, ooh, leukophoresis, they need immediate rapid reduction in their white blood cell count. Leucostasis is really a clinical diagnosis. So this is when that white count is like super high, greater than 100,000, so I'll need a CBC to prove that. But how will I even think about this? It's a patient who has a nomalignancy. It's usually AML. That's gonna be a really, really common one that I would definitely want you guys to think about, AML. But it's a patient who comes in who probably has three systems that are being affected, at least one of those three. Neurological, because you get a lot of those white blood cells, they get stuck in the capillaries of the microvessels of the brain. Or pulmonary symptoms, because they get stuck in the pulmonary vessels. Or visual disturbances, because they get stuck in the retinal veins. And if that happens, you could have a patient come in with these neurological, pulmonary visual disturbances, plus they have no AML. All I need is to really say, is the white count greater than 100,000? So let me get a CBC, let me get a diff, and that's gonna be helpful. The peripheral blood smears are just a little extra step that you can add to see, is there a lot of these blasts present? Are there our rods, if you really wanna go that length, that prove that you may have an AML? So, if the white count is greater than 100,000, we got hyperleucocytosis. If we look at the differential, and we see that there's a lot of blasts, there's a significant left shift, that's helpful. And then lastly, if I get that peripheral blood smearing, it shows that the blasts are not lymphoblasts, instead they're myeloblasts, and you see our rods. So here's an example of some myeloblasts all here. And if you kinda zoom in a little bit, you can see there's an our rod right there. That's really suggestive of AML. And in this clinical scenario that I see right here, that's almost likely leukostasis. But we could go a little bit further, if we really wanted to have extra tests to prove that there's like these organs that are being damaged or injured, I could do a chest x-ray to see if there's any pulmonary infiltrates. I could do a fundoscopy to see if there's any kind of what? Retinal vein engorgement, if there's any micro hemorrhages, papillodema. A neurological exam would really be the best to see if there's any neuro deficits, there are alterations in their overall mental status. These are things that we could do, but you could even get a brain MRI and look to see if there's any small strokes or micro hemorrhages, but a lot of the times it's just clinical, plus the known hyperlucocytosis in the history that would bring about that suspicion. But if you find these things, all it does it really helps you. So again, you get that chest x-ray with the infiltrates, you get the fundoscopy, and you see something like a hyperviscosity retinopathy. Here's that dilator retinal vein that you can kinda appreciate right there. And you get some micro hemorrhages around the place. These are really kinda telling me that I got a hyperviscosity retinopathy. And again, a neurological exam that's kind of altered mental status when you did their mini mental exam, and then you have maybe some neurological deficits, like a focal deficit. This could suggest maybe some potential stroke-like symptoms as well. And again, you may go further and say, hey, let me get an MRI and see if I have any kind of large vessel occlusion. Let me make sure that I don't have any kind of, well, large hemispheric stroke, the CTA would be for the large vessel occlusion, but you're looking to see if there's any likely cause of that. So is there a stroke in that potential area? In this scenario, again, you have to have a high degree of suspicion, and that's why it's more of a clinical diagnosis in this scenario. We got that white count that's through the roof, man. Greater than 100,000, I gotta get that thing down. Well, there's two ways. One is it's really good, it just takes some time. And that's hydroxyurea. And so this is gonna be for the ones where we have the time. They're maybe asymptomatic, or they don't have severe symptoms. They're not full on presenting with stroke-like symptoms. They're not in hypoxia, respiratory distress. I got some time I can do hydroxyurea alone. And the patient who has severe hypoxia, respiratory distress, visual disturbances beyond belief, they're almost blind, and they have neurological deficits. They got stroke-like symptoms. I can't just only do hydroxyurea. I can get hydroxyurea started, but I need to reach out somewhere in the hospital or a facility that does leukophoresis. Leukophoresis is gonna be the go-to in severe symptomatic leukostasis, because we gotta drop the white count rapidly. This does it very rapidly and quickly. This one takes a little bit of time, but they're just about as effective as one another. It just is about which one in a rapidity is required. So, leukophoresis, what you do is you remove the blood from the patient. This is gonna contain their red cells, their white cells, their platelets, their everything. And what you're gonna do is you're gonna centrifuge that into their separate layers. Once you do that, you get your red cells, you get your BuffyCo, which has your platelets, your white cells, you get your plasma. At that point, now what I need to do is I need to start separating out what? Separating out my white blood cells. I'm gonna remove these white blood cells, and then send back the red cell layer, the BuffyCo with the platelets, the plasma, back into the patient. All I'm doing is I'm getting rid of some of the white blood cells. I'm decreasing their white blood count quickly, and that's gonna reduce some of the leukophoresis symptoms. So again, and the asymptomatic less severe hydroxyurea, and the severe still give hydroxyurea, but you also need to do leukophoresis to rapidly drop it, and then you'll continue hydroxyurea after. SVC syndrome. When we talk about this one, I think this is again something we talked about more in like the lymphoma lecture. We talked about this also in our oncology. And we talked about this particularly with, I'd say lung cancer. When we think about lung cancer, yeah, squamous cell carcinoma can, but I'd say the more rapid developing one, usually it's again more central. Two of the central ones is gonna be squamous and small cell, but you'll see it much more often, given the rapid development, the rapidity of small cell lung cancer. That's the one I'd be concerned about, because that's nearby. It's near that kind of like central portion where it can compress on the superior vena cava. So let's be concerned about that when we think about it, lung cancer. Yes, we can talk about that one, but the real big one, the concerning one, is small cell lung cancer, all right? So with this one, I think what we get concerned about with this one is that again, it can get pretty darn big. And with that, it can mush. What's this? Here's your internal drug of the vein. Here's your subclavian vein. And they're gonna join to make, eventually they make the brachiosophalix and the brachiosophalix combine. I'm just bringing it right here. I'm gonna say that this is the superior vena cava. Look at this. We're mushing it. We're mushing this thing right here. That's one area where we can mash on it, all right? The next thing is also lymph nodes. We can get some big lymph nodes, right? Especially within the mediastinum. Now, lymphoma, you have non-Hodgkins and Hodgkins lymphoma. And yes, Hodgkins lymphoma definitely causes mediastinal lymph adenopathy, right? With nodular sclerosis as these, usually the underlying subtype. But non-Hodgkins is very aggressive. It has tons of extra nodal involvement. But the concern with this one is when it hits those mediastinal lymph nodes, it grows rapidly. They're really, really enlarged. So I'd say that you would see this more commonly with non-Hodgkins lymphoma, especially things like diffuse large B cell lymphoma, verchids lymphoma. These are the ones that can definitely get pretty decent sized lymph nodes and compress. Again, yes, it's internal, regular subcleavage and that goes brachiosophallic. But imagine there's another brachiosophallic coming here and then making the supravena cava. So we're just kind of like going there. Look at this, look at this, dude. This is mashed to bits. So because it is super, super, like small lumen, it's really hard for blood to move down the supravena cava. And so what ends up happening is you get a restriction and flow. And so when there is a restriction and flow here and a restriction and flow here, that's where you get these potential issues. And so now I'm gonna have a harder time for blood filling in to the right atrium and filling in to the right ventricle. See, there's a significantly reduced flow coming down from the supravena cava into the right side of the heart. And again, it's all because of right here. Look, just look. I mean, I'm gonna write it down, but look, look at that. Look how small that is. So you're definitely gonna get a lot of, let's say extrinsic compression of the SVC. And this is going to decrease the lumen diameter. All right, that's gonna lead to an increase in the lumen or diameter. So you're gonna extrinsically compress the SVC and that is going to result in a decrease in lumen. That thing is tiny. And as a result, you'll get decreased flow into the right side of the heart. But because of this, you're gonna get increased backflow. And what we'll talk about a little bit later is you'll get increased backflow into two potential vessels. And it's pretty easy to think about this, guys. Come on. What, when we got the brachiosophallus, supravena cava, what is feeding into the brachiosophallus? Internal jugular, subclavian. So what you're gonna get is you're gonna get a lot of backflow. And the internal jugular, we'll put i, j, v, backflow. And then you're gonna get a lot of backflow into the subclavian veins. And so we're gonna put that as SCV backflow. You're probably like, okay, what's the big deal about this? Well, there is a big deal about this. And the reason why is it really comes down to this. The internal jugular being backflow. It's really, really problematic. And that's what I want you guys to really understand is what really constitutes an oncologic emergency because I'd say for the most part, SVC syndrome is more of an urgency unless you get the rare scenarios of where, we'll talk about this, you have emergent symptoms like increased ICP and respiratory distress. So extrinsic compression of the SVC, from what structures, medecinal lymph nodes, or central lung tumors, small cell lung cancer, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Okay, when we think about this, let's say again, all right, if we really wanted to be anatomically correct, let's be anatomically correct, because I don't want, please don't like end me. But yes, there's internal jugular vein, subclavian vein, brachiosophallic, and then brachiosophallic, technically, you have the right and left, and then you get this portion as a supravenic cable. So at this portion here, we have compression. So let's actually kind of show this here. Let's say at this portion, whoop, I have compression. And then what's really compressing it, we can use those two different tumors. One, I'll do half of it is the lung cancer, right? Here's the lung cancer that's compressing one. And the other one is the medial spinal lymph node, and we'll kind of do this as the other half. This is accounting for the other half, and this is mashing there. Okay, well, blood is having a hard time moving right through this thing, and then here, right? So as a result, this is gonna be reduced, reduction here, reduction here, reduction here. So what ends up happening is, is blood that is supposed to be flowing here ends up flowing backwards. Blood that's flowing here ends up flowing backwards. And that's where we get the backflow problems. So here, we'll start off with the subclavian one, because this one is actually pretty easy. So you have increased subclavian vein backflow. What was the subclavian vein? Get blood from, because this is all venous structures, right? So this is getting blood from your upper extremity and parts of your chest. And so what's happening is all of these veins, and I'm not gonna draw all of them, but all of these veins, they start to get kind of enlarged and then fluid starts to leak out of them. And as some of that fluid starts leaking out because of that increase in hydrostatic pressure, you start getting swelling and edema and distention of these veins. And so that's where you start having some problems. So you get upper extremity edema, and you get chest edema, and you get distended upper extremity veins. So that's one way from the subclavian vein backflow, right? All of these things are just gonna get plumper, hydrostatic pressure is gonna lead to these things kind of leaking fluid out into the interstitial spaces. You get some swelling of the upper extremity, the chest, and then you get some veins that might pop a little bit more. From the IJ, this is the one that's really terrifying, right? So internal jugular vein backflow. So now we got a problem with this bad boy. So this one is backflow. Well, with the internal jugular vein, when this one backflows, you gotta think back to it. Remember a little bit of your anatomy, right? We got all these different types of cerebral veins. So you have your cerebral, and technically their cerebral venous sinuses. Basically they drain the brain perencoma. And then what they do is, is they drain into eventually the internal jugular vein, right? These all are supposed to drain into the IJ. But if you have backflow, are you gonna have proper drainage? No, and so what ends up happening is that these cerebral veins, they don't drain. And as a result, there's a couple things that can happen. Obviously they're gonna get big. But anytime there's stasis of blood flow, you've run the risk of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis. But I think the biggest thing is, what's the term called whenever the skull is a fixed space? And you increase one of three things, brain, cerebral spinal fluid, or blood. Well, if I start increasing the amount of blood, then I'm gonna start causing and increase the intracranial pressure. So what ends up happening as a result of this, is you get a increased blood in the skull. And that violates the monorhokelly doctrine because we're not supposed to have more blood, more brain, or more cerebral spinal fluid. And as a result, what happens? The intracranial pressure can go up. Now, I have worked with a lot of neurological patients, a lot of neurocritically ill ones. And I think one of the things that we talk about a lot of the time, is that this would be relatively hard to do, in general, with a person who doesn't have already a brain substrate. They have a bleed, they have abstractive hydrocephalus, they have a mass, they have something else that's already increasing their ICP a little bit. What we always try to do, is, and this is something that is relatively, I think, controversial and try to teach about, is we obviously try to not impede jugular venous drainage. So that's why patients who have neurological injuries, we try to, if they have high ICP already, we avoid candlelighting the internal jugular vein for central venous catheters. And we prefer subclavian vein, because we won't thrombose or decrease the diameter of the internal jugular vein. So that's the concept there, is patients who have sub-pavienic cavus syndrome, you're kind of decreasing the diameter. If they already have high endocrineal pressure, and you knock off their drainage even more, ICP can go up. This can happen if you've got a really severe enough obstruction, though, you can cause an ICP crisis. That right there is what determines this to be a true emergency. Another thing is, when we think about this, is internal jugular vein. It has, so let's imagine here, we had the jugular vein, internal jugular vein. It gives off little branches that can supply the larynx. Now, if your jugular vein is distended, it's getting real, real large, because the blood is just not being able to drain through it, is little branches are gonna get enlarged as well. And so these branches that supply the larynx are gonna be problematic. So you're gonna get an increased laryngeal edema. All right, because you're gonna get a lot of fluid that's gonna sit here, and that's gonna start leading to a lot of edema, because it's gonna, again, hydrostatic pressure. Fluid's gonna start leaking out into the surrounding tissues. And so you're gonna get what's called laryngeal edema. And the problem with that is, is that's going to narrow, as you start causing swelling around the larynx, you're gonna narrow the laryngeal inlet. That can lead to respiratory distress. And obviously one of the ways that we would be concerned about this, is if a patient came in and they got stridor, that's one way, because it's inspiratory stridor, air coming in, there's a narrow lumen now. Or they have hypoxia, right? So these are the ways that we get kind of scared and concerned when it comes to SVC syndrome, is stridor, or respiratory distress, presenting with hypoxia, increased respiratory rate, work of breathing is going up, these are all concerning features. So again, backflow, think about cerebrovine drainage as impeded, think about backflow and increased hydrostatic pressure so fluid leaking out into the larynx, causing laryngeal edema. The last thing is, is most of these, you guys think about this, this internal jugular vein, right, is gonna run up. But another thing is that, you know, you're gonna have some other problems where you're gonna start causing some swelling of the neck. And you're also gonna get some branches here as well, which are gonna cause some swelling of the face. And so you're gonna start seeing some jugular venous distension. So you may see some jugular venous distension, but you may also see facial swelling, or the term edema. So that's something else I would watch out for as well. Now this wouldn't, I think, constitute per se, a emergency. And I think that's the really important thing to remember, is it wouldn't necessarily constitute an emergency. What I would consider to be an emergency of SvC syndrome is respiratory distress and ICB crisis. Theoretically, you can have hypotension, but the problem is, is that a lot of people think, oh, it's because you're reducing preload, right? Cause if you compress the SvC, you're getting less preload, less venous return, less stroke volume, critical output. There's been studies that actually show that's not really the case. They actually say it's more likely cardiac compression. And so I would say that you're probably not gonna see as much of the hypotension factor in a patient with SvC syndrome due to reduced venous return. It's more if it's a large enough kind of mass that it's actually causing the mass itself is compressing the heart, not due to the compression of the SvC. All right, that is SvC syndrome. So you have a extrinsic mass that's compressing on the SvC, lung cancer, lymphoma, decreased movement of blood flow through there, backflows through, IJ, backflows through, subclavian. If it goes subclavian, arm extremity, so you're gonna get edema and swelling of that arm, neck, and the veins are gonna distend. IJ, the vein of the jugular vein will distend, and then you're going to get some facial swelling. I just wiped away the L and the I, I mean, N, whoopsie. Yep, some swelling there, but the real things that constitute an emergency is respiratory distress due to laryngeal edema from backflow into laryngeal veins. Because again, this is the internal jugular vein, and these are some branches, so laryngeal branches here. So this one here is the internal jugular vein, and these are some branches that are supplying, what is the structure here? Let's write this out. This is your, up here, the larynx. All right, these are the big things that constitute an emergency. SvC syndrome is very interesting. In this patient, you're really thinking about this, and a patient who has likely a known history of lung cancer, that's a really, really common one, especially like central one, squamous cell, small cell are the big ones. I'd say lymphoma, but a rapidly growing one, so they have to have pretty significant lymphadenopathy. Hodgkin's not so much, probably more than non-Hodgkin's, like diffuse-arge B cell, Birkin lymphoma, you'll see things like that. Thymomas, usually if you get a pretty large thymic enlargement, like in T cell ALL maybe, but these are the things where you've got a mass that's compressing on SvC. We see this more likely in the ICU, in the thrombotic nature, where you got a clot in the SvC and that's reducing flow, not as much as of a tumor on the outside, extrinsically compressing the SvC. But nonetheless, let's say that you have these suspicions, what would make you think about that? You got a patient with a distended jugular vein, that's one thing. They have facial swelling, edema, they maybe have a little bit of a bluish, kind of like hue to it, usually worse in the morning, interestingly. And then again, arm and chest, upper chest and arm, that all you kind of have some distended vein, some edema, some discoloration there as well. That would be pretty concerning, but if I have a patient who comes in and they have symptoms of neurological depth, and when I say neurological depth, it's more specifically when you have elevated ICP, it's more of a decreasing level of consciousness, maybe some nausea, maybe some vomiting, maybe some visual changes, that's more likely to be the presentation. You don't think about SvC syndrome. And so elevated ICP can result because if you kind of compress the SvC, you reduce the drainage from the IJ, and the IJ drains your cerebral venous sinuses. And so if those are compressed, if those aren't draining properly, it increases the blood inside of the skull, monorhealodotrin says the ICP is gonna go up, and they can have some potential neurological symptoms. That's worst case scenario. And I think another one is the IJ is also supposed to pick up feeders from veins around the larynx and the trachea as well, specifically the larynx. And so if blood kind of backflows into those, you can actually get some hydrostatic pressure changes and fluid can actually exude into those spaces, into the interstitial spaces around the larynx, and you can get some laryngeal edema. They can get stridor, they can get Disneya full on respiratory distress. And so those are the things to think about. But again, there's not something that you come to right off the get go. You have to have a high degree suspicion and probably know that this patient has an underlying history of lung cancer or maybe lymphoma, et cetera. Chest X-ray is not the best test. I think it's just an initial test in patients who come in with things like Disneya. Or patients who come in with things like hypoxia, respiratory distress, and you're really just doing it to rule out other causes. But if you happen to see a mediasinal mass, which in this one, a patient you can kind of appreciate there's like an opacity here, that that could be right around the SVC. I just need to get a better look at it. And so what I would say is you have to then determine their symptom etiology. If they're emergent, we don't go and get a CT scan. We actually gotta go in and both diagnose it and probably stent it at the same time. So diagnostic and therapeutic intervention. But if they're stable, like they're not having any ICP changes, hypotension, respiratory distress, I can probably just send them to CT. And I get a CT of the chest and I'll look at the venous filling phase. And what I'm really looking for is if you kind of appreciate this here, here's the aorta, here's the left lung, here's the right lung. They definitely have a little bit more of a, kind of like a pleural effusion here. But if you look at this, here's the SVC. And you can already appreciate, there's like a mass here in the medial stynum. And as you continue to kind of go up, this mass gets bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and boom, this thing's compressing the SVC. And so you get almost a complete obliteration of the SVC. So that's pretty much diagnostic. I can't treat at this point, like with this modality, but I can say, okay, now I have a diagnosis. I can actually reach out to my colleagues and say, hey, should I stem this or should I just reach out to, you know, oncology and say, let's do some chemo radiation therapy and see if we can shrink it. So that's really what it comes down to. This is more of your diagnostic test. But if they're emergent, right, then that's a different story. But again, I like the CT chest with contrast, that vinaigrafe study, because it tells you, is there a reduced caliber of the SVC? Is there something compressing it? And what is that thing? Is it a lung mass, right? Is it a lymph adenopathy of really, really bad one? Is it a thymic mass or enlargement of the thymus? Those are all really helpful in that SVC syndrome patient. But in the emergent one, we're not gonna be doing an image in this kind of scenario. We need to be ready to diagnose. And then if it is proven, treat. And so that's where we do invasive vinaigrafe. We'll call out to our interventional radiology team. We'll say, hey, I think I got a patient with SVC syndrome. Can you kind of snake a catheter up there and take a look? They'll go intravascularly, they'll go up. They'll kind of like, shoot some dye. Say, oh, there it is. We see the reduced luminal caliber of the SVC. There's definitely a lot of restriction and flow there. And then what they'll do is they'll deploy a stent and they'll open up and kind of pack back open that SVC that we can restore flow and help to drain the IJ. So we've reduced the cerebral edema, drain the IJ. So we help to reduce some of the respiratory distress and then relieve.  compression on the heart, which can help to improve hypotension. So those are the ways that we would kind of go about that. And that's one of the beauties of this kind of dichotomy here. All right, I hope that makes sense. So a patient comes in, they have maybe ICPs high, maybe they have hypotension, maybe they have respiratory distress, you reach out to the IR team, they go up, they snag the cat, they say, oh, there it is, boom, deploy the stent. That's gonna be in those emergent, unstable patients where you're gonna have to deploy that stent to actually gain back the patency of that vessel due to the tumor compressing on it. If the patient is stable and you got time, then you can just reach out to your radiation oncology team and say, hey, let's do chemo radiation, shrink this tumor down so we can reduce some of the facial swelling and edema, arm swelling and edema, et cetera. So that's gonna be the definitive therapy and that's something I want you guys to think about. All right, so next thing is gonna be malignant spinal cord compression. So this one is actually a true, it's a scary emergency. We see this a lot in malignancies, especially in the neurocritical care. You have a lot of patients who come in, they have unfortunate neurological deficits, maybe bowel and bladder dysfunction. On top of that, they have potential motor and sensory deficits. You end up getting an MRI of the spinal cord and you find out, oh my gosh, there's an extra general tumor. They have some vertebra body erosion from a testis. And then what do you do? You hit them with decadron and you start calling radiation therapy, a radiation oncology, you call the neurosurgery team and say, hey, is there any potential options to kind of like treat this underlying malignancy that's causing spinal cord compression? So thinking about that, I think it's really important to understand which tumors are at highest risk. So first one is breast cancer. So breast cancer is definitely one, if you have a breast mass, this one can definitely spread easily. So let's remember breast cancer is a really, really important one that loves to spread to the bone. Another one is lung cancer. So lung cancer is another really, really important one. We see this one spreading through the bone to the brain a lot. So definitely think about this one as well. If you have a patient who has some type of a potentially vertebra body involvement. Another one, let's actually grab our structure here, our little orange. We see this one and it's interesting because it's not osteoclastic as all of the rest of these are. It's actually osteoblastic. And this is going to be a little hint for you to think about prostate cancer. So prostate cancer is another one that likes to spread to the bone. And the last one that I would want you guys to remember here is lymphoma. So lymphoma can definitely do this as well. All right. And again, when we think about lymphoma, there is different types. There's Hodgkins, there's non-Hodgkins. You're going to see this more in the non-Hodgkins type. Another one that I will talk about very, very briefly is multiple myeloma. Multiple myeloma, which is usually when you have those plasma cells, that's another one that you also want to think about is going here and causing these potential problems. So I'd say multiple myeloma, lymphoma, specifically which of those non-Hodgkins, prostate cancer, and the last one is going to be lung cancer. All of these have the potential of doing what? Well, when you have these primary cancers, unfortunately they can seed. So they can seed into the bloodstream and they'll seed some of these, let's call them tumor emboli, if you will. We're going to seed some of these, we're going to call this tumor emboli. They're going to get into the bloodstream and when they get into the bloodstream, they're going to spread and where are they going to go? Well, they're going to go to your vertebral bodies. Sometimes, sometimes these can even just invade directly into the dura. They can go right into the dura matter. And so what can happen is, is you can start off here, you can actually have an extra dural mass. You can have a mass, right here, this is called a, we'll call this one a extra dural mass. So that's one thing I would want you guys to think about is let's say here I have an extra dural mass and that is compressing on the spinal cord, right? Especially as it gets big enough, it's going to compress. Another thing that can happen here is let's actually show this in two ways. Let's say here we're going to go to this vertebral body. So we'll say it starts off, let's say this one, seeds to this one and it starts causing destruction. Leases some cortical destruction of the bone. So now we have some destruction of the bone. But then what happens is when you destroy the bone, you start eroding the bone, it can actually start to, let's say kind of erode and displace itself into that dural space, that extra dural space. And so that's where we start kind of getting these problems. It starts off as a little bit of vertebral body, metastasis with cortical destruction and then erosion leading to it kind of extruding into that extra dural space. So you can either cause a direct extra dural mass or you can kind of do it indirectly by eroding the bone and then moving its way and kind of collapsing the vertebrae and kind of retro pulsing its way into that space. All right? So that's what I want you guys to think about is an extra dural mass due to a primary cancer such as these seeding their tumor emboli, getting into the bone, getting into the dural, causing these masses to form. Now, when they form, they start to obviously get big enough that they compress on the spinal cord. So they start compressing on the spinal cord. And as we get kind of compression or mass effect, so mass effect due to extra dural mass, that's when we see the potential symptoms. So for example, when you think about these, we have neurons that go to a bunch of different places. You're gonna have motor neurons, right? So let's call these your motor neurons. These are your motor neurons. These are gonna go to your muscles. And so if you have compression, enough mass effect that you're compressing down on the actual spinal cord and affecting the motor supply to your muscles, then you're gonna have decreased motor supply. That decreased motor supply, we'll talk about in a little bit here, that decreased motor supply, that's where we kind of have a lot of issues. And that's where you'll start seeing things like weakness and potentially changes in reflexes and flucidity and spasticity of a muscle. So that's one thing. Another one is you have compression of the spinal cord and it's affecting sensory neurons. So now these are supposed to be sensory neurons picking up information from things like Golgi tendon organs, right? You can even have your muscle spindles or this could be, let's just kind of move this bone a little bit, or this could be of the skin. This could be your pain, your temperature, your crew touch, your pressure sensation. So here you could have a decrease in your sensory supply. And that's really important to remember at this point. If we have compression, enough compression, that it's causing a decrease in that sensory neurons, kind of action potentials. So here's your sensory neurons as such. The last thing here is we even have autonomic neurons. Now autonomic neurons usually go to a ganglia and that ganglia will go to places like, in this case, the two really, really important ones are the bladder and the bowel. And whenever you have some type of compression here, you have a decrease in the autonomic nervous system supply. And that will lead to a lot of bladder and bowel changes. Now here's the question that you prior starting to ask yourself a little bit. All right, I see the basic consensus here, Zach, of how mass effect leads to compression of the spinal cord which leads to these neurons that are all coming out of the spinal cord leading to this downstream effect. What you really need to understand is how does the mass effect really do that? Just because you're compressing on a nerve doesn't mean that it's actually gonna cause this effect. It can, but usually the mass effect, what happens is, is it compresses your veins. So it leads to venous congestion. So there's veins that run through the spinal cord. You're gonna cause venous congestion of them. That's gonna lead to spinal cord edema. Then the mass is also gonna cause arterial compression over time. And that is gonna lead to necrosis or ischemia to that portion of the spinal cord which will eventually lead to necrosis. So what you have to remember is that the mass effect can first, first, let's actually write this down, first will lead to venous congestion. That venous congestion is gonna lead to spinal cord edema. Then the mass causes arterial compression. This is later. All right, later down the line. Then over time, if this is not addressed, necrosis. If these two you never take care of, you will end up with permanent, irreversible neurological injury. That's why it's so critical when a patient comes in with these neurological symptoms. The first thing that we see is the edema. What can I give them, steroids to reduce the edema? Get them to surgery or radiation therapy to start really treating them before they start to experience arterial compression which can lead to necrosis and irreversible injury. That is why it's super important to remember this. All right, so we got an idea here. Tumors, seed, get into the bone or into the dura, cause the mass, compress the spinal cord, congestion, edema. Over time, necrosis due to ischemia. If the nerves are being affected, it's either motor supply, sensory supply, autonomic. You could have one, two, three, you could have all of them. What would that look like? Let's talk about that for a second. So this spinal cord compression is pretty scary. I don't wanna go down cause we're gonna talk about this more in neurology block. But for right now, when we think about this, we have our cortical spinal tracks. And the cortical spinal tracks, you guys know they move down through your lateral, white column primarily. And then they kind of come in here and they give off these little endings, the termination point, right? To the anterior gray horn. And then these kind of move out and these go out and they go to your muscle. Right, then they can continue down. So here I'm gonna do like a dotted line. And then we're gonna continue this one down. And then we're gonna do a dotted line here. And we're gonna continue this one down. And again, it can go here, it can go out, and it can go out. Either way, this is the primary one. This is your lateral cortical spinal tract, right? And then this is the anterior gray horn. And this one is gonna give you your motor neuron that goes to your muscle. Usually what happens is, is when you have a compression, you have a malignant tumor that is compressing on the spinal cord. If it compresses at this level, so let's say that it's usually compressing extrinsically. So usually what happens is at this level, you compress the lateral cortical spinal tract, is usually what happens. And then at this level, you lose this supply. So you end up with a lower motor neuron lesion at the level of compression. So you end up with a lower motor neuron lesion at the tumor site. And then you end up with a decreased signals going down because you're compressing here. So it's affecting at this level, you're having a lower motor neuron lesion, right? Then as we go down, it's acting as the upper motor neuron. And then you're decreasing the signals here. So you end up with an upper motor neuron lesion below the tumor site. And I think this is just basic. I don't wanna go too crazy, but I want you guys to have a basic understanding of this. And so yes, with these both, they'll present with weakness. But usually with a lower motor neuron lesion, you'll have maybe some decreased deep tendon reflexes. You'll have some flaccidity, right? Whereas with an upper motor neuron, you have hyperactive reflexes and spasticity. And I think that is somewhat beneficial, I think, to talk about in this potential scenario here. So when a patient comes in, they have a tumor, let's say that they have a history of some underlying primary tumor, let's say breast cancer, all of a sudden they come in with weakness of a lower extremity. And let's say it's just in this case, let's say it's of the left side. And they have, at one point, they have a hyperactive reflex and they have that muscle just really flaccid. But then in another area, they have some spasticity, they have some hyperreflexia or clonus. That could be, again, a very, very concerning sign that you have compression a little bit higher up. All right? And so you may see a little bit of a combination of these two. But again, I don't wanna go too crazy. It's the basic concept that you're gonna experience overall, overall there will be, no matter what, some degree of weakness. All right, some degree of weakness that is similar between these two. It's just the other associated kind of things that come along with this that determines where the tumor may be. All right, but that's going beyond, that's more getting into localizing. I don't wanna go too far with that. What I would now wanna talk about is the sensory supply. So again, when you think about these, you have different tracks. You have your dorsal column, right? And then you have, we'll pick here, we'll pick red. So here's gonna be your lateral white column. And then we'll pick here in like this blue, let's do black here. Let's say here's gonna be your kind of your anterior white column, right? So let's say that you have a mass that is compressing. So let's say that you have compression, let's say you have compression here, right? There's a mass that's compressing at this potential site. Or you have a mass pressing at this site. Or you have a mass pressing on this site. Well, these are the areas that we'll start to experience neurological injury. So what I want you to color coordinate these with is if it's the blue, that's responsible for things like proprioception, right? So proprioception, fine touch, you know, vibrate, we can go down the line here. I'll do it like this. I'll put fine touch. What else? Let's put this one, this one. Let's do vibration. We can keep going. Discriminative touch, I'm not gonna go too crazy, but either way, you're compressing on this, you will experience a decrease in these symptoms, or these sensations, less vibration sense, less proprioception, less fine and discriminative touch. If you compress on these, on the red, this is carrying more of your pain and temperature pathways. So it'll be a decrease in pain and temperature. All right, and then lastly, if it's the black one, if there's compression of this, this is more of your crude touch, your pressure sensation. There could be a decrease in crude touch and pressure. So that's what I really want you guys to kind of associate with these here, is that again, depending upon here's motor supply, here's your sensory supply, this is your ascending tracks, this is carrying all of your sensory information. If you compress here, this one. You compress here, this one. You compress here, this one. All right, and the next thing here, I know you guys don't know this, but behind the camera, Rob has severe OCD. He sees these black smudges, and I think it kind of like literally, it's like someone poking his brain. So I'm gonna erase that form right there. All right, we're gonna keep going here. So the next part here is, let's say that you have again, this tumor, we have a compressing on the lateral cord, of the lateral column, we get this weakness, and then these lesions here of upper lower motor. You compress here on the ascending tracks, you get these sensory changes. Same concept here, you have, let's do this in pink. So we don't have too many different color contrasts. Usually there's pathways that come down to your lateral greyhorns from the hypothalamus, and there's a couple different areas, like your reticular formation, a bunch of different areas, but they usually go to your lateral greyhorn, which controls more of your autonomic function. So here this is gonna come here, this is gonna go here, and this is gonna go here. All right, so what I want you to remember is, if you have a tumor that's here, and it's compressing on the spinal cord, it's affecting the autonomic supply downstream, usually coming from areas like the ponds, right? So any kind of tumor that's usually above like your sacral portion of the spinal cord, like S2, S4, as long as it's above that portion, when you have this, usually what you start to see is, is you see a decrease in autonomic supply to the bladder and to the bowels. For the most part, early on in the disease, you then lose contraction of the detrusor. The detrusor just doesn't contract. If the detrusor can't contract, what happens to the ability to urinate? It doesn't happen. And so unfortunately what happens to these patients is they experience what's called urine retention, but then what happens is that urine retention leads to overflow, and that overflow can eventually lead to some overflow and content. So you may see a little bit of both. It's usually the form of like dribbling, kind of as an effect here, but urine retention may be the way that these patients present, and then that can then play out in the form of overflow and content. Now, another thing here is you're knocking off. So if I'm compressing here, I'm compressing these downstream, these upper pathways, coming, these autonomic pathways coming down through the lateral cord, and then losing the autonomic supply here. I also lose autonomic supply here to the muscles that control the ability to poo. If my smooth muscle can't contract, just like the detrusor, the smooth muscle within the actual muscular and external can't contract, is am I gonna be able to empty a turd into the toilet bowl? No, it's gonna stay there unfortunately. And these patients experience constipation. Now sometimes it can lead to like some overflow defecation as a result, but usually this may result in patients experience things like constipation. And again, that constipation may lead to overtime, especially if it's getting severe, it may lead to some overflow kind of like leakage or unfortunately defecation. So that's the things I want you to remember. Later on, usually this is early, later on in the disease, it starts to become a little bit more where the patients can start to experience a little bit more of the incontinence and a little bit more of that overflow defecation. But usually this is something that we would see with the bladder and the bowel changes. So when a patient comes in, they say, or they present with lower extremity weakness, decreased sensation, and one of the classic ways that they like to present this is like decreased sensation, especially like, you know, of the lower extremities, maybe it's fine touch, proprioception, crew touch, pressure, pain, all of those things. And then they combine that with bladder and bowel dysfunction, you definitely have to think about spinal cord compression, especially if they have an underlying history of a primary tumor that loves to spread to this area. What would you do? Get the MRI. The same concept here is, because I didn't, you probably see, oh, I didn't finish this off. It's the same concept. I probably just didn't continue this down. This nerve will move down, go here. So again, it doesn't matter. The concept remains the same. That either way, you're blocking, you're compressing these nerve fibers. You're compressing these nerve fibers in the lateral column due to the extra dural tumor. And that is knocking out the supply. So either way, it's the same concept here. Probably they got back pain, that's more likely the big thing. But I think neurological deficits, nuance at neurological deficits, where they're presenting with like weakness or paralysis of lower extremities, decreased deep tendon reflexes, loss of sensations, oh, bladder and bowel kind of incompetence or incontinence in general, maybe you kind of peak your interest to think about it. And if they have a normal lignancy, things like breast cancer, multiple myeloma lung cancer, these are all tumors that like to spread to the bone, especially to the vertebrae. And so that's something to think about. Even prostate cancer can do that as well. So that's something I would definitely be thinking about. And I'd probably just get an MRI of the spinal cord right off the get go, because that's gonna be the most clear distinction of the spinal cord, is there compression or not. So take a look at this. You can kind of appreciate here, here's the CSF in white, here's the spinal cord in this darker color, here's the vertebral bodies, here's the spinous processes. And what do you notice as you're gonna go, whoa, there is significant spinal cord compression. There's the loss of that CSF, and there's almost complete obliteration of the spinal cord there. So you have massive compression. And if you kind of look here, you can appreciate a tumor. That's kind of an extra-dural mass, and that's really smashing on a spinal cord, dude. So this is a concerning feature, and I'd be pretty concerned. I'd probably hit this patient with dexamethasone, reach out to my neurosurgical colleagues or my radiation oncology at the same time, and say, hey, what do we do definitively here? But that's definitely gonna tell me right away that this patient has some pretty significant spinal cord compression. Now again, this is from a primary tumor that probably spread to the bone. It could have eaten away at the bone, and then that kind of caused it to extend into the epidural space, or it can just go right into the epidural space and extend there on its own. So either way, we got a primary tumor that has caused some problems in the spinal cord. You got a patient coming in. They have a known malignancy. Maybe this is breast cancer, multiple myeloma. They got lung cancer, they got prostate cancer. Now they're coming in. They have new onset weakness of the lower extremities. They have a decreased anal-wink reflex. They have decreased detentive reflexes. They have loss of sensation. They have bladder urinary and bowel incontinence. You get an MRI. You find that they have spinal cord compression. You see the mass extra-durly smashing on it. What do you do first? Dexamethasone. Right off the get-go to reduce the vasogenic edema. That's the first thing. What's the next thing? You're gonna pick up the phone. You're gonna call radiation oncology. You're gonna call neurosurgery. Have them take a look at the image. Have them examine the patient and say, which one of these therapies is best to decompress them and get that tumor to have less pressure on the spinal cord? And if you do that, you have a good chance of preserving some neurological long-term paralysis. So again, here's the image. We see it. Oh, let's get them started on dexamethasone. After we do that, reach out to radiation oncology or neurosurgery. What could the radiation therapy do? It's gonna help to target and shrink that tumor if we have some time. But oftentimes more than not, from what I've seen, we have to peel that muffin cap back blue and release that compression immediately with neurosurgical interventions. All right, so hypercalcine malignancy. This one's really interesting. And the reason why, again, I talked to you about it is it is kind of a perineoplastic thing. And we'll talk about that in that video. That's why it's so good. I think one of the things I think we hope to try to accomplish here at Ningenert is that you'll see things overlap a lot. And that's what you want. You try to want to, you really want to be able to make connections between multiple different disease states and pathophysiological processes because I think it helps you to stay in that memory center a little bit longer. We will talk about this again in perineoplastic syndrome, but it's really interesting because when we talk about hypercalcine malignancy, you wouldn't think of this as kind of like an emergency, but it really can be. I think one of the scariest things is the massive degree of dehydration that these patients can experience and the severe bone pain and fractures that can happen as well. So how does this really occur? Well, one potential problem, and it's probably gonna be clear as day to you once you kind of see it is lung cancer is a really common one. If you guys have watched the videos right now, you're probably screaming, oh, I know which one it is. Which lung cancer do we commonly see leading to hypercalcemia? Come on, scream it out. Ah, I know you guys said it. It is usually going to be, and we'll do it here in blacks, we have a good contrast. It is usually going to be squamous cell carcinoma, and that's usually more central. Heavy, heavy smokers. So squamous cell will put SCC, squamous cell carcinoma of the lung. It's kind of a nasty one. And the reason why is this can secrete, these tumors can secrete something called parathyroid hormone related peptide. Now, parathyroid hormone related peptide, and when it's made by this tumor, we consider that a perineoplastic syndrome. What happens here is that this hormone can act on your bone tissue. It can really act on your osteoclasts, and it can really help to activate osteoclasts. So here, here we got an osteoclast, let's stimulate this dude. If we activate osteoclasts, what do we know about these? Well, we know that they release things like hydrochloric acid and acid phosphatases, I mean hydrochloric acid and different types of collagenases, sorry. And what those do is, is they start to kind of break down the bone, right? And as a result, they increase what's called bone resorption, which is kind of like, you're basically eating the bone away, and what that's gonna do is that's gonna liberate calcium free from the bone. So osteoclasts will become activated, they'll chew away the bone, that bone resorption will then liberate calcium into the bloodstream, and there goes one way that calcium can go up. So PTHRP really what it does, it works on the bone by helping to chew up more of the bone. That's gonna liberate calcium into the bloodstream. PTHRP also can act on the distal tubular cells. And what they do is they help to increase the movement of calcium. So they basically play a role in increasing calcium reabsorption. So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna move more calcium. I'm gonna stimulate this process, let's amp this up, bro. We're gonna increase calcium reabsorption. So if I have more calcium, just cause I'm gonna run out of room, reabsorption, bro. More of that calcium is gonna move across the distal tubular into the blood. And that is going to lead to an increase in the calcium. So that's the ways that PTHRP works. Now there's another thing. Cancers, primary malignancies, breast cancer, big one. You know what another one is? You know, when you think about this one, I'd say this is a really, really scary one. It's usually multiple myeloma. Multiple myeloma is a really, really nasty one. Breast cancer, definitely think about it, but I really, really want you to think about this, especially with multiple myeloma. So multiple myeloma and breast cancer. Now with breast cancer, the bone really just, I mean the cancer itself, here's the tumor. It kind of seeds and it gets into the bone. It causes like this lytic lesion. And then eventually these start kind of like chewing away when you release this kind of like calcium. You have the bone resorption, right? Multiple myeloma can do this through other mechanisms as well. We're not going to go down that line. What I want you to know is that breast cancer, yet the tumor itself can cause the lytic lesion. Multiple myeloma secretes things like osteoclasts, activating factor and rank ligands and things like that. All of these things do the same kind of concept. They start chewing away the bone. So in patients who have multiple myeloma and breast cancer, they can invade the bone tissue. When they get into the bone tissue, they can start kind of activating osteoclasts, but they can also kind of deposit into there and start eroding the bone tissue. They lead to osteolytic lesions. So that's what I really want you to remember. So lytic lesions are a problem. All right, so we got tumors causing lytic lesions. We got tumors secreting PTHRP. What if, I got another one. I have a lymph node here. And this thing is as big as a Mac truck because a patient has a massive, massive, massive tumor here. They got a bunch of different types of lymphocytes that are accumulating and accumulating and accumulating inside that lymph node. Now the problem with this is you might be like, okay, how's this even relevant, Debra? Well, in patients who have lymphoma, they increase, especially lymphoma. So let's say here we have lymphoma and you probably ask, oh, which one is this? Is it Hodgkin's, non-Hodgkin's? Believe it or not, it's actually Hodgkin's lymphoma. Now with Hodgkin's lymphoma, what happens is there's an increase in what's called alpha one hydroxylase. Alpha one hydroxylase is an enzyme that basically what it does is, as it helps to convert 25 hydroxy, so it converts what's called 25 hydroxy vitamin D and converts it into one comma 25 dihydroxy vitamin D. This is the active form of vitamin D. What's the name of this? Calcine.  triol. This is the active form of vitamin D, so what happens is alpha-1 hydroxylase basically just puts an extra one on here. So it puts an extra hydroxy group on here. So what it does is it stimulates this step. And if you stimulate this step, you're going to get more of calcitriol. Why is calcitriol important? Well, calcitriol, believe it or not, it does actually work in these pathways, but more often than not for your exams. It talks about how it works in the GIT. And what it does, it creates like little channels. Creates like little channels, we'll do a couple of them here, creates like little channels for calcium. And it says, hey bro, we didn't have as many of these. I'm going to open up some channels here for you so that any kind of calcium that's in the GIT, boom, get it right into the bloodstream. So any calcium that's just kind of like moseying along here, boom, boom, boom, boom. And then what you get out of this is what? You get increased calcium absorption in the GIT. So increased calcium absorption. That increase in the calcium absorption is going to result in what? Boom, hypercalcemia. So now you got the hypercalcemia. So here's what I want you to be concerned about. And these kinds of scenario where patients have lytic lesions due to metastasis, they have some type of high PTHRP from isquamicel carcinoma or elevated calcitrile from like lymphoma. Either way, the calcium goes up. What we would consider to be severe hypercalcemia is to the point where it is high enough that we can define it in two ways. One is it's severe, meaning it's greater than 14 milligrams per DL or they're symptomatic. So you can still technically have severe hypercalcemia or emergency, I should say, even if the number isn't greater than 14, it's just oftentimes these go hand in hand. As the number gets higher, you become more symptomatic often. Well, the question that we then got to talk about is what makes these patients become symptomatic? How do we actually identify that? Well, sometimes, yeah, you may find this on a lab value, but hypercalcemia malignancy oftentimes this can present clinically because it's rapid and it's usually severe. What would happen here is let's say that a patient has a high calcium. So you have hypercalcemia, right? So increased calcium in the blood. Well what happens is that calcium can be freely filtered. So if you don't have a problem with like glutamate filtration, what's going to happen? Well, it's going to filter right out, right? So all this calcium that's hypercalcemia, that's going to lead to hypercalcyuria, all right? So let's actually write that down. Let's actually write that down. What is this called? Hypercalcyuria. So we'll write calcyuria. Hypercalcemia can lead to hypercalcyuria. Hypercalcyuria means you have more calcium present in the urine. If you also have things like oxalate present and phosphates present, guess what you lead to? You lead to stones. So calcium containing stones. I'm not going to write both of them, but it's usually oxalate. So containing stones. That's usually calcium oxalate stones, calcium phosphate stones. Either way, they accumulate enough that they start to obstruct your actual renal system. And so these patients can develop something called nephrolithiasis, all right? And so nephrolithiasis is the, is a one big concern that we can have nephrolithiasis. How will these patients present? Flank pain, right? So they may have flank pain. They may have associated nausea, vomiting, hematuria. Oftentimes what we think about when we think about the mnemonic of hypercalcemia is stones, bones, groans, thrones, psychiatric overtones. So with stones, we think about kidney stones, right? They can have an increased risk of nephrolithiasis. Lidic lesions, bones. So another thing here is because of PTHRP, because of lytic lesions from multiple myeloma, because of lytic lesions from things like breast cancer, or even sometimes elevated acastotrile and lymphoma. You're chewing through this bone, dude, right? You're ripping apart the bone. And these lytic lesions, what happens is, is you lead to some significant bone pain, right? You're going to have bone pain, but I think the most concerning is just think about this for a second, dude. I mean, just really, really think about it. You got these lytic lesions. Look how little of the bone you got left that you just eroded to. Tell me that's not an easy way to snap that bone in half. So not only can bone pain be a potential, but also you can lead to pathological fractures, right? And that's, I think, where it gets really, really scary is the risk of pathological fractures. If it's chronically over time, obviously this can lead to things like osteoporosis, which again, lends to that risk of pathological fractures. So bone pain, pathological fractures, another one. So stones, bones, groans. Now this is, I think it's important to remember this one because, yes, it can cause changes in your smooth muscle contraction. But one of the things that we talk about with pancreatitis, so it does increase the risk of pancreatitis. This is hypercalcemia. So hypercalcemia, I don't want, we talked about this in the pancreatitis lecture. I don't want to spend time talking about this too much because I don't think it's super relevant to this. But I'm going to quickly tell you without writing it all out. I just want to make sure that you guys understand this. The calcium can activate pancreatic enzymes, zymogens, pancreatic proteases, lipases, amylases, nucleases, all of those things get activated. So if you cause activation, so stimulation of pancreatic zymogens, pancreatic zymogens, all of those different types of inactive pancreatic proteases, lipases, amylases, guess what it's going to do? Boom. You activated it inside the pancreas when it's supposed to be in the duodenum, dude. You're only supposed to activate it in the duodenum. If you activate it in the pancreas, it's going to start digesting the pancreatic tissue. Pancreatic tissue is made of proteins, lipids, nucleic acids, carbohydrates. You will start digesting it. So that's one thing that we worry about. And if you have pancreatic pain, what's it? Stones, bones, groans, oh, abdominal pain. Thrones. This is the one I actually think is really scary. When a patient has hypercalcemia, hypercalcemia, it's actually kind of cool, this mechanism. And again, if you guys have watched our videos, you know this already. There is receptors that are present on the collecting duct. These are your V2 receptors. The V2 receptors are what respond to a hormone called vasopressin, also known as ADH. When calcium is way too dang high, it basically blocks this interaction. ADH ain't doing what it's supposed to be doing. We blocked the ADH. What is ADH supposed to do? ADH is supposed to open up aquaporn subunits. Usually this is aquaporn subunits, right? And when we open up the aquaporn subunits, guess who comes through? Water, agua. But if you have no ADH that is theoretically present because it's being blocked by high calcium, this water that's supposed to be reabsorbed, it's supposed to be driven by ADH, right? Now you don't have this signal. There's no stimulatory signal. So we'll say that's an inhibitory signal. Are you going to allow for this aquaporn to be open? No. Is water going to go through? No. Is water reabsorption, right? Let's write that down. Decrease water reabsorption. And as a result, the water is going to be lost into the urine. You're going to pee pee out a lot of water. And you're going to have an increased amount of water urine. So increase what we call dilute urine. But it's going to be a lot. So we call that polyuria. If you lose a lot of water in the urine, you don't reabsorb enough of it. What can that lead to if that happens severely? It can lead to two things. One is it can lead to dehydration in the form of hypovolemia. And the sodium can go up when you have less water in comparison to sodium. And so we risk hypernatremia and we risk dehydration because we're not bringing it as much water as we should into the vascular system. Dude, that's why when they say stones, bones, groans, thrones, you're peeing all the time. This is the scary one because of the risk of dehydration. We have to give these patients a ton of IV fluids to help to replete their vascular space. The last one is psychiatric overtones. So psychosis is a very, very concerning one as well. What will give you the big thing to take away from the hypercalcemia malignancy? Hypercalcemia malignancy is again, this one's interesting because you don't really have a lot of the time symptoms of it. But if you have pretty severe hypercalcemia, I'm talking greater than 14, you can sometimes get pretty dehydrated with this one. So you can get significant dehydration, so polyuria. But again, you think about the stones, so gallstones, it's kind of a risk factor, but primarily it's going to be nephrolithiasis or kidney stones. They're going to have bone pain, osteopenia, pathological fractures. There's another one, groans. So abdominal pain, this could be due to changes in their overall GI motility, but also pancreatitis is a big one, peptic ulcer disease. Maybe you can get some ulcers as well. That's a lower risk though. And then thrones is polyuria, so they can develop nephrogenic DI. They can lose a lot of volume and then get pretty dehydrated. And then the last one is your psychiatric overtones. So things like psychosis and confusion, et cetera. That would also be something to think about. But I think the big thing here is on a patient that's hypercalcemia, if they have serum chemistry that comes back and it's greater than 14, that's severe. Or if they have greater than 12 but they're symptomatic, that's also severe. And so what do we want to do is we want to prove that. So I like to get an ionized calcium. The reason why is it tells you the exact true amount of free calcium in the blood. If that's elevated, you're in some trouble. So then you got to determine is this PTH dependent or independent? If PTH is high, then it's coming from the parathyroid. It's likely coming from the parathyroid. And then this isn't a malignancy process. If the PTH is low, then that would tell me that something else caused the calcium to go up and that suppressed the parathyroid to decrease the PTH level. So that's what I want to check. But also when you order these panels for hypercalcemia, you also oftentimes order like a PTHRP, you get a phosphorus, you get a calcitriotri, which is your vitamin D level. And you may also add on an alkyl phos level. What I like to do is look at the PTH first. If the PTH is low, it's PTH independent. And then I want to know which of the other one is high. If the PTHRP is high, it could suggest squamous cell carcinoma of the head, neck, or lung. If calcitriol is high, it could suggest lymphoma. And that would be some ways that I can determine right away if this is a malignancy of the lung, a malignancy of the lymph nodes, right? Right off the get go, right? But let's say that the PTH is low, but the PTHRP and the calcitriol is normal. That's where I would maybe consider the alkyl phos, because if the alkyl phos came back super high, there's lots of bone turnover. And that could suggest some type of like lytic lesions. And so what I would do then is I probably get a skeletal survey. I want to see is there are lytic lesions of the skull, is there are lytic lesions of the ribs, is there are lytic lesions of the vertebrae? Because that could suggest things like breast cancer, multiple myeloma, lung cancer, so many primary cancers that spread to the bone. And so that's what I'd do. And it would look a little bit like this. You can see and appreciate there's a bunch of skull lytic lesions here. You can appreciate some lytic lesions here. And you can even do it right here in the rib. You can see some right there. You know, so this I'd see there's a lot in multiple myeloma. Breast cancer can also do this lung cancer. You're going to do this as well. But yeah, the bone one, that's a nasty one. So that's kind of the way that I would think about the hypercalcemia. Well, you can see this is a patient who has some type of squamous cell carcinoma. The lung, they have some lymphoma. Maybe they have a primary tumor where they get lots of lytic lesions of the bone. Breast cancer, multiple myeloma, really, really big ones here. Lung cancer. They have these tumors and they're causing the hypercalcemia. Well, the first thing is when you get hypercalcemia, that hypercalcemia, especially when it's greater than 12, 14 range, it can cause massive dehydration. I need to give back those fluids and maintain uvalemia. So I'm going to hit them with IV fluids right off the get go, probably two, three liters, normal saline most often. That's going to be when it's severe greater than 14 or they're symptomatic. And usually symptomatic plus greater than 12. I'll hit them with this. The next thing is once we've addressed the most acute thing, which is the dehydration, I got to get that calcium down. The fluids aren't going to pee out calcium. The people think that's going to be the answer. It's not. It's just going to help to replace the volume and maintain uvalemia. The way to get the calcium down is going to be calcitonin at first. So we got to treat the lytic lesions with calcitonin. And then after that, we're going to pick something like bisphosphonates or denosumab. And if that doesn't work, then we reach to dialysis. It's going to be the way that we go. But here, let me let me let me take a second here. So we have something called rank ligand, usually plasma cells and B cells make this. And what it does is it acts on the rank receptor on our osteoclasts. That activates osteoclasts to release hydrochloric acid, collagenases. This kind of erodes at the bone releases calcium and phosphate from the bone, which can cause lytic lesions, but also can cause hypercalcemia. The other thing is that on these osteoclasts, they have receptors for calcitonin. Calcitonin is great because it's very quick. It's short, you know, onset. So you're going to quickly get some as some bang for your buck when you give this drug. And so what's going to happen is it's going to hit the osteoclast receptor. When it does, it shuts down hydrochloric acid, collagenase that shuts down the lytic lesions further, that shuts down the calcium resorption from the bone. And then it also activates osteoblasts to help a little bit with the bone deposition and putting some of the calcium back into the bone. So you get a quick drop in the calcium, but then we need something that's going to be a little bit more long term. So calcitonin is just kind of like a short term patch. You need something longer term. That's where bisphosphonates or dinosamab come into play. So bisphosphonates are going to be probably the more powerful one. You may use those. You may use dinosamab and things where a patient has severe renal failure or really bad kidneys and bisphosphonates are a little bit tough on the kidney sometimes. Osteoenocrosis are the jaw, severe esophagitis, and they're just, you know, they just have some kind of like contraindication to it. You may use dinosamab, but bisphosphonates are great. This is your allondrone, your zoonodrone, your palmadrone, all those guys. What they do is they basically kind of like inhibit the osteoclast from proliferating. So you don't have as many of those to release hydrochloric acid in the colloidinase and rip up the bone. The other thing is it actually kind of kills these osteoclasts. It causes apoptosis. So you have less of these, again, to cause hydrochloric acid release and colloidinase release, and that leads to less of the destruction of the bone. So that's one of the beauties of bisphosphonates. Dinosamab kind of comes back to this rank ligand. So dinosamab is a monoclonal antibody that's going to bind to the rank ligand. And when it does that, it then can't bind to the rank receptor. And then if you can't bind to the... See, see how these bind? You can't bind to the rank receptor. You can't trigger this whole process. And so you don't get the lytic lesions and the calcium release from the bone. So it's kind of... It's pretty cool to think about that. One other drug that you could do is if you give them on fluids, you give them calcitonin, you give them bisphosphonates, or dinosamab, you can consider steroids and the patient has lymphoma, because steroids will inhibit the lymphoma from increasing alpha one hydroxylates. Which causes the calcitriol production. All right? So that's one other consideration. All right. The last one is malignant cardiac tamponade. Now, out of all of these, I'd say this is the... Like, it's the most dangerous one. This one will actually... Like, I'm not killing. It will kill you. Most of the patients who get cardiac tamponade, most of them go into cardiac arrest because it's a pretty severe kind of condition. So it is a really important one. But I think in the gambit of all of the ones that we talked about, it's probably the least likely one that you'll be testing on an exam. But when it comes to cardiac tamponade, there is two different types. If you will, with regards to, I'd say more hemopericardium is usually things like you have an aortic dissection. You get hit in the chest with a tomahawk and you puncture through the left ventricle. You have some unfortunate left ventricular rupture and you're just left ventricle explodes because you had an MI there and then blood leaks into that space. You had some cardiac surgery or maybe a radiofrequency ablation that you just happen to create a small hole in a part of the... one of the chambers of the heart and the blood's kind of leaking out. So there's a lot of different things with those. Those develop rapidly. And it only takes a small volume of that rapid blood accumulation to increase the intrapericardial pressure. Boom, you squeeze on the heart and it just doesn't get enough blood flow in and blood flow out. With these usually malignant pericardial effusions, those are slower effusions. So they're more serous or serosanguidous. They're just things that you think about with pericarditis, tuberculosis. You think about this with malignancies. And so that's what I want you guys to talk about here and understand. So with cardiac tamponade, we have a couple of different cancers that I'd say can spread. And it's usually just things that are close in proximity to the heart. And so think about it, the lungs are pretty close in proximity. Oh my gosh, look at that thing. That thing got butchered. So there's a butchered lung there. But lung cancer can definitely be a very, very common one. So lung cancer is a big one. Another one is the boobies, breast cancer. This is another one where this can easily spread. And I'd say the last one is going to be some type of lymphoma. So lymphoma can definitely do this one as well. So lymphoma, breast cancer and lung cancer, they are pretty common malignancies that these can actually start to see their tumor emboli or they can spread directly and they can go and invade the pericardium. So here we have these tumor cells. They're all over the pericardium. What happens is, is once these kind of tumor cells spread to the pericardium, they increase the capillary permeability within the pericardial cavity. So you have vessels that are on the parietal in the visceral pericardium. And what happens is you're going to cause those tumor cells to agitate the vessels there. They're going to have cytokines like interleukin 1, interleukin 6, TNF alpha. They're going to increase the capillary permeability and fluid is going to start leaking out. The problem is, is that this fluid leakage, so let's kind of represent this as dots here, these blue dots. This is the fluid that's kind of leaking out. All right. So here you're going to have the tumor. Let's call these tumor emboli again. So tumor emboli, they're going to get into that pericardium, right? And they're going to increase the capillary permeability. And then what's going to happen, unfortunately, as a result here, of them increasing the capillary permeability is that fluid will start leaking out. And over time, you'll have what's called a pericardial effusion, right? So start off with just a little bit of fluid and you'll get what's called a pericardial effusion. Now here's, here's what I want to write out. This pericardial effusion, again, is usually going to be more serious or maybe even a little bit serious segment, but primarily serious. But the pericardial effusion doesn't mean that you have cardiac tamponade. Once the fluid inside of the pericardial cavity builds up enough where you have enough volume and pressure inside of the pericardial cavity that it's actually compressing the right atrium first, then usually it's enough pressure to compress the right ventricle. And if it's severe, it can compress the left atrium. So it's usually in that fashion, that order. Usually enough fluid accumulates over time that it gets large enough that the pressure inside of the pericardial cavity increases that it compresses the right atrium, then the right ventricle, and in severe cases, the left atrium. You have to understand that when this compresses, so here we're going to say compresses. Let's actually write this down for you. Which one is an order? Right atrium, then right ventricle, then left atrium. These are going to be the way in which we kind of compress these. What happens is when does this occur? When does this fluid get to the point where it starts to squeeze in the heart? If you have a little bit of fluid, it's not really compressing in the heart. At what point do we get to that? So here's what I want you to understand. Let's say here, the dotted line. This is what's called the pericardial stretch limit. So this pericardium, it's got a little bit of give, right? It has a little bit of give. In other words, let's say fluid, you get blood that goes into the pericardial cavity. It stretches, but you fill it up quickly. It doesn't have enough time to stretch. It reaches this pericardial stretch limit too quickly, not enough time to actually accommodate that space. It starts to then squeeze on the heart. That's when you get cardiac tamponon, usually from a rapid development. So let's say in situations like a hemoparicardium, we'll represent that in blue. Here's volume over time in the x-axis and intraparicardial pressure on the y-axis. And when you have this scenario, whoop, that's rapid. That's a rapid development. This is usually, usually your hemoparicardiums. Most of the time, this is your hemoparicardium, where you have rapid development. It's rapid development. All right, so something had to develop pretty quickly. Whereas in these scenarios, it's usually slow. Where you're accumulating, I actually have to kind of move a dotted line here. So I'm going to have to go dotted. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. We'll kind of do it like this. And then we reach that limit. So what happens is that in these patients, it's slow. They're slowly and progressively increasing volume, increasing volume, increasing volume. Because what happens is you get a little bit of volume, the pericardium has time. It stretches, it accommodates. You get a little bit more volume over the next day or two. It stretches, it accommodates. A little bit more volume, stretches, accommodates. But eventually you get to a point where it says, I can't take no more volume, bro. And you've reached that stretch limit. It can accommodate for that space. And then what happens, it squeezes on the thing that it's right next to, which is the right atrium, right ventricle, left atrium. So this is usually slow development. All right. Thus the time on the X axis. And then here, this is usually your cirrus pericardiums. This is the ones that usually are more likely to develop from things like pericarditis. Right. Things like malignancies, tuberculosis, hemoperecardiums. These are very, very rapid. They develop very quickly. And so that's kind of the differences that I want you guys to understand. With malignant pericardial effusions that can lead to tamponade, it is a slow development of pericardial fluid over time due to the tumors seeding, embolizing here and causing increased capillary permeability. Once it gets to the point where it no longer can stretch anymore, that pericardium, it compresses in the heart. What will that do? Well, it's mainly the right heart. Yeah. So you're going to reduce venous return. What happens if we reduce venous return? Let's talk about this for a second. We talked about this in cardiology, so I don't think we need to go too crazy, but you guys know that in cardiac tamponade, there is something referred to as Bex Triad. Bex Triad, we can say that if you got enough fluid in here, you're supposed to have a little bit of pericardial fluid, but not like a massive amount. When I got a lot, and I'm trying to also take, so here I got my, I got my stethoscope right here. All right. I'm going to try and listen. I'm going to try and auscultate over the heart. When I do that, I should be able to listen to the heart sounds. Right. So heart sounds should be traveling towards my stethoscope, but if it has to go through a further distance of fluid, that's going to dampen that sound. And so what happens is the sound that gets picked up by the heart, uh, by the stethoscope is going to be sounding like it's very distant and muffled. So what you'll have is you'll have what's called distant or muffled heart sounds. And that's just because whenever you have that S1, S2 that's being produced, right? So you get that S1, the S2 heart sounds, those are going to be very muffled. And that's what I want you to, as you remember, and that's just because of all that fluid. Now, another thing that can happen, it's not super like, you know, consistent upon this, but you know, whenever you put like EKG electrodes, right? So you actually put the electrodes on the chest, the electrical activity that has to get picked up by the electrodes also reduced. And so guess what else you have? You also have decreased QRS voltage. And so that is something I want you guys to think about. But again, that goes, this is going a little bit beyond, I don't want to take it too far. This is something that you get more in your, your cardiology section. So we'll stop it there. What I want you guys to know is that when this pericardial fluid is, it's, it's building, right? I got enough of this pericardial fluid in here that it's really, really building. It's reached the pericardial stretch limit. As it reaches the pericardial stretch limit, this is where we get kind of scared. We already talked about this a little bit, but look what we got compression of the right atrium. Look, we have compression of the right ventricle. Look, we have compression of the left atrium. So here's what the problem is when you have this mass effect. So you get compression here, compression here. This is the big thing. Blood is supposed to move down here and then right in here. But this is being impeded. It's being reduced. So what you're getting is, is you're getting a reduction. What's really happening here is you're getting a reduction in venous return. Because the right heart is the one who's supposed to be getting a lot of blood from your systemic circulation, right? When you get a reduction in venous return, you drop your preload. When you drop your preload, what happens to your stroke volume drops? What happens to your cardiac output drops? What happens to your blood pressure drops? What can this present like? Oh, dude, you can get a patient who is an obstructive shock. So that's what I want you to know is that a drop in venous return drops, preload, stroke volume, cardiac output, blood pressure, and this can present. This is the scary thing. These patients can be sick. They can have very, very low blood pressure that they're depending upon vasopressor support or fluid resuscitation to try to be able to keep them alive all because of what? Because of right atrial, right ventricle, compression. Because of the pericardium, that fluid. And that right there is the basic path of physiology, right? Here's another problem to think about. Because you got venous return that's reduced, blood is supposed to be coming through two ways. One is through the inferior vena cava. So it comes through the inferior vena cava and it comes through the superior vena cava. If you're compressing the right atrium, is blood going to go down? No. And blood's going to backflow. It's going to backflow into the IVC and it's going to backflow into the SVC. Now, dude, we can't see if someone's got an inferior vena cava that's big and plethoric. You could if you did an ultrasound. So if I did a echocardiogram, I'd be able to see that they have a very enlarged IVC. If you really want to, I will write that. So sometimes you actually can get, you get an echo. You get an echo. You'll see IVC dilation, but that's nonspecific. There's a lot of things that can do that, right? So the echo will show the presence of IVC dilation, right? That's what I want you to remember there. But what we actually look for is clinically something else. What will happen if blood backflows from the superior vena cava up to the brachiosapallic? Where's it going to go? Juggler vena. So another thing that happens is it goes and causes juggler venous distension. Right? So you're going to get juggler venous distension. So oftentimes, Beck's triad is juggler venous distension, right? So here's, let's say, one. The second part of the triad is low cardiac output, low cardiac output. And the third is distant or muffled heart sounds. The last thing is pulses paradoxes is sometimes kind of tested. They can kind of throw this one in there a little bit. And all I want you to think about with this one is that when you see a patient who's taking a deep breath in, normally when you take a deep breath in, you increase your venous return, which should actually increase your blood pressure a little bit. Because theoretically, you're increasing your cardiac output. And patients who have cardiac tamponade, they're compressing their right heart. And so whenever they try to take a deep breath in,  they do the best that they can to suck blood down to the right side of their heart. But unfortunately, they don't get enough venous return, enough stroke volume, enough cardiac output, and their blood pressure drops. During inspiration to where it's greater than or equal to 10-millimeter mercury drop in their systolic blood pressure during inspiration, that's a paradoxical decrease in the systolic blood pressure during inspiration, that's called pulses paradox. It's not exclusive to cardiac tamponon, you can see this in things like asthma and other conditions as well, you can even see it in tension pneumothorax. What I want you guys to remember is that in cardiac tamponon, I remember Bextriot as we said here, here, and here, and the possibility of pulses paradoxes. What makes you think malignancy and underlying history of a primary cancer? How would you really determine this? The unfortunate way that we can truly only determine this is we'd have to do a biopsy. I'd have to biopsy the pericardium. Oftentimes, we would find the underlying cancer like a lung cancer, breast cancer, lymphoma, but with these, oftentimes, the only way that we can truly diagnose the condition is to do a pericardiocentesis after we've done an echo and take that fluid off. And if they have improvement in their hemodynamics, we can technically, diagnostically, and therapeutically figure this condition out. All right, cardiac tamponon. So, with cardiac tamponon, this is not something that you think about with a malignancy, but if they have a no malignancy. So, I think about this in breast cancer, that's a pretty common one, lung cancer. I really think anywhere in that vicinity. So, I'd say breast lung is a really, really big one. And lymphoma, lymphoma is another one as well. So, those are your three cancers that can spread to the pericardium. And when they do, they cause a lot of that serious kind of production of fluid. They cause more leakiness of the capillaries and you can get a pericardial, more of a serious pericardial effusion. And as that grows and grows and grows, it reaches the pericardial stretch limit, can't stretch anymore. So, what does it do? Squeezes in the heart, like it's squeezing out some orange juice, right? And because of that, you can get things like nuonset hypotension from obstructive shock. You can get distant heart sounds because you got fluid around the heart, that you can't hear it as well, those heart sounds. And JVD because of reduced filling into the ventricle, so it backs up into the jugular veins. So, at this point you say, okay, what would this make me think? This is screaming like Bex Triad, right? So, Bex Triad is that constant nuonset hypotension and distant heart sounds and JVD. And really the hypotension is kind of interchangeable to a degree with a reduced cardiac output. It's the way that we think about cardiac output, it could correlate to their blood pressure. It can't, depending upon what the resistance is and how that's adjusting. But yes, in this scenario, an echo is going to be the first thing that I would do. The echo is going to tell me, is there a pericardial effusion? Is there a collapse of the right atrium and the right ventricle? Maybe even the left atrium that's occurring during diastole? That's really going to be the key. And if you see something like this, you run for the hills. No, no, no, you got to get ready to stick a needle into the pericardial cavity because you can see there's a pericardial effusion for sure. And then you can see here's the right ventricle. And that thing is like fluttering as crazy as could be because it's getting compressed during filling processes. And the right atrium is being compressed. Left atrium, not as much, but I definitely see a pretty significant degree of compression here from that pericardial effusion. So I'd be concerned about pericardial tamponade. And so what I would do is I'd get a pericardial synthesis. I would do a subzyphoid approach. You know, that's one way you can go about it. You can also do different peristernal views and kind of target that way or an apical view. And you can tap in that way. Either way, you got to get that fluid off. And the reason why is there's a writer for Internet Book of Critical Care. His name is Josh Varcus. And he talks about how one of the best ways of really determining a patient who has cardiac tamponade is by doing a pericardial synthesis. Because if you think about it, if you tap in, you pull off maybe a couple CCs, 10 CCs, 20 CCs, whatever, you're removing fluid that's giving more time for the pericardium to stretch. It's not squeezing on the heart as much as what should happen. You should see an improvement in their hemodynamics. And so if I see an improvement in their hemodynamics, I can then therefore diagnostically and therapeutically say that this patient has cardiac tamponade. So it's kind of a beautiful thing when you kind of combine those two tests. All right. Malignant cardiac tamponade. We kind of already talked about this in the diagnostic algorithm where you have a patient with a Bex Triad. They have maybe underlying malignancy. You get the echo. You see, oh, geez, they have a pericardial effusion. They got cardiac tamponade. What do I do? Pericardial synthesis. That's going to be the best way in a patient who is unstable, right? And it's going to be diagnostic and it's going to be therapeutic. We talked about that. But in a patient who has malignant pericardial effusions that keep forming recurrently, that puts them at risk of cardiac tamponade, we need a more permanent solution. That's where a pericardial window will come into play, right? But again, just paying homage to the pericardial synthesis is you can tap in subziphoid. You can tap in in the parasternal. You can tap in apically. Either way, these are going to be quick fixes. We need the long-term fix. What's that going to be? We got to basically create a window between the pericardial cavity and somewhere where this fluid can drain. And that's where we'll do a pericardial window. We'll kind of open it up and allow for that fluid to drain maybe into the pair's name in this case. So that we don't keep dumping that, allowing that fluid to just accumulate and accumulate in the pericardial cavity, increasing that stretch beyond that limit. Boom, we can't stretch anymore. Start smashing and squeezing on the heart like an accordion. And that's where we're going to get cardiac tamponade, all right? Woo, baby, that was a long lecture. I'm really sorry. I know that sometimes these lectures are going to be really long. I think we try to focus on learning, understanding, making sense of things, having fun to make learning more enjoyable because I know it can be tough sometimes as a student. I've been there and I'm there for you all. I love you all. I really hope that at the end of this, you feel more confident. You feel like you got something out of this. And I just really thank you guys for being such amazing supporters, for always sticking with us. And I really wish you all the absolute best. And I truly mean that from the bottom of my heart. So thank you guys so much. I hope you learned a lot. Love you. Thank you. And as always, until next time, my friends.

=== FILE: Oncologic Emergencies ｜ Podcast [9Ol7BXhgZWQ].txt ===

 img. Welcome back to the Ninja Nerd Podcast. Today, we're talking all about oncologic emergencies. There's a lot of emergencies for us to go over, so we should not waste any time. No, I think the goal is to try to, I mean, for the most part, you'll be able to figure it out, but figure out which type of oncologic emergency it is based upon the HPI labs, imaging if present, and then how would you kind of go about treating it? Alright, let's do it. So first up, Zach, we have a 42-year-old woman with AML. Nine days post-induction chemo. Presents with fever, fatigue, and mild abdominal tenderness. Her vitals are TEMP38.4 Celsius, heart rate is 110, BP is 102 over 65. Alright, well, I mean, when I think about oncologic emergencies here, when you have a patient who has usually hematologic malignancy like AML, maybe even lymphoma, but usually any kind of hematologic malignancy where they already have alterations in their bone marrow production of white blood cells. So this person probably has some less functional neutrophils that's going to make it already kind of difficult. So whenever they've got chemo, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy can hit the bone marrow, and it can kind of shut down the bone marrow and put it into like a myelosuppressive state. So it can drop the number of neutrophils that are being produced in this patient. So if they have less functional neutrophils, and then on top of that, they have, let's say in this scenario, chemotherapy that knocks down their normal production, this can put them at a high risk of neutropenia. Neutropenia is pretty dangerous because one of the things is you lose the ability to clear pathogens, bacteria. It's one of the first kinds of lines of defense for your innate immunity. So now they have fever, abdominal tenderness. That's the thing. Chemotherapy likes to cause mucositis. It likes to hit the GIT. So it likes to cause colitis. If you cause colitis, now you lose the mucosal barrier. Bacteria, gram negative rods, boom, right across into the bloodstream. Usually you have neutrophils that will help to kill those bacteria and fight them off, but this patient now has probably neutropenia bacteria we're able to thrive across the GIT. I'm guessing that now this is putting them in a pretty, you know, tough scenario that they have a fever, anything greater than 38 degrees Celsius. The heart rate's a little high, so they have a little bit of attack of cardiac and their BP isn't technically low, but it's on the low-ish end. So I'm kind of wondering if they're starting to develop some signs of sepsis. So that would be my initial concern. The only way I can prove this though is I keep training their temperatures, make sure that it continues to support a fever, a greater than 38 degrees centigrade. And then on top of that, I get a CBC. CBC with the differential to help to tell me is there any kind of neutropenia present? Because if I see that there's a low white blood cell count, that's fine, but I want to know the absolute neutrophil count. I want to see if that's less than like usually 500 cells per microliter is the way that we go about that. The other thing is that given this patient has a fever, they have history of chemotherapy and hematologic malignancy, I better make sure that with neutropenia fever it can really progress quickly. And so I want to get blood cultures that's the first thing, and then sometimes pneumonia is a common presentation, so I probably get a chest x-ray. So that's what I would start off with first. I would only get additional tests like a urine analysis or urine cultures, wound cultures, you know, CSF, stool cultures, only if they have particular symptoms. Like if they had like just complete severe abdominal pain and diarrhea, maybe I get a stool study. If they had dysuria, frequency, urgency, white blood cell cast, leukocyte esterase, nitrites, maybe I get a urine analysis of the urine culture. If they had a surgical site that looks really wounded, I'm sorry, I'm not wounded, it looks indurated red, it's sore, it's painful. I maybe do a wound culture. So I would do those things based upon localizing signs and symptoms, but right off the get go, CBC, blood cultures, probably chest x-ray. Okay, well let me go over those results for you. The CBC shows an absolute neutrophil count of 120, so very low. Yeah, bad. Chest x-rays are unremarkable, and our blood cultures are still pending. So what's next? All right, so we definitely have a neutropenia fever. When we have the diagnosis of neutropenia fever, which is the absolute neutrophil count less than 500, and then a temp of greater than 38 degrees centigrade, we have neutropenia fever. With this, you don't play around. The blood cultures at law, as long as you got them, progress, I've made this mistake when I started in the ICU, where I'd have a patient come in, they're septic, they definitely seem septic, they're hypotensive, multiple pressures, and one of the common mistakes that happens, and this is unfortunate, is that the ER or whoever the person is who's starting the history and physical exam on the patient, they put in orders, they commonly, oh, they look septic, what do they do? They order empiric antibiotics, and they start them on empiric antibiotics, but they didn't get the cultures taken. You might be okay if you got like a dose, or even maybe two of antibiotics, but are you really playing with fire and taking a chance at not identifying the true type of bacteria that you need? So it's always best get the blood cultures as soon as you possibly can, and after those blood cultures are drawn, just nuke them with the bug juice, which is the antibiotics. So that's probably what I'm going to start them on, given the fact that I have a patient with neutropenic fever, I'm going to treat them with gram negative rod coverage and gram positive coverage. So I like vancomycin to cover my scary one, MRSA, and I like, I prefer Pipericillin-Tasobactin, which is also an azosin or Cephapy, one of those two, and that's going to cover any kind of my gram negative rods, but the scary one is pseudomonas. So that's what I would do first, I wait for my blood cultures to come back, and then I would kind of change my antibiotics based upon what that culture comes back with. Now depending on the patient and complications, are there any we should keep in mind while we're still treating the patient, and even if the blood culture still hasn't come back yet, what would you do in that scenario? Yeah, so I think we're going to keep them in antibiotics and we'll obviously trend their CBC, keep an eye on that, keep an eye on their temperatures, make sure that we're not losing any other source. Again, if we had a normal chest X-ray, blood cultures are pending, you know, you probably had it coming from my guess is the colitis, so I'm guessing that's probably where the source is, but if I had other concerns about another area, I may have to do some further imaging, but for me, it's about treating the potential of them progressing to Cephys or Ceptic shock. So from them, you know, if they end up having a Neutropenia, a fever, they already have tachycardia, if they start getting hypotensive, I'm worried about Ceptic shock. They already have a lot of the credibility here to say that they're Ceptic, but Ceptic shock would be the scary thing that I would watch out for, so I would obviously do like a 30 cc per kilo bolus of IV fluids, particularly lactate ringers, and then from there, I would also put them on any kind of like vasopressors to support their mean arterial pressure during that time frame. So that's what I'm going to do right there, and then I'm definitely going to put an ICU console, have them closely monitor for those vitals. This patient's meeting service criteria, right? Yeah, definitely meeting service criteria. So you're concerned then about Ceptic shock? Yeah, already I'm pretty concerned. There's obviously a lot of different kind of like scores and different kinds of like ways that we can determine if a patient's Ceptic. You know, I think there's the SOFA score, there's the CERS, there's so many different things, but I think this patient right here, it's just based upon the Neutropenia, based upon the fever, based upon the tachycardia, I'm going to go and then obviously we're waiting on blood cultures, but this patient definitely fits the definition of Cepsis for me, and so my concern is them next progressing the shock. That would be the scary. And then being that you said you probably would cover them with something like Bactrum, that would really give you the best possible chance. I would do something like Vancomycin and Pipericillin-Tazobactyl. Those are going to be the better ones to start off with. Gotcha, so that's not quite good enough then. No, now Bactrum is good for Mercer, but you know, usually for these ones, you know, Bactrum it's oral. You could definitely do that. I think it's always better to start with Vancomycin. It's usually better for hospital acquired Mercer as compared to more community acquired Mercer. Okay, so definitely IV. Yeah. You're going with the big boys. Yeah, IV Vancomycin, IV, Saphipymar, Zosin, which is Pipericillin-Tazobactyl. Those are probably the ones I go with and then based upon the results of the culture, I'd narrow my antibiotics down. Okay, perfect. And then I'm guessing obviously if they continue to deteriorate, it's probably let's get them transferred to ICU. Exactly. I think that this patient is going to get an ICU bed no matter what. Okay, gotcha. Given the kind of like the, you know, we use things like MuScore, but right here, this definitely is the person that I would want to keep a close eye on. Yeah, you're not messing around with this one. Yeah, I'd say that they're probably going to go to the ICU just to be monitored. Even if it's for a 24 hour period, I might send them, you know, talk to my ICU colleagues and say, Hey, can you watch out? I just have a concern that they're going to kind of deteriorate a little bit because that's usually what can happen with these. Okay. All right. Well, that was case one. Let's move on. All right. We have an 18 year old male with newly diagnosed Burkitt lymphoma. One day after chemo, he has flank pain, vomiting, and weakness. What is that telling you right there, Zach? I mean, Burkitt lymphoma is a pretty hefty tumor burden. This one's in a pretty aggressive non-Hodgkins. So they can have a pretty nasty tumor burden. And if you get chemo and all of a sudden you have flank pain, something going on with the kidneys, could they have, I don't know, I mean, it's unlikely for them, they could get stones. It's possible, but I don't think that's the likely thing. Vomiting and weakness. This is something I'd be concerned about with potentially tumor Lyceus syndrome. I don't have a strong enough history to kind of tell me that, but I'd say what I'd have to really kind of look for here is, is let me get a CMP. I think the CMP will be good because it'll give me the renal function, because tumor Lyceus syndrome definitely likes to hit the kidneys, especially with the eric acid. It'll also tell me their potassium. It'll give me kind of their total calcium. I'd probably add on a FOS. I'd add on a uric acid. And then depending upon the results of the CMP, I may get an EKG if their potassium is pretty high, just watch out for any EKG changes. So that's what I would get to start off with is, I would do a CMP. They'd give me my calcium. They'd give me my creatinine. And I think that would be kind of in the potassium. And then from there, I'd add on a FOS, a uric acid, and then from there, EKG based upon potentially the, the results of the potassium. Well, let's say we go forward with the EKG. Okay. Let me give you all of them. All right. So the labs show a potassium level of 6.4. All right. Elevated. Phosphorus 7.0. Elevated. Calcium 7.2. A little low. Uric acid 11.8. Oh, shit. That's high. Creatinine 2.1. And their baseline was one. Okay. And then we see on the ECG peak to T waves. Yeah. So this is tumor Lyceus syndrome. How do you know that this is tumor Lyceus syndrome? Yeah, because with tumor Lyceus syndrome, you can, I mean, this is what was, it was one of the textbooks. I think it's like first aid. It's a mnemonic puke. Okay. And you can remember puke for P, UK is all upper case. And then the E, in this case, it's lower case. So you have P is going to be a phosphorus that's elevated. Yep. U is uric acid that's going to be elevated. Potassium is going to be elevated. The only one that's going to be low is calcium. So they are using a mnemonic puke calcium. So P, UK, E, phosphorus, uric acid, potassium is elevated. And then calcium, which actually that's the part that's in lower case, calcium is low. Gotcha. So that's what I would see here is I have a high phosphorus. I have a high uric acid. I have a high potassium. And I have a low calcium. Now the creatinine being elevated is probably evidence of them having an acute kidney injury, which is unfortunate, but that's what happens with elevated uric acid. And then the peak T waves is likely going to be due to the elevated potassium. So that's something I'm already seeing. This makes this patient a little bit more high risk, pretty scary. They definitely have active or acute tumor likes a syndrome. So we got to be pretty aggressive with these patients. So you're worried about acute renal failure. How are you going to treat this? So the first thing you want to do is with these patients and you got to play this by ear. I'm never a fan. And if you guys have listened to me and these these these talks, I don't hit people with just massive amounts of fluids just because that's what natural dogma and teaching tells us to do. You have to look at the patient's volume status. If they look like they're volume depleted, if they have some evidence of volume depletion, give them some fluids. In this case, I would definitely give them some fluids. That's going to help a little bit to maintain uvelemia. But it may help a little bit with kind of like flushing out some of those kinds of molecules. I just don't think that that concept is as widely understood and accepted as we think it is. But IV fluids is going to be helpful because you are busting open cells. You're releasing out a lot of the interest of other contents. So they definitely can get volume depleted. Also, when you have an acute kidney injury, your kidney becomes very injured, it becomes susceptible. And so it depends upon good volume and perfusion. So having normal like blood volume helps to prevent kidneys from getting further injured. That's why I like to aim for uvelemia. The next thing is people would say, okay, which one do you pick? Allopyrinol or raspberry case in the scenario. And we've talked about this. I actually think we talked about it in the acute leukemia lecture. But this right here with tumor lyso syndrome, you always go raspberry case. Raspberry case actually helps to convert uric acid into like a, it's kind of like a non-toxic breakdown of uric acid called allantoin. And that can go to the kidney and excrete it out. And so that's going to lower that uric acid because what keeps happening is the uric acid crystals form. So that's the thought is when you give fluids, you're helping to prevent uric acid nephropathy. So the precipitation of those crystals, that's why you give them some fluids to kind of prevent that precipitation. But my goal is to give them a raspberry case because that's going to attack these cells and say, okay, hey, we're generating a lot of uric acid because these cells are popping open. All I can do is help to convert that toxic uric acid into a less nephrotoxic chemical. Using alpyrinol, that doesn't convert uric acid into less toxic forms. All it does is it decreases the production of uric acid. But if you're already busting open cells and releasing uric acid, there's not much else that you can do with that. So that's not what I would go for. First, I would do pretty good fluid resuscitation, aim for uvelemia, maybe a small maintenance fluid kind of like infusion, and then I give them raspberry case. And I would keep a very, very close eye on their potassium because potassium is the one that can actually get them, especially having peak T waves. I'd probably start to go the round of treating these patients. So you guys remember when we treat hyperkalemia? So usually initially, we all, especially we have EKG changes, always calcium gluconate. So that's going to stabilize the cardiac membranes. And then after that, we can do things to shift the potassium. So I do things like insulin. I may even give them a little bit of glucose if their glucose was kind of on the lower or normal end. And then I would also do like an albuterol treatment. And then from there, we have to try to excrete it. So that's when I would either reach for Lasix, which we're trying to resuscitate these patients with fluids. Probably wouldn't give them that. I'd probably go to something like hyaxylate if I had to. So that's the way that I would go to kind of treat the hyperkalemia and keep a very, very close eye on that. And if it got really, really bad, where the renal failure really progressed, we might have to reach for dialysis in this patient. So we had a few red flags in the CMP. How often are you monitoring those levels? For these, probably every six. I'd probably go pretty quick. Like six hours. Okay. Yeah. I think like if you go like a lot of the times when you have these kinds of changes and you're trying to, especially with something, for example, I always think like, for example, like when I was in the neuro ICU, we would trend sodiums because you're treating a patient, right? And so for example, if you're using a sodium target, which is not the best guideline for a lot of treatment, things in neuro critical care, but you have a patient with cerebral edema or an ICP crisis, you give them a hypertonic saline, bolus or infusion, you're trying to see, hey, what's that thing doing for me? So what happened to the sodium? Okay, it was 140. We've been giving them hypertonic saline at 50 ccs per hour for the past four hours. All right, well, that's once we get a six hour timeframe, we should actually check and see what happened to the sodium. It's the same thing here. If I'm treating these patients aggressively, giving them things like respiratory case, giving them things like fluids, and they have an active acute kidney injury, that's really bad. I'm going to keep a close eye on their urine output. I'm going to keep a close eye on all of these types of electrolytes in their EKG and then make sure that if I'm treating their potassium, if I'm treating their volume status, if I'm actually keeping a close eye on their uric acid and their kidney function, I should be treating that more frequently every six hours. If you don't, if you need to, you can go to eight, but I'd say every six hours, don't do it twice a day or once a day. You definitely need to do more frequently. Case three, we have a 67 year old man with known prostate cancer presents with new onset, lower back pain, and bilateral leg weakness. He has urinary retention and decreased rectal tone on exam. So I definitely, I mean, you know this too. Sounds like spinal cord, compression, right? Maybe of some sort, could it be like a caudal quina kind of thing? Yeah, decreased rectal tone is never normal. That's not good. Yeah, they always talk about in school, like, you know, you lose your anal wink reflex. Yeah. But I think this one right here, it's definitely concerning, especially prostate cancer, loves bone, loves it. Loves it. Yeah. This is Sebastian Manascago reference, if you don't know. But anyway, prostate cancer, one of the nasty ones about this is it likes to cause, instead of osteolytic lesions, it causes osteoblastic lesions. And so, definitely loves the vertebrae, can actually cause like vertebral body metastasis, and they can kind of erode and they can cause an epidural mast to kind of pop in there. And that can start pressing on the spinal cord. So if you have that, you obviously get a little back pain, if it's in that vicinity near the prostate, bilateral leg weakness means it's probably encroaching in on those lateral white columns where the corticospinal tracts are running through. And then urinary retention, decreased rectal tone, they're kind of losing that, probably the autonomic, but also just the descending pathways from the autonomic systems, from upper levels, down to those portions of the sacrochord where it goes to the rectum, and where it goes to the bladder. So this definitely sounds like spinal cord compression. Right away with these ones, if you have any inclination, you start dexamethasone right away. Yeah. And then, you know, you can't, you know, I can't like call a surgeon and be like, hey, I think this guy's got spinal cord compression. No, I got to confirm it too. So I would say I'd get an MRI, I'd get an MRI, the spine, get a close look there. And if I have any inclination there, I'd probably start them on dexamethasone IV, probably like 10 milligrams right off the bat. Usually you might want to wait for the spine MRI to come back. If I see that, I see lots of vasogenic edema. I'd probably give the dexamethasone right after that. All right, I have the MRI results for you. It confirms thoracic vertebral metastasis with spinal cord compression, just as you suspected. So what do you do next? Well, I mean, definitely was a little higher than I thought. But hey, that's definitely kind of sucky in this scenario. But yeah, I'd say, all right, seroids first. I'd give them pretty good bowls of dexamethasone, probably 10 milligrams IV, put them on a, you know, a scheduled dosing after that. I'd probably consult two people. One is I'd reach out to neurosurgery, see if there's any kind of possible like debulking surgery that they could do to remove the tumor, and any kind of like stabilization. And I'd also reach out to radonk. And I'd see if there's anything that they can do radiation therapy wise, they could help to, you know, preserve neurological function. But the steroids are going to be the first thing up front to kind of reduce the vasogenic edema, help to kind of preserve what you have. And kind of just worsen that further venous congestion, arterial compromise. And then from there, I got to get neurosurgery or radonk on board. But probably neurosurgery acutely radonk, probably not as much in that scenario. I'm sure you can probably imagine, but what complications are you most concerned about with this patient? I mean, if you don't, if you don't, if you continue to let venous congestion occur, more swelling, more compression of arteries, you can end up with ischemia. And eventually you can have like complete loss of neurological function. So paralysis would be the big concern, you know, along with that, you know, loss of permanently potentially bladder and pals. So that would be the scary thing in this potential scenario. Okay. All right, well, let's move on to case four. We have a 45 year old man with suspected AML presents with dyspnea, blurry vision and confusion. Chest X-ray shows bilateral infiltrates. So what's going on here? This is the one, like, if you watch our videos on acute leukemia, leukocytes is a pretty common AML. And so that's what I'm thinking about with this one, because with AML, if you hear dyspnea, blurry vision and confusion, that right there, if you guys didn't see that, you guys got a wreck and rewind it back. I bumped this thing in his eyes. I gotta make sure that, you know, if you're using headphones, all the drugs are gone. Yeah, you got a hole in the panic membrane. I'm just looking out. Yeah. Sorry about that. But what were you saying? Yeah. So with with AML, when I hear dyspnea, lungs, blurry vision, I think about the retina, confusion, brain, leukostasis is a condition in which AML, they have hyperlucocytosis, the white cells that are greater than like 100,000, enough of those blasts, the myeloblasts, they're too big. They're not very flexible and they get stuck in microvessels. And so they can cause like, you know, a microvascular occlusion, especially to to the brain where they can cause things like headaches, confusion, neurological deficits. They can clog up the retinal veins where they can cause visual changes due to like papillodema. They can literally cause like cotton wool or the actual small like micro-hemorrhages as well. And then the last thing is dyspnea, they can clog off the pulmonary system. And so they can have things like, you know, similar to like a pulmonary embolism. So they may have dyspnea, they may have tachypnea, they may have hypoxic respiratory distress, sometimes they can even get bilateral infiltrates and stuff. So that's probably what I'm thinking. But I got to get the CVC to see if that actually is even the case, get the peripheral smear, see if they have tons of these myeloblasts. And that's probably what I would start off with first. Yeah, well, you're spot on. Oh, am I? Our white count is 140,000. Oh my gosh. Smear shows our rods and guess how many of those white cells are blasts? How many? 75%. That's a lot, dude. Yeah, that's a lot. That's a pretty significant left shift there. So that right there tells me it's definitely leukostasis. I mean, with this kind of scenario here, I actually am kind of scared for this patient. So they have significant symptoms, especially neurological and pulmonary. When you have things like that, especially if it was like focal deficits too, I would call and find a facility that does something called leukophoresis. So leukophoresis is a process by which you actually remove these blasts from the circulation so that you're trying to, you know, not continue to clog up those vessels. So that's what I would do. Emergingly, I would try to find any hospital nearby that could transport this patient that would have that facility, the abilities to do that process. But then in the meantime, I'm going to put them on hydroxyurea because that helps. It's not as quick, but it does have more of a longer lasting effect. It kind of causing what's called cytoreduction, reducing the number of like these white blood cells that are being produced by the bone marrow. So that's what I would go for in this particular scenario for sure skis. For sure skis. What's the what's the pucker factor here? What's the thing that gets you most concerned? I'd say like hypoxic respiratory failure. That would probably be a scary one because, you know, again, unless you get them on leukophoresis, there's probably not much else that you're going to do. And then stroke, I think, you know, if you have enough microvascular occlusion, they could have a permanent neurological deficit. So when these patients start to go downhill, they go downhill? Oh, yeah, it's pretty scary. Yeah. I've never seen it. I thought I thought once we had a patient who might have had it, but no, they actually had like a cardio-embolic stroke for me if it, but they also had a condition where they didn't have an acute leukemia. They had CML and we thought they had like a blast crisis. And they came in and they had neurological deficits. We got an MRI. We saw a bunch of like small areas of strokes. Their white count was around like, I'm not kidding. I think it was close to like 170,000 or something like that. So we thought, oh man, this could be a blast crisis that put them in leukostasis, but it wasn't. So interesting in these kinds of scenarios. Wow. That's tough. Yeah. That's tough. I had this guy. That's his that's his filler word. You know, mine's actually, his is his is that's tough. Yeah, I did that on purpose. It took him a little while to catch on. Yeah, I know. I'm not that smart. All right. Well, we're on case five, Zach. All right. We have A-50 year old woman with metastatic breast cancer presents to the clinic with fatigue, hypotension, and dyspnea. Okay. Exam reveals JVD, distant heart sounds, and pulses paradoxes. Yeah, dude, that's that's tamponade, baby. This is not good. No, remind me again with pulses paradoxes. So you'll always love this one, don't you? I'm just curious. So it's whenever you have, you know, in these kinds of scenarios, you have a pretty decent drop in your systolic blood pressure during inspiration. And so it's kind of paradoxical. Thus the name. So usually during inspiration, you should take a deep breath in your thoracic cavity volume increases, the pressure decreases, and blood from your vena cava superior should suck down into the right heart, get more blood into that right heart. You should also get that over to the left heart. So you should have good stroke volume, cardiac output, and the blood pressure should go up. But in these patients of cardiac tamponade, or like a really bad tension, pneumo, it's squeezing on the heart and it's reducing the filling, especially during inspiration. And so they get a drop in their venous return. Okay. They don't fill that ventricle during inspiration. And then whenever they push that blood out, they get less volume or cardiac output getting pushed out into those vessels. And so that's why their blood pressure drops during that inspiration. So this is a pretty dead giveaway for you. Yeah, I mean, pulses paradoxes can occur in other conditions, but breast cancer, lung cancer, lymphoma, loves the pericardium. Okay. JVD, there's not many things that cause, well, actually, that's not true. A lot of things can cause JVD. Sure. But with other findings here, it starts to say, wait a minute, this is all pointing to cardiac tamponade. The distant heart sounds, the JVD, the pulses paradoxes, the hypotension. And funny enough, you know what actually the most common symptom I've ever seen when I had cardiac tamponade patient? Disnia. Oh yeah? Yeah. And a patient who had renal failure, really bad renal failure. And so we were worried that they were having like uremia. And they ended up did, they had pericarditis from their uremia. And then it had been accumulating and accumulating and accumulating and they were complaining of worsening disney, worsening disney. And then finally, they ended up developing a cardiac tamponade. It was pretty, pretty nasty. That's hard to suss out, though. I mean, just, you know, some shortness of breath. It could be a million things. Yeah. I mean, they didn't have many other things that were going on. Obviously, we were checking, we were doing things like chest x-ray. Right. We decided to throw the point of care ultrasound right over the chest and we're like, holy crap. You know, it was one of those where cardiac tamponade is kind of scary just because you have a large, you know, pericardial effusion doesn't mean that you have tamponade. You actually have to see that compression or collapsing of the right atrium and the right ventricle during diastole. But this patient had it. They also had a pretty good amount of like thickening of the pericardium so we could see that they had uremic pericarditis and it had been accumulating and unfortunately they had, you know, cardiac tamponade. So for our patient here, we're definitely doing an echo. Yeah. Yeah. I'd get an echo. Yeah. Do a stat one if you can. Obviously, point of care is the best way to go if you have, you know, some skills in that area, but getting, you know, your subsiphoid, your paraceternal, long axis, short axis views, taking a good look at that. And the key thing is just really looking to see if does the right atrium, the right ventricle collapse during diastole? And do they have less velocity of blood flow coming into the ventricles during the diastole? All right. Well, for the purposes of this exercise for this case, let's just say that we have the large pericardial effusion. We have right ventricular diastolic collapse. What do you do? I mean, so right then you say like, you know, and a lot of cardiologists will, a lot of cardiologists will fight you tooth and nail on these kinds of things. But you got to drain that thing. Yeah. That's the best way. Like, you know, a lot of them, you know, cardiologists and, you know, people who work in that ICU, a lot of them have, you know, the ability and a lot of the tools and stuff at their disposal to say, well, the best way to determine if this is causing their hemodynamic collapses to stick a needle into the pericardial cavity, pull off some volume and see does that improve their hemodynamics. And so that's what I would say. I've always been a believer. There's a guy on the internet, Book of Critical Care podcast, Josh Farkas. He's amazing, super smart guy. Go check out that podcast if you guys are interested in ICU level care. But he always says that one of the best ways of really diagnosing this and also providing therapy for is doing a pericardial synthesis is there's no better way of determining if the patient is in cardiac tamponade, other than tapping it in, pulling off that volume and saying, oh, they improved hemodynamically, there's no other logic that can explain this likely. So I think that'd be the way to go. If it kept coming back, like they recur in a fusion, so this patient likely has those risks, pericardial window would probably be the long term thing that I would say. Okay. How about if this is left untreated? Death. Very bad thing. Yeah. I had one. It was actually, I think, I've only had two cardiac tamponade patients, but the one we found and they just went into PEA rest. So oftentimes these patients, if you don't treat them properly, they develop severe hypotension, they can develop obstructive shock, and then they can have pretty much no cardiac output to the point where you're not supplying their coronaries. They end up going into like VTAC, V-Fib, ASYST-LA, PEA, things like that. So that's the scary thing that you can see with these. Similar to leukostasis where you just go downhill quickly. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. Let's keep moving here. Case six. Here's a classic board style case. We have a 68 year old man with known squamous cell carcinoma of the lung. He's like, I already know it. He presents with confusion, generalized weakness, poor appetite, constipation, and polyurea. On exam, he's mildly hypotensive. He's dry mucus membranes and sluggish reflexes. Well, come on. Spill it.  seems like hypercalcemia malignancy. So since we're talking about oncologic emergencies, when you hear squamous cell and then you hear like confuso, stones, bones, groans, throwing psychiatric overtones, right? So I think with a lot of this, we see some concerning features of hypercalcemia malignancy, especially with squamous cell carcinoma. So I never want to assume, but I'd probably start off with just doing a basic like CMP. If I get a total calcium, just because a calcium is elevated doesn't mean that it's always the case, it's more likely. But I'd probably check an ionized calcium, I always like to do that, I think it's a little bit more accurate or correct it for the abumin. If that's elevated, I would get a, I start with PTH, then I would consider, okay, if the PTH is low, I would rule out other causes, so the malignancy causes. I would get a PTHRP, I would get the vitamin D levels, so the calcitriol, I would get both calcitriol, calcitriol, and I would even consider getting an alkyphos level, because that can tell me about heavy bone turnover, which we can see in like, elliptic lesions or kind of like, usually due to cancers that have kind of incorporated itself into the bone. Breast cancers is a big one, multiple lomas, a nasty one as well. So that's probably what I would start with first is to get those things and see what comes back with that. So our total calcium is 15.7, albumin is 3.6, ionized calcium, 1.7, creatinine, 2.1, with their baseline being 1.0, their ECG, we note a shortened QT interval, PTH is low, PTHRP is elevated, and then our vitamin D, normal, ALP, normal. All right, so based on this, I'd say, okay, we have hypercalcemia, we confirm that with, you can correct it with the calcium and the albumin. Ionized calcium is an easy one for me, so I don't have to do any math though, so 1.7 that's definitely elevated. Creatinine, they have an acute kidney injury of sorts, probably in the setting of hypercalcemia is due to nephrogenic DI, so they probably lost way too much volume. So they're probably a little dehydrated. Shortened QT interval, that's usually kind of consistent, it's inversely proportional relationship with calcium, so the QT interval, if it's shortened, it means that the calcium is high, if the QT interval is prolonged, it means that the calcium is usually low. So that could be likely explaining that. PTH is low, tells me that it's PTH independent, so it's not hyperparathyroidism. PTHRP is elevated though, that's squamous cell. So usually in squamous cell carcinoma, that's elevated PTHRP, and that could be head, neck, lung, lung's probably the most common one though. 25-hydroxy and 1,25-hydroxy vitamin D, we see this particularly in lymphoma, but that's normal, so that's unlikely there. And outfoss is normal, so there's not a lot of bone turnover that makes me think that I would need to do like a skeletal survey to look to see if there's any lytic lesion. So that's kind of what it tells me in this potential scenario of what I have going on here is that it's likely squamous cell carcinoma. Okay, well how do we manage him? So first thing is treat them acutely with volume or suscitation. So these are the few patients where I think that they actually do need a good amount of fluid. Probably one of the few patients that I'm gonna hit with a good amount of fluid. I was gonna say, you hate giving fluid. God forbid you wanna give fluid. Yeah, I think this is the one I would be, I'd probably give a good amount of fluid. Probably start off one, two liters, see how they do and then aim for uvelemia there. I don't know if it helps as much with the calcium eresis, but I think it's, you know, at least aiming for uvelemia is the goal. From there, calcitonin is actually, I think, what we would say is the better fit for short-term acute needs, because it's really gonna help to kind of shut down the osteoclasts and stop them from helping to turn over the bone. So that's gonna reduce a lot of the bone resorption, which is what PTHRP is doing in this scenario. And then after I got that, it doesn't, calcitonin works quickly, so it's rapid onset, but I need something that's gonna bridge me long-term and give me more control. So that's when I reach for two agents, one to two, bisphosphonates, you know, all your dronates, allan dronates, allan dronate, palmadronate, all those good ones. And then if they have pretty bad kidneys, you can consider dinosomab, but I think that this patient's okay. I would still try bisphosphonates, see how their kidney function does, and if it really starts to veer off, I have options of dinosomab or doing dialysis, if it's really bad. But I would only do loop diuretics, because they say throw a loop diuretic in there. If I did fluids in a loop diuretic, the nurses would massacre me. They would be like, make up your mind, which one do you want? You want them to pee, or do you want them to have the fluid resuscitation? Because it doesn't make any sense, but this does happen sometimes. It used to be more believed that you give them fluid to pump them up, and then give them loop diuretics to induce calcium uresis, because that actually does do calcium uresis, but we prefer not to give diuretics unless they're truly volume overloaded. So fluids, calcitonin, bisphosphonates, or dinosomab, if this was lymphoma, I would add on a dose or a couple of dose of steroids too. But that's kind of how I would do this one in treating these patients. So our patient has an AKI, all right, the creatinine was bumped. ECG we noted short and QT intervals. So these are some concerning complications. How are you gonna manage those? The AKI is the big one, so that's gonna get better with volume. So if you give them some volume, they'll improve with that one. Nephrogenic DI improves as you start to improve. So the likely reason for their dehydration, which caused their AKI is Nephrogenic DI. So hypercalciumia actually tends to block ADH at the collecting duct, and so if you improve their calcium, then you should have less blockage of ADH at that collecting duct, and you'll have less of this inhibition of watery absorption. So that'll also fix a lot of the volume status and also prevent the Nephrogenic DI. And you're not worried about the short and QT? No, probably not. I'd be more worried if it was long. Okay. If I had a long QT, that'd probably make me poo my pants or you know, crap my Luggies. Cause that one I get scared about like, you know, torsods, especially if you have hypocalcemia and like hypokalemia, those are the ones that combine two. I get a little nervous for torsod. With calcium correction, this shouldn't just resolve? It should. Yeah, as you start to improve that one, you'll be okay, but short and QT, not something I get super concerned about, probably a little bit more concerned about the long QT though. All right, well there we go. That was case six. All right. Let's move on to case seven. All right. This one we have a 59 year old man with chronic cough and new facial swelling, SVC syndrome. Ha ha ha ha. Done. All right. Hey guys, this has been good. I hope you enjoyed the podcast. Ha ha ha. I know that one cause you've talked about it a million times. Yeah. I mean, I just hear facial swelling. And then you see the pictures that we throw up all the time. And you're just like, I'll never forget it now. They're scary. Yeah. Sorry, I just a spoiler alert there, but. No, it's good. It's good. That's an easy one. You just ruined it for everybody. Ha ha ha. No, you see this picture come up. You know it immediately. Yeah, it's true. The exam does show distended neck veins and facial plethora. Yeah. I mean, that's a pretty common term. So whenever they use that stuff, yeah, you definitely should think about it. But what do you do? I mean, chest X-ray you can always start with, with people who come in with, you know, chronic cough and stuff like that. But I mean, if you're really looking for, like you said, SVC syndrome, I'd probably do like a CT vinaigrahy or like a contrast enhanced CT scan of the chest where I'm looking at the venous blood moving into the, like along its course from the IJ brachiosophallic, or in this case subclavian, moving its way down through the brachiosophallic superior vena cava and looking at it going into the right heart. So if I start seeing that there's a restricted area where there's kind of like a small luminal diameter, that would tell me if there's less blood going there. Because SVC syndrome is not always just due to tumors. Believe it or not, I used to see it all the time. It's especially with catheters. So in the ICU, you're constantly putting in central lines. And so, you know, IJs is a common one, subclavians a common one. In the ICU I worked out, we did a lot of subclavian lines. There's lower risk of thrombosis, but IJ there's just a slightly higher one, but we would put in these lines. And then when these lines come in and they sit in the superior vena cava, it's an opportunity for clots to form. So you can definitely get thrombi that form there along the actual catheter and then sometimes right onto that vein. So I used to see a lot of SVC syndromes particularly, and they were very mild, very, very mild. But you could see them in pretty significant, like occlusive clots. And these kinds of scenario, we're talking about tumors though. All right, we're not talking about clots. We're talking about tumors. We're talking about tumors. This is not a game. No, not a game. We're talking about tumors. We're talking about tumors. So in patients who have lung cancer or lymphoma, anything that's like near that area, it's near that central portion, like you have your hyaluronic nodes, those things get big, boom. Or you have your central lung portion near the mediastinum. When it gets big, boom, compresses on the superior vena cava. So lung cancer, maybe if you have a pretty good thymic mass, and I would say the other one would probably be like, again, any kind of like really nasty lymphoma. Usually non-Hodgkin's lymphoma would be another one, lung cancer, sometimes like teratomas and things like that. But definitely lymphoma and lung cancer, those are the big ones that I get scared about compressing on that area. So I would probably start off, look to see if I can see SVC compression, look to see if I see less blood moving through it, and look to see do I have a source. That's why I like the CT scan. Cause you're gonna be able to see if I have hyalurilum, venenopathy, if I'm gonna be able to see if I have lung cancer, a big old mass compressing on it. Well, let's get to the money shot here. We got our contrast enhanced CT. It shows a large right mediastyle mass, and that mediastyle mass is compressing on the superior vena cava. Yeah, so you got SVC syndrome. I mean, from here, I think if, you know, I don't think they have, no, I don't think that they're emergent. So if, so maybe urgent. Yeah, exactly, I call it an urgency. So get to it, you know, call. Get on it, you know. I'd get the oncology, probably like your radiation oncology team, maybe the hemong team on board, and talk about like, you know, chemo radiation, something to kind of shrink the tumor size so that you're not compressing on this SVC as much. If they came in and they were having like, strider, difficulty breathing, they were having hypoxia, then I would be concerned, okay, are they having enough backflow from the IJ that it's kind of squeezing? What happens is sometimes you get blood that backflows into the vessels around the larynx and the trachea and things like that, sometimes even to the lungs, but mainly the larynx and it can cause a deem of the larynx. And so they get strider, they get disney, and they have significant difficulty breathing. And so, it's very scary. And those I'd probably say, okay, that's an emergency. And another one, and this is why, so, so, Cleveland, you know, central lines are the lines of champions, but you know, obviously you don't want to drop along, but the big thing here is when you have neurological catastrophes, where brains are already a little bit injured, they're swollen, you want them to not have anything else that increases their ICP. So, when you put in a central line in the subclavian vein, you kind of allow the jugular vein to have proper drainage, nothing is impeding it. So, imagine you have a catheter, or imagine you have a tumor that's compressing on the SVC, and it's causing blood to backflow, backflow into the IJ. Well, there's veins called the cerebral veins, the superior sagittal sinus, inferior sagittal sinus, the transverse sinus, the sigmoid sinus, all of those, they come down, and they eventually drain into the internal jugular vein. So, if you have a compression of the SVC, it's already causing backflow from the internal jugular vein. It's gonna be harder for blood to drain out of the head. And that's gonna increase their intracranial pressure. And so, I think that you would see that more so in patients who have neurological injury, or something that's already with a little bit of an increased ICP, you do that, you increase it even more. And so, that puts them at high risk. So, very concerning airway obstruction, and then an increased ICP. Yeah, if that happens, then I'd say you should call like your vascular team to see if they can go in and stint the vessel open. So, that'd be the only time that I would say it'd be worthy to kind of push to do something truly intravascular to keep that vessel patent so that blood can actually restore blood flow back down to the right atrium, right ventricle. All right, well, hey, we just covered seven high yield oncologic emergencies. And I would say we did it pretty efficiently, pretty quickly. Yeah, that was pretty good, man. I think that that was awesome. And I think when you think about oncologic emergencies, you know, there's a lot of them, and it may seem like it's hard to be able to wrap your mind around them. And I get that. I think a lot of the times with these, you have to try and think about what's the most classic clinical presentation. And I think based upon that, the big thing I want you to know is, think classical clinical presentation, but also think about what kind of conditions is this associated with. That may start to spark your interest and understanding of the concept. The pathophys will help you to understand the clinical kind of like manifestations per se. But I think it's important to know when we have a suspicion of what this is, how do I diagnose it? And then the most important thing is, since they are emergencies, what is the first line treatment? What do I do right away when I have this diagnosis? So I had a good time talking to you guys about oncologic emergencies. I hope you had a good time listening. I hope you learned a lot. I hope you had fun. I hope that while you're cooking dinner, doing dishes, driving, working out, whatever it is that you may be doing in this moment while listening to us, I hope that you enjoyed this. And I really thank you guys so much for being so awesome, so supportive. And I wish you guys the absolute best of luck. I love you. I thank you guys. And as always, until next time. Thank you.

=== FILE: Pancreatic & Hepatobiliary Cancer ｜ Podcast [UDh_ZYdESeo].txt ===

 mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere Today we're talking about pancreatic and hepata-biliary cancer. Like we've been doing, we're moving through our oncology playlist. We're going one by one. So we have four cases for this one, right Zach? Yeah, that's a lot. All right, well then let's not waste any time. Yeah, what are you doing? Get started. Let's go. We're doing. All right, case one. We have a 63-year-old man who is a smoker. Six-week history of pruritus, dark urine, pale stools. No abdominal pain or fever, but we do know a 7-pound unintentional weight loss. Any differentials before going with any testing, with anything at all? I mean, just off the top of the dome here looking at pruritus, dark urine, pale stools sounds like hyperbillirubinemia. I mean, that's just me thinking about it, right? So obviously we're talking about pancreatic and hepata-biliary cancer, right? So I know that there is theoretically, pruritus is due to elevated bile acids. The dark urine, the pale stools, that's usually associated probably more with the bilirubin that's probably built up. So in the urine, and if you don't have the bilirubin and the stools, it loses that kind of darkish color to it, that stercobillin. So that's my thought. I would expect to see some jaundice though as well. That's something I would also be looking for doing a physical exam saying, hey, do you have any kind of yellowish discoloration of the eyes? Ectoris? Is there any kind of yellowish discoloration of the hands, the palms, soles of the feet? Things like that. But that's kind of what I would think about from there. If that is the case, I'm thinking that there's something causing jaundice. It's probably, given the scenario, obstructive jaundice. So pancreatic cancer, which is definitely one of the things I get concerned about, especially in a patient who is a smoker, they have weight loss. And they have some features here of pancreatic insufficiency maybe via the steataria if they're like pale and let's say that they're greasy. That sounds weird, greasy stools. But that's definitely going to be concerning for pancreatic cancer. And the reason why is if it's at the head, it mashes on the common bile duct. And if you mash on the common bile duct, that bile can't get passed into the small intestine. That's why they get the pale stools. Bilearubin backs up. Bile salts back up. They get into the circulation. They start spilling out into tissues. You get pyritis. They kind of spill over into the urine. You get hyperbileurubinuria as you get the dark urine. And then you probably have some jaundice. So that's what I'd be concerned about in the weight loss is definitely concerning from malignancy, ominous, right? And the smoking is a huge, huge risk factor for pancreatic adenocarcinoma. I know we're obviously talking about pancreatic hepatopaleary cancer, but how can you rule out that it's not liver related? Yeah, you can't, right? It could always be something else. It could be hepatitis. It could be choleidocleothiasis. They could have a lot of different things there. They could just have pancreatic cancer or maybe they could have a stone in the common bile duct. They could have a clangiocarcinoma. So they could have a tumor in the bile duct. They could have hepatitis. It could be due to medication related. It could be due to viral hepatitis. There could be Bud Kiari syndrome. There could be so many different things. So do you just start off with a whole bunch of labs and see what you kind of boil down to? I would just make sure that the bilirubin and alfos is really elevated first. That's probably the first thing because it's going to tell me if they have cholestasis. And so if I did a LFT workup, I would expect the bilirubin to be high. And I would expect the alkaline phosphate level to be high. And if that's high, it's more likely an obstructive pathology. Somewhere within the duct system or near the pancreas head. So that's probably what I'd start out with first. If it came back where it had an elevated alfos, bilirubin, and elevated LFTs like ASTALT, then I'm thinking something around the liver. But if I had something that came up where it's not truly hepatic, hepatocellar injury, it really seems like it's more specifically obstructive or colidoco related or something within the biliary system. That's when I would be checking the alfos and the bilirubin and seeing if those are the primary elevated ones. If that came back elevated, something is going on. Something in the combat duct, near the ductal systems or near the pancreatic duct and where they joined the ampula. So that's when I would probably go to a right upper quadrilateral ultrasound. Anytime you have elevated alfos, elevated bilirubin, and even if you have an acute elevation in the LFTs like AST and ALT, I'd get a right upper quadrilateral ultrasound. Right away it's going to rule out obstruction first thing. Cool. And even though he has no pain, it doesn't matter. Your labs have steered you in that direction. Oftentimes, funny enough, they have what we would call painless obstructive jaundice. And that makes me think more likely than anything for it to be like pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Because what happens is it's kind of weird. Pancreatic head goes near the combat duct, smashes on it, backs up, and it backs up into the cystic duct and into the gallbladder. And the gallbladder enlarges. So you can actually go and you can palpate near the right upper quadrant and you'll feel a mass. And it's their gallbladder. And if you press down, you would think, oh, that would elicit pain if it was like inflammation of the gallbladder. But in this case, it doesn't. It's called corvorecier sign. Corvorecier sign is kind of like a somewhat path mnemonic for pancreatic adenocarcinoma that's causing obstructive jaundice and a painless enlargement of the gallbladder. That's usually the kind of thing to think about. And that right there, because that's just that's shocking for me to hear that. But right there, that could be a huge differential to many different things saying that if it is painless, it does lead you in a different direction than it being painful. Yeah, because if I had a patient who was like, it was painful, then I'm definitely thinking about like, especially if it's right upper quadrant pain, collodogalothiasis is a big one. Ascending colonitis is a big one. Cleantia carcinoma, it could be. Definitely could be. Hepatitis, any kind of hepatitis related injury, probably going to have some degree of like right upper quadrant pain. So the fact that this is usually painless is definitely going to be more suspicious. I think in this case for pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Well we do the right upper quadrant ultrasound and we get the result back where we have a CBD 12 millimeter intra-epatic ducts dilated, no gallstones, indistinct 3 centimeter mass at the pancreatic head. Yeah, so the conbal duct is gargantuous. That's pretty big. Intra-epatic ducts are dilated. That means that a lot of the, there's lots and lots of obstructive coliostasis, so back flow of bile. No gallstones mean there's no collodogalothiasis. There's no stones that are kind of like in the conval duct, none in the kind of the ampular area. And then there's nothing kind of in the ducts that we see that's kind of a mass like a colandio carcinoma or biliary duct mass. So that's kind of helpful. And then the gallbladder is fine, so there's no coliostasis. There's no kind of things that really scream at me except for that 3 centimeter mass at the pancreatic head. And then obviously the conval duct is having that obstructive presentation. It's big. It's being, it's back flowing. Yep. It usually kind of screams to me like this is probably pancreatic adenocarcinoma with a obstructive coliostasis kind of picture. Then what's your next diagnostic step? I'd probably then say let's get a better image of the pancreas. And so the first thing is there's a pancreatic protocol. So I get an abdominal CT. I do it with contrast. And it's really going to focus in and take very, very, very thin sectioned looks at the pancreas. I'll be able to get a really, really good idea. Is this in the pancreatic head? What does it look like? Is it invading some nearby vasculature? Is it large? Is it extensive? Is it into the body? Has it gone to the tail? Has it started to involve nearby organ systems? And so that'd probably be my first way to go from here. Get a better look at it. And then you also really could, if let's say that you had any degree of suspicion that I'm like, I'm not sure if this is, you can always do an endoscopic ultrasound. Go down and grab tissue because we can see a pancreatic mass, right, on imaging. And that's imaging related diagnosis, but we may need a tissue diagnosis. And so I would say if I get the CT, really screams pancreatic cancer, you could go forward with an EUS, endoscopic ultrasound, take a small little kind of FNA if I need a laspration, pop it right into there, pull back some tissue and see if I can confirm that that's like a pancreatic adenocarcinoma. That's probably the way that I would go forward with this one. Okay. CT shows a three centimeter mass in the pancreatic head. We have that mass, it's kind of a, it abuts the superior mesenteric vein, but there's no vessel encasement, no liver lesions. And then on that endoscopic ultrasound with the FNA laspration, we do show ductal adenocarcinoma. And we have a CA-199 level of 620 with the norm being less than 37. Yeah, that's helpful. I forgot to mention a C-199, it's not like diagnostic. So it's helpful. It helps in the differential. If you have a pancreatic mass, CA-199 is more a prognostic level. So it's like, for example, the vision is colorectal cancer, we check CEA levels. If they have ovarian cancer, we check CA-125 levels. Is that like an enzyme or what? It's got like a tumor marker. Oh, tumor marker. Yeah. So it's like, so similar to like when we talked about testicular cancer, it's like AFP, LDH and BDHCG. It's kind of a similar thing. It's kind of like a marker. It's not necessarily per se diagnostic, especially in this case, but it does scream somewhat, it's more likely, but its primary indication and utilization is saying, here's what their baseline is. So it's good that we got that because then what we can do is once we start treating them, maybe we do a Whipple, maybe we do some other kind of procedure, we say, what does the C-199 looks like now after we've done them through the roof? Yeah. So it definitely screams a lot of this. It's definitely pancreatic cancer. The fact that it hasn't invaded any of the vessels is helpful. You can't really tell if there's metastasis just yet. Pancreatic cancer doesn't oftentimes like super crazy, distantly metastasize. It goes into the vessels and can encase those pretty bad, but it doesn't usually like go like to the lungs or something. They may go to the liver. It's kind of the closest thing that it may go to, but it's usually it's going to stay kind of right there and it just starts to invade nearby vasculature. And fortunately for our patient, there was no liver lesions. Yeah. Yeah. So that's good. So I think that this is definitely a patient who has a, I'd say a decent, I'd say a receptable pancreatic cancer. So his prognosis can be fairly okay. I think it's a possibility. I think that it's just the tough thing now is that we have to talk to surgery. And so when we talk to surgery, we have to say, Hey, I got a patient who's got a pancreatic ductal carcinoma. They got obstructive cholestasis. They got to see a 19-9 level that's pretty high. They have no vascular invasion, no distanetastasis that is visible at this point in time. What's your recommendation for surgical procedure? And I think the only thing you can really do is maybe like a Whipple, which is like a pancreatic duct, go do a denectomy. But that's a pretty complicated procedure. There's a lot of things that go into it. So that's what I would say would be the decision based upon the surgical kind of like overall evaluation. Do they think that this is the best way to go with that one? So that's why I'd say Whipple would probably be the way to go here. And then adjuvant chemotherapy would probably be the good way. There's all kinds of agents. I think Jim Cytabine is the commonly utilized one. But I think the big thing is your Whipple and talking with surgery to see if that's a good go for them. Remember that the tumor, once you remove it theoretically, the obstructive cholecystasis should improve. Yep. Obviously the timeframe, if they're having like a really, really high bilirubin level, it can, you know, portend a relatively poor kind of like symptom mythology. So obviously obstructive jaundice, puritis, et cetera. You could theoretically put a stent in there temporarily. But the goal here is going to be doing the Whipple if you can. If it was like more distal, like near the tail, you'd have to do a distal pancreatectomy. And sometimes they remove the spleen too because it can actually go to the spleen. So that's another thing that we have to worry about. So if it was more distal, it would go to the spleen. So I'd have to cut that portion out and then potentially remove the spleen as well. So that's the options that you usually have is surgically removing it. Chemotherapy would be the way to go adjuvantally. Sometimes we can only can if it's like not resectable. You may be stuck with just like chemotherapy and like palliative procedures, like putting in a stent because you can't cut it out. So that's kind of what I would say for this patient here. All right. Case two. All right. We have a 58-year-old man with a long-standing compensated history of hepatitis B, cirrhosis. Semi-annual ultrasound shows a new 2.5 centimeter right lobe lesion. His AFP level rose from 12 to 180. Where does your mind go? So first thing is a parasite of the carcinoma. I mean, there's a lot of other things that you can think about here, but right off the get-go. Ultrasound shows a lobe lesion. AFP's elevated and they have a history of cirrhosis and on top of that, it's hepatitis B related. It's like alarm bells are screaming that this could be nothing else but hepatocelular carcinoma. There could be things like nodules and clangiocarcinomas and things like that. Very, very unlikely. When a patient has cirrhosis, they're super high risk for hepatocelular carcinoma. If you have hepatitis B without cirrhosis, you're super high risk of hepatocelular carcinoma. So they have both of those. That's not good. Yeah, and they have a lesion and they have an AFP level. Remember how we said CA-199 is somewhat associated with your pancreatic adenocarcinomas. AFP levels that are really, really high in this kind of scenario do somewhat scream hepatocelular carcinoma. What I would say is now that we have an ultrasound that shows that they have a lesion, they got an AFP that bumped, I'm going to go straight to a triphasic CT. It's a triphasic abdominal CT and it looks at the contrast as it moves through the liver to look to see if the mass kind of hyperattainuates and it really, really gets bright. And then we look at the portal venous washout to look to see if they have a quick portal venous washout. And that usually is going to be the best way of being able to kind of take a look at the mass and look for a arterial hyper enhancement and then a quick portal venous washout would be pretty suggestive of a hepatocelular carcinoma. Alright, the triphasic CT comes back with a lesion showing arterial hyper enhancement with portal washout, capsular appearance, no portal vein invasion, no extra hepatic disease. Alright, that's good. So the fact that it didn't get to the portal vein is actually not, that's a decent thing. Because once you get portal vein invasion, it makes things a lot more challenging. A lot of the things that you want to try to do for the patient, you can't really do for them when you get portal vein invasion. Usually there's procedures we'll talk about them. There are things like you have these trans arterial chemo embolization where you shoot chemo and you shoot at these little emulsified, like little embolic materials and you block off the blood flow to the actual tumor. Because usually these tumors are super vascular. If you block off the blood flow, you could potentially starve the tumor. And theoretically you could reduce its size, maybe even remove it, or at least kind of kill a good chunk of that cancerous tissue. But if you have a portal vein that's completely cut off, you can't do that. Because now you have no other blood supply. The complete problematic issue would arise. So that's one thing I think is decent is that they don't have any portal vein invasion. But they got a pretty nasty kind of lesion here. I think the thing I have to know is do they have portal hypertension? And they don't have any kind of portal hypertension symptoms. So portal hypertension symptoms would be things like asides. I don't see any mention of asides in the patient's history. And they're pretty compensated from what I read, actually. The other thing is they would have things like esophageal varices that would be present, cap it medusae. They could have a potentially elevated LFTs as well, somewhat. And so these are all kind of, and then jaundice would also be another way of kind of them presenting in a decompensated state. So I don't see any concerns of portal hypertension or kind of like a decompensated or high degree of comorbidity of their disease. So what that tells me is that there's a chance that I could remove a piece of that actual liver. So think about this. If I had a patient who had hepatitis B cirrhosis, they now have cancer. And they have portal hypertension, they have a lot of disease in their liver. And you cut out a good chunk of the liver. And the remaining tissue that's left is not very functional. You're going to leave them with a very, very bad overall kind of lifespan now. Because now they have very little functional tissue, most of it's destroyed. They're going to potentially decompensate, go into like decompensated liver failure. So that's why we would never want to do real significant huge chunks or removal of tissue unless they had good functional liver tissue remaining. So for this one, I feel like they actually do. Their tumor is not huge. Usually less than or equal to three centimeters is a decent size. And they also have no portal hypertension. I think that this would be good with either two options. Radiofrequency ablation, which only really works and has equal equivalent results. So like the recurrence rate is about the same if you were to do a hepatectomy. So you remove a chunk, like maybe I do like a little wedge removal and radiofrequency ablation. So those would be the two options. I'd probably talk to surgery. I'd probably see what they think about it. But an RFA or like a little like wedge hepatectomy would probably be the way to go here for this patient. Would this patient ever get to a point where he would be applicable for a transplant? I'd say if they had portal hypertension. If they had portal hypertension, then I got to give them a new liver probably. Meaning that if you remove tissue, you're going to leave them out. I'm going to put them in a high chance of them decompensating in the future. So it wouldn't be any, there'd be no reason to do that. You would have to get a transplant. I'd say if it's a really big tumor where I have to cut out a lot of tissue. And so I'm leaving very little tissue left. Or if it's a tumor size that let's say it's still like less than three centimeters, but they have significant disease, significant disease on their liver. Like their child pu score is really high. And then they have portal hypertension. I'm probably not going to do any kind of like RFA. I'm not going to take any chance with a wedge. I'll probably just go straight to referring them to a transplant search and saying, hey, let's see if we can get a transplant for that patient. Gotcha. All right. Case three. All right. We now have a 48 year old woman with a history of primary sclerosis and colonitis. She had four weeks of progressive parietus, jaundice and alcohol and acolic stools. I almost said alcoholic. She presents with no. She had the beer shats. See, I didn't say, you said. Yeah, I said it. Don't, don't kill me, please. I'm sorry. The patient has no fever. Alps 720 total Billy is 10. Wow. That's high. That's pretty high. Yeah. All right. So what is the, the PSE telling you? I don't think I've ever seen like a Billy like I usually like the billies I've seen are like four, five, six. I don't see one 10, but that'd be, that'd be crazy. 10 is not good. No, no. Her eyes are yellow as the sun. Likely, very, very likely, man. Seriously. But my, my, my main question is like the PSE. What is that telling you? Isn't PSE, isn't there a connection with ulcerative colitis? Oh my boy. Honestly, that's awesome. Yeah. Hey, I, I pay attention. Sometimes he does. I try to. Sometimes. I didn't read a head either. I didn't, I didn't cheat. That's very, very like astute is that it's, it's very common and ulcerative colitis. So usually ulcerative colitis and primary sclerosis and colonitis are kind of going hand in hand with each other for the most part. And so whenever a patient has PSE, it's probably one of the biggest risk factors because you're causing unfortunately inflammation. So there's probably a degree of like autoimmune attack on the biliary tree and that autoimmune attack and the inflammation creates opportunities for display like mutations, dysplasia, dysplasia turns into carcinoma. And so it puts them at super high risk of colangiocarcinomas. That's one of the concerning things is anytime a patient has PSE, you definitely have to be really careful because they have a very high risk of colangiocarcinoma, which is a tumor that occurs in the biliary ducts. Now, location wise of where PSE is usually occurring. So PSE affects more often the extra hepatic duct system, not as much the intra-hypatic duct system. Usually that where we talk about primary biliary cirrhosis, that one definitely has a lot of intra-hypatic duct inflammation. But this one, it can kind of involve both, but it's primarily going to be hitting those extra hepatic ducts. But yeah, that's what I'm definitely thinking is when I see a primary sclerosis and colonitis, they have symptoms where it's obstructive colistasis. Obstructive colistasis meaning they have puritis probably because of the elevated bile salts, jaundice because of elevated bilirubin and eggholic stools. Just means that they don't have probably any kind of bile salts or bilirubin in their actual stool to give it that color. And so that's what I'm definitely thinking the alfos and total bilirubin level that's through the roof, it's an obstructive colistasis. So from there, I think I could definitely consider. I would probably feel good enough just saying we can do an MRCP, but I think it's always astute to like do a right upper quadrinal sound first and say, hey, is there a biliary mass present? Oh, okay, there is a biliary mass, like a biliary tree mass. All right, then let's do an MRCP. I think from here, I feel pretty confident that if I wanted to go straight to the most definitive test, I'd say it'd be an MRCP. If I had any degree of where I'm like thinking, could this possibly be a pancreatic adenocarcinoma or anything else obstructing that biliary tree? I do a right upper quadrinal sound first and see that, but I'd say let's start with an MRCP. I'm going to be a little spicy. All right, I like the spicy. MRCP shows a dominant two centimeter structure at the hepatic duct confluence. Okay. Significant intra-hepatic duct dilation. Yeah, so when I, okay, so that's another thing they called a perihylar clatskin tumor. So it's basically clangiocarcinomas. There's different areas that it can occur. The most common area, and I don't remember the percentage, but it's a pretty decent size, that when you have the right hepatic duct and the left hepatic duct come together, they make a confluence, and then eventually they become the common hepatic duct. Then the common hepatic duct combines with the cystic duct, and then the cystic duct becomes the common bile duct. Actually right at that point where the right and left hepatic duct come together, that confluence, they call that the perihylar region, and that's where the clatskin tumors, or the clangiocarcinomas, usually most commonly form. So that's where I'm thinking that that's happening is the hepatic duct confluence. Because of that, it's occurring right there, all the ducts proximal to it are getting all bulgy and dilated and enlarged. So that's the likely cause there is, it's probably clangiocarcinoma. The only way that you can truly kind of confirm this is you probably have to go up. You probably have to do an ERCP. So that's probably what I would say here is to go down, do a retrograde clangio-pink cartography, so you go down the esophagus, you go down the stomach, small intestine, pop right through the ampula, and then move upwards through the common bile duct. As you move upwards, you can kind of shoot some contrast and get a better look. I'm not even kidding. As they go up, they have this little device that it can scrape. Imagine you got a little brush and they can brush the cells there. And then you can do what's called a brushing or a brush biopsy, and they can take some of those cells and then you can collect it and send it to the pathologist to see if it looks like clangiocarcinoma. So that's probably what I would say is I'd probably, from this look out here, I'd probably do an ERCP, get a brush cytology or a biopsy while you're there, and see if it shows any potential for like clangiocarcinoma. We talked about this before. I think it was in the first case. What about that CA-199 level? It can be elevated. Can you ever go for that again? Yeah, you can. It can definitely be elevated in this one. I would say it's possible. A lot of the pancreatic and the biliary treat diseases can have those. I would try to keep it more easily remembered in your mind as pancreatic, but it can't, for sure I'll have to be elevated. Well, I'll leave that one go for now. We do the brushings. It's positive for adenocarcinoma. CT of the chest and abdomen, we do that just to make sure we're thorough. There are no distant mets. What's your next step? So at this point, I see a patient who doesn't have any distant mets. They got hopefully no other kind of like vascular invasion too. If there's not a lot of vascular invasion and there's not a lot of spread into the liver, like the surrounding liver, parenchyma, and there's not a lot of metastasis, you can do an in-block bile duct liver wedge resection. It's pretty crazy. You cut the common bile duct and then you cut right above where the tumor is. You remove that whole disease section and then you reroute that into the intestines. You actually bring the jujinum up. You bring the jujinum up and then you have the right before the confluence, you have those like hepatic ducts empty directly right into the jujinum. You can still get your bile acids and your bilirubin into the intestinal lumen so that you can still involve it in for the stools and helping with the emulsification of fats and stuff like that too. And then since I think it's always wise while you're there because it does get intrapatically, it's probably also good to take a little resection of the liver just in case there is any residual micrometastasis. It might be helpful. So I'd probably remove like a little liver wedge, cut where that confluence is, cut below, reroute those into the jujinum, and then again remove a little piece of the liver. That's probably the way to go and then you probably have to follow up with some chemotherapy after that just to get any residual micrometastasis out. I know surgeons are, that's one thing I've learned about oncology. Surgery for these things are so, like I don't know, I don't want to be mean but it's like elegant. You know, it's crazy the things that they think about. It's like an art. It is. It's an art. It's things I've never even heard of before. Amazing. Yeah. And so that's kind of the way you probably would go if it wasn't like if they had vascular invasion, a lot of hepatic invasion, metastasis, you're probably just going to be chemo for these patients. You know, that's probably the only thing that you'd really offer them if it was like not receptable. So it's pretty large vascular invasion so you get a lot of vessels involved with it. There's metastasis. It's not worth going after then. I'd probably just say chemo. All right. For this one I think we can do it. One last case left. Case four. All right. We have a 72-year-old woman with a known porcelain gallbladder. It doesn't seem real, right? It's going to go ahead and stop right there. I got to ask. What's a porcelain gallbladder? So this is pretty common with chronic cholecystitis. So if a patient gets chronic cholecystitis, you can have acute cholecystitis, which is like inflammation and infection of the gallbladder. If you get repeated attacks, which can happen, this can cause a lot of inflammation that causes calcifications. It's just like pancreatitis. If you get acute pancreatitis and you keep getting bouts of acute pancreatitis, you can develop chronic pancreatitis. And that usually occurs. It gets lots of calcifications and fibrous tissue that develops there. It's kind of the same thing where it's chronic cholecystitis that the entire gallbladder gets super calcified. I don't remember the percentage. I want to say it's like 30% or 40%. Probability that if you have a porcelain gallbladder, you'll develop gallbladder cancer. So it's around. It's a pretty high statistic. It's a decently high number enough to remember and be like, oh, wow, that's concerning. So anytime a patient has a porcelain gallbladder, you've got to get that gallbladder out because there's a very high chance that it can become just plastic enough that it can turn into cancerous tissue. So really, it's just, it's calcified. It's fibrotic. Yeah. It's not good. No, no. There's a high risk of converting into gallbladder cancer. The patient also has intermittent dull, right upper quadrant pain, and a six pound unintentional weight loss. No fevers present. Yeah. So this seems like gallbladder. I mean, it could be a flare up of their chronic cholecystitis. It definitely could be. But when I hear weight loss, again, that's concerning. And then when I know that they have a porcelain gallbladder, that's also concerning. So I'm definitely concerned about gallbladder cancer. That's definitely for sure. And usually in patients who have gallbladder cancer, especially if they have chronic cholecystitis, which is the most common cause, they can present with features of what seems like a biliary colic, which is like the right upper quadrant pain. And it hurts. And then it kind of goes away. And then it comes back. So those kind of flare ups like that, that makes me think about more of a gallbladder cancer picture. I'd probably start right away, get right upper quadrant ultrasound. The problem with a right upper quadrant ultrasound is that sometimes it doesn't pick up a polypoid. Like if I saw the, if I had a gallbladder ultrasound and I see it and I say, oh, there it is. There's the mass. We're good. Sometimes it doesn't present like that. Sometimes it's a little bit more flat. Sometimes the gallbladder looks thickened. And that's, it's hard to tell. Okay, it's a thickened gallbladder. Does that just mean that they have cholecystitis? It's hard to tell. I'm not there first though, just to make sure I'm not.  mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere that point. Sometimes people unfortunately maybe have chronic cholecystitis and they don't know that they have developed porcelain gallbladder and unfortunately it's something that you can find as oh they got a porcelain gallbladder. All right. Yeah, usually at that point you should be referring them for surgery. Now if there's some contraindication something that's like blocking them or they just I don't know they fall off the map with follow up to a lot of things I think can happen but for this patient 100% you got a porcelain gallbladder you really should be suggesting hey let's get that thing out 100% especially with that high percentage I mean it's not a high percentage but it's high enough to be concerned. Yeah, like that's still very concerning. Yeah. So I just I was wondering okay. Yeah, like if someone said hey Zach there's a 40% chance they're gonna become a millionaire and we're like yeah good enough for me. Yeah, I thought I don't mind there's hope. All right, so we're starting with the right upper quadrant ultrasound. Yeah. All right. So we have a calcified gallbladder wall containing a 2.2 centimeter polypoid mass. The liver's normal. Right. What is that telling you? I think I definitely I'm concerned for cancer. I mean it could be a polyp I don't know but it's unlikely I think this is definitely a cancer. So I I think the best thing to do is to get a better look I'd probably get some very thin sectioned looks I probably get like a CT scan. Okay. Get a better look see if I can have a better look at the mass and also it'll give me better tissue picture to see hey, it says that the liver is normal. Has it extended into the liver a little bit has it involved in the nearby vessels. So I just want to make sure that there's no like vascular invasion, liver invasion whatsoever. Just get a better look because now this patient has to get surgery and so it helped me with the surgical planning. Right. We get a contrast CT of the abdomen. It shows a focal mass confined to the gallbladder mucosa. It has not invaded the liver. All right. The best thing to do is just get a colisosctomy. Cut that son of a gun out. That's really the best way to go. If you if you if they had liver invasion, I would extend it into the liver. So in other words, I do a colisosctomy and pry do a little bit of like liver resection but in this case, I think it's we're probably good to just cut that puppy out. You can always consider chemotherapy afterwards like a little bit of adjuvant chemotherapy just to remove any kind of like micro metastatic like or micro residual disease. But yeah, cutting that puppy out would probably be the best way to go. I do a colisosctomy. That's all I had for our cases cases one through four. Very awesome. How about now what like we've been doing just a rapid review of what we've talked about. I'd say the biggest thing is thinking about clinical presentations, right? So when you think about a patient with pancreatic cancer, oftentimes the buzz term or the classic clinical finding is painless obstructive jaundice. So in other words, if you press on that gallbladder, the area they got the divorce here sign, they got they look yellow. That's definitely concerning, especially for pancreatic I've no carcinoma. But you definitely can't rule out other causes of obstructive coli stasis. So get your right upper quadrant ultrasound, take a good look. Do you see any kind of ductile dilation? Do you see a pancreatic mass? If you do, go down that that rabbit hole saying, Okay, let's get a CT scan to get a better look. Okay, we've done that. We definitely have a pancreatic mask. Let's get an endoscopic ultrasound, maybe do an FNA to see if we got a tissue diagnosis. And then from there, you can make your assumption, get a baseline CA 19 nine just to help you after you do your therapeutics. If I have a patient who has cirrhosis, hepatitis B, if they have those two things, you definitely always want to be concerned about them developing a pathocytol carcinoma. The ways that we try to make sure that we're kind of screening for those is getting ultrasounds and AFP levels, considering those you can always may or may not do them. I think it's always good to do both every six months. If it comes back where the lesion is new, or it's large, especially pretty decent size, or the AFP shoots up, I'm concerned, a pathocytol carcinoma, get a triphasic CT, go down that rabbit hole. Do I have the hyper enhancement on the arterial phase, and then portal venous washout? It's pretty concerning. I think we may have this problem of a hepatitis other carcinoma, we don't biopsy those you're seeding risk bleeding, you risk a lot of problems. So we don't biopsy those. And by the patient who has primary sclerosis and colon gytus are also they don't even have to mention that let's say that they just have ulcerative colitis. Yeah, and you don't even know that they have primary sclerosis and colon gytus because they're associated. And then all of a sudden they come in with presentations of piritis. Maybe they have some jaundice like appearance. Be concerned could be clangio carcinoma. Oftentimes get the right upper quadrilateral ultrasound, it may show some ductal dilation, no pancreatic head involvement, but the better test is going to be the MRCP. That's going to show you the strictures, that's going to show you the ductal dilation, that's going to show you the absence of the pancreatic mass. If you see that pop up ERCP, brush it, get some cells and look to see if you got a clangio carcinoma. Last one, if you have a patient with chronic colitis, are you here the term porcelain gallbladder? You should have a very high concern for gallbladder cancer. The risk is super high. Cut that puppy out. Usually right upper quadrilateral sounds would give you a good look, little little sprinkle of interest into what's going on. CT scan will give you a really good look, especially for surgical planning, if you just are going to be removing more than the gallbladder. Oftentimes porcelain gallbladder removing it reduces that risk. Unfortunately, if you diagnose a gallbladder cancer, you still got to remove it, but sometimes you may have to extend outwards and deliver and you have to follow up with some chemotherapy. So that's what I would say for these. I hope that helps them a lot. Yeah, I mean, that made a lot of sense. I think it's really cool to have that single best test. Like, hey, I have a lot going on with this patient. Where do I start? Yeah. And I think that's really helpful. Yeah, I got you. Cool. Well, hey, I really hope that you guys liked talking about pancreatic and apatobiliary cancer today. I hope that you're having a good day. I hope that you whenever you get your exam, whenever you get tested on this, whether it be in the wards or on the boards, you're able to crush it. I hope you feel confident. I hope you feel like an engineer done got you the way you need to be to be able to do well. But man, I love you guys. I thank you guys so much for just being so awesome. Have a great day. And as always, till next time.

=== FILE: Pancreatic and Hepatobiliary Cancers ｜ Clinical Medicine [WN7zSTkOWfg].txt ===

 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам What's up, Ningenerds? In this video today, we're going to be talking about pancreatic and apatobiliary cancers. There's a bunch of different ones that we'll talk about. We'll put a lot of emphasis primarily on two of them because you're going to see those most likely in your exams. It's going to be the pancreatic carcinoma and we'll also talk about the patocelular carcinoma. Again, this is a part of our clinical medicine series and if you guys really are enjoying it, you're learning a lot, you're able to kind of go into your exams and feel confident, please support us. A couple of different ways that you can do that is just hitting the like button, commenting down in the comment section, subscribe. It goes a long way, but for those of you who want to take it to the next level, you want to go beyond. I really urge you guys to go down in the description box below. There's going to be a link. It goes to our website. On our website, we have a lot of other things that we offer, things like notes, illustrations, Q-Banks, a lot of things that I think will really take you to that next level. So go check that out. Without further ado, let's dig into the pathophys. All right, so we're going to dig into pancreatic cancer first. When we talk about this, it's one of those cancers that are very unfortunate. I think Alex Trebek from Jeopardy was unfortunately diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and passed away because of it. Rest in peace, my friend. But Steve Jobs is another one. So those are something that they consider that these are cancers that can really plague patients. And unfortunately, one of the problems with these is that they can be kind of clinically asymptomatic for a period of time until they get advanced. And then usually at that point, that's when we kind of unfortunately see the really scary stuff that we'll talk about. So with pancreatic cancer, I think the first thing to remember is where can it occur in the pancreas? And you may think that's kind of irrelevant, but not. It really is important because the reason why is when we think about pancreatic cancer, it most often occurs in the pancreatic head. So here we'll have the head, we have the body and the tail. It's pretty simple anatomy, right, thankfully. But usually that tumor is going to be most common in the head. And we'll kind of represent that here with this blackish tumor here. This is going to be the most common location. So the pancreatic head is going to be a really important one. And I think when we talk about percentage-wise of how much that makes up of the locations, you could probably say somewhere around like 60 to 70%. So approximately somewhere around 60 to 70% of pancreatic cancers will occur in that location right there alone. And this is unfortunate because this is what usually caused a lot of the really nasty symptoms which we'll talk about. Because if you know your basic anatomy and physiology, you know that the pancreatic head right here is where there's a couple of different little spouts moving through. You have the common bile duct. You compress that. You can get jaundice. You also can compress on the main pancreatic duct. And unfortunately that can potentially prevent pancreatic enzymes from getting into this area and bile. So we can get a lot of complications that we'll talk about with that. Now the other location is the pancreatic tail. And this is going to be a very small percentage, but this is where the remainder of them usually occur. And when we talk about this, it maybe accounts for like, I'd say 20 to 30%. So somewhere within that residual amount. They're probably like, okay, there's still some left over. Where would that be? That's usually in the body. But most often these are going to be the two most common locations. Now the reason why I mention this one is because the pancreatic tail is near, guess what organ? The spleen. And so oftentimes when we have to do surgeries, which we'll talk about them in the treatment section, whenever you have to remove a pancreatic tumor, sometimes you have to remove a lot of other associated tissue, such as the duodenum. And unfortunately, whenever you remove the pancreatic tail tumor, sometimes you may even have to consider removing the spleen as well. So we'll talk about this is called a Whipple here. And this is just going to be a distal tail resection. But you may have to include the spleen in that. So it's really important to think about these things. Now, the next step I want to say is, okay, this is the location wise of where they'll occur. But if you actually kind of zoom in and kind of take it at the microscopic level, you're like, bro, Zach, we're going a little deep here, aren't we? No, I think it's important because I think it kind of gives us a little bit of understanding of the classic findings, the complications, things like that. So when we take and kind of zoom in just in this area, you'll see this kind of structure here. So this is going to be your pancreatic ductile system, right? So all of these, I'll kind of, I'll write those out, but we're going to call these just your pancreatic ducts. And then here are going to be your senile. And then right here, we're going to call these the islets of Langerhann. I bet you remember those, right? So islets of Langerhann are important because they are different as compared to these other two structures up here. So pancreatic ducts, we've got a couple of these. We'll kind of bring these two together, right? And then here's the senile, and then here's your islets of Langerhann. And it consists of some different cells in there. You have the pancreatic alpha cells, the pancreatic beta cells. You get the PP cells. You got the delta cells. There's all these different types of cells. But the important thing to remember is the pancreatic ducts in the senile make up the excreent portion of the pancreas. That controls the digestive juices, the enzymes. Whereas the islets of Langerhann make up the endocrine portion of the pancreas. That's why when we consider it having two different glandular tissues, it's a heterocrine gland. But when we talk about pancreatic cancer, what does it most often arise from? So when you get a tumor that's that big, it has to start at the cellular level. And even deeper than that, it has to start at the actual microscopic DNA, genetic level. And so oftentimes it's the pancreatic ducts that are going to be the first one to get hit. So when we talk about location, it's usually going to be this. The epithelium that lines, the pancreatic ducts are the ones that get unfortunately plagued. And so this is where the cancer often arises. And so if you could imagine, imagine this is the diseased portion. This is where we'll start seeing the tumor starting here and the epithelium. I can obstruct the ducts. And then guess what? When I bust through the basement membrane, that's when we start having invasive pancreatic cancer. So this is usually where we start to have it is the ductal epithelium. So if I were to say, I get pancreatic cancer involving the pancreatic ductal epithelium, and it most commonly occurs in the head, maybe in the tail, what happens to these cells that makes them turn malignant? What is that trigger? So here we'll say we have a normal cell. Here's our normal pancreatic cell. So we'll say normal ductal. Let's go a little beyond. Epithelium, because this is truly where it all starts. And then here we're going to have a cancerous ductal epithelium. So here we went from this cell, which is going to be happy. Here, we'll do this. We'll give it a little happy face. And to this one, which is going to be a cancerous cell, this is going to be an unfortunate one. Look, it's crying. And so this unfortunately is going to be the mutated one. You have to ask yourself the question, what happened in this process? And usually there's something going on with the DNA. There's mutations. So the mutations that usually arise from it, I don't want to go too far because we're talking about more of your USMLE step two stuff, your PANS exams. This is going to be particularly referring to just a generalized concept. So let's say here we have blue. Let's just represent blue as kind of like the gas. It's trying to trigger the cell cycle to go through its process to replicate. So we'll call this one, we'll call these your proto-oncogenes. And then the red, let's use that as the stop sign. It's the brakes. It wants to stop the cell from undergoing a lot of cell division. And that's going to be your tumor suppressor genes. So here we have proto-oncogenes. And you're going to hear this a lot throughout the oncology sections, right? And here you're going to have your tumor suppressor genes. Now sometimes I will mention some of these genes because you may get tested on them. We may have drugs that target them. We may have ways that we try to go about affecting those genes or their downstream proteins. But oftentimes with these, what happens is these get upregulated and these get downregulated in some way, shape, or form. And usually there's a bunch of them. I think if you really wanted to take it the extra step, you could remember two. This one is usually called the K-RAS gene. And this is going to really kind of trigger the cell cycle to undergo a lot of proliferation. And this one is usually your common one that we know, the P53 gene. If this gets turned on, cell replicates. As cells replicate, guess what happens? You bring about DNA replication errors. You bring about opportunities for mutations to rise. When mutations arise, dysplasia can occur. When dysplasia occurs consistently, carcinomas form. Same thing. Pumor suppressor gene is trying to stop the cell from dividing, but it continues to divide. You bring about replication errors. You bring about certain things that can occur where mutations can arise, dysplasia can occur, and carcinomas can form. We've talked about this a million times, right? So that's usually the key. The question is, is what's causing this process? What's the trigger? There's a lot of things that can trigger this process. And that's what you really want to know. So usually, to give you a couple triggers, let's say we write down a couple triggers. So we really want to know what are these triggers, or we can actually call them risk factors. Because right now, we're kind of going through the process of how the cancer actually arises. But we want to talk about what triggers these actual cancers to arise. And usually, the most common ones that I really want you guys to remember is going to be chronic pancreatitis. Whenever patients have just repeated inflammation of their pancreatic ductile system, that's going to lead to opportunities for mutations to arise. Now this chronic pancreatitis, ooh, we just squeezed it in there barely, but this is alcohol related, alright? That's usually alcohol related. Another one, really important, I really want you guys to remember this, and one other kind of factoid about it, is smoking. And the reason why smoking is super important is one of the only, out of most of these, the most important modifiable risk factor. If you can reduce smoking, you reduce the risk of pancreatic cancer and potentially progression. Another one is diabetes. So usually, diabetes can definitely do this. And the last one I will also talk about is certain types of hereditary cancer syndromes. So genetics, unfortunately, nothing that causes inflammation over time. Because this is usually inflammation, inflammation, inflammation. And that's going to cause these opportunities for mutations to arise in these genes. The last one is unfortunately, you're plagued with the poor genetics. Where unfortunately, you're at risk of having mutations in these genes right at the point of birth or shortly after. And that's going to be usually your BRCA mutations. And there's another one called POOTS-Yagers. This one can unfortunately plague not only the pancreas, but parts of your GIT. You guys remember POOTS-Yagers syndrome? We talked about this in the colorectal cancer lecture, where patients can have the hyperpigmented, like lips and tongue and mucous membrane, sometimes the hands and soles of their feet. But on top of that, they're at high risk of pancreatic cancer. And cancer somewhere around the GIT. It's more small bowel. It's more stomach, but it can involve the colon. And they usually get those hammer-tomatous polyps. That's the key term to think about. All right. So I hit you with these things for the pancreatic cancer. So what I want you to remember is usually it's in the head. When we think about that, if we get down to the microscopic level, it's usually the ductal epithelium. It comes to the ductal epithelium that makes it sad. Mutations. What triggers these mutations to occur? It's usually chronic inflammation in this form, this form, and this form. Or you're plagued with poor genetics. The question that comes in, okay, a patient has these risk factors. Usually they'll present like a vignette where you have a 58-year-old male presenting with a history of chronic smoking. Maybe they have diabetes. Maybe they are chronic pancreatitis due to consistent alcohol use. I really want you to remember that. Please don't forget that alcohol use is the strong, strong trigger there. When they come to the hospital or they present to the primary clinic, what will they present like? Oftentimes, you don't see anything. You may get a little bit of epigastric pain, but when we think about this, this is what you really want to be looking at for your vignettes, because that's how they're going to try to present it a little bit more obvious, because we want obvious cases to think about this. If it's a little bit more subtle, it's harder to pick up on, especially for your exams. Let's say that we have a tumor here in the pancreatic head, which is the most common location. If this thing gets big enough, what is it starting to push on? What is this? Your bile duct. Now, the bile duct is supposed to carry bile down and then combine with the main pancreatic duct of the ampula and then dump in bile, in the form of bile acids, bile salts, bilirubin, all that good stuff. But if there is an obstruction here, what's going to happen? Well, son of a gun, that bile is going to back up. As it starts to back up, first off, these ducts maybe get a little bit more dilated. Let's actually grab our green marker here. This is going to be a little bit more dilated now. Let's make these a little bit more plumpy, just to simulate what would happen. Now these things are a little bit more plumpy, a little bit more juicy. Now you're going to have all this bile that's back flowing. I want it back flows. It can back flow into two locations. Funny enough, it can back flow here into the gallbladder. So it can back flow into the gallbladder and then it happens to the gallbladder. It gets really enlarged. It gets distended. So now I have a gallbladder that went from this size to this size. So here it kind of back flowed. We'll kind of represent it like this. Let's say here it back flowed from the bile ducts. But it also back flows into the gallbladder. The gallbladder starts to distend. It starts to get a little enlarged. Now you would think that this would cause a pain, but it doesn't. It's a painless enlarged gallbladder. And there's a particular sign that we'll talk about in just a second. And it's really important to think about here. But let's kind of come back here. Now if the bile starts to spill out, so now it kind of works its way backwards here. Let's actually do it like this since we already have it in the lumen here. If it starts to spill outwards, it kind of runs back to the biliary duct system, goes inside, and then all of a sudden it gets into your circulation. Well now I have a buildup of bile. And this is usually kind of things like bilirubin. That's one really important one that I want you guys to think about here. Now what does bilirubin do? Because if bilirubin is important, it definitely gives you pigmentation to your poos. You don't want your poos to be like creamy and white colored. We're not birds. So because of that, bilirubin is going to give some pigmentation. Unfortunately when it gets into the bloodstream, what it likes to do is it likes to go to the eyes, and it likes to go to the skin. And unfortunately when it deposits into these areas, it causes some changes. Well the one thing it's going to do is it's going to cause the eyes to become a little bit more yellow appearing. And we call that ichterous. So we call that ichterous. But it's going to go to the skin and just cause an overall yellowish discoloration of the skin, which is generally called jaundice. But the actual yellowish discoloration of the eyes, we prefer to call that ichterous. So this is something that you're going to see as a result of the bilirubin backing up and depositing into those tissues. Now there also is bile salts. If you really want to take it that far, bile salts actually can get into the bloodstream. And if we did actually say that you got a little bit of the colic acid and the deoxy colic acid, and some of these puppies got into the bloodstream, these like to go and trigger like maybe like a histamine response into the skin. And so what they can do is, is they can trigger something called puritis, which is kind of that itchiness of the skin. We see this a lot funny enough in any kind of like biliary duct obstruction, especially if it's more chronic like chalangeocarcinomas, which we're going to talk about, primary sclerosin colonitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, pretty common. But these are the big things to think about here. So whenever we get this, this is their jaundice. So that's why whenever we talk about these patients, remember I told you they have an enlargement of their gallbladder and you can palpate it. And then they have yellowish discoloration. This is the characteristic findings of what we would say is painless jaundice. So painless jaundice is relatively important to remember because if a patient presents with jaundice and they have pain in the right upper quadrant or pain in that vicinity, then we start thinking about something going on with the common bile doctor, maybe potentially going on with the liver. All right, that's really, really important. But one of the big things is when we talk about this painless jaundice, it's usually also associated with this very, very, very specific sign here. All right. And what is that sign called? Let's actually kind of put this here so we don't write the same word twice. This is, we're going to say jaundice here. Let's actually put this here, maybe parentheses. This is painless. We'll just add this there because I want to talk about this next one. This sign here, whenever you have an enlarged and distended gallbladder, this here, let's see if I can get this one down, guys. This is called corvoiseurs. There is definitely two eyes in this poppy here. Sign. Corvoiseurs sign is basically kind of an enlargement of the gallbladder where you can go and you can palpate and feel a gallbladder, but it's not tender. So it helps you to think it's less likely to be something like cholecystitis. All right. So we have corvoiseurs sign and painless jaundice as a very common clinical presentation. What else? I want you to think about this. This is blocking the pancreatic duct and it's blocking bile. So now you're supposed to be squirting right there some bile and some pancreatic enzymes. Now you're going to have a decrease in these two things. So it's going to be a decrease in bile and it's going to be a decrease in like your pancreatic enzymes. And I think the really important one here is going to be your pancreatic lipases because these two work in tandem. Bile helps to take big fat globules and emulsify into small fatty droplets and then pancreatic lipases break those fats that triglycerides into fatty acids into glycerol. But if you don't have these, guess what? You're not going to be able to break down the fat. And so that's what I want you to remember is there will be a decrease in fat metabolism. Well, let's actually call it digestion. We should more particularly call it digestion and emulsification. And as a result, if you can't break down the fat and emulsify it, you can't absorb it. And if you can't absorb it, guess what this does? This leads to fat malabsorption. And this is where I'm not even kidding. These patients will come and they will complain, hey doc, my poop smells rancid. I'm not kidding. And they will say it looks like I'm pooping like greasy white turds. And that is referred to as something called steateria. All right, so they can have something called steato ria, which is a greasy pale foul smelling stools. And usually this is associated with fat malabsorption. So they can actually lose some weight too. So if you see a patient coming in who has pancreatic cancer and they come in particularly with jaundice, maybe even as an ichterous of the eyes, they complain of having, or you find cavorciary sign on your exam because they won't complain of right upper quadrupole pain. And then you find that they're complaining of the steateria and maybe some associated weight loss. These are very, very common clinical signs of a pancreatic head tumor that is compressing in this area and obstructing biliary and pancreatic juice flow. Sometimes if it's big enough, it can even smash on the duodenum and you can get some bowel obstructive symptoms too. But we're going to go past that. All right, so this is something I want you to think about here. Now, another thing is that this tumor, it's near nerves, man. There's a lot of nerves nearby. So you can get some epigastric pain because there's, I think it's the splenic nerve and the ciliac, the plexus that's all in this vicinity. So epigastric pain is another pretty common. It's usually more dull. It's not like your classic, it's not your classic acute pancreatitis pain. It's more of a chronic one. It can radiate into the back a little bit, but this is definitely something that you can see some mild, dull epigastric pain. As it gets pretty invasive and the tumor does start to really involve more of those nerves, the pain can be actually unsurmountable. It can be insane. So that's one really, really important thing to remember is if it does start really invading into the nerve plexi, like the ciliac plexus and the splenic plexus, they can get a pretty great deal of pain. All right, the next thing here. With pancreatic cancer, it's interesting because not only does it cause like its local effects of just mass effect, but it can also do some nasty things. It can secrete some chemicals that can wreak some havoc here. So again, what do we tell you? It's a tumor that's more likely to involve the pancreatic head than the tail. Now, one thing that it can do is it can release cytokines. Interleukin-1 is a big one. Interleukin-6 is a big one. TNF-alpha is a big one. We know that cancers in general gain that capacity, unfortunately, to produce just a little bit more of these cytokines. And what happens is these, normally, what they do is they go to the hypothalamus, especially during like, you forget like I use smack your skin. If I were to smack the crap out of my arm, I would trigger an inflammatory response and my cells in the area would start secreting these. This tumor just does it on its own. When it does that, it activates the hypothalamus. And so whenever you activate the hypothalamus, there's a lot of things that are controlled by this bad dude. This is a bad dude, man. And so because of that, it can cause things like change in your appetite. It can cause change in your desire to eat. It can literally lead to changes in your body temperature. But the biggest thing here is it's really going to kind of decrease your hunger. And so what's going to happen is these patients are going to experience satiety. And then as a result, that can lead to anorexia, where they just don't want to eat, and that can lead to some significant weight loss. So not only can they have weight loss just as a result of fat malabsorption, but if you're really activating this hypothalamus from these cytokines, that unfortunately is going to lead to these secretory chemicals that are going to suppress hunger. It's going to make you not really hungry. You're not going to want to eat. As a result, you'll start to lose weight. And that's usually what we see in these patients. Another kind of interesting thing, and this one's always presented in some way, shape, or form in the exam. If it's not in this one, it's more in the hematology section. But we actually did talk about this. We talked about DVTs and PEs. But here, this tumor here, whenever it has the capacity, it can secrete some different types of chemicals. One, it can secrete something called musin. And unfortunately, that's the real nasty one. But it can also secrete something called tissue factor. So we're going to say musin is this one right here. And then this one is going to be called tissue factor. Do you guys know what the other number is for tissue factor? So in other words, we have factors, you know, three. So this is going to be factor three. So factor three is one that this pancreatic cancer can actually secrete. And so what happens is they secrete a little bit more than normal. Now musin is interesting because it has the capability to actually go and activate platelets. So we can have either too much tissue factor or we can have musin that basically there's like little receptors on platelets. And it can bind on to them and activate these platelets. So now we have factor three, which is a pro-coagulant. Loves the bio factor seven. That leads to the common pathway. And then we have platelets that are going to want to trigger a platelet plug. As a result, guess what's going to happen? If you have increased tissue factor and increased activated platelets, you're going to form a thrombus. And now we're going to have a thrombus formation. And then these thrombi can potentially break off. And if they break off, what happens? Then you get emboli. And this is where you get things like PEs, right? So we can end up with thrombus formation and we can end up with emboli that can lead to things like PEs. But the other thing that's really, really important here is when we think about these guys, right? So we think about tissue factor, it's going to combine with what factor? It's going to combine with factor seven and then platelets are just going to become activated. And they're going to trigger this thrombus formation. Well, this thrombus formation can occur in two different ways. One is it can occur, and this is the classic one. It can cause something called superficial, superficial, venous, thromboflabitis, which is the superficial veins of the arms and the legs can get a clot and they can become inflamed. And so what that does is, and I'll show you guys a quick pic of that, is it can cause very red and tender and angry palpable cords in their arms and in their legs that are clots in the superficial veins. And it actually looks a little bit like this. So now if you have those, that's the classic clinical presentation. And so that's what I want you guys to remember is when these get these like superficial venous thromboflabitis, that's almost pathodemonic for your exams for pancreatic cancer. Another thing is it can obviously cause things like DVTs and then DVTs can break off and trigger things like pulmonary emboli, right? So that's what we get worried about is DVTs and PEs. We call these in general venous thromboembolism. So this whole thing collectively of where you're high risk of forming clots, you know what they call this? Actually they call this whole thing here where you're just at super high risk. So we'll bring here, we'll bring the DVT, we'll bring the PE. They call this trisose syndrome. Now this is not the trisose sign that we talk about in your hypochalcemia. This is different. This is a patient who has hypercoagulable states due to a pancreatic carcinoma. They can present with DVT, PE, but the big one is the superficial venous thromboflabitis. The way they may see this in the exam is a patient coming in with a smoking history, an alcohol history, a chronic pancreatitis history, whatever it may be, they come in, maybe they have some vague abdominal pain, maybe they have some jaundice, maybe, maybe they complain of steatoria and some weight loss, but on top of that they may have some associated veno-thromboembolism. The last thing, and I don't want to go too crazy because I wouldn't say it's very, very common, but they may present it, is that this can secrete two other chemicals and this is called interleukin-6 and another one is called adrenomegulin. Don't go too crazy. I'm not asking you to memorize these like out of the, you know, all the things that we're going to talk about today, but this is something to think about in general. These are, they're tumors. Tumors can have perineoplastic qualities. One of the big things to remember is, these can do two things. They have a two-fold function. One is that these two chemicals can act on your pancreatic beta cells and what they can do is they can cause destruction of the pancreatic beta cells. Because now these pancreatic beta cells are lost, what can you not secrete? Uh-oh, insulin. All right, that's one problem, so I got to decrease an insulin, so that puts me at risk of diabetes. Another unfortunate problem of these is that they also act on your tissue cells that express insulin receptors and they basically make these insulin receptors resistant. So they increase insulin resistance. So now you have a two-fold effect here is you increase insulin resistance at the receptor and then you decrease insulin production by the beta cells. What's this going to lead to? Is insulin be produced as much and can it even work on the cells? No. Can you shuttle glucose into the cells? No. If I can't shuttle glucose into the cells, my friend, what is going to happen to the patient's glucose? It's going to go up and they're going to end up with hyperglycemia. And hyperglycemia chronically, chronic hyperglycemia is going to lead to what kind of condition? Diabetes mellitus. The way I want you to think about this is that a patient who has diabetes mellitus, you're not going to go thinking that they have a pancreatic cancer, right? No. The way that this could theoretically be presented in the exam is a patient who developed new onset diabetes in their 50s. They're a smoker. They have associated weight loss. I think it's reasonable to consider something like pancreatic cancer. But oftentimes before we move into a pathocytocarsinoma, you'll have a patient who's a drinker, a smoker, a history of repeated bouts of pancreatitis, who will come in with some type of painless jaundice and corvorecure sign, maybe some dull epigastric pain, maybe some steatorea, but more likely some weight loss due to these two mechanisms here.  and you're probably gonna see some type of superficial venous thromboflbitis. In the rare scenarios, you may see something like diabetes. That's what I want you to start thinking about. So when you have some of these big, big things that kind of like pop up at you, that's when you start saying, could this be pancreatic cancer? One other thing I want you to tell you is, pancreatic cancer is interesting. It's not a diagnostic marker, but tumors, not only can they secrete these cytokines, sometimes, man, I got butterfingers today. This is going to secrete a chemical that we do not, I'm gonna repeat it again, we do not use as a diagnostic tool, it's more of a prognostic tool, but it may be presented in your exam and I want you to think about it and associate with it. It can secrete something called CA-19-9. And whenever this is released in higher amounts, it brings about the possible suspicion, could there be pancreatic cancer? But we do not use it for that function. We use it more as saying, hey, we're gonna do a Whipple procedure and remove the tumor. What was their CA-19-9 before? Oh, wow, it was 1,000, okay. What's it after the procedure? Oh, it's five, all right, great. We had success with the procedure. So that's something to think about, is it's more of a prognostic tool rather than a diagnostic tool, all right? So a prognostic tool, or lab, then we would say a diagnostic lab. All right, we've covered pancreatic cancer to death. Now let's go over and talk about a padocercal carcinoma. All right, so we move on from the pancreas and we go to the liver. So with a padocercal carcinoma, it is something that, funny enough, it's not funny, but when you talk about patients who have cancer that is in the liver, it's very, very unlikely. I'd say you have a better chance, probably, I don't know, maybe 70% of hepatic cancers are likely metastatic. So if you find a cancer that's present in the liver, it is strongly more likely to be metastatic than it is to be primary. And so when we talk about this, it's really, really critical to know what are those risk factors that make it a little bit more of a stronger suspicion that it could be a primary padocercal carcinoma as compared to a met that came from the lung, that came from the breast, that came from the colon, that came from somewhere else. It is really important because tumors love to spread and the area that they love to spread to is the liver. So again, more often, probably 70% of the time, hepatic tumors are usually metastatic. It's not always that common that it's a padocercal carcinoma. So when we talk about this, let's say here we have a hepatic tumor. It can occur anywhere. There is no specific location. There's nothing really pertinent to talk about when it comes to that. What I do want you to know is that these are very vascular tumors. So they can have inputs from multiple different areas. So these tumors, obviously, when you talk about blood flow to the liver, you have the hepatic artery proper that comes from the aorta. You have the hepatic veins that drain it into the inferior vena cava. You got the portal veins that supply blood into it. So there is lots of blood flow. So these can be pretty vascular tumors. And that's really, really important. So that's one of the things I would say about these tumors is that they are pretty dang vascular. And that makes them pretty nasty in the sense that they can kind of bleed and they can spread pretty quickly into these vascular systems. But when I talk about a padocercal carcinoma, it's really kind of important to remember that when we talk about these hepatocytes, again, we'll kind of use the picture we have here where you have a normal hepatocyte, right? And all of a sudden, this hepatocyte becomes cancerous. So the differences between this is this is a normal hepatocyte, healthy as can possibly be. And then all of a sudden, you develop a cancerous hepatocyte. What changed? Yes, there is genes that probably got mutated, right? There's highly likely that there was a proto-oncogene that got turned on. And really, really, really, it's weird, keep your mind clear, not turned on. But you know what I mean, it got activated. And then you got tumor suppressor genes that got turned off, all right? Now, I'd say for the most part, it's usually the tumor suppressor gene that gets kind of shut off on this one. And that's usually gonna be the P53. There is other genes that are theoretically involved in this, especially like in what's called the Wnt pathway with the beta-catenin, but I think that's going too far down the rabbit hole. But usually what happens is you're having an increase in proto-oncose and a decrease in the tumor suppressor genes and then the cells replicate, they don't die, they become vampire cells. And that's when you can get these cancerous cells. So the question that usually arises is what led to this mutation, what caused this? And that's where this is really, really, really important. Because again, I wanna make sure that you understand this fact. When we talk about hepatic, when we talk about hepatic tumors, I'd say 30% of them are primary, 70% of them are metastatic. So oftentimes when you find a tumor in the liver, it's more likely going to be what? Metastatic. So how do I differentiate this? How do I know what triggered this hepatic site to become sad and start crying? Well, the big thing to remember is that we really wanna suspect this in patients who have cirrhosis and hepatitis B virus infection, regardless if they have cirrhosis or not. So cirrhosis is going to be the strongest risk factor. Think about this. Patient has cirrhosis, they're having constant inflammation, constant regeneration, constant fibrosis of the liver. Even if it's compensated, there is fibro nodular degeneration of the actual liver. Another one is hepatitis B virus. Because this thing infects and it's chronic, it's a chronic infection. It doesn't matter if you have cirrhosis or not, it keeps replicating and spreading to more hepatic tissue. So chronic hepatitis B and hepatitis C virus infection with or without cirrhosis does not matter. These are the things that are gonna trigger this patient to go from a normal hepatocyte to a cancerous hepatocyte. Now the question that you should be thinking about is, okay, if a patient who has hepatocyler carcinoma, what would make me think about it? Cirrhosis is the big one or hepatitis B virus. If they present in the vignette that a patient is coming to the hospital, they have a history of cirrhosis, they have a history of hepatitis B virus infection and all of a sudden they present with some things that we'll talk about, you then wanna consider, is there a possibility? Now a lot of the times, you know what we do when patients who have cirrhosis or hepatitis B will survey them. And I'll talk about why in a second because these tumors can actually secrete something. And we'll talk about what they secrete that may help you to think about starting to image them or go down that rabbit hole of something going on. But also we like to ultrasound these patients a lot. So usually when they have cirrhosis or hepatitis B, we have ways to check this out and that's what you'll get tested on in the exam, is screening for hepatocyler carcinoma. So patient comes in, the vignette will usually present with a patient who has an underlying history of cirrhosis or hepatitis B virus infection. They have compensated cirrhosis, right? They're coming to the hospital, they're coming to the clinic and you need to evaluate them and survey them potentially for hepatocyler carcinoma. Oftentimes it involves something called an alfalfitoprotein, a level that you'll get maybe every six months you can or cannot do this one. And then an ultrasound, usually a hepatic ultrasound or transabdominal ultrasound to look at the liver to see if you can find any nodules or lesions that suggest it. That's how we kind of think about that. Now one way that you could definitely unfortunately find patients who have hepatocyler carcinoma is they present clinically with some decompensation. Oftentimes it's surveying and you look for it and you find it. Rarely, but it is possible, they come in really nasty and really sick and then you find it. So usually what happens is, let's say that here I have a tumor, all right? So here's a tumor. And what happens is this tumor starts to kind of either invade or compress from the outside the hepatic veins. As it starts to compress the hepatic veins or invade the hepatic veins, you now block the outflow. So now blood is supposed to be going out this way. But is it gonna be going out that way? No. So you're decreasing, you're decreasing hepatic vein outflow. What does this lead to, my friends? This is called Bud Kiari syndrome. Now Bud Kiari syndrome is occlusion or obstruction of some way, shape, or form of the hepatic veins. And now what happens is all of this blood kind of backs up and it kind of causes the enlargement of the liver. So then the liver starts to get a little enlarged. It starts to get distended. And this is called Hepato-Megaly. So that's one potential presentation that they can have. So one thing that we can think about with Bud Kiari syndrome is that they can have Hepato-Megaly. Another thing is when you cause the liver to be filled with blood and get congested, the cells aren't happy with that because you can't get blood out. It really congest the sinusoid, it congest a lot of the vessels, and that kind of makes it where blood can't get out of the actual liver and that can cause destruction of the liver tissue. And so you may see an increase in the patient's LFTs. So Hepato-Megaly, a bump in the LFTs is a really, really important one. But another one that we get worried about is a patient who is completely compensated, serotic, or has hepatitis B virus that all of a sudden comes in with a CITES. That would also make me think about that because guess what? If this blood can't get out, it starts to back up, right? And then it starts to back flow. Unfortunately, into the portal veins. And then the portal veins start getting filled with blood. And unfortunately, this can lead to things like portal, hypertension, and portal hypertension can definitely lead to a CITES. So these are the things I want you to think about. Bud Kiari syndrome is oftentimes one of the ways that these patients will present acutely in a decompensated, serotic state. Can they get occlusion of the portal veins? 100%. This tumor could even invade into the portal veins. And so that's definitely something to consider is that it could actually lead to a back flow here. And that could lead to this increasing portal blood pressure. So an increase in the portal BP. Now that's what usually leads to this presentation of a CITES. So whenever you have this kind of problem here, this portal hypertension that we see here, this can cause the a CITES. It can cause all of this fluid to kind of start leaking out of the capillaries because of the increase in the actual hydrostatic pressure. So the hydrostatic pressure goes up and then you start having a albumin pore fluid that leaks into the peritoneal cavity. And so that's where a CITES usually starts to develop as a result of a back flow or an increase in portal blood pressure, whether that's due to an occlusion of the portal veins or due to the occlusion of the hepatic veins. The other thing is that whenever you have dysfunctional liver because it starts to get kind of swollen and gets congested, guess what starts to happen, my friends? You lose the ability to control bilirubin. And bilirubin starts busting out of these cells. And if bilirubin starts busting out of these cells, what's the unfortunate thing that can happen? This can lead to jaundice. This can lead to jaundice, my friends. So now the bilirubin goes up. And why does the bilirubin go up again? Because you're having all of this congestion or obstruction. The cells start to get destroyed because of all the pressure that's building up around them. Imagine you're sitting in a space and all of a sudden fluid starts to accumulate around you, it smashes you. That's gonna cause death of those cells. And then bilirubin's gonna start going up. And as a result, that's gonna cause that yellowish discoloration of the eyes and the skin. And that's where you're gonna start to see these patients develop things like jaundice. All right, so we got jaundice. That's a potential presentation. We got a CITES that's a potential presentation. The other thing that I want you to remember is when the portal BP goes up, right? So the portal BP goes up, yes, that causes things like portal hypertension. Portal hypertension can present with a CITES, but it can also present in another way. And so what we'll do is, well, unfortunately, we'll have to bring this one a little bit over here. Whoop, and then we'll come like this. When blood backflows from the portal veins, it also can backflow. There's like a little channel here for the esophageal veins. And so what can happen is these esophageal veins can kind of start getting engorged. And as they start getting engorged, the pressure builds up in these, and then you get something called varices. And what's the problem with varices? If the pressure builds up enough, whoop, now you have bleeding that can occur into the esophagus. So you can have esophageal varices, but the scary thing about esophageal varices is that if they do rupture, this is gonna cause some pretty nasty hematemosis and a really nasty upper GI bleed. So that's what we get kind of scared about with this kind of condition. So when a patient comes in who has, let's say, cirrhosis or hepatitis B virus infection, and they come in with maybe some features of Bud Kiari syndrome, maybe they have something that's obstructing it, and that's where you have to go and find an image and say, oh my gosh, they have a tumor that's encasing or it's actually invaded into the hepatic veins, it's invaded into the portal veins. Or they come in with full blown decompensated cirrhosis. If they come in with decompensated cirrhosis and they were completely compensated, then you gotta start going and thinking about what put them into this state, right? There's a lot of things, and a pathocytocarsanoma is just one of those thoughts. That's when you would probably go get an image and take a look. Now, the other thing about these tumors is that they are secretory. So again, here we have a tumor. Here's gonna be a pathocytocarsanoma, here's a nodular lesion. One of the things about this is it can secrete a couple of different chemicals. This is not, I don't want, I'd rather you remember this comes from renal cell carcinoma, but the textbooks do mention that it's possible that these tumors can secrete erythropoietin. They can also secrete a lot of the other cytokines that we talked about before with pancreatic cancer, interleukin one, interleukin six, two-minocrotic factor alpha. What do we know about these? And they're good friend, the hypothalamus. Loves it, loves it. It's gonna activate that hypothalamus. And what is the hypothalamus gonna do? It's gonna shut down that desire to eat. They're gonna have satiety. They're gonna feel like they don't wanna eat. They're gonna start losing weight. They're gonna have some pretty significant weight loss. And that's one way that a podicellular carcinoma can present. The other thing is that sometimes, and I don't want you to go crazy, you may just pick it up incidentally on a CBC where you see a patient has polycythemia. We talked about this in the Milo-Proliferative Neoplasia lecture that oftentimes you wanna think about something where if a patient has polycythemia, you'd like to think about things like increased EPO production from a tumor. Renal cell carcinoma is the one that I really want you to remember. But if you don't see that and they don't have any kind of COPD or underlying lung disease that's triggering an increase in EPO, you can consider a podicellular carcinoma because that will stimulate the bone marrow and the bone marrow will increase the production of red blood cells. And this may present completely asymptomatic. But the thing that we worry about is if it's high enough, number of hemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cells, thus the diagnosis of polycythemia, can it start to cause hyperviscocity syndrome? Can they get headaches? Can they get nausea? Can they get vomiting? Can they get blurred vision? Can they start to have other symptoms that we get concerned with that usually if it's a big enough viscosity that's too high, can it clue the vessels and they can lead to TIAs or strokes or things of that nature? But that's really, really, really important. The last thing, and I wanna tell you this again, it is not a diagnostic tool per se. It's a little bit helpful, I'd say, in comparison to something like CA-199, but these, a pathosalic carcinomas, especially if they are primary, they do tend to increase the production of a tumor marker. So CA-199 is not exclusive to pancreatic cancer. You can see it in other tumors. Ovarian cancer, cholangiocarcinomas, there's a lot of them, but we think about them a little bit with more likely, more likely thinking about them with pancreatic cancer. But AFP is pretty consistent to be concerned about in patients who have a pathosalic carcinoma. You could also see these in testicular tumors. You can see this in ovarian tumors who are more of the yolk sac, kind of derived tumors, right? But AFP is something that we think about because it's actually helpful. If we have a patient that we know has cirrhosis or has hepatitis B virus, and then we are surveying them with ultrasounds, and we're checking the AFP. If the AFP bumps a lot in a small period of time, and there are the six month timeframe by which we screen them, and their ultrasound doesn't show anything, we should consider should I get a better image, like a triphasic CT to see if I have a lesion, right? That is the benefit of knowing that. All right, so what I want you to take away from a pathosalic carcinoma is a patient will oftentimes present asymptomatically. We will usually screen them with AFPs. We'll usually screen them with the ultrasounds. The primary population is cirrhotics and hepatitis B virus infections. If they do present, they'll come in really, really sick. If they were compensated cirrhotic, they could present decompensated. If they do have weight loss, it could be because of those chiquectic cytokines, and they could have polycythemia. But this is gonna be the more common presentation and associated with an increase in the AFP. All right, now let's move on and talk about the last two. We're not gonna go too crazy on them. I kind of wanna go through them quickly, but at least mention them to play homage to them is we're gonna talk about cholangiocarcinoma and gallbladder cancer. All right, we're gonna talk about these last two, and I would say again, I don't want you guys to be super focused on these because they are relatively lower yield. If you're gonna get questioned on something regarding like pancreatic and apatobiliary cancers, it's more likely gonna be the first two. But the quick things that I wanna pick up with this is more, I'd say when you think about gallbladder cancer, it's not something that we often talk about. Usually when a patient has things like chronic colisocytus, are you hear the term anywhere about a porcelain gallbladder, which is basically a patient who's had chronic colisocytus and they developed very thick calcifications. So the point where this thing is like a rock solid gallbladder, those are things that put you at high risk of developing gallbladder cancer. Oftentimes it's relatively preventative and it's easily treatable by removing the gallbladder. It's just whenever it starts to kind of spread and it gets kind of deeper and invades into the liver tissue, that's when it gets a little bit more complicated. You may have to add some chemo, you may have to kind of remove some of the liver too, which you can do, but it's just ideal to prevent this in general. So when we talk about gallbladder cancer, again usually with this one, it's a tumor that develops, it can really develop anywhere, it can develop in the body, it can develop in the actual, this neck portion or the cystic duct, it can develop around the actual fundus. So whenever a patient has gallbladder cancer, it's really you're just taking a gallbladder epithelial cell. So this is a gallbladder epithelium and it's happy, it's normal, all of a sudden, what happens? You develop a cancerous. You guys are gonna hate me after repeating this stuff all the time, but I promise it'll help you to at least remember the generalized concept of how cancer genetics really kind of occurs, which is usually just these genes, right? So something happened in the enteromor, we went from this cell, which was happy as can be to this cell that is now sad, because it has cancer. What are those things? It's usually mutations and again, it's something that's usually gonna be activated and something that's gonna be turned off. So the proto-oncho are the ones that get kind of turned on and they kind of trigger lots of cell replication or you have a shutdown and there's tumor suppressor genes, all right, that P53 gene. There's not really any genes that I want you guys to remember for this one that we talk about. It's really what it comes down to is what's causing them to go from this to this. It's relatively simple. The triggers is going to be anything that causes chronic gallbladder inflammation and that's really all it comes down to. So what will happen is, is you'll probably have in some way, shape, or form the way that they would potentially kind of bring this into a question, is you may have a patient who has chronic cholecystitis. So chronic cholecystitis, which can definitely be due to gallstones, right? So you can have chronic cholecystitis just due to consistent gallstones. That's one potential reason. Another thing that I want you guys to think about is whenever that chronic cholecystitis leads to thick, thick, thick calcifications, and this is called a porcelain gallbladder. This increases your chances of developing gallbladder cancer by about 30 to 40%. So whenever a patient has a porcelain gallbladder, all I really want you to think about here is, you have two potential reasons why this can happen. One is you have a gallbladder, right? Like this, or like this. And the two potential triggers here is one of them is constantly experiencing inflammation. That inflammation is going to lead to dysplasia. That's the chronic cholecystitis. The other one is it repeated inflammation that led to calcifications. And now you have this porcelain gallbladder. That's the two things that I want you to remember. So a porcelain gallbladder, you see that, you get rid of it. Again, what's the percentage of a developing cancer? Somewhere around 30 to 40%. So just when I write this number down, you go back to it a little bit later. Remember that 30, 42% is the chances of them turning from a porcelain gallbladder, which is just kind of like calcifications of their gallbladder of converting into gallbladder cancer. That's what we want to try to prevent. So when you hear porcelain gallbladder, gallbladder cancer. Now clinically, how will they present? It's really kind of like vague. It really is vague. So usually what happens with these patients is they'll come in and you may have a tumor. You may have a tumor that it could possibly obstruct this opening. So could they get some right upper quadrant like pain? Absolutely. If you are trying to push things through and this is being hindered, 100%, the gallbladder can definitely get a little bit distended. And so 100%, you can kind of get some gallbladder distension and a little bit of thickening. That's definitely possible. But the most common presentation of what you may see is just a right upper quadrant abdominal pain. That's it. And it's kind of tough because usually this is what happens and it's usually intermittent. So it's usually that intermittent abdominal pain that can come about in these patients. So it's nothing really that's gonna be super, super obvious. Now, yes, in these tumors, what we've really come to see is that these tumors do have the ability to secrete some chemicals. Things like interleukin one, things like interleukin six, things like tumor necrotic factor alpha, 100% they can secrete these chemicals. And because of that, that loves to go after our good old friend, the hypothalamus. And if that hypothalamus gets super activated, he gets turned on, guess what he's gonna do? He's gonna lead to satiety. He's gonna shut off your hunger. He's gonna lead to that anorexia. He's gonna lead to that unintentional weight loss. And that's something that we can see is if you have a patient with an unintentional weight loss, satiety, anorexia, and they have associated kind of intermittent right upper quadrant abdominal pain with a history of chronic colisostitis or a history of porcelain gallbladder, which I'd be very, very angry at any kind of gastroenterologist or surgeon who knows that a patient has a porcelain gallbladder and doesn't get removed as long as the patient is willing. So that's the really, really important thing to remember here is cancer, gachexia, and right upper quadrant abdominal pain that's intermittent associated with an underlying history of chronic colisostitis or porcelain gallbladder portends a concern for gallbladder cancer. All right, that's really all I want you to take away from that is just remember chronic colisostitis, porcelain gallbladder, associated with gallbladder cancer, they can present with some right upper quadrant pain, maybe some weight loss, but the real way that I'm gonna determine this is I'm gonna have to get an image, maybe an ultrasound, look to see if I see anything, and then potentially I have to go to get a CT scan. All right, let's now talk about Calangia carcinoma. All right, my friends, there is hope we're almost done with the whiteboard, and then we gotta get into our diagnostics, but just stay positive, we're almost there. When we talk about these epitobiliary cancers, I think Calangia carcinoma is something to just quickly mention, and the unfortunate thing about these is that these are also kind of one of those that can cause like a painless jaundice type of presentation, and we'll talk about that, it's kind of like similar to the patient who could have, you know, pancreatic cancer. I think one of the things that's kind of important to remember about these is the specific risk batch, so you know, pancreatic cancer is usually the patient with chronic pancreatitis, alcohol related, smoking, nuance of diabetes, those hereditary cancer symptoms, whereas patients who have Calangia carcinoma, it is most often associated with primary sclerosin colonitis, all right, that's what I want you to think about. So when you think about Calangia carcinoma, think about PSC, but again, before we do that, where do we see these occurring? So this is actually something I would wanna remember as compared to gallbladder cancer and a padicella carcinoma, we talk about pancreatic cancer, it's more the ductal epithelium in the head or in the tail. Well, this one is really important because it involves the biliary epithelium, but it loves to go right here, you see this confluence here? So they got a couple names for it, I'm just gonna give it the easiest one to remember, but right here, the confluence. So where the left and the right hepatic duct come together and they make this confluence, they call this a perihylar or a clatskin tumor, if you really wanted to remember it, but this is the most common location. So it's called a perihylar tumor or sometimes we call it a clatskin's tumor. I'd say that's the most common location, this is where the Calangio carcinomas tend to really, really reside and occur. And so when you think about that, bile is being obstructed, it's supposed to come down through the right and left hepatic ducts from the intraepatic duct system and then move downwards, but it's not. And so what ends up happening is it starts to back up and that's when you can start getting bile back flow. So when we talk about these perihylar tumors, essentially we're taking a biliary epithelium. We're taking a biliary epithelium that is completely normal. I know, please don't hate me, it's the same thing, I'm repeating it, I get it, but we're gonna turn it into a cancerous, a cancerous biliary epithelium. And the whole point here is that we took this cell that looked completely normal, it was smiling, cheesing all day, and then what happened is it became a cryer, it became a cancerous cell. What happened in that timeframe of what took it from this cell to this cell? And again, it comes down to genes, some kind of genes were mutated, it's probably certain genes like proto-oncho genes that got activated, hyper-activated I would say, and tumor suppressor genes that got turned off. So it's gonna be some type of proto-oncho gene and then some type of tumor suppressor gene. Now there are so many genes that you can definitely think about, I don't think that these are relevant and something that you should waste your time on. What I do think that you need to know is what's kind of triggering this? And the most common kind of trigger is a biliary tract inflammation. And what I mean by that is it has to be usually chronic. So that's when I talked about the particular condition called PSC, primary sclerosing colongitis. This is the big, big trigger. And what we see with this one is you'd have a patient who comes in and they probably have inflammatory bowel disease of sorts, right? So this one I want you to remember is it is associated with which one of the inflammatory bowel diseases is more likely, ulcerative colitis, I know you said it, I know you did. So this one is definitely more associated with UC, ulcerative colitis. Now we can go back and we can talk about this when a patient has primary sclerosing colongitis. If you remember, we can do a quick little recap here. Here you're gonna have your gallbladder, your cystic duct, you're gonna have the hepatic ducts, common...  and on bio-dox. And what we remember, is you can even kind of take these guys in and then, you know, split these out, if you really wanted to. What's really happening is you're getting areas of lots of inflammation. So usually this affects the intrapathic dox, and it also affects the extrapathic dox. So it loves to cause inflammation of all of these apathic dox systems. And then unfortunately what happens is, is you get areas of strictures, and you get areas of inflammation and fibrosis. And that is kind of what really pushes the patient over and the development of that cancerous epithelium. So again, when we talk about cholangial carcinomas, the most common location, this is actually relevant to remember. It's a perihylar tumor. It's the confluence of the left and the right apathic duct. We also call it a clatskin tumor. What triggers them to go from a normal epithelium to a abnormal? It's primutations. What are triggering those mutations? Chronic inflammation of the biliary tract. What's that most often trigger? It's primary sclerosin colon dryness, which is a chronic inflammation associated with sclerosis and strictures of the intra and extrapathic dox. What disease is it associated with? A lot. All sorts of clats, which is a type of IBD. The thing I want you to think about and associate it with cholangial carcinoma is again, because it is obstructing a biliary tract, you're gonna get backflow. You're gonna get backflow, dude. I mean, it's just gonna happen, right? You're gonna get some kind of obstruction here. Bile is supposed to be coming down, but it's gonna be obstructed. And so what's gonna happen is this bile is gonna backflow, this is gonna backflow, and then it's gonna get into your circulatory system. And so what you're gonna end up having is you're gonna have a buildup in two things. A buildup of bilirubin and a buildup of bile salts. And this should sound relatively familiar. I know it does. So if you have lots of bile salts, they may in some way, shape, or form work against the histamine production by your mast cells. And then you also are gonna have bilirubin. And bilirubin is going to be a little son of a gun that it will go and deposit into a lot of different tissues. And so what happens is these collectively may cause some problems. Well, bilirubin loves to go to the eyes, it loves to go to the skin, but bile salts has an affinity to maybe have some kind of reaction with basophils or mast cells, where there's some type of histamine response. And so what you end up getting out of this is you end up with jaundice. So we can end up with jaundice, which is we're gonna kind of combine these two, which is that yellowish discoloration. Usually if it's of the eyes, it's ichterous. But we're just gonna combine this for now. We're gonna say they could have jaundice. And that could be the yellowish discoloration of the eyes and the skin, usually the palms and the hands, soles of the feet, right? The other thing, as the bile salts, are gonna love to trigger itching. They're gonna trigger like a histamine response of some sort, and that is gonna cause pyridis. Now, theoretically, theoretically, yes, if I were to say, can't this have this tumor obstruct going down the biliary tree and getting into the intestine, 100%. It's just less likely. It's less likely for these to cause complete total obstruction, where you're not gonna get bile acids and bilirubin into the actual duodenum. So they still don't oftentimes have intense deficiencies. Usually vitamin A, D, E, K deficiencies, that's associated with a fat malabsorption. So they can get a lot of things. That's what we talked about a little bit over with pancreatic adenocarcinoma, is they can definitely get fat malabsorption. That's associated with vitamin A deficiencies, D, E, K. Lots of problems with that weight loss in steatoria. You don't oftentimes get that as much with this one. But what we will potentially see is that if you have a tumor here and you're gonna be like, oh my gosh, I get it, weight loss, I get it, you can get cancer catechia. These can secrete things like interleukin one, interleukin six, tumor necrotic factor alpha. When that happens, they hit the good old hypothalamus. Hypothalamus is a beast, man. It's a master of especially a lot of our primitive and just overall functions. Whenever the hypothalamus is hit with these cytokines, it obviously can change our body temperature. It can change the way that we eat. And unfortunately, what that may look like is satiety. So you don't really have that desire to eat. And if you don't have that desire to eat, you may start to experience some anorexia. And so we can see things like satiety, really kind of becoming problematic. We can see things like anorexia. We can see other kinds of features like weight loss. So there's a lot of things I think that come into play associated with cancer catechia. So whenever I have a patient who comes in, let's say that they present a vignette, patient has an underlying history of ulcerative colitis. They now present with features of piritis. They also present with jaundice. And they also present with weight loss. What should you start thinking? They may have primary sclerosis and colonitis that has been going on for a long time now. And now it's potentially progressed to them developing a clangio carcinoma. What do we gotta do? Well, first thing is if they have jaundice, I should check the LFTs, make sure that those aren't elevated. Because here's the thing, whenever patients have increased bilirubin, the other one that's oftentimes associated with this, and we'll talk about this in the, we talk about a lot in our LFTs lecture, but we're gonna talk about it in the diagnostic workup. Whenever a patient has jaundice, you definitely wanna check the bili, but the other one that we like to check, the other LFT is alkaline phosphatase. That's probably gonna be elevated too. So an increase in alkylphosphate, an increase in bili, and not a profound increase in your AST and your ALT, scream more of a colistasis. And that's what you see with this, and with the pancreatic carcinoma. That's when we go to consider doing a write-up or quadrenultra sound. And if I looked at this, I would probably see some ductile dilation. But would I see a pancreatic mass? No. So that's when you have to do further testing. So usually we do something called an MRCP, but we'll get into that, which really visualizes the biliary treat and helps us to find that mass. So this is what I want you to think about. PSC, a tumor here at the confluence, they can get some colistasis due to this obstruction and some cancer catechia. Now that we've put all of this together, we've talked about these cancers heavily. Let's now get into really systematically approaching them one by one. The first thing is I want to kind of combine pancreatic and clangiocarcinomas, because oftentimes they present with a similar kind of classic finding, and that is obstructive jaundice, right? So when you think about this, when a patient is obstructive jaundice, usually one of the ways that they'll present is with that yellowish discoloration of the eyes. It may also be kind of like a yellowish-brownish discoloration of the hands and the feet, usually palms and soles areas. But this is one thing to think about. When I have something like that, the question that you often have to ask is, what is that coming from? Is it coming because of the hepatocellular injury? The cells are dying, they're spilling out AST, ALT, alkyphos, bilirubin. Is it because of a mixed injury where there's kind of a hepatocellular injury and then some type of biliary disease? For specifically, more specifically, colistasis, something that's kind of decreasing the flow of bile through the biliary tree, like a stone or a cancer. Or is it usually a primary colistatic pattern, something that's only causing an increase in the alkyphos, the bilirubin, the GGT? They don't have this significant increase in the AST and ALT. So that's what I wanna know. And I think the best way to determine that is to get some LFTs. If I get the LFTs and they show a primary colistatic pattern, which is usually the increased alkyphos, increased bile, not really as significant or really in the increase as much in the AST and the ALT. Mixed, you would have both of them being pretty increased. And if it was hepatocellular, you would only really have the increased AST, the ALT. And you may have an increase in kind of a mixture of the bilirubin as well. But I think this is really what screams colistasis to me. So then the question is, okay, is it in the biliary tree, specifically in the bile duct, hepatic ducts? Or is this somewhere down towards where the bile duct and the pancreatic ducts kind of come together? So that's what I have to start thinking about. And that's why these kind of go nicely together in this algorithm. So what I would say is let's get a write-up or quadrant ultrasound. That'll evaluate the biliary ducts. It'll evaluate the pilliative, the pancreatic head. It'll also evaluate the liver, the gallbladder. Just make sure that there's nothing else that's kind of like, hey, I didn't expect that to pop up. So when you see this, let's say that you evaluate these patients and you find, oh my gosh, hey, there is a biliary tract mass. Yeah, okay, that definitely would be very, very helpful, especially if there's maybe some associated biliary tract dilation. That could stream maybe that they have a billion or some type of Calangio carcinoma. And the only way that I would say that we could go to the next step here is to get a non-invasive image. And I think MRCPs are really the way to go here. And MRCPs are beneficial because they're gonna be a magnetic resonance Calangio pancreatography. They're gonna give you a good visualization of that biliary tree and some of the pancreatic tree. And so if I look at this, I can see that all of these hepatic ducts are coming down. And I'm getting to that common hepatic duct and the biliary tree. And look, I can see this, there is some flow. But what I'm noticing is that there is a very narrowed area there's a pretty good stricture. Now that stricture could be primary sclerosis and colongitis. It could even maybe be something going on with like PBC, like primary biliary cirrhosis. There's a lot of different things that this could be due to. The question has to become is it Calangio carcinoma or not? And then MRCP is kind of like the initial point here to say that something is definitely going on with these hepatic ducts. And I have to evaluate it further. That's where I think an ERCP comes into play. And the ERCP is beneficial because it'll visualize what you're actually seeing in the actual biliary ducts. I'm going to run a scope down. This is an example of someone who has like gallstones with the same kind of concept exists. They are going to run this down, run this into the biliary tree and you're going to visualize this. ERCP is obviously great for helping to retrieve gallstones and place in stensive need be. But it's also going to be grateful for diagnostic purposes such as we can do like a little brush biopsy. So if I ran this scope up and I say, oh my gosh, there's a mass here in the biliary tract. I can then scrape or do a little brush biopsy to collect some cells and send it off to the pathologists and say, hey, does this come back as a Calangio carcinoma or not? And if it does, boom, there's our diagnosis. On the flip side, let's say that the right upper quadrilateral ultrasound showed me that I have a pancreatic mass and then the biliary ducts, you know, that are a little bit more above that, they're dilated because that pancreatic mass is pressing where the main pancreatic duct and the common bowel duct fuse together. And so that's causing compression at that site, causing biliary, what, tree dilation. That would really scream to me, there's a possibility of a pancreatic mass. And a CT scan of the abdomen, really with a pancreatic protocol, is going to be the best way to visualize this pancreatic mass. And what I'd be looking for is I'd be looking for that double duct dilation, main pancreatic duct dilation and common bowel duct dilation with a mass that's usually explaining that process. And here we can see this patient definitely has a mass and it's causing some biliary tree dilation and then some main pancreatic duct dilation. So that's our double duct sign. That's pretty consistent with pancreatic cancer. Now, again, I could go to the next step and I could get what's called a endoscopic ultrasound and do a biopsy in that area. The benefit of this is that when we run this one down, we're running the scope all the way down to where we think the pancreatic mass is. And we can kind of actually kind of see how far it's invaded within the pancreas. And we can even take and use the needle off of this and biopsy particular areas, maybe the tumor itself, maybe some lymph nodes that are involved. And this is a pretty helpful test and it's gonna tell me if there's pancreatic adenocarcinoma. That's a benefit of this one. Now, once we've diagnosed this and we've said, oh, this patient definitely has pancreatic cancer, we've made a pretty official diagnosis to say that the obstructive jaundice is due to colandiocarcinoma or it's due to pancreatic cancer. Now, one other thing I think that comes up a lot on the exams, I wouldn't put all of your money into this but I would think about it. If they ever mentioned something about CA-199, theoretically, this can be elevated in both pancreatic and colandiocarcinomas. However, I would say it's going to be more likely to see this in the pancreatic cancer. When we talk about this as a diagnostic tool, that's not truly what it's meant to do. It's more designed to guide how well did the treatment that we put into place work. So I want you to remember that it guides prognosis and treatment planning. It's not, you really use for making a diagnosis. So again, the reason why is this can be falsely elevated in obstructive jaundice. That's why it's really important. So when a patient has obstructive jaundice, sometimes we actually have to wait. Wait for it to relatively normalize or get close to that before we can actually interpret these tests. So that's why it's really important to just remember it's more as an indicator of how well did they respond to a Whipple procedure? How well did they respond to some type of in-block bowel duct resection of some sort? That's what we're trying to look for with this. Let's now move our attention to a Patosilocarsanoma. So with this, the way that you would think this presents is not what you would think. It wouldn't be like a right upper quadrant abdominal pain oftentimes. It's not going to be some kind of like weird presentation like that. You may have, it is always possible for them to come in with an acute increase in their LFTs. But oftentimes what we would see, especially in the clinical scenarios, is that you'd have a patient come in with decompensated cirrhosis. So they have an underlying history of cirrhosis. It's compensated. They have no problems with their LFTs. They have no problems with any kind of nuance at jaundice or psities or esophageal varices. Hepatoreinal syndrome, SBP, you go down the list. There's no evidence of decompensation. All of a sudden they do compensate. Why? Again, we talked about this. Could be that the carcinoma is obstructing some of those hepatic veins and reducing the venous outflow that's causing congestion, that's causing more of a Patosilocard dysfunction. And that can lead to an increase in LFTs, a jaundice, a nuance at a psities by causing portal hypertension. Sometimes the clots can travel into the portal veins. And if they travel into the portal veins, you can even get portal venous hypertension and that could start causing again, nuance at a psities. So I think that's the key thing is that usually it's just the actual cancer, did it spread and did it invade, did it cause thrombosis or did it do something to the vasculature of the hepatic veins or the portal veins that threw them into a decompensated state? I think when you have a patient who comes in with any evidence of something going on with their liver, which you would assess based upon jaundice, increased LFTs, nuance at a psities, and they have a history of cirrhosis, they have a history of hepatitis B virus infection, a right upper quadrant ultrasound is going to be one of the best things that you can do. And the same concept, if I have a patient who has compensated cirrhosis or they have chronic HPV infection, we shouldn't let the patients get to this state. We shouldn't let them become decompensated. So one of the ways that we try to do that is that we will monitor these patients, usually somewhere around every six months or so. And you'll do that with a right upper quadrant ultrasound and we often will order what's called an AFP level. We talked about this alpha-futile protein. This is a serum tumor marker that is oftentimes found to be elevated in cases like a Paticella carcinoma. We've also seen that it's elevated in yolk sac tumors, both ovarian and disticular tumors. So this is something I would actually be trending on these patients to say, hey, AFP levels are consistently going up, it's now greater than 20. Or I'm looking at the right upper quadrant ultrasound and I don't see any kind of a PADIC lesion, but all of a sudden I see a PADIC lesion and it's a size that I'm actually starting to get concerned about. That's when we have to evaluate these patients further. So if you're screening them as you should be here, anybody who has cirrhosis, anybody who has hepatitis B virus infection, you should screen them according to this guideline. If they come in decompensated, oftentimes you're gonna work them up with the right upper quadrant ultrasound anyway. You may not think to get an AFP level right after the get go, which will probably get a right upper quadrant ultrasound. What you're looking for this is, is there a PADIC lesion? And is that a PADIC lesion greater than or equal to one centimeter? If it is, that deserves a further evaluation and a deeper look. We should do what's called a tri-phase akylical CT scan, if that's the case. Another indication is if the AFP levels are really high. So if the AFP levels, let's say they just doubled or they increased or they went up to greater than a 20, that's something that would make me want to evaluate that, especially if a patient has known cirrhosis, they have known chronic hepatitis B virus infection. I want to make sure that I check that out and that's when I would get this tri-phasic CT. I'd say the CT is gonna be more preferable in MRI, you can also do that one as well. Now you look at this at different phases, which is the unenhanced phase. And what you can obviously see is that there is an isodensity to a slightly kind of like hypotenuation that you can kind of appreciate here. But what we really look for, as we can see that this is definitely a pretty obvious mass here, what you start to notice is look, it kind of in this arterial phase, you get some hyper enhancement. It's definitely kind of got like some darker kind of areas here, but you definitely have some brightening effects and that's due to the enhancement of that tumor during the arterial phase. And then what happens is you go into the venous washouts. So now it's not any hyper enhancement here, most of the liver, it's actually washing out through that portal venous circulation. And that's when we can appreciate this classic presentation where there is a hyper intensity of the mass on the arterial phase with portal venous washout during the portal venous phase. And that's pretty consistent with this patient having, again, a patocellular carcinoma. So from that point, we can say, all right, this patient has a patocellular carcinoma. Do I need to biopsy? No, we actually have found that it is really, really important to go based off of imaging and that is usually gonna be enough. If the imaging is inconclusive, then maybe you can bring about that discussion, but the problem with sticking a needle into this tumor and doing a biopsy is you risk bleeding. That's one thing, especially if it's like a patocellular adenoma. But the other thing is you can seed the tumor. And I think that's where it's relatively risky. And it's just better in these kinds of situations if you have that concern, then I would say it's probably better to talk about surgical options, all right? So here we've diagnosed it, boom, let's move into gallbladder cancer. Gallbladder cancer is a relatively rare cancer. And I think it's because most of the times, patients who have what we would say is chronic cholecystitis and they have that diagnosis, that's a concerning feature and that puts you at pretty high risk of developing gallbladder cancer. Another one that puts you around the 30 to 40% risk of gallbladder cancer is a porcelain gallbladder, that thickened calcified gallbladder. And so these patients, they come in with very vague symptoms. It's probably symptoms similar to cholecystitis. Do they have right upper quadrant abdominal pain that's recurrent, it's persistent, it doesn't necessarily go away. You'll probably get a right upper quadrant ultrasound, because again, it's in that area, you're gonna look at the liver, you're gonna look at the gallbladder, you're gonna look at the bilir tree, you're gonna look at the pancreas, that's the whole goal. When you do that, what you'll probably find is, oh my gosh, there is a weird intraluminal mass, there's some thickening of the gallbladder wall. That is definitely abnormal, I should further evaluate that, right? And so that's when you do a CT, I think a CT MRI is gonna be a really good way, because it'll actually show you, the key thing is, did this spread into the liver? That's what we wanna know, because that's gonna change a little bit of the surgery, because obviously if this was just confined to the gallbladder, you do a simple cholecystectomy. If it's extended its way into the liver, as you can appreciate here, sadly, we may have to do a cholecystectomy, but extend that out and do a little bit of a paddock resection as well. So that's why I think this test is pretty beneficial to see how much it's kind of invaded, all right? Either way, we've determined that the patient has gallbladder cancer. All right, gallbladder cancer, again, I can't stress this enough. It's not something that we usually identify from a chief complaint or based upon clinical presentation. It's oftentimes more than not diagnosed incidentally. When a patient gets a cholecystectomy, they send it off to the pathologist, and the pathologist says, oh my gosh, they had gallbladder cancer. All right, perfect, we just dealt with it and we treated it anyway by removing it. And so that is truly the benefit of this. And if a patient has a porcelain gallbladder, you should be getting a cholecystectomy, because it puts you at pretty high risk. All right, that covers the way that we would think about these clinically when it comes to how do I determine which step? How do I know what I order? How do I know how to interpret that test? How do I do what is the next step based upon the results of the prior test? And I hope that you feel a little bit more comfortable with that now. But once we've determined that the patient has pancreatic cancer, so we went through the appropriate step. They have jaundice, I did the LFTs, I did the right of a quadrenultrasonic, I got the CT scan, I did the EUS with the biopsy, and I found that they have pancreatic cancer, and it's in the pancreatic headers, in the pancreatic body and tail, what do I do? Well, I think the key thing is if they have a cancer somewhere within that pancreatic head, this is where we can really consider offering something called a Whipple procedure. There's different surgical options that are coming about, but this is one that we found to be pretty beneficial. And so you're obviously cutting a couple different areas that are kind of crucial here. So what I'm showing you is that we're cutting off the biliary tree, we're kind of separating the pancreas, we're kind of separating the kind of distal part here of the stomach as it's getting ready to dump into the duodenum, and we're gonna kind of piece these areas back together. And what we're gonna do is we're gonna suture this duodenum, or the jugenum in this case, actually, to the pancreas, and then we're gonna suture that common hepatic duct to the actual jugenum, and then we're gonna suture this stomach to the jugenum. The whole point is that I still have a way for the pancreas to empty the pancreatic enzymes into the small intestine, I still have a way for the biliary tree to dump bile into the small intestine, and I still have a way for the stomach to empty the fluid and food contents into the small intestine. And so all of that was done in an attempt to let's remove the pancreatic head, all right? We gotta get rid of that mass. All right, I hope that makes sense. Again, you're kind of cutting different areas, you're rerouting them to have the common hepatic duct dump into the jugenum, stomach into the jugenum, pancreas into the jugenum, and that one little piece that we cut, we're gonna make it more of just a stump, or kind of like, we're gonna shut that area down. When you have a pancreatic tail tumor, then unfortunately we're probably gonna have to just do kind of a distal pancreatic resection. And then what we'll also do is depending upon if it's near or invaded into the vasculature around the spleen, we'll probably maybe even have to cut out the spleen as well. All right, now another consideration to these patients is when you do the Whipple procedure, you're theoretically removing the tumor, right? Or at least hopefully all of it, you get good tumor margins, whether it's the Whipple, whether it's the distal pancreaticctomy with the splenica removal. But what we also have to consider is the utilization of chemotherapy. Now this chemotherapy is also, we kind of have two different options, Gemside to Beans, a common one, Fulfurinox is another one. I don't think that you're gonna be super significantly tested on these, and we'll talk about all of these different types of chemotherapy to gageans, because I know that there's so many of my, I know it's challenging, we'll do it on its own lecture. But these are really gonna be neoadjuvant. And so if I have a tumor that's a pretty decent size one, and I'm about to do a surgery, or I'm gonna do a Whipple, I really wanna get that tumor to be as small as possible. And so I can actually achieve a really successful surgical margin. And so that's where I think that this is where we're gonna find this being truly beneficial. Adjuvant, meaning we're gonna give it after. So we're gonna give this to downstage the tumor, get it smaller, hopefully get it to where it's easier on the surgical procedure. Then afterwards, after we've hopefully cut out the tumor, is there any chance that there's any residual tumor cells that are microscopic that I didn't see? That adjuvant chemotherapy should help to kill any of that residual microscopic tumor cells that remain. All right? The other option is if a patient can't get a Whipple, or they can't get a distal pancreatectomy, maybe because of unfortunately their age, maybe because of the degree upon it's invaded into other structures, whatever it may be that they are not a true surgical candidate, this may be the only option to reduce the progression of that disease, reduce it from continuing to get bigger and invading and invading and invading. And that is really the only unfortunate benefit there. And again, I think this goes back to the discussion here that when we talk about pancreatic cancer, how do we know if the Whipple actually helped? Well, obviously symptom improvement, obviously we're gonna have a lot of different things that we're monitoring for like anastomotic leagues and monitoring their abdominal pain. We'll potentially do a repeat serial imaging to make sure that the tumor is not coming back. But CA-199 levels would probably be a part of that workup and you could be tested on this to know, I wanna monitor those and if that is going down, that is a potential positive prognostic sign. And if it starts to trim back up, oh no, could they have recurrence? It may trigger you to get an image. It may trigger you to kind of go and look and see if there's any signs of unfortunately that they relapsed, all right? That covers your pancreatic cancer. Now, Calangio carcinoma in this one is relatively straightforward. It's actually just a surgical resection. You're gonna find that perihiler mass, right? It's usually gonna be where that left bile duct, usually the left, the right, the right of paddock come to the confluence there. That's where we oftentimes tend to have these tumors. And so we'll probably do like a little surgical resection. We'll kind of remove this biliary tree out of here. And sometimes what we might even have to do is if that tumor, it did kind of extend inwards. Sometimes we even have to do like little resections. But that just depends on if how deep it actually got, right? Now, the other thing that we'll wanna do is, is we'll wanna consider adjuvant chemotherapy. So some type of side to being of some sort, this is what we would do after they've gotten that surgical procedure. So again, you're trying to go in and you're trying to literally remove out that bile duct where that section of the cancer is. And then after that, you may even, depending upon if it got into the liver, you may have to remove a little wedge of the liver. After I've removed that cancer, I wanna make sure I got any microscopic residual tumors that I don't see, that's where the adjuvant chemotherapy would come into play. Now, chemotherapy, we can also consider giving to these patients usually in these three drugs. This would be if they have, you know, I'd say it's pretty significant like vascular invasion. It's pretty significant to where I probably can't even do a surgical procedure, unfortunately, for these patients. And this will just reduce the progression, the size, and the unfortunate invasion of this tumor as much as you can. All right? So surgical resection, removing that area of where the actual tumor is, sometimes a little bit of a patech resection may be necessary. And then adjuvant chemotherapy. If they unfortunately have a lot of vascular invasion, it's invasive, you may not be able to do this successfully without sacrificing a lot of vessels and unfortunately leading to things like maybe a patech ischemia because you cut off a potential vessel or a feeder around that area. And then you maybe just be stuck with palliative chemotherapy. Now, again, I think the important thing to remember here is that we make the diagnosis as we can see written here via ERCP with biopsy. If they have vascular invasion, again, it doesn't say, pretends a poor prognosis. And the reason why is, if I go in surgically and I'm trying to remove a tumor for that's encasing and surrounding vessels, I run the risk of cutting that vessel. I run the risk of sacrificing that vessel. And unfortunately, whatever that vessel supplies, the liver, other tissues around it, you run the risk of ischemia. You run the risk of having that organ, unfortunately experiencing necrosis of some sort. And so that's why it's better to err on the side of caution. And we would say it's better to actually consider more of a palliative approach. All right? A palatocerelar carcinoma is actually quite an interesting cancer. If you do happen to ever see this and it is diagnosed or you screen for it and you find it unfortunately as well, I mean, I guess you could say fortunately if you find it before it's a little advanced. There's a lot of different things that you can do and it kind of depends upon the degree of the disease. So if I have a patient who, unfortunately these patients usually have cirrhosis. And even with hepatitis B, they probably have some degree of cirrhosis. So they already have a compromised liver architecture. They probably already have a decrease in their liver function. They may already be on the verge of developing things like portal hypertension. And so your question then becomes if I want to remove a piece of liver and I already have a liver that's struggling, I already have a liver who can, he's just literally, he's meeting the standards right now of being functional. And I remove a big portion of tissue. Do I compromise that person's liver where they can easily develop liver failure postoperatively? And that's what you have to discuss. And so there's a couple of different options here. One is we could consider things like radiofrequency ablation, right? You're hitting them with these radiofrequency ways. It's a targeted area. So obviously with that, you have to have kind of a smaller kind of tumor. It can't be too big, usually less than or equal to three centimeters, but they can have any portal hypertension. That's something that they could benefit from, right? You have other options. I think radiofrequency is the best. You can do microwave ablation. You could do cryoablation as well. But again, radiofrequency is going to be the primary one that we would utilize. Another option is surgical resection. So this is when you have to start asking yourself the question, can I do a surgical resection? If they have significant liver dysfunction, if they have portal hypertension and you remove a chunk of the liver, you run the risk of these patients developing liver failure. So if they have a solitary tumor and it's a little bit bigger than three centimeters, but it's not greater than five centimeters. So it's less than or equal to five centimeters. They don't have severe liver dysfunction. They don't have portal hypertension. I think it's safe for me to remove a portion of that liver where the tumor is. And this is where we get into partial hepatectomies. You do not have to know this, but for example, if I take into consideration that I divide these liver up into different types of lobes or mini lobes, if I wanted to only remove this little portion where the tumor is, I could do a wedge resection. Maybe I could do a left hepatectomy if it's operating or it's kind of confining itself to most of the left lobe of the liver. I could do an extended left hepatectomy. I could do only a segment hepatectomy of that left lobe. I could do a right extended hepatectomy, or I could only do a right hepatectomy, or I could do a right posterior section hepatectomy that you get the point. Depending upon where the tumor is, I can remove that different section or lobe or extend it beyond that.  alylob, it just is very, very critical because I can only do this if they have at least a decent liver function and no portal hypertension. That's the key there. So that gives you the point there, surgical resection. Liver transplant is probably a patient who just, they already have significant liver disease. They already have portal hypertension. They have pretty significant decreased liver function. They have significant amounts of fibrosis. This patient, if you removed a good chunk of the liver, they probably would end up going into a Q liver failure. That's something I need to consider. And so in that scenario, if they have a tumor that's less than or equal to five and they got portal hypertension, or they got lesions all over the place, then I have to remove so many parts of the liver, which I leave very small amounts left with, I should just do a liver transplant. And that's where I think it would be best to just swap it out, out with the old and with the new. All right. The next thing is a transarteriochemoembolization, also referred to as a taste. This is something I'd say that you can consider. I'd say it's when you have a bunch of different lesions. All right, so multifocal lesions. Now, obviously in this scenario, you'd be like, okay, why not just do the liver transplant? You can do this, but they just, here's the key thing to this procedure. Obviously you don't run, you have to get this patient on a transplant list. There's a lot of different things that goes into a liver transplant. So if I have multifocal lesions, if I don't go to a liver transplant, I could consider doing a taste. The one key thing here is that you are going to embolize vessels. If these patients have a tumor that's invading the portal vein, you'd knock out the blood flow. One of the sources of venous flow, or at least flow in or out of the liver. If I knock that out, I run the risk of damaging the liver even more. So I need to make sure that that portal venous circulation is not occluded. There's no tumor that's invaded around it or in it. Because if I go and I chemoembolize a particular area and I knock off flow, I just also knock out a source in. And on top of that, I'm affecting another way of blood getting into the liver. Don't want to do that. So you need to make sure that portal vein is patent as can be. What we do is we take a catheter, we've thread this up through the arteries. We run this into the hepatic artery, hepatic artery proper, and you literally will infuse in a chemo agent directly into that tumor. But here's the other thing, I'm going to embolize. So now only am I giving chemo particles, I'm going to give other particles that are going to embolize. So if I imagine here for a second, I'm going to embolize the blood flow as well to that tumor. If I help to kill the actual tumor with the chemo, and I give emboli agents, so things that are going to knock off the blood flow into the area. I reduce the blood flow to the tumor, I reduce the oxygen supply, the nutrient supply. I'm starving the tumor of everything it needs to continue to proliferate in supply and grow. So that's one of the benefits of doing a taste. And what you can do this for multifocal lesions, is just you can't have another vascular circuit being invaded or clotted off or filled with tumor. That is the key thing for this one. The last thing is we can consider, and we've seen this throughout multiple aspects of our oncology section, which is that immunotherapy. These immune checkpoint inhibitors are becoming a really, really popular and kind of go-to agent that we can give in patients with more of the advanced stages of cancer. And so one of the concepts behind this, let's say that you have a tumor cell, and this is for a patient who has a pedocelular carcinoma. And here you have a T cell. Normally these cells will express specific proteins. One is called a PD1 ligand, and the other one's called a T cell receptor. The T cell receptor will interact with a MHC complex, usually on that tumor cell, and it's gonna be via an antigen that's expressed on the surface. And then the PD1 interacts with what's called the PDL1. Now, if I give a drug that can bind onto the PDL1, what happens is I don't allow for the PD1 to click with it. Why is that beneficial? When PD1 and PDL1 interact with one another, these T cells get tricked. The tumor cell tells the T cell, hey, don't kill me. Don't mess with me, I'm okay. I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm normal. And then the T cell kind of says, okay, cool, I'm gonna back off and move on. If I give a drug that blocks that interaction between the PD1 and the PDL1, now that crosstalk between the T cell and the tumor cell isn't gonna be there. That tumor cell can't tell them then, hey, I'm normal. And so what happens? The T cell reviews this tumor cell as being abnormal, and then guess what it does? It kills that cell. That's the benefit of this. This is when you have a portal vein that's really occluded, a paddock vein that's included, and you can't do a taste. So if I have a tumor and there's lots of invasion of vessels, I can't safely go ahead and do this taste procedure. That's where I would reach to something like an anti-PDL1 antibody, an immune checkpoint and have a like a tessellism map, and that's gonna be beneficial in this potential scenario. Now, another one that you can consider is, this one actually does make a lot of sense. And so you know, VEGF receptor, that's a vascular antithelial growth factor. What we know is that growth factors, especially VEGF binds to this receptor, stimulates a lot of genes that are involved in what? The production of VEGF. And VEGF is a very strong chemical that is going to act on blood vessels, especially endothelial cells, and it's gonna cause them to proliferate and make more vessels. What's that called? Angiogenesis. Angiogenesis is gonna supply lots of oxygen and nutrients to the tumor in this kind of scenario. If I gave a drug that blocked that kind of concept, I blocked VEGF, like with bevicizumab. I inhibit that kind of interaction. I shut down the release of MorvaGF. I shut down that angiogenesis and the supply to the blood tumor. I starve the tumor of its nutrients and its oxygen. And theoretically, it will die. All right, so that covers a lot of different mechanisms that we can treat a padicellular carcinoma with. Obviously, when you think about this, again, radiofrequency ablation, small tumor, they don't have any underlying liver compromise, no portal hypertension, so they can survive a little bit of localized killing of the tumor, but some of the surrounding normal hepatocytes. If the tumor's a little bit bigger, or I can't do the RFA, and it's not gonna provide as much benefit in this scenario, but their liver function's good, they got no portal hypertension, I could cut out a bigger section of the liver. If I gotta cut out a good chunk of the liver, or I gotta cut out chunk of multiple different areas of the liver, and they already have liver compromise, they got portal hypertension, they won't survive, hepatectomy, I gotta put in a new liver. If they have multifocal nodules or lesions, but in this case, they don't have portal hypertension, but the portal vein is kind of like not invaded, it's fine. I can safely, instead of kind of pushing to do something like a liver transplant, I could theoretically do a TACE, and so that's going to do chemo and embolize the feeders to that tumor, right? If I have, where a tumor's invaded the actual portal vein, it's invaded maybe the hepatic veins, and it's kind of causing problems there, that's when I have to say I can't do a TACE, in this case, I have to go ahead and consider something like a systemic immunotherapy. Your anti-PDL1 would be the first line, and your VEGF inhibitors would be more that second line. All right, one other thing to remember is that we always want to monitor those AFP levels, post resection, any kind of surgical procedure that we do to say, hey, do we have complete remission? In other words, we're noticing that the levels are trending down, or is an unfortunate recurrence or relapse if those levels are coming back up, and that may trigger us to say, okay, we gotta go ahead and do another image, we gotta talk about surgical options again. All right, the next one, the gallbladder cancer. So gallbladder cancer, again, with this one, usually you keep it pretty simple, it's diagnosed incidentally, and you actually treat it when you diagnose an incidentally, which is a cholecystectomy. So whenever you have a tumor that's really just confined to the gallbladder, it hasn't gone outside of that area to the liver, you just cut that out, and you're done. But whenever it starts kind of invading into the liver, unfortunately, so it goes gallbladder and starts kind of going past the wall, going in and provides some hepatic invasion, then you have to extend that cholecystectomy out and remove also a chunk of the liver as well. So that would be covering that. Now chemotherapy, you can consider things like cis, platen, gymside, you're kind of probably gonna be doing that more likely after. So adjuvant, you're gonna be doing a post resection to kill any of the microscopic residual tumors that are actually gonna be present. The other thing is that if you unfortunately have a gallbladder cancer, that this thing is decent size, it's invaded the liver, it's invaded some of the vasculature nearby, and it makes it, unfortunately, nonoperable or nonreceptible, then you may only have the one option of chemotherapy. All right? Last thing to remember is, again, cholecystectomy is the key for a patient who has chronic cholecystitis or porous on gallbladder. These carry a risk, a high risk of converting into gallbladder cancer. So it's obviously better to prevent this before it's actually identified, and that's a key thing there. My friends, I really hope that you liked this lecture. I hope you learned a lot. I hope that you understand a lot after this, and I feel like when you get that exam and you're tested on something, I hope that you know, okay, this is what I need to do. I feel confident, I feel ninja, I feel nerdy, and I'm ready to take it to the next level. I love you guys, I thank you guys so much for hanging in, and as always, until next time.

=== FILE: Paraneoplastic Syndromes ｜ Clinical Medicine [NvEKYeHPd60].txt ===

 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам What's up, Ningenerds? In this monster of a lecture, I hope you brought popcorn. I hope you got a babysitter for the kids because we got a long one out of us. We're going to be talking about perineoplastic syndromes today. Again, as a part of our clinical medicine section, if you guys are really digging these, they're really helping you out, they're making sense. They're helping you to truly provide light to some of these things that can be really challenging in clinical medicine, then give us a like. Hit the like button, comment down in the comment section, subscribe. What I really think would benefit you and something that we're really trying to do to help the student out go to the extra level, take it to the next extra step is to go in the description box below. If you do that, you'll go to our website. There will be a link there. On our website, we have a lot of different things that we offer, notes, illustrations, Cubanks, we're even making flashcards. All of these things will help you to understand a little bit more, follow along, lots of space repetition and truly test your understanding of the topic. So go check that out. All right, enough of all of this talk. Let's get into it. Let's get into perineoplastic syndromes. All right, my friends. Let's start off with the first one. When we talk about perineoplastic syndromes, so SIDH is definitely one of them and you're probably like, wait a second, isn't this like an endocrine kind of problem? We talked about this in endocrine. We talked about it associated with like, you know, the combination or the comparison, I should say between D, I and SIDH. We talked about a lot in the sodium disorders lecture too. When we talk about perineoplastic syndromes, it's kind of like it's where a tumor maybe gains the capacity to be able to produce different types of hormones. That's one thing. But also perineoplastic syndromes can be interesting where it's not just a tumor producing hormones. It also could be due to tumors that have tumor antigens where maybe those antigens resemble other tissue antigens in the body and autoantibodies that are produced by the plasma cells that are supposed to go and attack the tumor antigens, then fortunately go and attack a tissue that has a similar appearing antigen, that molecular mimicry process. So there's a lot of these that we got to talk about. Let's dig into the first one, SIDH. So with SIDH, when we talk about this one, a lot of different things can cause it. It could be drugs, right? It could be due to a brain tumor, a bleed. It could be due to pneumonia. You could be having a positive pressure ventilation because you're being intubated. It could be due to a pneumothorax. There are so many reasons. But when we talk about this being related to neoplasia, it's oftentimes most often related due to lung cancer. So the question that when we talk about this with lung cancer, which type of lung cancer is most commonly associated with SIDH? And that is usually going to be small cell lung cancer. So small cell lung cancer is most often associated with SIDH. And what happens is this tumor gains the capacity to produce SIDH. It should not, should not be producing SIDH. Who normally produces SIDH? Come on, tell me. The posterior pituitary, right? So the posterior pituitary is the one that's supposed to be able to produce SIDH. But if it's being produced by this small cell lung cancer, unfortunately, this SIDH will go down. It'll bind onto one of these receptors. Don't you love it when you get to kind of like go through things and recap things that maybe you forgot about a little bit? This is going to hit those V2 receptors. When it hits the V2 receptors, the whole point here is that water, which is going to be moving through your ductile system here, it may come over to this collecting duct. And normally what happens is it runs into a brick wall, unless ADH is present. Because what ADH does is it sends signals. And these signals lead to the production, the transportation, the movement, the plugging into the membrane of aquaporn subunits. Now this aquaporn subunit will be opened up because ADH is going to stimulate this process where it makes aquaporn two subunits, helps it to get kind of pushed up into the cell membrane. So when it does that, now we open these up. We got a bunch of these aquaporn two. So now there's a hole for the water to kind of squeeze through. What happens is water will then go and get reabsorbed. When the water gets out here, what do we get? We get an increase in water reabsorption. Why is that a problem? You're like, oh dude, you're just getting some fluid here, right? You're getting more water in you. No, that's not always a good thing. Because with excessive amounts and continuous water reabsorption comes a dilution effect on the sodium. And so then you get this dilution effect. And this dilution effect on the serum sodium leads to hyponatremia. And that's when the patient can start to experience a drop in the serum sodium. We'll drop the drop in that serum sodium. And this can get to the point where that sodium level drops below 135 mL per liter. What is that called? Hyponatremia. So oftentimes this is one of the problematic issues. That's why we see this as an endocrine disorder and a renal disorder, but also an oncologic related disease. So now when this happens, when we have this particular issue, what would be the problem with this? What would be the way that these patients will present? Because you could have a patient you know has small cell long cancer, you know they have malignancy, and they come in with hyponatremia. That could be their presentation. Unfortunately, sometimes it may not just be you get some lab work, it may be that they present clinically related to their hyponatremia. So sometimes when a patient has, let's say, severe, let's kind of define this as more of the severe hyponatremia. And so when I say severe hyponatremia, what would that really kind of be defined as? I would say a sodium level that is like less than 120 mL equivalents per liter. Also acute, meaning it's within like the past two days. When that happens, these patients can develop some pretty problematic issues. One of the things that happens here is that low sodium causes cortical irritability. You're like, well what does that mean man? Well cortical irritability is a disaster waiting to happen because if your cortex is irritated. Imagine you had a tumor that was pressing right on the cortex. Those neurons can start firing asynchronously. And that cortical irritability, what it does is it creates an opportunity for seizures. I've seen this a couple times in the neuro ICU where a patient comes in severely hyponatremic sodiums like 112 and they're seizing uncontrollably. That is usually due to that sodium really altering their cortical irritability, lowering their seizure threshold and they end up with these seizures events. So that's one way that they could present. So definitely think about this in like a patient with nuanced seizures. Always check that sodium level, see if they got a severe hyponatremia. The other scenario here is cerebral edema. Think about this. Here you have a brain and it's a normal, here let's say this is a normal brain tissue. So the sodium and the water movements between the brain tissue and the vasculature normal. All of a sudden you get hyponatremia. So if we think about the movements of water, let's say here's your vascular system here in the normal case. What you're getting is you're getting kind of an equilibrium. You're getting a normal movement of sodium and water back and forth. When you get into a patient with hyponatremia, they can develop something called cerebral edema. This is a problematic issue. What happens here is that the sodium, the sodium concentration is really low inside of the vascular system. Now sodium is important because where sodium is, water also will follow. So you should have less sodium in the vasculature and hyponatremia and you'll have relatively more sodium inside of the brain tissue in comparison to the vasculature and a patient who has hyponatremia. Where's the water going to want to go where the sodium is rich? So where's the water going to want to move? Most of that water is going to want to move into the brain. And when that water moves into the brain, that is what leads to all of this swelling. That's when the patient experiences cerebral edema. Well cerebral edema, how will they present? They don't just come and say, dude brain's swollen. It's all fracked up. No, you can't. That's not the case. They come in and they have very specific symptoms. Cerebral edema usually, so let's actually put this down here, the clinical presentation oftentimes is, it can be mild. So what I mean by that is sometimes it's enough to increase the intracranial pressure. So cerebral edema, the primary problem here is that this, really what it's going to do is it's going to increase, this is a little side note here, this is going to increase your intracranial pressure. So the pressure inside of the skull is going to be a little bit higher. Problems with elevated intracranial pressures that can cause headaches. Right? That's a simple thing. Another thing is that it actually can cause compression of areas in the medulla, like the chemo trigger zone, so they can get things like nausea and vomiting. They can get compression to where cerebral spinal fluid builds up around the optic disc. So they can get features like papal edema. I think the last thing that you want to get worried about is in a patient who has severe, I mean severe cerebral edema, the intracranial pressure can go up enough and it can get really, really high enough where they start to experience herniation. And I think that's the most feared complication that comes from hyponatremia. So what I want you to take away from SIADH, the biggest thing is that this is a condition that is likely more often than not due to simple things like pain, nausea, medications, brain injuries, lung disease, but it can be due to cancer, such as small cell lung cancer. Lots of ADH, lots of water reabsorption dilutes down the sodium in the blood. Hyponatremia is a very common presentation. Yeah, that may be the way that you find it as a lab result. Sometimes the sodium is so low, the way that they present is new onset seizures, generalized seizures or elevated intracranial pressure. Maybe it's mild symptoms like headache, nausea, vomiting, papal edema on fundoscopy or herniation symptoms. They blow a pupil. They have new focal onsets of neurological deficits of sorts. Their mental status is declining. Those are things that I would want to be concerned with. All right. Boom roasted with the SIADH. Let's move our way down the board to talk about the next one. All right. So the next one is going to be Cushing Syndrome. And again, you could technically consider that ectopic ADH production. You can consider this one ectopic ACTH production. So Cushing's, when we talk about this, technically you could have a Cushing Syndrome and a Cushing Disease. This is technically a Cushing Disease if you really want to be particular because it's coming from a source that's not from the adrenal cortex. It's coming from an area outside of that. And so it's kind of like a secondary hypercortisolism if you want to think about that. But here's what I want you to understand. With Cushing, obviously the one thing that we want to think about is, is there a tumor in the adrenal cortex? That's one thing that could pump out a lot of cortisol, right? So that would be one thing. And that's not really what we talk about when it comes to these perineoplastic syndrome because cortisol is not really the big one here. It's ACTH. So ACTH is one that is actually produced by what? It's usually produced by the anterior pituitary. That's a normal process. But what if, what if there is a cancer of lung? And I bet you, you know which one it is. It's the small cell lung cancer. So small cell lung cancer not only can it produce ectopic ADH, but guess what else it can produce? It can produce ACTH. And ACTH should normally only be made by the anterior pituitary. Just like ADH should be made by the posterior pituitary. Well, when ACTH is produced in an abnormally high amount from this lung cancer, guess what it's going to do? It's going to go to the adrenal cortex where the zona fasciculata is. The zona fasciculata is going to respond by pumping out lots of cortisol. And cortisol is a very, very potent hormone. Has multi-system effects. And so what you're going to see is, is you're going to see multi-system organ involvement. Let's actually just put a multi-organ involvement. Obviously, the, the cases that we think about with cushing, especially with elevated levels of cortisol is that it really causes changes in their, you know, their, their overall fat redistribution processes. And we'll talk about what that means, but you know, the swollen moon face, the buffalo hump, the abdominal striate, those are the classic ones. And what are some of these things? So again, small cell lung cancer can not only produce ADH ectopically, but it can also produce ACTH ectopically. What does that lead to? A bunch of different effects. Let's talk about these things. Because not everybody's going to come in and be like, do I got the cushing? No, they're going to come in with very specific kind of clinical presentations. And then what you'll do is you'll work them up. You'll work them up for cushing by checking to see what's their cortisol level on their salivary cortisol test. What's their cortisol on their low dose dexamethasone suppression test? You'll see if the cortisol is high. Okay. The cortisol is high. What's their ACTH level? Oh, the ACTH level is high. Okay. Could it be pituitary? Could it be an ectopic site? You do a high dose dexamethasone suppression test. Does it suppress? Oh, it doesn't. That's likely coming from an ectopic source, not from the anterior pituitary. And that's when you start kind of further evaluating and you say, oh, this patient has lung cancer. That's probably the source. So thinking about this with cushing syndrome, whenever cortisol acts on these different organs, one of the big things that it can do on the fat, it can lead to lipolysis. So it actually can increase fat breakdown. But with that fat breakdown also comes fat distribution, like redistribution. So we move the fat redistribution. It goes to different areas of the body. And this is that classic presentation. This is the one we get worried about with the moon face, the buffalo hump. And usually when we think about the moon face, we think about the buffalo hump. And we also think about the abdomen. So they get a lot of abdominal, like central trunk abdominal obesity. So yeah, we'll see it a lot around the central abdomen. We'll see potentially a buffalo hump right here in the back of the neck. And you get that swollen moon face. So those are definitely things I would want you guys to think about. The other thing is it can cause a lot of changes to the muscles. So it can cause like proteolysis. And when we think about proteolysis, the big thing with proteolysis is it's going to cause breakdown of the muscle. And so what they start to see is we start to see that they're kind of like they have muscle atrophy. And this main way that the muscle atrophy presents is they end up having very thin arms. The other thing is that proteins, whenever they actually are, again, a very critical component of the connective tissue as well, one of the things that happens is that when they have this abdominal obesity, they also have a very problematic issue with thinning of the skin. And that thinning of the skin also can lead to a lot of striate. And that's another way that we think about these patients is they have a lot of striate. And that common area where the striate usually occurs is along the abdomen associated with that obesity. The other thing is it can work on the liver. And I think this is a really, really important one. It can actually cause the liver to go into glycogenalysis and gluconeogenesis. So it's going to cause glycogenalysis and gluconeogenesis. The cool concept behind this is what are both of these things doing? You're breaking down glycogen into glucose or you're making new glucose molecules. So it's the primary way by which this can present. If you're having enough cortisol, you can have hyperglycemia. So you can have an elevated glucose level. Elevated glucose level. Obviously that puts the patient at a pretty high risk of developing something like diabetes, especially if they have underlying diabetes. They're pretty high risk of hyperglycemia. So that's something to definitely consider. The other thing that I get worried about with elevated cortisol is that we have receptors on our blood vessels. These are actually going to be, you have different types of receptors. You have alpha receptors. You have beta receptors. But all I want you guys to know is that we have adrenergic receptors. And usually on the vessels, it's going to be the alpha one receptors. So these are your adrenergic receptors. Cortisol really, really helps to increase the sensitivity of these receptors to epinephrine and noropnephrine. So imagine whenever you have epinephrine or noropnephrine present, all I want you to think about is if these are present normally, when they hit this receptor, you'll get a positive response, you'll vasoconstrict. If you have elevated cortisol levels, what it does is, is anytime these even touch, it gets them really excited. They're just like whee! And they start getting super activated and stimulated. So these receptors get super, super activated and stimulated because you increase the sensitivity of those receptors. And so when you have cortisol increase, increase the sensitivity of which one? The adrenergic receptors increase the sensitivity of alpha one adrenergic receptors. This should be alpha one adrenergic receptors. What's that going to do? It's going to make these things constrict, constrict like a son of a gun. So you're going to get intense vasoconstriction. Vasoconstriction of arterials is going to do what? It's going to increase resistance. If you increase resistance to blood flow, what's going to happen to the patient's blood pressure? It's going to go up. So we oftentimes see that these patients experience an increase in their blood pressure and it predisposes them to hypertension. Usually this is more of like a secondary hypertension, if you will. All right. The next thing that we get worried about with these patients is that cortisol, it can have an aldosterone-like effect. And so what we've seen with cortisol is it can have, let's actually write this down, is an aldosterone-like effect. And so what aldosterone does is it actually helps to do what? Well it increases sodium reabsorption and it causes potassium excretion, right? So that's one thing, it's going to help with sodium reabsorption and potassium excretion. That's the primary way that aldosterone works. And with sodium reabsorption also comes what? Water reabsorption. So one of the problems with this is that these patients run the risk of hypernatremia, I'm sorry, hypernatremia, hypochalemia and overall just water overload. And so they can have hypernatremia, they can have hypochalemia because they're dumping potassium. But the big thing that we notice is they had developed a lot of edema. And this is probably because of with sodium reabsorption comes what? Following it, water. And so I'll write that down here, water follows the actual sodium, right? And so with that you're going to get an increase in sodium reabsorption and water reabsorption. So these are a couple of different things that we can see in Cushing syndrome. So if the patient came in, they have a swollen moon face, a buffalo hump, abdominal obesity, striat, thin arms, hyperglycemia, hypertension and some electrolyte abnormalities and swelling. Oh man, do they have Cushing? How do I know? Well, I got to check and see if the cortisol is high, check and see if the ACT is high and check and see if they suppress the high dose of the dexamethasone. We'll talk about that in the diagnostic approach, I promise. All right, that's the ectopic ACTH production that can cause Cushing, right? What about a patient who can have this condition called Lambert Eaton Myosthenic Syndrome, also abbreviated LEMS? You're never going to believe. I mean, you're just never going to believe which type of cancer is most often associated with this one. You'll never believe it. It's small cell. It's small cell. I mean, I knew you probably, you know, you never believe it, but yeah, it's small cell lung cancer. This one definitely, it's got a lot of problems. I mean, it's a very, very aggressive cancer, but when you think about small cell lung cancer, there's not this process of where you're like, you're pumping out some type of antibody or you're pumping out hormones or anything like that. All that happens is, let's say here's the cancer, let's say here's the cancer, I'll pop into this cancer cell. So here's the cancer cell of the lung. And when we look at it, let's say it's got some antigens on its surface and we'll represent these in red, right? So here's your tumor antigens. These are called your tumor antigens right here. And what happens is these tumor antigens look like, you know, antigens or proteins that are present in other different areas of the body. And so what happens is our plasma cells, what they'll do is they'll produce antibodies. And these antibodies, they're producing it primarily against the tumor antigens. That's what it's designed to go against. Problem is, is that they're going to unfortunately attack other areas that look like that. There's a protein here, I drew it in red, maybe it resembles this one. And this one is called a voltage, I'm going to abbreviate it voltage gated calcium channel. So all it is, what happens is, is you get action potentials that run down a neuron. This is usually due to sodium influx and then after that you get a repolarization with potassium efflux. And it gets down to this point that depolarization reaches these channels, the voltage gated calcium channels, and they open up. Because you get them to where they're actually more of a positive state. Once that happens, they open and what's supposed to occur is calcium that's out here in the extracellular space is supposed to do what? It's supposed to rush in, right? We want calcium to rush in because what happens is, is inside of this neuron there's little vesicles that contain neurotransmitters. And what that calcium will do is it will activate these vesicles and then they'll migrate and they'll fuse with the synaptic membrane and they'll exocytose all of this chemical out into that space. And so what you should do is you should cause an exocytosis process. And what is this neurotransmitter? It's a very common one, the neuromuscular junction. It's called acetylcholine. And acetylcholine is supposed to bind onto this, open that channel up because it's a ligand gated and then what happens is sodium should rush in. And you should lead to kind of like a depolarization effect. And that should lead to contraction of a muscle, right? That's kind of the process that we think about here is that once acetylcholine binds onto this, opens up that gait, sodium should rush in. If it rushes in, it should make the inside of the cell more positive. That should stimulate a depolarization mechanism. That should stimulate the muscle to contract, right? That's the normal processes that we think about with the voltage gated calcium channels. Now introduce, right, this is going to try and go and attack this, but guess what else it does? It finds this. And now introduce this bad boy. These antibodies bind onto the presynaptic voltage gated calcium channels and they inactivate them. When you inactivate them, can calcium rush in? No. If calcium can't rush in, can you cause this fusion? So this process here, what's going to happen? Can you cause this kind of movement and fusion process here? No. So that becomes inhibited, bro. So we inhibit this. Can we release acetylcholine? No. So there's less acetylcholine out here in the synapse. Can we cause this to bind? No. We don't have binding. Can we open up the channel? No. Can we allow sodium to influx? No. So do we cause depolarization? No. We inhibit depolarization. Can we cause contraction? No. We inhibit contraction. And guess what happens? They end up developing weakness. All right? And so I think that's the key thing to remember here is that these patients are producing antibodies and what we call these antibodies is anti-PQ, which is your presynaptic, voltage gated calcium channel antibodies. Isn't that a name? Isn't that a name? That's a heck of a name. And that's what these things are and they are really the crux of this disease. And really what it comes down to is that your plasma cells are producing antibodies that they probably think resembles tumor antigens, but instead it's attacking a protein on our neurons. And this is what really causes a lot of the issues. Now, these patients, obviously, they're going to come in with weakness. What kind of weakness is the question? And it's a very interesting one. Usually this is going to cause, you know, it's going to be probably more often proximal muscle weakness. So you'll probably see it more in, like, the shoulders. You may see it potentially in the hips. So I think the big thing here is that when we see this proximal weakness, what is really helpful here, usually there's another condition called myostinogravus. And that one usually attacks the receptor, the acetylcholine receptor. And so you get kind of a similar effect. The difference here is that with limbs, it doesn't cause as much of the effect on the face. So you don't have as much of the diplopia. You don't have as much of the dysphagia. You don't have as much of that kind of disarther process. But you do get muscle weakness. One of the things that helps us to think about this is that sometimes the weakness can improve with exertion or get worse with exertion. So let's say that I introduce exertion into the mix. If I introduce exertion into the mix and with that exertion, right, they get better or they get worse. So let's actually write this down. They get better or they get worse. This suggests more of the limbs. This suggests more of the myostinogravus. And that's one of the key things with myostinogravus is it's a fatigable condition. So with more exertion activity throughout the process of the day, you notice that their weakness gets worse. Whereas to some degree with this exercise and this kind of exertional activity, you may notice that limbs gets a little bit better. That's the key thing I want you guys to think about. It may affect some of the actual salivary glands. So sometimes they can get dry mouth and they may even get a little bit of an effect on their reflexes. They may get a little bit of hyporeflexia. But I just want you to think about proximal weakness and the way that they'll probably try to test you is something with exertion or when we do nerve stimulation tests. We can do nerve stimulation tests and we want to see is if we really stimulate the heck out of that nerve with high frequency or low frequency, what happens to their response? What does the muscle do? Do they have an incremental response or a decremental response? And that's a key thing. Another really key thing to differentiate these is that this is associated with the anti-PQ voltage get a calcium channels. This is associated with the anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies. So that's going to help us and we'll get into that a little bit later. But that's the condition I want you to think about is limbs. All right, let's move on to the next one here. All right, so now we move on to the next one, which is going to be hypercalcemia malignancy. We actually talk about this in the oncologic emergencies lecture as well. But we've probably seen these and that's the kind of the beauty of this. I think the whole purpose of this lecture is to talk about ones that you're more commonly going to be tested on. And it's going to be a lot of these that we're talking about on the whiteboard here. We have another whiteboard. That's why I said this is going to be a tough one. But we're going to talk about some more perineoplastic syndromes. But hypercalcemia malignancy is kind of one of those where you can see it as an oncologic emergency and you can see it as a perineoplastic syndrome. So what do I mean with this one? So with hypercalcemia malignancy, we can have a couple different reasons why the patient can develop hypercalcemia. One of the things is you're going to say, oh, okay, it's going to be lung cancer, right? Is that small sound? No, for once. This is usually associated with squamous cell carcinoma, or abbreviated as SCC. And what happens is this one pumps out a little bit too much of a molecule called PTHRP. So PTHRP is parathyroid hormone-related peptide. That's one problem. And that right there is a hormone that we produce ectopically from this tumor that is producing a way too large amount and it's going to cause some problems. I'll talk about that in a second, though. Another thing is if you have a tumor of the lymph node, and this is usually going to be due to lymphoma, and funny enough, I'd say it's actually more common with Hodgkin's lymphoma, believe it or not, than we would say with non-Hodgkin's. Now with lymphoma, this tumor actually can increase the expression of an enzyme called one alpha hydroxylase. So it increased the expression in these kind of tumor cells of alpha-1 hydroxylase. And what happens with this is alpha-1 hydroxylase, what's kind of cool is that it takes a molecule called 25-hydroxy-vitamin D and converts it into 1,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D. That's a lot, right? So what we get is we get 25-hydroxy-vitamin D getting converted into 1,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D. This is the active form of vitamin D. This is called calcitrile. And what happens is that one alpha hydroxylase is going to be designed to stimulate this process. The last thing here is that certain cancers can spread to the bone, right? They can spread directly to the bone. And when they spread directly to the bone, they actually can activate osteoclasts in the bone. So there's different types of osteoclasts in this bone, and there's different types of cancers that spread directly to the bone. There's different types of them. What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone?  alkyne, I mean, you got lung cancer, that's a big one. Breast cancer is a really big one. Prostate cancer is a really big one. Multiple myeloma is a really big one. But a lot of these, they will spread to the bone, and they'll cause a lot of destruction to the bone. So what they'll do is, they'll cause bone destruction. And when you cause bone destruction, you're going to cause, we'll talk about this a little bit later, this is going to lead to the liberation of calcium, or calcium release. From the bone. And that's going to lead to hypercalcemia. But there are so many different cancers that can spread here. Lung cancer can spread to the bone. Breast cancer is a really, really important one. Prostate cancer is a really big one. Prostate cancer doesn't often times cause, so actually we'll get rid of this one, because this one doesn't actually often times cause much of hypercalcemia. Another one that's really, really important is multiple myeloma. So multiple myeloma. I would definitely, definitely want you guys to remember this one. But either way, these cancers, they can spread to the bone. And when they spread to the bone, they're going to cause bone destruction, and that's going to lead to calcium release from the bone. And that's going to be really, really helpful. The ones I really want to talk about though is these two. With squamous cell carcinoma, we pump out too much PTHRP. What can that do? Too much of this PTHRP can act on the bone, particularly on the osteoclasts, right? So if we take the bone, we kind of zoom in on this area. Here we have the osteoclast. The osteoclasts, they really get pretty significantly activated. And let's fix that a little bit there. They get activated. If we activate these osteoclasts, what they do is they pump out two chemicals. One is called hydrochloric acid. Hydrochloric acid. And the other one is called collagenase. Collagen. My gosh, I can't spell today, guys. So collagenase. And what these two do is that they really cause a lot of destruction of the bone. So they're going to get down here in that bone, and they're going to start kind of really ripping through the bone. And when they start ripping through the bone, they're going to start eating and eating and eating like they dying and eating. And that is going to cause two things. One is it's going to cause some more lytic lesions to form. So you're going to get really eaten through the bone. And the other one is they're going to cause calcium release from the bone. This is called bone resorption. And by doing that, you end up causing an increased risk of bone destruction so they can get bone pain. They can also get pathological fractures, early onset osteopenia. And so you're going to get lytic lesions that you're forming, and you're also going to increase calcium release. And that's going to cause hypercalcemia. Now the other thing PTHRP does is PTHRP also acts on the distal convoluted tubule, kind of like PTH. And what it does is it actually increases calcium reabsorption. So calcium will get reabsorbed, and there will even be some phosphate excretion as well. But you're going to have an increase in calcium reabsorption. And when you have increased calcium reabsorption that gets into the blood, boom, you have hypercalcemia. The vitamin D is the interesting one. When you've got one common 25-dieteroxy vitamin D or calcitriol, this is a steroid hormone. It acts like a steroid hormone essentially. And it goes into the intestines where your small intestine is the enterocytes, and it increases the expression of these calcium transporters. And if I increase, I'll just represent it like this. Let's say here I've got a bunch of these blue dots. These are all calcium transporters. I'm increasing the expression of them. If I increase the expression of them and the activation of these channels, what am I going to do? Oh, I'm going to be ripping the calcium across the GIT. Any calcium that's in the GIT, that puppy is ripping through here. And what you're going to do is, is you're going to get an increase in the calcium absorption across the GIT. There's a lot of literature that says that calcium, calcitriol also can act on the kidneys. It can also act on the bone. But the primary effect that I want you guys to know is going to be calcium absorption. So, PTHRP causes bone resorption and calcium reabsorption. Increased vitamin D from lymphoma causes increased calcium absorption across the GIT. These solid cancers that spread and erode the bone are going to cause erosion of the bone and calcium liberation from the bone. These are the things I think are really, really important. Now, hypercalcemia is in a way an emergency. And the reason why it is an emergency is it can cause massive dehydration and hypovolemia. That's definitely a concern. And oftentimes, the hypercalcemia, we remember the, you know, there's a lot of different mnemonics in medicine, but for some reason, this is an easy one to remember. And that's that you can get stones, bones, groans, thrones, psychiatric overtones. So when we think about these, because of that high degree of calcium, these patients run the risk of getting calcium oxalate or calcium phosphate stones, right? So they can definitely run the risk of, you know, what we say nephrolothiasis. There's definitely one concerning feature. So these are usually calcium oxalate, calcium containing stones. That's because hypercalcemia, you have more calcium in the bloodstream and that calcium gets flushed into the actual kidneys and you have hypercalciuria. And the hypercalciuria, if there's phosphate present, oxalate present, it will lead to these calcium oxalate or calcium phosphate stones. The other thing is that you're going to cause bone pain and fractures. The bone pain and fractures is because you are, again, think about it. Think about with the actual cancers that are depositing in the bone, activating a lot of that destruction of the bone. Or think about PTHRP. It's ripping and chewing through the bone. You're going to definitely lead to some potential issues here, where you're going to have bone pain and fractures and early onset osteopenias. That's one definite thing to think about. The other thing is it can activate pancreatic enzymes undesirably. And this can increase the risk of pancreatitis. So pancreatitis is definitely a big one to think about here. That can lead to the undesirable activation of pancreatic enzymes like pancreatic proteases, lipases, amylases, and it starts getting activated inside of the pancreas when it should have been activated inside of the small intestine. That's going to cause inflammation and auto digestion of the pancreas. And the last one I think is really, really concerning is nephrogenic diabetes and sypetis. So with nephrogenic diabetes and sypetis, you get worried because normally what should be happening is ADH should be binding to the vasopressin II receptors, V2 receptors. That's where it should be going. But guess who comes in and blocks this effect? Hypercalcemia. So hypercalcemia basically blunts this effect of ADH on the V2 receptor. And so what you're supposed to be doing is you're supposed to be able to reabsorb water. That's supposed to be what happens when ADH is present. You just get water reabsorption. But if you have hypercalcemia, it knocks that mechanism down. So can you reabsorb water? No. So what ends up happening? You lose a ton of water into the urinary of polyuria. We've talked about this mechanism a little bit a million times, right? So when we say stones is nephrolithiasis, bones, it's bone pain and fractures. Growns, abdominal pain with pancreatitis and thrones, you're peeing all the time with nephrogenic DI. When psychiatric overtones, it can increase the risk of psychosis. So these are the things I want you guys to think about with hypercalcemia malignancy. The next one that I want to talk about here is going to be an interesting one. This is called perineoplastic cerebellar degeneration. You're like, oh my gosh, dude, this is an intense word. What the heck is happening here? Cerebellar just eroding away. This is a very, very sad one. And there's a couple different cancers that we've seen associated with this. And it all kind of goes back to tumor antigens, if you will. So there's a couple different types of these. We can see that in patients who have breast cancer, so let's say here you have a mast there, or ovarian, and I'm going to put CA for the abbreviation of cancer. These right here, there may be tumor antigens. And those plasma cells are producing antibodies that resemble those tumor antigens. What I want to do is I want to give a different color to each one. So here we're going to kind of, we're saying that this is producing antibodies. And the whole concept here is I'll kind of give these, right now I'm going to have these kind of look like this. They're all going to be the same color, but I'm going to give you an understanding here of what's really happening. These are antibodies that are produced against the tumor antigens, but unfortunately it attacks other areas besides the tumor antigen. There may be an antibody. And let's just represent this one. We'll make this one blue, where it wants to go and attack the tumor antigens that are kind of on the breast cancer or the ovarian cancer. There's a specific name for these antibodies, and these are called anti-yo. I'm not even, it's like, yeah dude. So anti-yo antibodies. These are designed to where they want to go and attack the tumor antigens, but unfortunately what they do is they attack antigens in the cerebellum that look like that. A patient who has lung cancer, if they have lung cancer, usually, I bet you'll never guess it, it's small cell. Yeah, you're right. So small cell lung cancer, they may have tumor antigens that resemble some antigens that are present here. These, let's do these in red, just to give a different color change here. These are called anti-hoo, right? Anti-hoo, anti-you, no. Anti-hoo. So anti-hoo antibodies. And who antibodies, again, these are going to be antibodies that are made against some of the antigens inside of the actual, like small cell lung cancer tumor, but it unfortunately resembles some of these antigens in the cerebellum. The last one here is if you have lymphoma. So lymphoma, your plasma cells may produce antibodies against the tumor antigens in this that resemble some of the one in the cerebellum. Let's pick another color, let's do pink, let's do pink, yeah. Ooh, that was loud. Sorry guys. This one are called the anti-tr antibodies, anti-tr antibodies. So basically, if you have one of these cancers, your plasma cells produce antibodies against the antigens on that cancer, but unfortunately they decide, depending on which one of these cancers you have, that these antibodies can go and attack the cerebellum. And then what you're going to have here is you're going to have some nasty destruction and injury and over time atrophy of the cerebellum. So that's what's going to happen is you're going to get some cerebellar destruction. This is kind of when you think about it, it's kind of like an autoimmune attack, right? That's essentially what it is. It's an autoimmune attack, but it's due to an underlying malignancy that's triggering on this process. Now I don't want to get deep into like the neurology here because this is something that we would talk about more when we talk about like localizing things in neurology. But for simplicity's sake, when we think about a patient who develops some type of disease process here, we know that the cerebellum has different types of nuclei, like the dentate nucleus, right? And the fastigial nucleus and all of these different types of things that are kind of important. But what I want you to remember is, as the cerebellum really has lots of conversation with different types of areas in the brain. And one of the things that happens is, is that when you have a motor pathway, you always want to have interaction with the cerebellum. So oftentimes what happens is when you have a motor pathway, this is gets sent down to the cerebellum and then the cerebellum will send that motor pathway back up. So this is kind of an interaction with your corticospinal pathway. And whenever you alter or you damage the cerebellum, you alter that crosstalk between what? Between the cerebellum and your actual corticospinal tracts. And this can lead to a lot of problems with coordination. And so one way that this may present is ataxia. So ataxia is likely because the interaction between the motor cortex that goes down and interacts with the dentate nucleus here in the cerebellum and then back up, there is a disruption there. Another thing is that you oftentimes, let's represent this in kind of a greenish color here is you have a nucleus here and that's going to interact with you have your vestibular cochlear nuclei, right? So let's say here I have some vestibular nuclei and that interacts with your cranial nerves, which cranial nerves three, four, so cranial nerve three, four, and then usually down here six. And six, all of these are important and involved within our vestibular ocular reflexes and our movements, our extraocular movements, right? And so this is supposed to have an interaction back and forth here. But if you have damage to the cerebellum, you alter this pathway. You alter the interaction between the vestibular nuclei and what's the structure that runs upwards? We'll represent this kind of in a pink that kind of communicates between these all. This is not like perfect anatomy. It's more for a simplistic definition. That's your medial longitudinal fasciculus, right? Because that connects the three, four, and six. But now you're going to lose some of that extraocular movements and you're going to lose the normal vestibular ocular reflex. And so what ends up happening here is that these patients run the risk of having something called nystagmus. So this is because the vestigial nucleus is losing its interaction with the vestibular nuclei, the medial longitudinal fasciculus, and three, four, six, which control your extraocular movements. Again, very, very simplistic explanation. The last thing is the vestigial nucleus also interacts with some fibers that move down to control some of the areas here. We have fibers that come down from the cortex, right? You're supposed to have some fibers that come down from the motor cortex and they come down here and they control some of the cranial nerves that go to control things like your speech process, right? And so you have things, this is called your corticobulbar. Corticobulbar tracks. When you lose the cerebellum, the cerebellum is supposed to be interacting with these. You're supposed to get a lot of interaction with these. When you have destruction or degeneration of the cerebellum, you lose this interaction. And therefore you have a decrease in that corticobibular fiber pathway. And what this can lead to is this can lead to things like dysarthria. The difficulty with that speech and articulation process. All right. So when patients come in who have something like a perineoplastic cerebellum degeneration, the things I want you to think about is they may present with a taxiness, a stagmus, and dysarthria. There's a lot of things that can do this. A stroke can do this. A hemorrhage can do this. So a lot of the times you're going to get brain imaging to see if you find anything. And guess what? You oftentimes don't find much. But if they have an underlying malignancy, something like what? Pneumastovirin cancer, small cell lung cancer, lymphoma, taking into consideration could it be a perineoplastic process? How do I really determine this? I probably need to get an LP, test their CSF, and see if I can find some of these antibodies that are present. All right. Let's move on to the next one. All right. So the next one is perineoplastic encephalomyelitis. That's a heck of a name, right? So the concept behind this is actually very, very similar to what we talked about with perineoplastic cerebellum degeneration. You have a tumor of some sort, and you're not going to believe this. I'm telling you. You're just not going to. It's small cell lung cancer. There's, again, the same concept that there's some similar tumor antigens that are present on these cancers, as it may resemble some of the antigens present on the neurons that are present in the brain and the spinal cord. Same thing in patients who have, usually it's ovarian cancer. And it's an autovarian cancer. So I actually really should specify this. It's actually an ovarian teratoma. It's an ovarian teratoma. And we talked about this in the gynecological cancer's lecture that ovarian teratomas, this is one of those types of... It's an odd one. So you have different types of cancers. Teratomas don't generally produce any kinds of tumor markers like you would see with the epithelial ovarian tumors or the yolk sac and choreocarcinomas and dish<|de|>angiomas, etcetera. Plasmacels are usually tumors where they consist of various different types of tissues, multiple germ cell layers essentially. They can have skin, hair, nails, bone, you name it, nerve tissue all up in this thing. But what the key thing that happens here is again, similar concept to plasmacels are producing antibodies. And again, just as represent these in general, these are antibodies that are going to go and act on specific tumor antigens. Now what happens is that these tumor antigens resemble some of the antigens in the central nervous system. And so we get specific types of antibodies that are very, very important to remember. Let me see which color did I pick? I picked red. So for these ones, you're never going to guess what these were. It's the same ones that we talked about with the perineoplastic cerebellar. That's the anti-who. The anti-who, the anti-you. So the anti-who antibodies. For ovarian tamateratomas, this is a anti-NMDA antibodies. And let's just do these. Let's pick green. Why not? We haven't picked this color in a bit. So here we're going to have anti-NMDA antibodies. And again, these are produced by the plasmacels. They're designed to go and attack the tumor antigens, but they resemble other tissues in the central nervous system. So you get attacking of the central nervous system. So these patients end up with encephalitis. So inflammation of the brain tissue. This can involve the limbic nuclei is a really big one. It can involve multifocal areas of the brain. And also it can involve the spinal cord. And so they can get some myelitis. That's where we get encephalitis. Now what's the problem in the disease process that is really an issue here? When you end up causing damage and inflammation to the brain tissue, so you end up with a lot of inflammation, brain inflammation. So you end up with brain inflammation. And you end up with spinal cord. So spinal cord inflammation. This is where you get that terminology of the encephalomyelitis. This is really the key thing that you want to think about. Again, I don't want to go down to the localizing effects. We'll talk about that in neurology. It's being more simplistic. When you damage areas of the brain, you cause inflammation of the brain, especially if it's involving like the cortex, any part of the cortex. When you have cortical irritation, what do you increase the risk of? Asynchronous firing of these neurons. That increases the risk of seizures. Usually this may present with a new onset seizure. So that may be one thing to consider or recurrent seizures. What the fuck? You probably wonder why I'm sitting down, robbed through a chair and cracked my shin bone in half, so I'm sitting down now. But here, I want to move on to the next part. So if we're attacking these limbic nuclei, these are the ones that control behavior and memory and emotions. What we start to see here from this limbic nuclei is you start to see like memory deficits. You also start to see a lot of cognitive behavioral changes and you see cognitive behavioral changes. I think that's the really important thing to think about here is that if you see a patient with new onset seizures, changes in their cognitive behavioral aspects, and I think if it does start to involve some other areas of the brain. So to give you a concept here is if I start to hit other areas like focal motor areas, I obviously can experience things like weakness or sensory losses. And so I think any kind of focal deficit could be considered. But I think starting off a seizure, memory deficits, cognitive behavioral changes, those are all really important because you can get things like cortical irritation from the inflammation there. And you can also get limbic inflammation, things like the amygdala, things like the hippocampus, etc. And so these are really important things that I want you guys to consider that can cause these symptoms. The other thing is the spinal cord involvement, right? So you have all these different types of tracks that are present. And so if a patient comes in and they have, for example, let's say that you damage their dorsal column, what could they have as a result? They could have decreased proprioception, vibration, fine and discriminative touch. If you cause inflammation or damage to the lateral white column, this is where your lateral corticospinal tracks come down. This could lead to some paralysis. This depending upon where that location is, it can cause things like flaccid or spastic paralysis. If I start damaging other areas like the anterior and like this lateral portion over here, I could lose, have a decrease in pain and temperature sensation or loss in pain and temperature sensations. And so depending upon the track that's involved, you could have some type of track loss or track damage. So again, you could think about dorsal column and damage. So you have loss of fine and discriminative touch, proprioception, vibration sense. You could have lateral white column, lateral column damage. And this could lead to loss of potentially a lot of the motor pathways that are part of the lateral corticospinal tracks. And you could even have more of your anterior column. And this can lead to changes, particularly of pain and temperature sensations. So this is all possibilities due to that as autoantibodies attacking the spinal cord and attacking the brain. I think the big thing to remember here is that when these antibodies do attack the brain and the spinal cord, you may potentially have a couple of different problems here. And sometimes we can pick this up. So for example, if we have these areas of inflammation in the brain, this may show some multifocal hyperintensities on the MRI. If you get it in the spinal cord, you may have some multifocal hyperintensities that come up on the spinal cord. And so all of these different areas are really critical to remember here that I want you guys to think about. If we have some type of damage to the actual cortex, it could be seizures. If we have it to more of our deeper nuclei structures, memory deficits, cognitive behavioral changes. If we damage the actual spinal cord, you can have dorsal column damage, lateral column damage, anterior column damage. The other thing is that this can also affect even potentially cranial nerves. And so you can even get cranial nerves or the brainstem could be affected as well. So that's another thing is that not only can you have that, sometimes you can even have damage to the brainstem. And there could be changes in your level of consciousness. And so there can be definitely an important thing to think about there. Could be potentially if you really want to, cranial nerve deficits could be definitely one. Or you have an altered mental status or an altered level of consciousness. And so that's an important one. And that could be due to the particular formation in the brainstem that's being affected as well. All right. That was a crap ton to talk about. I want you guys to again take away from this the anti-NMDA from Novarian Teratoma, anti-Hoo from small cell lung cancer. And remember that these can attack the brain and the spinal cord and lead to primarily memory, cognitive behavioral changes, potentially some damage to the actual spinal cord that can lead to weakness, can lead to loss of fine touch, proprioception, vibration, can lead to loss of pain and temperature. A lot of these things that are happening in these patients. So the next one is dermatomyositis. Now there is a couple of different types of myositis. There is what's called dermatomyositis, polymyositis, like inclusion body myopathy. We'll talk about that more in the MSK slash room section. But when we talk about these, there is dermatomyositis that is the most often associated with malignancy out of those three myopathies. And so what's really important is that with dermatomyositis, there's a classic case where they oftentimes have what's called like a heliotrope rash. They have gotrim papules. They have proximal muscle weakness. They even have like it's called a shawl sign. And when you test them for specific antibodies, they come back with an anti-MI2 antibody and that's not usually a malignant associated kind of antibody. When you look at the other ones, like maybe 30, 40% of cases, it can be associated with ones that we'll talk about like anti-TF, gamma 1, and anti-NXP2 antibodies. I don't think that those are super, super, super critical to remember, but I'm just giving you an overall understanding of it so we can bridge the gap. But in dermatomyositis, it's associated with potentially 30, 40% of cases of malignancy. Lung cancer is going to be one and the other one is going to be ovarian cancer. So these may be associated with dermatomyositis. Now you can see this in kind of a lot of different like with solid organ cancers, maybe breast cancers, there's a bunch of them. But I think these are probably going to be the big ones that I want you guys to remember. Now what happens is these plasma cells, again it's a pretty simple concept. It's the same thing that we've kind of talked about. They're producing antibodies. And these antibodies that are being produced are being produced against kind of like similar tumor antigens. The tumor antigens that these patients have, unfortunately they may resemble other kind of proteins that are present throughout the body, maybe in the muscles and in the skin. That's the name, dermatoskin, and then myositis muscle. Now these antibodies that we actually see are interesting because they're not like a specific kind of thing. They're not like organ specific, if you will. We just find that this may lead to a process, and this is going to be your anti-TIF gamma 1. That's why I don't want you guys to go too crazy remembering this. And the other one is the anti-NXP2 antibodies. And we can kind of just consider these. These are being produced again. And they're supposed to be directed against these cancers, the tumor antigen. But what happens is they find that there's other kinds of, let's say, proteins on other areas of the body. And what they do is they actually find these proteins on vessels in the muscles and in the skin. And what they do is they cause injury to these vessels. So they cause inflammation of the vessels. We call that vasculitis, right? Or it can lead to a vasculopathy, essentially. So it leads to a vasculopathy. And this is going to be to the vessels that are supplying oxygen and nutrients to the muscles and to the dermis. And so what happens is you end up causing vasculopathy to the muscles. And so they end up developing myositis. And you also cause this decrease oxygen delivery to the skin and you end up with skin lesions. And so this is where we start to see certain features like myositis and dermal skin lesions. Now we can't just like, I'm not going to leave you guys out there and say, all right, that's it. What are these potential presentations? It's pretty straightforward. With these patients, they have myositis. And oftentimes, again, it's more likely proximal muscle weakness. The other thing is that because these muscles are getting kind of like hit pretty hard and they're relatively inflamed, one of the things that we see that's actually increased in production and myositis because you're kind of popping open some of those muscles, those muscle cells is going to be the creatinine kinase. We may see a bump in the CK. There's another one that we also see called alde lace. I'll add that one in there as a plus or minus. You may even see that one that's elevated as well. But this is the key thing. Now another important presentation is that these patients can have rashes and they oftentimes can have rashes usually around the eyes. This is called a heliotrope rash and it looks a little bit like this. And then another thing is that they can have rashes that are usually on their hands and it's usually all over like their hands, their metacarpal areas. And this is called your Gotren's papules and it looks a little bit like this. So again, the big things that I want you to remember is what is the primary presentation they may have? Proximal muscle weakness. That would be one potential presentation, your proximal muscle weakness. And the other thing is that they can have a rash called a heliotrope rash and the other one is that they can have what's called Gotren's papules. And these are the clinical presentation that should definitely make you think about it's in a perfect clinical world. That's what you would see. And if you have these clinical presentations, you have a potential underlying malignancy. One of the ways that you can go about this is you can potentially test for those antibodies. But oftentimes it comes down to actually doing a muscle biopsy and finding that there's potentially like periphecicular muscle atrophy. You even have potentially a lot of these skin lesions that show problems as well. So these are the big things to think about with their matomiasitis. Again, associated with cancer can be associated with these autoantibodies and they can present with muscle and skin findings. Let's move on. All right, let's move on to the next one, which is myosthenia graft. So myosthenia graft is kind of similar to limbs and this is definitely, this can be a perineoplastic syndrome. The concept behind this one.  is usually if a patient has a tumor in their mediastinum called a thymoma. So whenever you have a thymoma, this may create an opportunity where the thymoma has very similar tumor antigens. And your plasma cells, yeah, you guessed it, bro. They're producing antibodies. And these antibodies that they are producing, they mimic or they look a little bit like the tumor antigens that are present on the thymoma. Now, what happens is these antibodies are actually really, really important. These are called anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies. So you'll have a pretty good understanding of how this works. All right, ready? You have an action potential running down the axon. Then what happens is it opens up the voltage-gated calcium channels on that pre-synaptic neuron. Calcium then rushes in. When calcium rushes into the neuron, it then does what? It stimulates the synaptic vesicles that contain acetylcholine to start to fuse with the membrane here. When that happens, it triggers exocytosis. So then you release out the acetylcholine. Acetylcholine once out here is going to do what? Acetylcholine will come down and bind on to this receptor. When it binds on to the receptor, the ligand-gated ion channel, it's going to open that puppy up. It's going to lift the gate. And then sodium is going to rush in. When sodium rushes in, it triggers depolarization of that actual muscle cell membrane, right? That in-play potential. And eventually that'll lead to a contraction of the muscle. This is very simplified, obviously, but this is the kind of concept that I want you guys to think about here. Depolarization and then contraction. Now, here's where this antibody comes into play. The antibodies, what they do is they like to bind on to this receptor. When they bind on to the receptor, they don't allow acetylcholine to bind. And now they're going to inhibit this process. So all of this up here, the action potential, the calcium, the exocytosis, the acetylcholine diffusing, once it gets to the point where it binds to the receptor, antibodies are going to block it. Now acetylcholine can't bind. And what happens is, as then now that happens, this ligand-gated ion channel, that gate closes. Sodium can't rush in. You don't depolarize that muscle and you don't contract the muscle. If you can't contract that muscle, that muscle going to get weak. That's where we see the issue here. So the real problem here that exists in this disease is that at the time moment, you have these antibodies that are being produced against the tumor antigens. Problem is, is that they're going to attack a receptor, the acetylcholine receptor, that may mimic some of those tumor antigens. Now the question that comes from this is, okay, if we can't contract these muscles, how will the patient potentially present? And again, I think you're noticing that a lot of these, they carry kind of a similar presentation. It's usually proximal muscle weakness. But the one muscle that I get absolutely terrified in this condition, when I worked in the neuro ICU, I wouldn't see it a lot, but you'd see it sometimes in the myocenic crisis. But they can get proximal muscle weakness. That's definitely a common presentation. But what you get scared about enough is if it hits the diaphragm. If it hits the diaphragm, that can cause things like respiratory distress. These patients can get hypercapnic. That's what we would see as hypercapnic respiratory failure. And so this respiratory distress is what makes this considerably concerning because sometimes in myocenic gravus, they can have a myocenic crisis. And usually that's triggered by an underlying infection or some type of stress process on the body. Usually infections and that can cause, you know, especially like things like pneumonia. And that puts more stress on the body. And especially they end up having damage or inflammation. I'm sorry, not damage, inflammation. You end up having significant weakness of the diaphragm and that can cause respiratory distress. They can't allow for the proper respiration process. And they can definitely develop some pretty severe hypercapnic respiratory failure. Now, these are the big concerns. The other thing that happens with myocenic gravus, it actually can weaken some of the extraocular muscles and the muscle of the levator palpabrosupirioris. So this muscle here, the levator palpabrosupirioris, it can get hit. And then what happens is, is this causes a drooping of this upper eyelid, a drooping effect. What is that called? That can lead to the called, we lead to kind of a ptosis. So that's one potential presentation here. The other thing is that it can also cause these extraocular muscles, you know, things like the superior rectus, we should kind of do this superior rectus, you know, maybe the medial rectus, inferior rectus, all of these get affected. And so these are supposed to allow for you to allow for extraocular movements normally. But what happens here is that these patients, their muscles are weakened, so they don't allow for proper coordination of eye movement. And so they get diplopia or double vision. And so that's another one that I would want you guys to watch out for. So ptosis is a big one due to the levator palpabrosupirioris. And then diplopia is another one due to the effect on the extraocular muscles. The other thing is it's affecting the muscles of the pharynx. And so the pharynx is going to be affected, the muscles of the tongue, these are all skeletal muscles will be affected. And so your ability to allow for swallowing and speech becomes affected. And so these patients can have things like dysphagia, difficulty swallowing, especially in the early stages, more orofaryngeal dysphagia, you really should be specific in that scenario. And then also difficulty with the articulation and their speech processes. And so they may also have dysarthria. Now, one of the key things I think that is really, really important with this condition is that a lot of these symptoms or this weakness is worse over the process of the day or worse with exertion. We use it in that kind of like little dichotomy that if you have weakness, you have them exert themselves. What happens? If they get worse, it's myocenia gravis. If they maybe get a little bit better, it could be more of the Lamberti myocenic syndrome. That is super, super important. This is a fatigable disease. If I look at their strength of their extraocular movements in the beginning of the day and looking at the end of the day, it is much, much worse at the end of the day. It's a fatigable condition. All right, that covers our myocenia gravis. Let's move on to trousseau syndrome. With trousseau syndrome, this one is actually a hypercoagulable state. Believe it or not, it's a hypercoagulable state. And what happens here is we see this with adenocarcinoma. So, it's usually musin producing adenocarcinoma. What are the two most common ones? It's going to be lung cancer. So, we call this like the adenocarcinoma, which is believe it or not one of the most common lung cancers, especially for the non-small cells. And then this one is pancreatic. Pancreatic. Adenocarcinoma. All right. Well, I put pancreatic, so let's add here lung. So, here we got lung adenocarcinoma and here we got pancreatic adenocarcinoma, most common in the head. Now, when we think about this, in these conditions, what they do is they produce a couple different types of molecules here. One is they produce a lot of something called musin. All right. Now, musin is a protein and what this musin can do is it can actually stimulate platelets. It may kind of cause the platelets to become a little bit more activated. So, it causes platelet activation. The problem with that is, is that now if I got all these platelets that are just kind of chilling around all of a sudden, they're just like, you know, they're hyped up. They're like ready, you know, they're ready to go. What's going to happen? These platelets can aggregate and they can kind of start causing platelet aggregation. This increases the risk of thrombus formation, primary hemostasis, right, my friends? So, that's one thing. The second thing, so musin again is going to cause platelet activation that may lead to increased risk of thrombus formation. The other thing that happens with these tumors, and let's actually kind of do it like this, it's kind of like bifurcated maybe, musin and then here, it also increases the expression of a molecule called tissue factor. Now, this should sound familiar. This is factor three. So, tissue factor or factor three is a part of our extrinsic pathway. And so, what that's going to do is, that's going to increase the coagulation cascade, right? That's going to increase the coagulation cascade. If we want to, we can always go back to hematology and say, oh yeah, tissue factor is going to be helpful in activating factor seven. Factor seven and factor three in combination lead to the activation of the common pathway. Factor ten, that leads to thrombus formation, fibrin formation, and then we end up causing that secondary hemostatic plug, right? So, then what happens is, the combination of these, as you end up with a really nice secondary hemostatic plug. And here is where we have a thrombus. So, now we can have an increased thrombus formation. And the problem with this is that when you have these thrombi, what can thrombi do? I think you know they can break off. And so, this could actually break off, and we could also get increased risk of emboli. And I think that's where we get a little bit concerned, is that if these do break off, then you get things like emboli. Now, clinically, how would these patients present? Well, what you're so syndrome, because you have this increased thrombus formation, that's where we get concerned about things like this. So, for example, which are so syndrome, one of the things is these patients can get what's called recurrent migratory thromboflabitis. So, recurrent migratory thromboflabitis is basically where they have inflammation and clots in their superficial vessels. Now, this usually is going to affect more of the arms and the legs. And so, what you'll notice is these patients will have these red, swollen, tender palpable cords that can wax and wane. And that's usually going to be something that you'll see in the arms and the legs. So, I want you guys to remember that, is they can have what's called superficial migratory thromboflabitis. That's one thing that we can see. And this is usually one of the key things, is you'll see these palpable, tender, red, kind of like cords that wax and wane on the upper extremities. That's usually what you'll have. Another thing, it's pretty straightforward. It does increase the risk of you getting clots, especially venous thromboembolism. So, watch out for the DVTs. And one of the concerns with the DVTs is if they pop off. If they pop off and they move via the inferior vena cava into the right atrium, into the right ventricle, where can they theoretically get stuck? Into the pulmonary arterials. And so, you also run the risk of PEs. And again, PEs, we know that this can break off as a DVT. From here, run the inferior vena cava into the right atrium, into the right ventricle, and into the pulmonary vessels. The last thing that I want to talk to you guys about is that sometimes what happens with this, is you can sometimes get like these clots, these kind of like fiber-in platelet-rich clots that form. They're non-bacterial, but they kind of look like vegetations and they can form on the valve. And this is called non-bacterial thromboembolic endocarditis. And so, this is called an MBTE. So, these patients will actually have, if you get an echocardiogram, there's two things. On their echo, it may show, it may show a possible vegetation. So, they may have a vegetation. All right? But then, whenever you get a blood culture, whenever you get the blood cultures, this will actually be a negative blood culture, meaning that it's not due to infective endocarditis. This is usually due to clots, all right? And so, this is something that I want you guys to think about as well. So, if you ended up getting an echocardiogram, they have like this weird vegetation, you get blood cultures, it's negative, but they have an underlying malignancy, you could be thinking about an MBTE. All right. Truso syndrome is a condition, it's a perineoplastic syndrome associated with adenocarcinomas, pancreatic, lung, makes them hyperquaggulable, they get clots. Where do the clots occur? Usually, the superficial vessels can also occur in the legs. If you have a patient who keeps getting DVTs, recurrent DVTs, recurrent PEs, that is something to think about in this potential condition, especially if it's unprovoked, meaning they don't have a lot of the verco triad risk factors besides an underlying malignancy that's usually there. This is when I would think about it. And then, oftentimes, you won't see this, but think about this as a potential cause of a vegetation on a heart valve, but a negative blood culture, none of the Duke's criteria really suggests this is an infective case, you could be thinking about a non-bacterial thromboendocarditis, a thromboembolic endocriditis. All right, my friends, let's now talk about the next one, which is hypertrophic osteoarthropathy. Sometimes we even call this hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy. You want to know why? Because it can be associated with some type of like lung cancer. And usually, if you guys remember back from the lung cancer lecture, this was usually lung adenocarcinoma. And this is one of the most common of the non-small cell lung cancers, and I would say in general the most common, our lung cancer. Now, with this being said, this cancer, what's the problematic about this one is that it can produce a couple of different types of chemicals. One is it can produce something called platelet-derived growth factor. It also can produce some other ones, other growth factors like vascular endothelial growth factor. Now, when you produce these in large amounts, what happens is the platelet-derived growth factor, this goes and works on your fibroblasts. So here's going to be our fibroblasts. And what it's going to do is it's going to increase your, usually I'd say, your connective tissue, and it's going to act on the osteoblasts and cause the bones to thicken. So it's going to cause connective tissue and bone thickening. That's really one thing that we're going to see. All right, and again, why? Because it's going to act on the fibroblasts. What do fibroblasts do? They're going to lay down a lot of the collagen and extracellular matrix, which is going to be, again, thickening up the periosteum and some of the bone tissue. It's also going to act on the osteoblasts. And that's going to help to increase a lot of your hydroxyapatite, your calcium deposition into the bone, and that's going to thicken up that bone plate and bone tissue as well. So it's usually the combination of these due to platelet-derived growth factor acting on these tissues that is going to cause that bone to thicken up and some of the periosteum around it. What helps in this process is if you have a lot of blood flow to this connective tissue, to the bone tissue, it's going to allow for a lot of these processes to occur. And so another thing that we can appreciate, especially in the periosteum, where you get a good amount of vascular supply, we're going to have a lot of angiogenesis, which is a good amount of blood supply. And so this is the things that I want you guys to remember. So that angiogenesis is really going to help to fuel this process. And really, it's really just going to contribute to this connective tissue and bone thickening. Now, what would this look like? I'm not kidding. You're going to look like you got spoons for fingers. So it's going to cause digital clubbing. And so it's going to cause clubbing of the digits or digital clubbing. And that's what it's going to look like. You could eat a bowl of Cheerios with these fingers. All right. Sorry. That is called digital clubbing. All right. So that covers hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy. Again, big thing, notes associated with a pulmonary condition, lung cancer. Usually, growth factors. Growth factors cause bone connective tissue production, especially around the areas of the digits. Also, lots of blood supply to the periosteum, where we're going to allow for these processes to occur. And you're going to get some big spoon fingers where you could eat, you know, fruity pebbles pretty easily. All right. Let's move on to the next one, polysathemia. All right. So the next one is polysathemia. This one is again associated with this perineal plastic syndrome. We see this more, I'd say, most commonly with renal cell carcinoma. In a small percentage of cases, you may see this associated with a patocellular carcinoma. What do these tumors do? They will produce a hormone that should generally not be produced in large amounts by these organs, especially like a cancer. Now, your kidney does produce EPO. So it's usually a cancer of that kidney. That's why you see it more often, renal cell carcinoma. That's going to produce a ton of erythropoietin. A little bit of erythropoietin is made by the liver. So whenever you get a cancer of the hepatocytes, you can get a little bit of a bump in the EPO. So these EPO levels go up. Erythropoietin. Erythropoietin acts on what? Acts on the bone marrow, especially the red bone marrow. Stimulates the red bone marrow to say, hey, kick it in gear. Let's go. Make some red cells, bruh. And that's what's going to happen is you're going to pump out these red cells. Now, the problem with increasing the number of red blood cells is that you do what? You increase the mass of red blood cells. And whenever I have too many red blood cells, especially in a vessel, imagine here I got a vessel and I'm filling this thing with a bunch of red cells, right? What's going to happen? Enough of these, I'm going to start increasing the viscosity. And that's what you start to see. You see a real significant bump in the viscosity of blood flow. Sometimes, I'd say sometimes, it's not often, but sometimes you can get enough of these red blood cells where they really start to clump up and get stuck in vessels. And so not only do you increase the risk of having a bump in their viscosity of the blood flow, which is kind of the, it's not going to flow laminarly. It's going to be more turbulent. It's going to be very, very sluggish flow. But also, you increase the risk of thrombi. So you can even cause thrombus formation. All right. So thrombi formation as well. These are the two things I think they're kind of really, really important to consider when you talk about polycythemia. And again, it's not vera, meaning it's from a bone cancer. This is actually due to some type of secondary process, usually with reputant production of riotumers such as the kidney or the liver. What happens when you have too much of these red cells? Well, we know that it bumps up the viscosity or it can cause thrombi. What happens is when you have what's called a condition called, it's actually called hyper viscosity syndrome. And we can see this in this condition. If you guys remember back to the myeloproliferative neoplasia, you can even see this in essential thrombocytemia. But it's a triad. It's a triad of presentations that we oftentimes see. And usually what happens is you may have some kind of reduced blood flow to the circulatory vessels in the brain. What was these called? That's your circle of willis bruh. Right. There could be a potential reduced flow in these. And so what happens is you may have some slight ischemia due to reduced blood flow to the brain tissue. This can cause things like headache. This can cause things like altered mental status. It can even potentially, I'm not even kidding, cause stroke symptoms, some stroke like symptoms. So you may have some focal neuro deficits potentially due to some slight ischemia due to the hyper viscosity causing a lot of reduced blood flow. The other one is that you're going to clog up the retinal veins. And so these veins get clogged up and you can't get blood out of them. And so they get really, really engorged. And because of that, it can cause things like papillodema, which is kind of enlargement of the papilla, a lot of edema around that area and the optic disc. And also sometimes it gets way too engorged and under pressure that some of the small retinal vessels bleed. And so this can cause visual changes due to retinal hemorrhages or papillodema. So you can even get visual changes. And then the last thing is it also causes potential problems. So one of the things that we see and people don't think about what polycythemia is, it's actually really interesting. It's not just red cells. Theoretically, you can have an increase in platelets. You can have an increase in white cells too. It's just the primary lineage that gets affected is going to be the red cells. But sometimes if you have too many platelets, what happens is that those platelets sequester the von Wilderbrot factor. And so you can kind of get like a von Wilderbrot disease. You don't have enough platelets to start clogging up holes. I'm sorry, you don't have enough von Wilderbrot factor to allow for activation of platelets to clog up those holes. And so these patients can actually experience some bleeding, some muco-cutaneous bleeding. And so that's where we see potentially this presentation as well. So some muco-cutaneous bleeding. So whenever you think about this triad, the hyperviscocity syndrome, that's what I want you to think about as potentially with polycythemia. The other ones, because that can get caused clots at unusual locations. You can see clots in the apatic veins. What's that called? This is called Bud Kiari syndrome. How does Bud Kiari syndrome present? This presents with apatomegaly, increased LFTs, potentially some ascites due to apatic vein occlusion. It could also occur in the portal veins or the mesenteric veins. And so you can even get some type of portal vein thrombosis as well. And I won't write down the other one, but you can even get some mesenteric vein thrombosis. And so this can also cause ascites. It may cause some kind of swelling of the GIT as well. So these are things to definitely potentially consider. So clots in unusual locations, you should also consider a condition like polycythemia, especially Bud Kiari syndrome. All right, polycythemia, I think we roasted that one. The last thing I want to talk about is a dermal condition called acanthosis nigra cans and lesser trilotsyme. With these, this is oftentimes most associated with gastric adenocarcinoma. So with gastric adenocarcinoma, usually there is diffuse type and there's intestinal type. Intestinal type is the most common, you'll probably see that more often with this one. But when we talk about gastric cancer, especially gastric adenocarcinoma, these tumors have the ability to produce a couple of different types of chemical factors. And what are they? Well, the big ones that I want you guys to remember is going to be different types of growth factors. So this could be things like transforming growth factor beta. There could be other ones like epidermal growth factors as well. But these ones are off the chain. You pump out a lot of these things, man. And what happens is they get down into the skin tissue and they start acting on the skin tissue. What happens is transforming growth factor beta and epidermal growth factors, they love to bind onto these receptors on your keratinocytes, on your skin cells. So here we'll represent this like epidermal growth factor. This may be used to transform and growth factor beta. But what's going to happen is it's going to cause these keratinocytes and all these skin cells to undergo a lot of cellular proliferation. Those are going to increase cell proliferation. Now, if we cause a lot of cell proliferation of the skin tissue, it's going to cause maybe some thickening and some abnormal skin lesions to start being generated as a result here. What could that look like? Well, I'm glad you asked. So with acanthosis nigricans, we'll put that one here. We'll put acanthosis nigricans in here. We'll put less circular. These ones present with very specific lesions. Oftentimes with acanthosis nigricans, this affects usually the axilla. You may even see it near the nether regions. But the other one is if let's say that this is the back of the head, right? You may see this also kind of on the neck. So you may see this in the groin. You may see this in the axillary regions. And you also may see this on the back of the neck. It's a thick velvety kind of like skin appearance that you would appreciate here as well. Very hyperpigmented as well. The other one is lesser trilotsine. This one is actually called, it's a very itchy suborheic keratosis that we actually want to think about here. And this one is going to more commonly occur on the trunk. And this is going to occur on the trunk because it could be on the actual front or it could be on the back. So suborheic keratosis is a very itchy, kind of like larger, popular appearance. And this could be due to lots of say the proliferation in the skin. And again, what do we see this in? Most often, gastric adenocarcinoma. All right, my friends. So let's start off first, really taking a systematic approach to each one of these. So SIADH, we talk about this a lot in our sodium disorders lecture, but this might be a quick little recap again in a patient who has an underlying malignancy. I think one of the key things is you may find a patient who has a low serum sodium, right? That's usually the key thing. Now, that hyponatremia, it could be completely asymptomatic. It may be silent and you just find only the hyponatremia itself on their serum chemistry. However, they may come in with signs of hyponatremia related to cerebral edema or related to cortical irritability, which could be things like headache, altered mental status, seizures, right? So this is their clinical presentation. You may get some labs find that they have hyponatremia or they may have no symptoms and have hyponatremia. One of the other things I think that really helps to think about likely SIADH is if they have a known malignancy or even some type of intracranial process, like a bleed or some type of like pathology, like a tumor. Those are things where you really, really want to be thinking about a likelihood of SIADH. However, we can't rule out that it couldn't be something else. So what do we do? Well, again, I think it's best to always just make sure that you check the serum sodium and really, really think about what's going on here. And if that serum sodium, serum sodium really is low, one of the best things to do is to make sure that it's truly hypotonic, hyponatremia and not hypertonic or isotonic. And so you check the serum osmolality. If that serum osmolality is low, that's what really suggests a hypotonic type of solution. And that's going to be kind of then taking you into the direction of, okay, could this be something that is hypovalemic, uvalemic or hypervalemic? And I think that's super crucial. So before we do that, once we've determined that it is a hypotonic, hyponatremia, we ruled out the hypertonics, right? Which is usually the things like, you think about oddly, you know, usually these are things whenever a patient has a like an extremely high glucose, or they've been given manateal, something like that of that nature, whereas someone who is a high isotonic hyponatremia, that's usually more of a laboratory artifact, things like high triglycerides or heavy amounts of proteins that are kind of throwing off the machine. But now that we've confirmed that it's low, all we got to say is, okay, what's ADH doing? Is ADH really high and it's tapping into the kidneys and telling the kidneys to, you know, reabsorb a lot of water and so they don't have a lot of water in their urine? Or is it telling it to really tap in and really, you know, really absorb a lot of that water? So that's what we want to know is what's ADH doing? Is it tapping in and pulling water? Is it not? And so that urine osmolotomy is going to be super helpful. Also volume status, I want to know, are they hypervalemic? Something like CHF or, you know, a very bad serotic, sometimes even end stage renal disease or those who have like an acute kidney injury, that could be a hypervalemic state. Are they hypovalemic? So that they have massive, you know, nausea like that caused vomiting. So their exorcist level vomiting across the room. They've got a Poonami and they're just drizzling out the Hershey squirts and losing volume. Is it something else? Right? So those are very common things. Are they getting over-diarrheased? These are all things to be thinking about and really considering. So the concept behind the urinosmolotomy, we dig in a little bit deeper. You think about anything that causes a reduction in your circulation, your effect of arterial blood volume. Your kidney is going to try to do something about that and it's going to say, oh crap, there's less volume. I better start retaining water. All right. And that activates your renangiotensin aldosterone system, the other name, ROS. And also in patients who have SIADH, which is just an inappropriate production, it's just your posterior pituitaries pumping out of the age. Again, could be due to malignancy, could be due to drugs, could be due to pulmonary diseases, could be due to an intracranial process. There's so many things that can cause this pain can do this. But either way, both of those things are leading to a bump in the ADH. And if that ADH is there and the kidneys are responding, it's going to reabsorb that water and then you're going to have less of that water in the urine. And that means that the urine is going to be very, very concentrated. So it's going to be a hypertonic type of urine. And so that's where the urinosmolotomy would be high. And so that's what I would expect in an SIADH case is I'd expect a high urinosmolotomy. Whereas if someone had like a low-slaw intake, like a tea and toast diet, they had a high water intake, so they had that primary polydipsia. And again, usually something like beer podomania is another one to think about with the low-slaw intake. And in general, what that does is it decreases your plasma osmolality. Your kidney isn't just able to really kind of like modulate these processes appropriately. And so what happens is the plasma osmolality goes down. Well, your pituitary doesn't respond to a low plasma osmolality, it responds to a high. And so in this situation, the ADH levels tend to kind of be suppressed. And so the ADH isn't working on the kidney, therefore you're not reabsorbing a lot of that water more. The water ends up in your urine. And so that causes the urine to become a little bit more dilute if you think about it. And again, we go less than 100, but oftentimes in severe cases like beer podomania, tea and toast diet, primary psychogenic polydipsia, people who are on hemodialysis in-state where they just don't make much urine, and they just retain a lot of their water. This is usually the things that we would think about. All right. So again, hypervolimic is very easy to identify. We, especially on your exams, not in true clinical reality, it's actually quite challenging, but reduced skin turquoise, so you're pulling up on that skin. And when you pull up on it, if it bounces back, that usually could be an indication that you're well hydrated. But if it's reduced, that could be an indication of hypervolimia, not a perfect one. Kind of a dry, mucous membranes, including the tongue that looks a little bit fissured, that could be a potential suggestion as well. Hypervolimic, you're looking at JVD. Again, you're looking for that jugular vein to be a little bit more distended, telling me that the right atrial pressure, centrivenous pressure is high. Pulmonary edema, pulmonary interstitial pressures, I mean the capillary wedge pressure is just a little bit high, so more fluid is...  leaking out, again, could be an indication of someone having heart failure or volume overload. Lower extremity edema, again, could be indicative of more of a heart failure overload situation. You can see this in cirrhotics, you can see this in kidney disease. And again, acides, acides is a pretty common one, especially in extreme volume overload states. So these are things to really be considering. But let's say that the patient had a high urinozmalality, that means ADH is on, it's definitely making the water pretty concentrated, and it's eulemic. Well, then you get to a very small number of things. It's usually either due to some type of cortisol problem. So usually we would think about this in a hypocortisol state, or hypothyroidism. So hypothyroidism can also potentially do this as well. So that's something I would be considering. So I'd get a TFTs and I'd check my cortisol, see what that comes out to be. If the cortisol is low, the thyroid function tests come back, showing me that I have a hypothyroid state, okay, it's not SADH. I have to truly exclude these to really make the diagnosis. So if it comes back normal, then I probably have SADH. But in this case, since everything that we talked about up to this point is that it came from an ectopic site like a lung mass, which is a really, really common one, that's what you're going to be thinking about. At this point, once you've done that, you then have to start searching for where it's coming from. And that's where I would do things like get a chest X-ray or a chest CT, you may find that mass. And then from there you can determine, okay, they may have small cell lung cancer. That's causing this potential issue. So that's how I would go about that one. Cushing syndrome, again, a similar concept here. Again, we're taking multiple different systems and putting this together. So it may seem like a lot, I know, but just hang in there with me. So with Cushing's, obviously the key way that you'll see this on the exam is a patient's going to come and they're going to have that swole moon face. They're going to have the buffalo hump. They're going to have some type of abdominal striate. They may have very thin arms, lots of bruising. Sometimes you may have hyperglycemia or refractory hypertension. Those are all things to definitely be considering. And then a lot of abdominal. So they're very thin in the arms, but they have a very obese kind of abdomen. And so those are things that are kind of like a, maybe a telltale sign on the exam. When they have a known history of cancer, especially small cell lung cancer, this really screams like a Cushing's type of presentation, which is a perineoplastic effect here. So what I like to do is always when you think that a patient may have Cushing's is you get the cortisol screening test. So this is the salivary one. You can do the low dose dexamethasone suppression test. You can do a urinary cortisol and just check all of those. And at least if one or two of those are positive, then you got to move on to the next step, which is testing them. So let's say that you have a high cortisol on those screening tests. So then from there, you want to determine where is that actual cortisol really coming from? Is it coming from the adrenal gland because it's got a tumor there? Or is it coming from somewhere else? Like something else is releasing ACTH like the pituitary or another tumor that's telling the adrenal gland to pump out cortisol. So in this situation, I would expect the ACTH levels to be high because it's coming from a source. And then you got to determine, is it the pituitary or is it the actual like the lung in this case? That's where you do the high dose dexamethasone suppression test. You give them cortisol essentially because dexamethasone is a steroid and it'll eventually kind of get that effect of cortisol. So once you do that, the cortisol level should spike. Now in the pituitary, if it's normal, usually it'll suppress. Even if there's a pituitary adenoma, if you give a high enough dose, it will suppress the pituitary and it should shut down the ACTH. But if the ACTH levels still remain high, despite giving them a high dose dexamethasone, it's not coming from the pituitary. It's likely coming from an ectopic source. And so that's where we would think about this being an ectopic source. And we'd start imaging them to find where that's coming from. All right. Lambertine myosthenic syndrome. You would see this in a patient who comes in, usually on the exam, with proximal muscle weakness. That's usually going to be kind of the biggest thing. They may also have this listed into the vignette where that weakness usually kind of, I would say, gets better with exertion as compared to myosthenia gravis. And that's what's weird. So Lambertine myosthenic syndrome is they have proximal muscle weakness, but it can actually get a little bit better as you try to exert them. Whereas with myosthenia gravis, which we'll talk about, that one actually tends to have proximal muscle weakness that gets worse with exertional activities. And so that's something to definitely think about. So usually between the two, the first thing is to just see if the nerves are actually working and to see that if you stimulate them, what type of response are you getting? And that's the key because with Lambertine myosthenic syndrome, you're getting the antibodies are attacking the voltage-eated calcium channels. And that's why you would get these probably in combination if you have any concern with the acetylcholine receptor antibodies as well. That would definitely be something that you'd be checking with myosthenia gravis that just kind of rolled the two out. But either way, if you did the nerve stimulation test, let's say that you do that and you check like a baseline, usually what you'll see is you'll see this kind of waveform. When you then do kind of like exercise, you should see that there should be an increase because the muscle is getting activated, the nerve is firing. So you should see this kind of expected increase in amplitude. When you take a patient who has Lambertine myosthenic syndrome and you kind of change how much you hit them with kind of that increasing voltage, what you'll notice is that with repetitive stimulation at a very fast frequency, they'll have an incremental response. And I think that's the key term to remember. So with increasing repetitive like stimulation at high frequency, they will have an incremental response if it's Lambertine. Whereas with myosthenia gravis, they usually have a decremental response and I'll show you that afterwards. Now the incremental response is one thing, but the telltale sign is the antibody. So you want to check these antibodies and see if they have serum antibodies with the anti-voltage gated calcium channel. Sometimes they'll even be written as anti-P slash Q. That's just kind of like the presynaptic voltage gated calcium channel antibodies. If those come back positive and you get a nerve stimulation test like this, it's highly likely that it's Lambertine syndrome. Alright. Now, hypercalcium amyloignancy is a pretty interesting one because a lot of the times we think about calcium causing those presentations of stones, bones, groans, throes, psychiatric overtones and you may get that. But a lot of the times it may just be like dehydration. They may have some like neurological abnormalities where they have some irritability or psychosis and things like that. That's really what I would want you guys to be thinking about. They also could have some bone pain. But regardless, one of the key things is a patient would have a very abrupt increase in their calcium. So the calcium may have been like 7.8 or 8. something before and all of a sudden it's like 14. That new onset and very severe hypercalcium is what really should trigger you to think about that. Now, the first thing that you always want to do whenever a calcium level is off is to see what's going on with the PTH because that will then guide you to the parathyroid or somewhere else. So the PTH level in this case, the hypercalcium amyloignancy usually there's a couple sources. It's either because of a lytic lesion of the bone. It's because of PTHRP or it's because of elevated vitamin D. And in all of these scenarios, all of the PTH should be suppressed. So if I check this, it should be low and that tells me that it's a PTH independent process. And I got to figure out what are the other potential triggers, if you will. So I'm going to check the PTHRP because that'll tell me if it's that squamous cell carcinoma, which we see most often, most often in the lungs. Calcitriol would be if I had potentially like a lymphoma. Extremely rare, but Hodgkin's lymphoma can cause an increase in alpha-1 hydroxylase. So can things like sarcoidosis and then alkaline phosphatase. If you have a massive amount of bone turnover, that's really going to kind of jack up your alfos, especially if your PTHRP and your calcitriol levels tend to be kind of in that normal range. That's something I would think about. So let's say that we went this route. PTHRP is high, which one? I would start thinking about squamous cell and I'd probably image the lungs. If I had a high alfos, okay, well that's definitely going to make me think about a bone turnover. Well, let me get a skeletal service. Let me get a bunch of x-rays and see if I can find any evidence of lytic lesions. Usually the culprit here is multiple myeloma. That's a really, really big one. Breast cancer can also do this too. And lung cancer. So I would start kind of serving and saying, okay, here's some ribs. Do I see anything abnormal? This looks a little wonky right here. There's definitely something going on here. And they probably got a lytic lesion there on the ribs. Here, this is like supravious. It looks like Swiss cheese. There's like holes all over the place, right? So that's definitely some lytic lesions of the vertebrae, which is a very common source. And then this is another one that really screams like multiple myeloma too, is you got all these lytic lesions on the skull. So this is something that really tells me that there's something going on where there's a bone chewing process and it's probably from a cancer that's metastasized to the bone and it's just eroding the bone, all right? All right. The last one is if that calcetriol is high. So if that's high, that's when I start thinking about things like lymphoma or some type of granulomitous disease. And then we can kind of do like lymph node biopsies from there, obviously, if there's an affected one. But that's kind of the way that we go about this, all right? Now, these neurological ones are kind of hard. They're not easy because they're kind of like an autoimmune process, if you will. And so a lot of the times we just have to get LPs. So when you got a patient who comes in and they have like symptoms like this, it's so hard to know, is it a stroke? Is it a seizure? Is there something else going on? Like, I don't know. Is it a tumor? And so you can have things like a taxid, dysarthria, and a stagymus. There could be a lot of different neurological diseases that cause this. It doesn't make you think right away about this. So obviously the first thing that you would probably do is get some type of image of the brain. Some people may go for a CT, but a brain MRI is going to be kind of the best quality one because it's going to show you, is there a bleed? Is there a stroke? Is there a tumor? Is there any kind of like highlighting and weird patterns, especially on that T2 flare that suggests maybe kind of like an autoimmune process? And so that's what I would say, but oftentimes here's the problem. With cerebellar degeneration, it's usually just atrophy over time. We don't really see like a normal or abnormal. It's kind of like variable. You may get some hyperintensities, but they don't mean anything. What you may actually see is a little bit of atrophy if they've been dealing with this for a long period of time. But this one, I don't want you to get too worried. It's just you're probably going to get an MRI. It's going to rule out a stroke. It's going to rule out a bleed. It's going to rule out any kind of like tumor. You're going to be left with maybe some vague things that don't tell you a lot. So then what you may do is if the patient continues to proceed with these symptoms as you may get an LP. And the whole point of LP is ruling out other things like, I know it's unlikely, but is there things like meningitis? They probably have other symptoms, but let me rule that out. And is this cancer? Is this an autoimmune process? And so that's where the LP will really, really come in handy is telling us what else is going on. And once you're tapping in there, what you're really looking for is you're looking to see is there any kind of like antibodies that are coming present in this case? So we're going to send those off and you're going to see is there any anti-yo antibodies, especially that suggests more of a breast ovarian cancer where that tumor really led to an autoimmune process that then attacked the cerebellum. That's something to think about. Anti-Who is almost always suggestive of the lung. And then anti-TR, that's a really odd one, but that can make you think about lymphoma. All right. And usually the one that you're probably going to see more likely, if you do see this on the exam is that anti-Who. So don't forget that one. All right. So the next thing is kind of similar with the perineoplastic encephalomyelitis. When you think about this one, again, it's not going to be someone who is going to be like a super obvious presentation. Now, anytime a person comes in with a nuance that seizure, you should always suspect some kind of like structural process, whether it be a tumor, whether it be a bleed, whether it be some type of like really large ischemic stroke or sometimes even things like meningitis or encephalomyelitis that's not infectious, it's autoimmune. And so those are always on the docket. And again, it'll lead you to an LP in some way, shape or form to kind of prove that and rule out a lot of other things. But we've got to get imaging first, right? So whenever a person comes in with like... Oh. The fuck happened there? All right. So same thing with... A patient comes in with like something like perineoplastic encephalomyelitis. It is not something that you think about. It's again, it's kind of more like a zebra diagnosis. So usually how you make these kinds of diagnosis is you exclude a lot of other things. So, for example, a patient comes in with a nuance that seizure, there could be a plethora of causes, right? Patient comes in with like confusion or cognitive deficits. There's a large differential. So there's a lot of things, a focal neural deficit, lots of differentials. So you have to start kind of like thinking about that. So when a patient comes in with a nuance that seizure, that's probably a really, really big one, maybe some cognitive behavioral changes. Those are things that I'm going to get a prime image of some sort, right? I'm going to probably start off with either CT MRI, just see if I can find something going on, whether it's a bleed, whether it's a stroke, whether it's a tumor, whether it's some type of like hyperintensities that are showing up that could signal something like encephalitis or myelitis or meningitis, anything like that that I can look further into. So if I do that and I were able to stroke a bleed, a tumor, anything abnormal, but maybe I find some like areas of hyperintensities, especially in areas like this could be explaining some of the memory and cognitive behavioral deficits. This could be explaining some of the focal deficits, but there's lots of these like, you know, hyperintensities that are appearing on that T2 flare. That really would make me a little bit kind of like, all right, something's definitely not normal here. I think I need to do an LP. And that's really what would take me to the next step. Is this something that is usually autoimmune and infectious? Is it cancer? Let me just kind of go from there. And that's where I would then tap into saying, let me get an LP. Let me check that CSF. Let me make sure that there's no virus. Make sure that there's no kind of infectious like bacterial pathogens. Make sure there's no fungus. Make sure that there's no cancers like tumor cells. Check any weird antibodies. And so that's what I'm going to do. And I send that off, make sure I rule out infection, make sure that I rule out any kind of like weird thing like that and any kind of other cancers. But then from there say, could this be an autoimmune process? And that's when I would check those antibodies. I would check the anti-who, which again is small cell lung cancer. And I would also check the anti-NMDA, which is usually kind of a very interesting one, but it's something that we can see with ovarian teratomas, which is like that Frankenstein tumor where it contains like muscle and bone and nerves and teeth and stuff like that in an ovarian tumor. But that's how I want you guys to think about this one. All right. Dermatomyositis is something that is usually going to be presented on the exam pretty obviously in a patient who may have, again, some proximal muscle weakness. The other thing is that they're going to have skin lesions. So that's the name Dermatot. There's probably going to be some type of dermal or skin lesion. And then myositis. There's going to be inflammatory processes involved in the muscles, which is going to lead to myalgia and weakness. So pain and soreness of the muscles and weakness associated with it. So usually the key terms that you want to look for is a gotron's papules or a heliotroparousion. Sometimes maybe you see a shawl sign, but that's usually less associated with cancerous lesions. So this is going to be your gotron's papules. You're going to see kind of like these weird lesions that are usually going to be on the hands. All right. And then the other one is going to be the heliotroparous, which is usually going to be somewhere around the eyelids and just below the eyelids. So these are going to be something I really, really think about if you see this on your exam, you hear those terms, think about Dermatomyositis, especially if it's associated with muscle weakness. Now, CK levels will help us to see is there any kind of muscle damage, which you get in Dermatomyositis because autoantibodies are attacking the muscle. It's causing damage to the actual skeletal muscle and it's going to leak out some of the things like CK and another enzyme called aldolase. And so the CK level, I would expect to be elevated. And sometimes aldolase, which is another enzyme, can be elevated as well. When that happens, there's a lot of different things that you have to think through. Could this be like a medication effect? Could they have had like a seizure? Could there's a lot of things that can cause a rise and see, okay, was it a crush injury, a rabdo, all of these things? And so you have to start thinking about those processes. But in this patient, if you rule out those things in their history, you may start thinking about some type of an autoimmune process. And you may by chance order an antibody profile. And there's a bunch of them. There's two of them that I think are more likely to be associated with cancer. That's about like 30% of cases. And that's the anti-TIF gamma or the anti-NXP2 antibodies. I don't think that you're going to probably be tested on this. But what they may ask you to do is to get a biopsy. And so if they say that there's positive antibodies, they have an elevated CK, they have this kind of clinical presentation, the biopsy may be the way to go for these patients to really kind of determine that. Because there's dermatomyositis, polymyositis, and inclusion body myopathy, that's something to definitely consider. All right. Now, myocinic gravuses, again, if you go back to Lambert Eaton, it's that proximal muscle weakness, but this one gets worse with exertion. They also usually have the 3Ds, Diplopia, Dysphagia, Disarthria. So they have double vision, which is the Diplopia. Dysphagia, which is the difficulty in swallowing, and dysarthria is the difficulty with their speech or their articulation may be affected. And again, a lot of this gets worse and later in the day, because they've been using these muscles and by the time it gets to the end of the day, those muscles are so fatigued that they are just extremely weak. One of the tests that we used to do in ICU is you test their strength of how long they could hold their eyes upwards, like having them look upwards for a while. And you do that in the morning, see how well they could do it, and do it in the evening. And you would notice that the eyes would just fall back down because of the fatigue. So that's something to definitely think about here. Again, you're going to do that nerve stem test if you have a really high degree of suspicion in this particular scenario, and you're going to get those antisethylcholine receptor antibodies. And if you ever had a concern of the Lambert Eaton, you might get the anti-PQVGCC antibodies. Another one that's also commonly ordered with myocenia gravis is the anti-musk antibodies. So sometimes that can also be listed in your exams as well. A lot of the times the antisethylcholine receptor antibodies is going to be the gold standard, though. So if I do this, I'm going to notice a difference in the nerve stimulation test and a different antibody that comes up positive. So here what I would notice is as I kind of go with my stimulation, like the actual kind of like stimulation of the actual the muscle and the nerve, what I would notice here is a change in their response. And it's almost like a U-shape. So it's almost like a reverse bell curve, if you will. So you notice that as I continue to keep stimulating the muscle, what do I notice as I go from 1 to 6? It starts to decrease and then it kind of moves its way back up. So with repetitive stimulation at a very slow frequency, we notice a decremental response with myocenia gravis. So Lambert Eaton incremental myocenia decremental response. And again, their antibodies are going to be that kind of like dead giveaway, the one kind of slams the diagnosis in your face. And that's myocenia gravis. Again, you can see that more with like a thymoma. Whereas someone with Lambert Eaton syndrome, you're probably going to see that more with like a small cell lung cancer. All right. Okay. Truso syndrome is an interesting one. This is definitely more of a clinical diagnosis. It's not something that you're probably going to see too much. I won't spend a lot of time. But in a patient who has like, you know, DVTs, PEs, maybe recurrent migratory thrombophlebitis, maybe they have like an embolic phenomenon. And real quick, recurrent migratory thrombophilitis is they have these red, tender, hard vessels that usually you can see. It's usually in the upper extremities, sometimes in the lower extremities. But it's pretty obvious they have these red, tender palpable cords in their arms that are due to the inflammation and clots that are in those superficial vessels. So they can get deep clots like DVTs and PEs. They can get superficial clots. They can get embolic phenomenon. So if one of those clots break off, they can move up and cause a stroke. They can cause acute limb ischemia. They can cause a mesenteric ischemia, lots of different things like that. And if they have known malignancies, and the two most common ones associated with your so's is usually going to be pancreatic adenocarcinoma and lung cancer, usually adenocarcinoma. So what happens is when you have a patient who has these kinds of things, you may do things like coagulation studies to figure out if they have some type of hypercoagulable state. Especially if it's recurrent, if they have some of those particular risk factors like a family history, they have recurrent unprovoked DVTs, PEs, things like that I think is really important to consider. And so you may order that. I think the other thing is that if you have any kind of concerns with these patients, sometimes blood cultures are helpful because these patients, they can kind of look like they have like sometimes like an infective endocarditis, and it's always good to get those blood cultures and make sure that they're negative. And echo could show, and the reason why I say the blood cultures is sometimes trisocinium can cause a non-bacterial kind of like thrombotic endocarditis and NBTE. So you can get an echo and you may see what looks like kind of like a vegetation on the actual valves. And this could be a non-bacterial type of thrombotic emboli. And so then you would get the blood cultures that come back negative, and that may tell you that this isn't truly an infective endocarditis. And so that's one thing I would do is I'd get the echo, make sure that if you see any of those kinds of like valvular vegetations, get the blood cultures, make sure those are negative, and check the coag studies. Usually what's going to happen is these patients, they're coagulation studies, they shouldn't really be abnormal. Their blood culture should be pretty much normal, and you may see some of those heart valves with some kind of weird vegetations. That may make you think about it. I think that's when you consider Tristocentrum. But again, this is not an easy diagnosis. This is more of one of those where it's like, if you think about it, it's usually going to be presented where you have a patient who has a known malignancy. They're presenting with these kinds of like clinical symptoms. They may give you some of these like elapsed to kind of throw you off a little bit and ask you what type of like condition do you think that they're displaying. And that's what would be Tristocentrum. All right. Polycythemia. This one's interesting because usually with these patients, if we talked about this in our kind of like myeloproliferative neoplasias, this one is usually aquagenic parietus. If you see that exam, boom, that's what you should think about. Hyperviscocetase syndrome is another one where they can have bleeding. So usually this is mucocutaneous bleeding. They can have usually things like headaches and vision changes. And that's really going to make you concerned because the high viscosity is reducing blood flow to the brain and out of the eyes. And so that's why they get the vision changes. That's why I get the headaches and the altered mental status and they get the bleeding because it kind of can tie up, especially with the platelets, if they're making too many platelets as well associated with the red cells, it can tie up all of that von Wilderbrot factor. So they have less of that to actually generate a good clot. So hyperviscocetase syndrome is going to be one of the big things. Aquagenic parietus and recurrent thrombosis is a really big one. And polycythemia tends to love more of your hepatic veins. So they like to get like Bud Kiari syndrome and portal vein thrombosis. So it's kind of interesting to think about that one. But either way, what you would do is let's say that they presented with some of these symptoms and then you had to ask for a lab or you got a lab and you got a CBC, what would you see? You see probably a high hemoglobin and hematocrypt, pretty dang high. And that would make you think about polycythemia. So then the next question is, is where is that coming from? Is it a secondary or is it a primary source? And so you check an epolevel because epolevels, if they're really, really high, that tells you it's coming from somewhere else. It's probably coming from something like the kidneys because of a tumor or it's coming from the kidneys because of high, because of hypoxemia. Or is it coming from the bone marrow? So is there some type of Jack 2 mutation that's causing an abnormality and causing this hyperactive activity of the Jack 2 stat pathway? And this is leading to excessive proliferation of red cells and maybe even platelets of white cells. And so that's kind of the way that we would go with this. So if I checked it and epolevel is high, that tells me that this is coming from the kidney and I need to figure out the source. That would be kind of the issue here. And so the next thing is I would check the Jack 2 mutation and that would tell me, okay, it's not coming from the bone marrow, so it's not in the kind of myeloproliferative neoplasia. And if I checked the ABG and it shows me that there is no hypoxemia, so it's not an oxygen deprivation kind of cause that's leading to an increase in epoproduction. That means it's probably coming from the kidney. And that would make me think about a renal cell carcinoma. So what I would do is I would probably image the actual kidneys, maybe do an ultrasound or just CT of the actual abdomen with contrast and then see if I can find any kind of tumor that is causing this. All right. So I think the last thing to think about here is whenever we talk about neoplasics, we talked about a lot of them and how to really think about these on the vignette and clinically. But what about when you have the determination to say, what do I do for them? How do I treat them? With SI-80H a lot of the times it's just simple. For that mild case where it's not too bad, maybe the sodium is like 132, 130. It's not too low. You could just restrict some of their fluid intake so that they stop banking all of that water. If they're drinking three to four liters of water a day, they're going to bank all of that because the 88H is just going to keep absorbing it or reabsorbing it. So restrict some of that and give them some salt tabs and that's going to help to increase their sodium incrementally. That's really the key thing. If it continues to get worse, that's when I start to say, okay, maybe should we do something else. Because again, if you think about this, if you give someone sodium chloride tablets, they're going to absorb some of that and that's going to get into the blood. It's going to increase the serum sodium, but it's not going to be much. It's maybe like one milli-equivalent, two milli-equivalents. It's not going to be a ton. And again, if you decrease their intake, that's really where you're going to have your best bank for your buck because if you decrease that intake of water, that means that less of the kidney is going to be reabsorbing that and that's going to cause less dilution of the serum sodium. So that's really where the money is at is the fluid restriction. But the thing that comes into the next step is let's say that you have a patient who is, they're still not, and this is all outpatient stuff. You're not going to be really doing a lot of other things. Inpatient you might be doing things like hypertonics. We'll talk about that. The next step is the 88H antagonist. So sometimes you can do this as well. Sometimes you can even do diuretics. So we can even sometimes do diuretics as well. We used to do that a lot. You used to give loop diuretics as well to really get rid of some of the excess water. You just got to be careful because you could easily overshoot it. But either way, 88H antagonist would be the next go to if you're more in that moderate, you're not really responding well. So this is things like Tolvaptan and basically what it's going to do is it's going to block 88H. So essentially, 88H is going to bind to the receptor and cause the water reabsorption. If you block that effect, what are you going to do? You're not going to allow for that water reabsorption. So you're going to dump a lot of water into the urine. But that can actually cause the sodium to correct pretty quickly. So you got to be really, really careful with 88H antagonist because it can definitely rebound and cause hypernatremia sometimes. The last thing I think that's really, really important here is in patients who have a severe and acute, like symptomatic kind of hyponatremia where they're coming in season, they have entanglement or cranial pressure. Their sodium is less than 120. And this has happened within the past like 24, 40 hours. Then you got to go really aggressive and you got to get a lot of sodium into their blood stream quickly because you want to either get them to stop seizing, you want to drop their intra-caneal pressure, you want to get that sodium up so that they don't continue to have these symptoms. And so that's when you would kind of hit something like a hypertonic saline. And basically, you're just pushing in a super salty solution into their bloodstream to really rise that serum sodium. All right. Cushing syndrome is actually pretty straightforward. So the problem here is cortisol. Regardless, if it's coming from ACTH from the actual lung tumor, it's causing cortisol to go up and that's what's causing the disease processes. You just have to figure out a way to shut that down. And so how would you do that? It's kind of weird. It's an anti-fungal, but it has the ability to inhibit some of the enzymes that are involved in steroid hormone synthesis, especially cortisol. Another one is metirapone. But either way, both of these could be utilized. There's like no pick this one over this one. You can use both of these. Again, in this situation, you have a tumor that's pumping out ACTH. It's telling the actual adrenal gland to pump out cortisol. If you give something that can work at the actual adrenal cortex and inhibit the enzymes, doesn't matter if ACTH is present or not, it's not going to allow for that adrenal cortex, which is responding well to things like ketoconal metirapone. It's going to shut it down and it's going to not allow for that cortisol to continue to be elevated. Ultimately, you're going to have to remove the lung cancer if possible. That's usually the thing that we'll talk about at the end is ultimately the primary treatment goal is the treatment of the underlying lignancy. You can do all of these things that we're going to talk about, but it's just a band-aid. That's all it is. It's treating the symptoms. It's not treating the root cause. That's super-criticable. We'll highlight that as the big theme at the end. I'm just on my soapbox here. Lamboridine Myostatic Syndrome. With this one, it's the antibodies. What should you do? Attack the antibodies. What we can do is we can use a drug called M-famprodine. This one is really interesting. It's a weird mechanism, but you're going to use this in more of that mild to moderate cases where they're not in full respiratory stress. This is a Lamboridine just like a Myocinagravus. It involves usually your muscles or the proximal limbs. It can eventually move to the diaphragm. Once you hit the diaphragm, that's when you start experiencing respiratory distress. That's when we have to do things like IVIG or Plex. That really attacks the antibodies. In this case where it's maybe a little bit more mild, it's not super severe. You're not having respiratory distress or difficulty with their breathing, their niffs, all of those things are really good, which is, again, their negative inspiratory force, which is a measure, somewhat of a good measure, of the respiratory pulmonary function. If those niffs are being affected, then you might start saying, I'm a little bit nervous. Maybe we should start IVIG or we should start Plex. Either way, M-famprodine is really going to be the go-to. What it does is it blocks specific channels. You have the sodium channels, which are the voltage-gated sodium channels, which allows for the action potential. You have the voltage-gated potassium channels, which allows for that repolarization effect. What if I shut down the potassium channels? If I do that, what I do is I overload in a little bit that nerve and I allow for it to continue to allow.  fracalsium to really push in. So I overload it and I give an opportunity for calcium to push in. Even those antibodies are trying to block those channels, I allow it to be somewhat depolarized and because of that, that's going to help the nerve to overcome this inhibition by the antibodies and spill out the acetylcholine. When it does that acetylcholine now that it's actually spilling out because it wasn't spilling out before, guess what? It's going to hit that receptor, the like-angiated ion channel, open up for sodium to rush in. So, it is going to cause the actual muscle to depolarize, it's going to contract, and you're going to start noticing some of the weakness, start to dissipate or strength start to increase. If they're in a full-on respiratory distress state, amyfamperidine is not going to be the way to go. I need something that's going to be quick and very powerful, and I got to tie up those antibodies. That's where IVIG or Plex comes in. You guys remember Plex, Plasmas Exchanges, essentially you're removing the blood which contains these kind of the antibodies, the anti-VGCC antibodies, anti-voltage, anti-calcium channel antibodies, which are usually the presynaptic ones. You're removing them, running through them through a filter, removing all of those antibodies, and then giving them their blood back free of those antibodies. That's the goal so that they stop hitting that calcium channel. IVIG is another way of binding to those antibodies. You're just giving them to block those antibodies, and if you remove the antibodies or you block the antibodies, you block that consistent calcium movement. You're not allowing for that to block calcium movement inwards. Calcium will then allow it to rush in. If it rushes in, it can really help to spill out the acetylcholine, really help to increase the sodium entry, really help to depolarize that muscle and contract the muscle, and improve that underlying weakness. That's what I want you to think about there. Pretty cool, right? All right. Hypercalcium in malignancy, we've talked about this one I think like a thousand times, but hey, repetition is the key. It's always about space repetition and medicine. IV fluids is always going to be your first go-to in a malignancy case because usually they appear with a pretty acute onset and they're going to get dehydrated. The concept behind this is that calcium is inhibiting ADH. It's causing like a nephrogenic DI. It's blocking ADH at the receptor and you're peeing out tons of volume. You have to replace that volume and help them to get eubolimics. IV fluids is the case. Calcitonin is great because it shuts off the osteoclast and helps to stimulate the osteoblast a little bit. It also kind of reincorporates some of the calcium back into the bone and really, really shuts down that calcium, the bone resorption that's occurring. That's going to be very acute and it's going to be a very short duration. It's just going to get you that acute, quick, quick thing that we need. We need something long-term after this and that's where bisphosphonates or dinosomab come into play. You can consider steroids the only time and write this down. Please, please, please think about this is if they have lymphoma. Otherwise, don't even do steroids. IV fluids, calcitonin, bisphosphonates or dinosomab between the two. That's the tri that you want. That's going to be in the severe symptomatic hypercalcium use of their symptomatic, calcium greater than 12 or asymptomatic, doesn't matter, calcium greater than 14. You're hitting them with these three things. The concept behind this is that plasma cells like in multiple myeloma, they release lots of ligands. Rank ligands are really, really big one and this is one of the problematic ones that we see here. Hits that rank receptor, releases hydrochloric acid, collagenases from the osteoclast. They start ripping through the bone. That's what really gives you a lot of these lytic lesions and then they liberate calcium from the bone. That's what gives you the hypercalcemia. When we think about that, we also have a calcitonin receptor. Calcitonin, when it hits that, actually helps to do what? Well, it actually helps to shut the osteoclast down. It says, all right, osteoclast. I'm going to shut you down. I'm going to actually allow for the osteoblast to do their thing for a little bit. What I want you to do is to stop releasing hydrochloric acid in the collagen, stop chewing up the bone and stop liberating calcium. That's going to give you that quick little hit. The bizphosphonates, on the other hand, those are cool where they're going to be a little bit more long-term and the reason why is the mechanism that they have to do. These are usually your first line. This is your dronate. Alan dronate, Zolan dronate, they're a bunch of them. It inhibits the osteoclast from proliferating. I take some time, but it also shifts the osteoclast. If you inhibit the osteoclast from proliferating, you have less of them. Less of them to release hydrochloric acid, less to release collagenase, less lytic lesions, less calcium. Here's the key thing. It also induces apoptosis. It kills them. The long-term effect is that you have less of these osteoclasts really, really chewing through the bone. That's the benefit of this one. There is another one called dinosumab. I don't have it written down in the therapy section, but we only really use this one in patients who have contraindications to bizphosphonates. It's either bizphosphonates or dinosumab. The only real consideration here is dinosumab is more of an injection. When we give this one, we can do this in patients who maybe have a little bit of some renal failure. If their kidneys aren't that great, bizphosphonates could make it a little bit worse. Dinosumab would be another viable option. Dinosumab will give this one. It's basically going to bind to the actual rank ligand. When cancers are releasing the rank ligand, we can bind to that and block it. It doesn't hit the rank receptor. It doesn't release the hydrochloric acid. The collagenase, the relicis, the lytic lesions reduces the calcium liberation. That's a really cool mechanism. I really like that. The steroids, really, that's just for shutting down the alpha-1 hydroxylase in lymphoma, so that you stop making a lot of that calcitrile. That's really the mechanisms there in explaining this, but really that's the go-to. With perineoplastic cerebellum generation, perineoplastic encephalomyelitis, this is an autoimmune process that's due to from a cancer. It's always going to be steroids. Because those antibodies can be tied up, you can even do IVIG or PLEX. It's always going to be high-dose steroids, especially if there's any neurological deficits. Usually if they're not responding to that, it's pretty severe. We then go to the next step, which is usually your IVIG. Again, concept here is that these plasma cells are pumping out those antibodies, the anti-yo, the anti-hoo, the anti-TR, the anti-NMDA antibodies. They're damaging different areas of the brain. That's where you're getting a lot of these kinds of problems. Corticosteroids really just shut down that process. You're going to get less of these antibodies being produced. IVIG or PLEX, they block the antibodies themselves and they block them from binding on to the neurological tissue, which causes this damage. That's the way I want you guys to think about that. Oftentimes, what will happen in true clinical reality is when we get these patients and we see them and we get an MRI, we're getting an LP, we're waiting for the LP, we'll hit them with a dose of steroids. If we've ruled out the infectious etiologies and things like that, cancers, we'll hit them with a dose of polsto steroids and see how they respond. If they don't get better, we may do IVIG or PLEX. Sometimes you can do all of these things and you end up doing both, high dose steroids and IVIG or PLEX. Sometimes they'll respond and you don't have to do the IVIG or PLEX, but it's usually one of these or the other. You're not doing both of these. If you do them, it's better to always do PLEX first and then IVIG because if you do IVIG and PLEX, you'll remove all the antibodies that you give and you just wasted all of that product. That's something to think about. The goal is to reduce the inflammation of the brain and the cerebellum and also up the spinal cord. Dermatomyocytes is the same thing. It's these autoantibodies. It's the anti-TIF gamma. It's the anti-NXP2. These are causing muscle damage and skin lesions. How do I really approach this is the question. Stareids are usually going to be a lot of the go-to. That's going to be for the acute flare. When a patient has an acute flare or they have these skin lesions, they have these muscle problems, we'll do steroids. That's really going to be the go-to. For long-term remission, keeping them from having these acute flare-ups and keeping them under control is where we'll do things like DMAR. Things like methotrexate, things like azathioprene. Those are going to be more for your long-term control. The concept behind this is that your T cells, really they're releasing cytokines undesirably. These cytokines are telling your B cells to turn into plasma cells and plasma cells to make antibodies. The antibodies that cause vasculopathy. All vessels become inflamed and injured. That affects the muscles and that affects the dermis. That's when you get the skin lesions and that's when you get the myositis. Corticosteroids are designed to inhibit those T cells. Methotrexate is designed to inhibit those T cells. Azathioprene is designed to inhibit those T cells and B cells. If you're shutting all of these pathways down, think about that. You're shutting down this, that's going to lead to that reduction in vasculopathy and help to improve those skin lesions. That's the concept I want you to think about here. Myostenia gravis, with this one, it's similar to the Lambert etin. We don't do steroids though because when you think about, I'm sorry, we don't do the Amethanpridine, which is the one that blocks the voltage-gated potassium channels. In this case, we actually want to block an enzyme. The gold standard, you can do steroids and myostenia gravis, you can. It actually can worsen myopathy, but we like to prefer preferably go with something like an acetylcholine esterase inhibitor. This is usually going to be something like peritostigmy. Peritostigmy is really, really cool. What happens here is when you release acetylcholine, it binds onto those ligand-gated ion channels and then helps to go all over the sodium to come in, depolarize the muscle, lead to contraction eventually. Sometimes what happens is the acetylcholine, after it's done doing its function, it has to get removed. We have this enzyme called acetylcholine esterase and that degrades the acetylcholine into acetylcholine and acetic acid. It should get recycled and then make more acetylcholine. I want to keep enough acetylcholine in the synapse is to overcome or beat out, to competitively beat out those antibodies. Those anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies that are hanging out around here and it's bumping the acetylcholine out the way. It's like, no, bro, I get that receptor. I get that receptor. I want to keep the acetylcholine in the synapse so it can beat it out and bind to the receptor and push that sodium in. I decrease its degradation. That would be cool, right? Right now it's low. It's getting degraded. I'm going to give predestinate me. I'm going to inhibit this enzyme. I'm going to prevent this process. What's going to happen to these acetylcholine levels in the synapse is going to go up. What's it going to do is going to beat that antibody out. Then what's going to happen? It's going to bind to that receptor. It's going to open the ligand gated ion channel. Sodium is going to flush in. It's going to depolarize. It's going to contract. We may notice some improvement in their weakness over time. IVRG or Plex is really more for that severe case. They are not responding well to the peritostigmine. They're having some respiratory distress that's hitting the diaphragm now. That's when we'll start reaching for the IVRG or Plex. All we're doing is, remember, plasma cells are making the acetylcholine receptor antibodies. Those things are blocking the acetylcholine from binding to the receptor. If I either remove it via Plex or block it via IVRG, I'm fixing the underlying issue. Pretty cool, right? If I do that, acetylcholine can bind. Sodium can come in. I can influx it. I can depolarize it. I can contract that muscle, baby. The next thing to think about is that, again, myosinographis usually is associated with a thymoma. What do we do? We cut that poppy out. That's really going to fix the underlying disease here, somewhat. Pso syndrome is they're just super hypercoagulable. Again, obviously, you've got to treat the underlying malignancy, but until then, you've got to figure out a way to prevent them from developing DVTs, PEs, recurrent migratory thromophilitis, NVTEs, embolic phenomenon, et cetera. When you think about this, when we're going to be doing these to prevent these scenarios or treat those unfortunate scenarios, we're giving something like heparin because what heparin is going to do is it's going to increase antithrombin three. That's then going to degrade or break down other pro-thrombotic agents, things like factors 10, factor 9, and thrombin. If you decrease these, you decrease the coagulation cascade activity. You're going to decrease the formation of a secondary hemostatic plug. By doing that, you're going to prevent the clots from forming. That's really the key thing here is why we would do things like heparin. Again, it's just going to be a bridge. You got to treat the underlying issues so that it stops occurring where you have this heithrombotic state. Again, in things like Trousseau syndrome, they're pumping out lots of mucin. They're making a lot of factor, three- or tissue factor. We got to just figure out a way to stop it. It remains removing the tumor. Polycythemia is one of those things where it seems like it would be super complicated, but it's relatively not. A lot of the times, if they have a lot of these hyperviscosity syndromes, we can do things like you can do things like where you actually give them like Jack stat inhibitors. A lot of the times with these patients, you can probably get away with just phlebotomizing them. What that means is you just remove some of their blood. You drop their hemoglobin. You drop their hematocrit. It just helps to reduce the risk of that hyperviscosity syndrome in those recurrent thrombosis. It's also never a bad idea. As long as their plate levels aren't super high, like greater than one or 1.5 million, I would say you could even give them some aspirin. Oftentimes, phlebotomy and aspirin are the way to go, but if they continue to occur and they continue to not get any better with this or they're not doing well with that, that's probably when I would reach for a Jack II inhibitor in these patients, like Ruxalitinib. That's it. I think this is really the key. It should be the most paramount thing that you remember. No matter what you do with all of these treatments, it's treating the symptoms. You got to treat the underlying disease or these things will just keep happening. This is a perfect example. If it's due to a thymoma, you cut that thymoma out, you're going to see some benefit. It's important to treat the underlying cancer to allow for true resolution of these syndrome because it's the tumor that's putting out these hormones. It's the tumor that has antigens that are similar to other antigens in the body that our immune system is responding to and producing autoantibodies against. That's what I want you to remember. My friends, I really hope you liked this lecture. I really did. Man, I love you guys. You guys are so awesome. Thank you so much. Love you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Paraneoplastic Syndromes ｜ Podcast [dyOfuvFdk5Q].txt ===

 and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, but sometimes another way that you can describe a perineoplastic syndrome is not just hormones, but these tumors have antigens and your immune system can sometimes produce antibodies that are designed to be against those tumor antigens, but they attack other tissues that have similar molecular mimicry. So I think the overall definition is kind of like proteins that are either produced by the tumor, usually hormonal, that can act on other different kind of target organs, or it's usually kind of an autoimmune phenomenon that's usually related to tumor antigens where those antibodies attack other tissues besides the tumor. So I think that's the best way of describing it. Alright, well we have a lot of cases here, but they're short and they're packed with info. Yeah, yeah, there's a lot of different types of perineoplastic syndromes. I think we'll hit the top tier ones along the way, which is the ones that you'll probably get tested on in the exam, which is what we really want to focus on here. So we'll definitely focus on those, but just know that there is many of them. Okay, case one, we have a 65 year old man. He is a 55 pack year smoker, three weeks of morning headaches, nausea, gait unsteadiness, and worsening confusion. No diuretics, no polydipsia. For his review of systems, we note a mild cough, an eight pound unintentional weight loss. For his vitals, we have BP's 132 over 78, heart rate is 92, he's a fibril. For his exam, he's uvelemic. There's no edema, moist mucus membranes, normal, normal JVP and clear lungs. So overall, we've got some good information here, but what I'm really concerned about is he's been smoking for half a century. He's been smoking for a bit, right? When you really think about it, that's not good. So with this great person, obviously we're about lung cancer, and since we're talking about perineal plastic syndrome, it's oftentimes a cancer that is causing this process where the tumor gains the capacity to produce hormones. Usually small cell lung cancer is the most common neuroendocrine tumor. And when that terminology, you think about neuroendocrine tumor, you think about the capacity to gain the ability to produce hormones. And usually one of them is ADH. It could also be like ACTH, so they can get Coaching Syndrome as well. And then there's also tumor antigens that can mimic other types of, let's say proteins present on our terminals, on the pre-synaptic neurons going to our muscles. And so you can get something called Lambertian syndrome too. So these are three common perineal plastic syndromes that are associated with small cell lung cancer. That's what I'm going with. I'm going with that. And I'm guessing that this patient probably has SIADH. The reason why I think that, and it's just me assuming it kind of off of this, is we have a patient with lung cancer, and then we hear the term headaches, nausea, gait unsteadyness, and worsening confusion. So obviously something cerebral is going on here. Headaches, nausea, gait unsteadyness, and then the worsening confusion could be some kind of cerebral edema due to pretty bad hyponatremia. So that's what I'm thinking. Well, where do you start then? We have a lot of information. Are there any tests or first diagnostic imaging you would go for? Yeah, there's a lot of things that you can come up with. But the first thing I need to do is prove that they have hyponatremia. So I start with a BMP. And that would at least give me most of my serum chemistry and kind of give me a good thing to start off with. Based upon the sodium, if it is low, I want to make sure that it's actually hypotonic hyponatremia. So I'd check a serum osmolality. From there, that would tell me if it's truly hypotonic versus if it's isotonic, which is more of that kind of not really true, or of the hypertonic, which can be due to things like hyperglycemia, man, and tall stuff like that. So I'll do that second. Then after that, based upon the serum osmolality, I'd probably get a urinosmolality to tell me if this is more the weird kind of scenarios where they're having a low-solute intake and a little bit too much water intake. And that would be things like in-stage renal disease, primary polydipsia, teen and toast diet, all those things that we talked about before, beer potomania, and the sodium disorders lecture. From there, I would kind of tell me if I have more of a patient who's really looking like they're in the ADHD dependent process. And then from there, I would look at the volume size, which you already kind of gave me, their uvelemic. So it doesn't give me a lot of large differential for uvelemic, thankfully. So from there, if I think that I have a patient with SAADH, I also have to rule out things like hypothyroidism, adrenal insufficiency. So I would also check that if that got me to that point. And then from there, I'm pretty sure that this patient, just based upon the vignette, it's like a perfect, perfect picture. Probably has lung cancer, so I'd probably get a chest X-ray or chest CT, depending upon what the chest X-ray got solved, showed me. So that's kind of the ways that I would go. Get the BMP, get the urinosmolality. Urine sodium, here, there, with it, it kind of depends, usually, and uvelemic patients, I don't kind of bank on it too much, but it might be helpful. And then, I would check the thyroid function, and I would check a cortisol, and then, chest X, right, and start it off, with, all right, so, I have all those results, here, for you, the tests, that, you, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, So our sodium is 118. Wow! Not good. No. Serum osmolality is 260. Urine osmolality is 550. Urine sodium is 48. And the TSH and AM cortisol is normal. For the imaging on our chest x-ray, we note right hyalurfulness within op for a non-contrast CT. And we find a 3.8 centimeter central mass with bulky nodes. Yeah. So it sounds like S80H. And the reason why I say that is you have low sodium, so you have hypotentremia. Check the serum osms to make sure it's actually true, like hypotonic hypotentremia. You said it was low, 260. So that's hypotonic. Urine osmolality, if it's less than like 100, we go to the beer podomania. We go to the psychogenic polydipsia. We go to T and toast diet. We go to end stage renal disease. But we don't have that. Ours is greater than 300, which puts us into the ADH-dependent processes. So then from there, you look at the volume status to know if it's hypo-euvolimic, hypervolimic. We're in the euvolimic category, so that rules out a lot of the other kind of complications. Urine sodium is high, which again, that doesn't always mean a lot when you're in the euvolimic camp. So then I look at the thyroid function test in the cortisol normal. Rules out hypothyroidism, rules out the adrenal insufficiency. So at that point, we're left with a diagnosis of exclusion, which is S80H. And then the chest x-ray confirms that we have a likely source of that ectopic ADH production with the lung mass. So that's definitely, from here, we got S80H, my friend. All right, so S80H, likely perineoplastic from small cell lung cancer. What do you do for this patient? How do we manage him? Well, usually if it's like, this is pretty severe. So this is usually less than, sodium less than 120, which is a cute drop in the sodium. Severe, less than 120, or symptomatic hyponatremia is always hypertonic saline, 3%, bolsum, nail it. And then I would go to try to push that sodium up. Don't go more than 6 to 8. All right, and remember, sodium disorders lecture, you can risk the ODS, the Osmotic Demonation Syndrome, or another term of central pontine myelinalysis. So you don't wanna go, there's a lot of literature out there that says like you can do eight to 10. Used to be that one, newer literature is suggesting 6 to 8. I would say at least within that eight range. Don't go greater than that. But 6 to 8 is what I like to go off of. And then if it was mild, I could probably just do like fluid restriction, restrict their fluid intake to like maybe, it's hard to keep things less than like 1.5 liters a day. So I'd probably go like no greater than, two liters, even that's a little kind of tough. I'd probably try to just do my best to fluid restrict them. The reason why is if you have a patient who's pumping out ADH, they're gonna bank anything that they drink. So you gotta kind of restrict this so that they're not banking all of that water. And then I give them salt tabs, just simple. It's gonna increase the serum concentration. It might only do like one, two mili equivalents. That's why it's not really good for a severe case like that. And then if it was, let's say that they were on fluid restriction, salt tablets not doing as well. And I just couldn't get that sodium where I wanted it. I would consider things like Vaptans. You just gotta be really careful. Vaptans and ADH antagonists, so it's gonna block ADH and they are going to pee a lot of water. So you can actually put them into DI and cause them to rebound really quick. They can develop hypernatremia. What about the most important thing is the underlying issue? The lung cancer, what are you doing there? Yeah, so while you're doing all these things until you treat the underlying disease, it'll probably just continue to occur and you're just treating, you're kind of just putting a bandaid on it. So obviously treatment of the underlying disease, in this case they have likely small cell lung cancer. So you're kind of limited with chemo-radiation therapies, really all you're gonna have. Depending upon this, I mean, they have some bulky nodes and stuff like that. If it hasn't gotten to the point where it's kind of spread to the other side, you may even consider prophylactic cranial radiation, but really you're stuck with chemo-radiation therapy. Maybe immunotherapy in some circumstances, but that's pretty much what I think that you're stuck with here. All right, case two. We have a 61-year-old female chronic smoker, four months of progressive proximal muscle weakness. Noticing that on stairs, rising from a chair, it just seems a little more tough for her than usual. Easy bruising, facial rounding. I got that. New onset hypertension and leg edema. So we're noticing some, she's got some fluid there. She's holding on to. Yeah, yeah. It's definitely more like in this case, leg edema hypertension. She looks a little like a Michelin man. So yeah, definitely concerning for, I don't know. Obviously when this scenario here, sounds like lung cancer again, but just because of the chronic smoker, but there's some other things here. Whenever I hear facial rounding, I think of... Cushings. Yeah, yeah, moon face. I got you. You're going for moon face. Yeah. Buffalo hump. Yeah, buffalo hump, bibdominal, striall, that stuff like that. All right, so there's some giveaways right there, but furthermore, the patient also reports acne and mood swings. Her review of system, we note a 12-pound weight gain. Her vitals BP is 168 over 96, heart rate is 98. For her exam, we have facial plethora, thin skin with echemosis, mild petyl edema, and then again, we have that proximal weakness in the hips and shoulders. So we are kind of painting that Cushings. Yeah, yeah, usually everything kind of... So problem with Cushings is that because that cortisol strips the muscle off of your extremities. So usually they have thin kind of like very atrophic, a lot of like, you know, catabolism of the muscle tissue. So that's probably explaining a lot of the proximal muscle weakness in the hips and the shoulders is most likely, and that's explaining their difficulties. It also can lead to lipolysis and fat redistribution. So that's probably why they have the facial rounding. And the thin skin is again, due to collagen, connective tissue destruction, that's a protein that's gonna start thinning the skin and they do get a lot of striae and sometimes echemosis. The hypertension is because cortisol actually does increase the sensitivity of norepinephrine, epinephrine on the vessels. So the beta one receptors are gonna be a little more active and the vasoconstrict more. So that probably explains the hypertension. And then cortisol also can lead to a little bit more sodium and water retention. It has a little bit more of an testosterone effect. So that can increase their blood volume and increase their blood pressure. But on top of that, it can lead to some more swelling and edema too. So I think a lot of this does explain more likely kind of a cushion picture. Question is, is just, all right, cortisol is elevated in this possibly? What's it coming from? Is it coming from the pituitary? Or talking about perineoplastic syndrome, right? So is it coming from the pituitary? Or is it coming from the adrenal cortex? Probably not in this case. Or is it coming from another tumor somewhere else in the body? Probably. We just gotta figure out. Some ectopic. Exactly. All right. Well then, you have an idea of how you wanna differentiate things just to be thorough and you wanna differentiate what you just talked about. How do you do that? You start with screening tests. We talked about this in the adrenal disorders. We talked about this in I think Cushing's. We did a video on that one. So if you guys haven't listened to that one, you can check that out or watch that one. But I would start with the screening tests. I would do, you have a couple different options. Late night salivary cortisol is a decent one. I also like the low-dose dexamethasone suppression test. That's a good one. And then you can also just do the urine. Like a 24-hour urine cortisol. I think the easiest one for people is probably the late night salivary cortisol. Having to collect urine for 24 hours is a little bit more difficult for people. And a low-dose dexamethasone suppression test, you have to get a steroid and then go back and check. So oftentimes late night salivary cortisol is preferable. Sometimes you can even do an AM cortisol, just an early morning cortisol as well. But either way, my goal is to check all of these. And a late night salivary cortisol, it'd be elevated. And a patient who has a 24-hour urine cortisol, it would be elevated. If they had a low-dose dexamethasone suppression test, all this is saying is you give them a little bit of dexamethasone, which is a steroid. It kind of acts like cortisol. So you got to think about your negative feedback mechanisms. You give them a cortisol, cortisol is gonna go. It's gonna shut down the hypothalamus and the antipatuitary. They don't produce ACTH. ACTH is then gonna be not produced as much. That's not gonna stimulate the adrenal cortex to produce cortisol. So you should see the cortisol levels drop in a normal person. But if they have something going on where it doesn't matter that you're giving them this steroid, they'll probably not respond anyway, especially if they have an adrenal tumor, pituitary tumor, or an ectopic site somewhere where it's producing it. It's not gonna respond. So that cortisol will be elevated regardless. And so if you have at least like two, I'd say one or two of those screening tests that are positive, you can go to the next thing, which is then saying, okay, cortisol is elevated despite all these things. Where is it coming from? Check the ACTH, because the ACTH will tell you, ACTH is elevated, that's coming from the pituitary or an ectopic site. If the ACTH is low, that means that the adrenal cortex is producing this and it's shutting down the pituitary from producing ACTH. The third test I would do is based upon the ACTH test is I would do a high dose dexamethasone suppression test, especially if the ACTH is high. The reason why is higher doses of dexamethasone suppresses the pituitary tumor, but it can't suppress an ectopic tumor. And so if I give high dose dexamethasone, it should suppress the pituitary tumor from producing ACTH. But that ectopic site won't respond as much and it'll keep producing ACTH and the cortisol will still be elevated. And if that happens, then I'm gonna go ahead and say it's possible it's an ectopic site. The most common site is usually the lung. So I'd probably maybe do a chest x-ray or scan the chest and see if there's a mass there. So that's kind of the ways that I would go about doing this one. All right, we have the results here for you. The cortisol is elevated on two screenings. ACTH is high. For our dexamethasone suppression test, there is no suppression, she doesn't respond. The CT of the chest, we have a central four centimeter mass with media sinon nodes. We also do a BMP and we have a potassium level of 2.9, bicarb of 32 and a glucose level of 2.12. Yeah, drink a lot of sodies. I'm just gonna say, is that a lot of sodies? Now this is definitely, it sounds like ectopic production because cortisol is elevated so they have something that's causing this cortisol to be high. ACTH is high, which means it's either pituitary or ectopic site, no suppression on high dose. That's more an ectopic site. And CT chest showed the ectopic site being small cell lung cancer, most likely. The other, you know, labs that you gave me is cortisol in high, high amounts can act like aldostrum. And so it can cause proton secretion, which can cause metabolic acolysis. And it can cause potassium secretion, which can cause hypokalemia. And so that's probably what you're seeing here. And the glucose 2.12 is because it causes gluconeogenesis, glycogenolosis, it causes a lot of breakdown. It's more of a catabolic hormone, stress hormone really, long-term stress. So that definitely seems like what's going on here for sure skis. How treat? I kid you not, on my script here, Zach wrote these out. He's a very wonderful writer. He wrote, I kid you not, two words, how treat? So he just expects me to maybe elaborate a little bit more. How we treat, Zach, but how treat? So with this one, obviously you'll notice a theme. It's treatment of the underlying disease is the key thing. So removing the tumor is gonna be the key way. Obviously in small cell lung cancer, that's really difficult. So you're kind of stuck with chemo radiation therapy as the primary kind of like therapy, but it'll likely persist. So what you can do is continue to suppress cortisol synthesis. So you're not gonna be able to stop this tumor unfortunately from being able to grow. You may do something with chemo radiation, but it's not gonna be great or immunotherapy. So you're still gonna have the tumor. So what you're gonna do is you can give something, believe it or not, it's an antifungal, ketoconazole. So ketoconazole in systemic form, when you give it an oral form, it actually can suppress the adrenal cortex, the synthesis of cortisol. There's another one called materipone. I've never used it and I've never seen it, but it is an alternative that you can consider as well. And it's, again, a cortisol synthesis inhibitor. So you'll kind of shut down the synthesis of cortisol. So even if that ectopic site is producing ACTH and it's telling the adrenal cortex to make cortisol, you're putting the brakes on that. You're pumping the brakes on that and shutting down the cortisol synthesis. So that's what I would say would be kind of the ways that we would treat this in the scenario. Other than that, you're kind of just treating the underlying kind of side effects of it. Usually, ketoconazole and materipone, that will kind of help you with the elevated cortisol and you'll pricey an improvement in their blood pressure and improvement is on their electrolyte abnormalities, their glucose, things like that. But I was just gonna ask, what about the potassium? Yeah, I mean, from this, if it was low, 2.9, I would probably replace it. I mean, I'd probably, if they're in the hospital and stuff like that, I'd probably maybe give them some K-Riders IV, but I think you could also just do some oral potassium and let it slowly ride up. But treating the underlying disease, it'll kind of shift that cortisol and back down, which will help to eliminate some of that potassium excretion. Gotcha. How about some of the complications you're most concerned for? In this patient, what do you think we're really at risk for? I think the biggest one is when you have cortisol and it's really high for a long period of time, it does suppress your immune system. And so you do see some increased risk of infections. Hyperglycemia is another one. So one of the things I get scared about is if you have a patient who has diabetes or they have underlying history of hyperglycemia and you give them steroids, you run that risk of them having some higher, higher glucoses. And so you could push them, especially if they have diabetes, into a diabetic ketoacidosis. Sometimes you may not push them into that, but into the hyperglycemic hyperosmolar syndrome. So those are the things I get worried about. If you're on steroids for a long time, it can cause the muscles because you're causing so much catabolism, is what I worry about with McGee. He's on steroids. It's my dog, he's a principal, like he's got some spinal issues, but he's on steroids. And when you're on them for a long period of time, it actually can just strip away the muscle. So they can get myopathies. And over time, that can cause them to lose some of that strength. And so that's one of the things I get a little bit worried about as well. But that would be the biggest things, I would say it would be the concern is kind of infections, hyperglycemia, and kind of just overall weakness, especially that they are weak at this point. All right. I'm noticing a trend here. If you haven't watched our lecture on lung cancer, you probably should. Yeah, I know. I know. A lot of small cell lung cancer issues here. Yeah, that's what you notice is that a lot of these perineoplastic syndromes, they're kind of linked back to lung cancer, especially small cell. You'll see there's another one, squamous cell carcinoma. And we talked about this in the Alkologic Emergency that squamous cell carcinoma actually kind of was like, oh, I know what it is. Because you hear that vignette. Squamous cell, adenote, these are really, really big ones. So lung cancer definitely is a knightess a lot for perineoplastic syndromes, you'll see. Case three, we have a 59-year-old male, heavy smoker, five months of progressive proximal leg weakness, more than the arm weakness. He needs his arms in order to push up from a sitting position. He notes dry mouth, constipation, and also erectile dysfunction. The patient has no diphopia or ptosis. And for his review of systems, we have a 10-pound weight loss, chronic cough. For his vitals, they're normal. Neuro exam, we have hip flexors, four out of five strength, patellar achilles reflexes are reduced. And also, which is kind of weird, Zach, we have strength improvement after 10 seconds of a maximal contraction. What does that tell you? It sounds like limbs, Lambert eaten myasthenic syndrome. And really the only thing that kind of tells me that is the strength improves after exertion. Exertion, yeah, that's kind of odd. How does that work? It's usually just repetitive stimulation. So if you have high frequency repetitive stimulation to people who have limbs, limbs is a condition in which the tumor antigens resemble something like the voltage-negated calcium channels on the presynaptic nerve terminals. And so you have antibodies that are produced against these tumor antigens, but they go and they bind onto these voltage-negated calcium channels and they block calcium influx. And then that kind of reduces the acetylcholine release and you get kind of a decreased neuromuscular transmission. If you keep stimulating that muscle with high frequency, kind of constant stimulation, you eventually can cause enough calcium, you can cause enough stimulation where you can overcome that blockage and push enough calcium into the nerve terminal and cause enough acetylcholine release where you can cause the muscle to contract a little bit more powerful. So it would be opposite in this person who has myasthenic gravus. Which usually that's one of the telltale signs is that their strength gets worse with exertion. So we do a lot of tests where we'll kind of have them hold their arms up and see how long they can hold their arms up and stuff. And so we can use it as a way of saying, oh, their strength kind of started, their arms started dropping after 10 seconds. And then you treat them with things like, I used to see a lot of people who were myasthenic crises and so you do things like Plex or IVIG and then what your goal is to see is that strength, can they hold their arms up a little bit longer? How do they look in the beginning of the day as compared to the end of the day when they've been using those extraocular muscles all day? They've been using some of their arm muscles all day. So with this, usually it's kind of the opposite. And also they tend to have autonomic effects too. You don't really get a lot of that, especially when you get the erectile dysfunction, the dry mouth, and then the decreased deep tend to reflexes. So that's interesting in limbs as well. So that's what I'm thinking about is Lambert eating myasthenic syndrome. And again, heavy smoker associated with lung cancer. Myasthenic gravus, usually this could just be, we don't have a lot of great reasons, but we usually associate it with a tumor called a thymoma. So sometimes we can associate it with that. But this is what I'm thinking is limbs. Okay, well then what tests are you gonna order for this patient right away? You can do a nerve stimulation test or even an EMG and stuff like that as well. That's fine. I think the key thing is whenever you see these on the exams, they'll talk about you, you have a repetitive nerve stimulation test. Your high frequency stimulation of the nerve will cause their strength to improve. If you see an incremental response in their actual strength with, or at least the nerve kind of like firing, within high frequency stimulation, then that really suggests more Lambert eating. If you did low frequency stimulation to the nerve and you saw that it had a decremental response, that suggests more myasthenic gravus. But the way that we truly determine this is that it's an antibody. So a lot of this is tumor antigens, antibodies that are being produced against the tumor antigen, but they're attacking the voltage gated calcium channel. So we test what's called an anti-PQ, which is a presynaptic voltage gated calcium channel antibodies. So those come back positive and you see that on the exam, it's Lambert eating myasthenic syndrome. That's gonna be usually the way that we'll kind of look for that more and the true kind of clinical stuff here for your exam. That's what I would start off with. And then again, smoker probably coming from the lung, probably small cell, get some chest imaging to take a look there as well. Okay. Well, we do the repetitive nerve stimulation test. We know an incremental response is present. That anti-voltage gated calcium channel is positive. And then we do a CT of the chest and we find a mediastinal small cell tumor. I don't know how they would know it's small cell off of CT, but hey, we're going off of that. Also, I wrote these. Yeah, I was just gonna say, I'm not gonna lie. I'm just reading what you wrote there. Yeah, I know. But no, in all seriousness, this suggests more limbs. So incremental response to repetitive nerve stimulation, the positive antibodies and the CT showing a lung mass. So yeah, I definitely think that's how it is. All right, well, how treat? I'm just kidding. Seriously, with this patient, there, all right, let's just say we have small cell lung cancer. There's a lot of underlying issues here. Kind of scary, you know, because you're getting a lot of neurologic involvement. Where do you start? I think that the newer drug is, you know, amyfamperine. So it's a newer drug where it's supposed to help to increase the neuromuscular transmission. So, mechanism-wise, it's not as well understood, but from what it's really thought is that it helps to increase a lot of that presynaptic kind of like transmission and increase acetylcholine release into the synapses. And so if you have more acetylcholine release, you're gonna have more of that muscle contraction. So you'll see some improvement in their overall strength, their deep tendon reflexes, things that also the nerves are supplying, which is, you know, your things like your salivary glands. So you'll see an improvement in their dry mouth. So that's what is the first line. But if they were in, I mean, it's not common, but if they had a pretty bad like, let's say respiratory distress, because it does affect skeletal muscles and the lungs are one of them. So if I started to see that the diaphragm was getting affected and they were in respiratory distress, that's when we reached for things that are a little bit more intense that you can't do at home. You can give amyfamprodine at home, but you can't give them IVIG or you can't stick a large catheter into their neck and do what's called plasma ferrisis. So in crises or severe cases where it's really bad or just refractory to amyfamprodine, then I would go with something like IVIG infusion or Plex to see if that can help them. But that's really the key thing there. But as you know, you got to treat the underlying disease. Chemo-radiation therapy until you can kind of get some control. Any complications for this patient to watch out for? It does affect the autonomic nervous system. So I'd watch for swings in there. It's not like Guillain-Barre syndrome. You don't get as much of that one. It's a scary one where I used to have such a hard time when I worked in the right, I had Guillain-Barre syndrome as you would come in. And one of the key things that you would see is that their blood pressure would go, blood pressure heart rate all over the place. They would have so much autonomic instability where you would try to, okay, their blood pressure is like 220 over like 110. All right, let's give them something to kind of like drop their blood pressure. Let's put them on the cartipine infusion. Do a little bit of slow titration. You do that, their blood pressure would drop. And then you're back on them, put them back, put them on, you know, norabinephrine, let's put them on leave effect and increase the blood pressure. And then before you know it, you'd be back up in the swings of it and your heart rate would be all over the place. So crazy balancing act because of that autonomic instability. Yeah, yeah, you can see that with limbs, but I'd say it's nowhere near as severe as Guillain-Barre syndrome. So you can see that, but otherwise I'd say that's the key thing. And then just anything related to any kind of weakness, obviously you run the risk of falls and especially if they're older and frail, you run the risk of like fractures and stuff. But otherwise autonomic instability is maybe something you can't see. Some swings in their blood pressure, heart rate, things like that. Let's move on to the next case. We have a 68 year old man with a history of squamous lung cancer, one week of confusion, constipation, anorexia, polyuria, polydipsia and diffuse fatigue. Right there, what is that telling you? We're talking about perineoplastic. So when you think squamous cell carcinoma and then you hear polyuria and polydipsia, it makes me think about hypercalcemia, like malignancy. Okay. Yeah, that's usually what I go to right away. Just in this scenario. That's your giveaway term there. Yeah, like, cause you know, whenever you have people who have squamous cell lung cancer, you know, it doesn't usually cause like any weird like perineoplastics except for really one. And the one thing that you can get is it can produce a lot of PTHRP. PTHRP increases your calcium reabsorption across the kidneys and causes your osteoclasts to break down more bone. And so you get hypercalcemia, hypercalcemia shuts down the ADH at the kidney and then they just piss. They have tons of polyuria. So is this the whole stones, bones, groans? Yeah. Psychiatric overtones. Yeah, and here you got the psychiatric overtones, the confusion. The groans, constipation, polyureas, the thrones. I'm sure they'll probably have more in here that potentially disrupt some of those. This is really textbook so far. So far, yeah. They got a lot of the pictures here that make it seem like it. All right. Well, for our review of systems, we have, we know mild abdominal pain and there is no bone pain. Vitals, BP is 118 over 74. Heart rate is 104. Our exam, there is dry mucous membranes, reduced skin trigger, no focal bone tenderness. So also some dehydration. Yeah. It seems like, and that's usually the key thing. That's one of the main reasons. I don't like giving fluids, but in hypercalcemia malignancy or severe hypercalcemia, you can't get pretty dehydrated. So you have to. So you have to. Yeah, you gotta give them some fluids. Okay. Where do you start?  and albium. So, if you're a person who's not a high-protein, if you're considering the hypercalcemia, PTHRP, where do you go? I mean, with this one, I could just get a calcium and a PTHRP and call it a day, but I mean, you should always rule out other things. So I would start with just checking that, making sure I just get a basic CMP, see what that gives you, because usually that'll give you the corrected calcium if you do the albium. I like ionized calcium, so I always like to check that one separately. And then I would also check a PTH just to make sure that this is not PTH dependent, meaning that it's not hyperparathyroidism. And then from there, if the PTH is low, I check the PTHRP calcitriol and calcitriol, so I check the both of vitamin Ds. And then I probably even add an alkyphos, but the fact that they don't have a lot of focal bone tenderness, that doesn't mean that they can't have a lot of bone turnover or like a lytic lesion of sort, but I think it's lower, but I'd probably consider an alkyphos, and depending upon that, and the other results, I may have to do more bone scans or skeletal surveys to see if there's lytic lesions. That would be my kind of like full run of the mill kind of like look at it if I'm being thorough. All right, I got some results here for you. Total calcium is 15.6. The ionized is elevated. PTH is low. PTHRP is high. Vitamin D is normal. The alkyphos is normal. And for our ECG, we know a short QT interval. There it is again. We did that in the oncologic emergency. Yep, yep. This is, it seems like this is definitely a hypercalcemia due to squamous alcarcinoma due to the PTHRP. That's what you said before, ECG. The short QT, high calcium, inversely proportionate. Exactly. Other way around. Yeah, inverse proportion, inverse relationship between the QT and the calcium. Yeah. Cool. Yeah, so this is definitely, this is PTHRP related hypercalcemia. Okay, so we know what it is now. How do you treat it? So, they're dehydrated, so I give them some fluid, probably one, two liters to start off with, normal saline. Not usually my first choice, but I like it in this scenario. And then, probably get calcitonin, because that's going to be rapid acting, really short, short like term, but it's going to get a quick little shutdown of the osteoclast. And then I need a long term shutdown of the osteoclast, so I'd reach for bisphosphonates. You can also consider genosomab if the renal function's kind of like iffy, but that would be the way to go in this scenario. So that's what I'd start off with. Hit them with a couple of liters of fluid. Calcitonin right off the get, go along with that. Should we get the calcitonin, maybe a day or two later, I'll start them on bisphosphonates to get a long term control. All right, and then for complications, worry about, obviously renal functions, so maybe A.K.I., arrhythmia's nephrogenic D.I. I think the biggest thing is A.K.I. due to dehydration, nephrogenic D.I., which can worsen A.K.I.s because they're causing you to lose a lot of fluid. And then also hypernatremia. I would worry about that one as well. And then arrhythmia, it's possible, but it's not as likely here. Yeah, I think whenever you worry about calcium, calcium, it can cause arrhythmias, but I'd say I'd be more concerned if it was hypocalcemia combined with low magnesium and low potassium. And like we talked about before in oncologic emergencies, you're more concerned with that long QT interval and progressing into like torsades. Yeah, that would give me a pucker factor. Okay. All right. All right. Well, that was it. Let's go to Case 5. All right. We have a 24-year-old female, previously healthy. She has been having two weeks of escalating anxiety, insomnia, then bizarre behavior and auditory hallucinations. She has three generalized seizures in 48 hours. For her review of systems, low-grade fevers, no travel, vitals, heart rates 112, temp is 37.9 Celsius. For exam, we notice a labile affect, or a facial dyskinesias, autonomic lability, just tachycardia, BP swings, mood swings. What's going on here? This is a lot. I mean, obviously something cerebrals occurring here that's concerning me. So you could have a lot of different things going on here. Seizures. So the first thing I think about is obviously we're talking about patients who have perineoplastic syndrome. You think about a female. There's not a lot of things that cause these kinds of issues if there's a tumor somewhere, except for maybe ovarian cancer. Usually it's small cell lung cancer that causes brain problems like encephalomyelitis or limbic encephalitis or cerebellar degeneration, stuff like that. This seems more just overall central nervous system involvement. Anxiety, insomnia, bizarre behavior. So there's some changes in their overall cognitive effects. They have a having seizures and there's autonomic instability. So it definitely concerns me for some type of encephalomyelitis. So when I see something like this, there's a lot of things that could go on. I'm definitely going to be reaching to get an image right away because there's a lot of things that could be explaining this. The first thing I'd probably do is I'd probably get a head CT, make sure that there's no large stroke, make sure that there's no large bleed or any problems there. Large tumor. From there, if I needed a better look, I'd probably reach for an MRI. I'd probably do brain. I don't think I need spinal cord. I think I just need brain for right now. So I'd probably just do the MRI of the brain. Since they did seize, I want to make sure that I don't miss any seizures. I'd probably do a spot EEG and then a continuous EEG to make sure that I'm not missing any subclinical seizures because you can have patients who seize, especially if they have changes in their overall mental status, their overall cognition, how they act, that their current state as compared to their baseline. If I looked at you and I saw that you were just like this all the time and that's not your normal baseline, okay, just because he's not visibly seizing doesn't mean that he can't be having subclinical seizures. We call it nonconvulsive status epilepticus. So I'd probably do CT, get that first, get them an MRI, get them on EEG right after that. While the MRI is done, I'll take a look, see if I can find anything on that. EEG is going to tell me if I have at least with that spot timeframe, if I have any seizures going on actively, and do a 24-hour one to see if there's any kind of subclinical seizures, anything concerning during that timeframe. Based upon that, there's a lot of things that we could do. I think you would have to look at those things first. Let's say that we looked at the CT, there's no bleed, there's no stroke, there's no tumor, it doesn't even really show you anything. You get a brain MRI. Maybe you see some areas of T2 flare, some hyperintensities. There's a lot of things that can do that as well. Usually it's kind of things like autoimmune. Sometimes it could be old strokes. There's a lot of different things that can cause this. So I would kind of take that with a grain of salt and get any EEG. See if they're actively seizing, seeing if there's any seizure activity. From there, if the MRI doesn't give me anything, especially in these kinds of scenarios, I would probably reach to consider something like a lumbar puncture. So if I did the CT, did the MRI, it's not really yielding any kind of explanation of why all of this is happening. And especially the thing with what I get concerned about is encephalomyelitis. Sometimes you may see leptomeningial enhancement, you may see multifocal white patches or hyperintensities on their T2 flare, their MRI. I get concerned about autoimmune encephalitis or some kind of process like that. So I do an LP, make sure that they don't have meningitis, look to see if they have any kind of infectious processes, and then order kind of like an overall autoimmune panel. So order any kind of antibodies that see if they come back. So that's kind of what I would start off with first and see what that shows me. All right. Well, a couple of things here. You already talked about the MRI, the EEG, which was kind of relatively boring, but we have other things to talk about. Such the CSF from the puncture, we have lymphocytic pleocytosis, normal glucose levels, but we note an anti-NMDA antibody positive. Okay. Yeah. So that's pretty helpful because MRI, the T2 flare changes means that there was probably some multifocal hyperintensities, but you don't know what to make of it. Right. EEG, diffuse slowing just means that there's probably, it could be post-ictal, it could just be the overall effect of an encephalitis going on. The CSF means that they have white cells, but it's primarily lymphocytic. Normal glucose helps to rule out for the most part bacterial infections and things like that. An anti-NMDA positive tells me it's an autoimmune kind of like process, like an encephalitis going on. And that one, so there's anti-HOO and anti-NMDA, which is like a glutamate kind of receptor. And that one's associated with ovarian cancer, a specific one, the Frankenstein tumor, the teratoma. So sometimes you can't see with that. So if I did, I'd probably scan to see if they have any kind of ovarian mass, to see if there's any kind of weird tumor there as well. So you would do maybe an MRI there? Yeah, you could do that one. I'd probably, you know, you could definitely do that. Ultrasound would be another alternative as well, CT. But a lot of the times, if you have MRI at your disposal, definitely get one. For our patient here, let's say the pelvic MRI came back with a 4 centimeter right ovarian teratoma. Yeah. What do you do then? Ovarian from this state, I mean, if they had no varian mass and they had these anti-NMDA positive, that's good enough for me. And then the MRI, the EEG, they didn't really show anything else. And the lumbar puncture didn't show another explanation. It's probably autoimmune encephalitis that's anti-NMDA related. And so from here, it's usually, obviously treat the underlying disease to remove the source of what this is all coming from, oophorectomy, from removing the ovaries. But it's going to be pretty aggressive. And these patients who are in the ICU most likely, they're probably getting, I'd probably start off with polsto steroids. I give them a pretty high dose of steroids right off the get-go. And then what I would do is after I hit them with the polsto steroids, I would see how they respond. If they're not getting any better, I would reach for two options. One is IVIG, one is Plex. I've always found that Plex is a little bit better because it's quicker. So you're going to get a quicker removal of those autoantibodies and you may see some improvement a little bit quicker in these patients. IVIG, I think, takes a little bit longer, but a lot of the studies have shown that they're relatively the same overall long-term in efficacy. So that would be good. I want to do it. I hit them with a good dose of methylprednis alone for a couple of days and get them started on either IVIG or Plex and see if I see any improvement from there. And if they do have any more, they did have seizures. So I'd also put them on an anti-apileptic, probably something like levitarazetam, capra, and that may help to kind of reduce seizure recurrence. From there, that's kind of how I would go treating this one. Okay. Let's move on to case six. We have a 55-year-old woman with three months of progressive proximal muscle weakness. She says it's tough for her to comb her hair, rising from a chair. It's harder than normal. She also has a photosensitive rash, scaly, violacious plaques over her hands. Okay. What do you think of that so far? If we had a picture of it, especially in this scenario, a photosensitive rash, especially with this one, you can see heliotrope rashes sometimes. Then if I saw these plaques on the hands and stuff like that, you can think of, again, this is tough because you don't have the pictures to see it, but goatrim papules can also be seen with this one. But I think the key concept behind this one is when you hear progressive proximal muscle weakness and you're thinking about potentially an underlying perineoplastic syndrome, there is a concept of something, there's a couple of different diseases that cause muscle weakness. We already talked about one, Lambert-Eat Myocenic Syndrome. We talked about another one, Myocenia Gravus kind of briefly, but there's another one called Dermatomyocytus. Dermatomyocytus, as compared to the other condition called Polymyocytus, Polymyocytus is usually something that we see more autoimmune related. It's not usually as heavily associated with malignancies. Dermatomyocytus has about a 30 to 40% association with malignancies, especially breast, ovarian. Those are going to be some big ones as well. I definitely would be concerned about cancer in this scenario of some sort. Could it be an ovarian cancer given it's a female, a breast cancer? It's possible we didn't get as much of the information from this patient yet, but when I think muscle weakness and rash, muscle weakness and skin lesions associated with malignancy or perineoplastic syndrome, I think about Dermatomyocytus. That's what I'm thinking about off the get-go. If I didn't have any pictures to take a look at, Heliotrope Rast, Gotrin's Papules, there's another one that was called a shawl sign across their back, a pretty nasty looking rash on their back as well. Those are things I'd be thinking about right off the get-go here. Skin manifestations, proximal muscle weakness, you're thinking Dermatomyocytus, but possibly a link to ovarian cancer. It's usually things like ovarian cancer, breast cancer. You can even see it in lymphoma as well. There's colorectal cancer. There's a lot of different cancers that this can be associated with. But nonetheless, cancer. What do you then do to try and suss out some more findings here? The first thing I would say is if I had this patient, I would probably start off with just getting maybe a CK, so creatinine kinase. All the ways is another one that can be helpful in these potential situations to tell me if there's again a lot of inflammation of the muscle. Myocytus looking for, again, an elevated CK can help me at least off the get-go. From there, if I really, and it's tough, man. You have to have a pretty high degree of suspicion for these kinds of conditions. This is not easy. You don't just have every patient who has progressive muscle weakness. You're like, I'm going to get a CK and an autolase, and then a myocytus antibody profile. No, I think in this scenario where you have some risk factors here that concern you and the other kind of findings, Dermatomyocytus can be autoimmune related. It can have potentially no bearing on a malignancy, especially if they have the anti-MI2 antibodies, which are the more common classic case. But your other antibodies, anti-TIF, gamma, and anti-NXP2 antibodies, those can be associated with malignancy. I would do a CK, get an autolase. If those come back elevated, I would consider a myocytus antibody profile. That would check the anti-MI2. It would check the anti-TIF1 gamma and the anti-NXP2 antibodies. See if any of those come back positive. If those did, I'd say I prefer to not do a muscle biopsy, but the muscle biopsy would be the gold standard to truly determine it if you really needed to. But then from there, if I find out that they have Dermatomyocytus, I got to figure out where this tumor is coming from. So I would do appropriate cancer screening based upon their age, based upon their symptoms. So that's how I would go about this one. All right. So I have some red fly testing here for you. So the CK was 2,500. The anti-TIF1 gamma was positive. The EMG was myopathic. And we have a biopsy. We do the biopsy. We know periphesicular atrophy. We then take it a step further and say, let's do a transvaginal ultrasound. We know a complex right adnexal mass. Yeah. So this is, it sounds like Dermatomyocytus. You got a high CK, high autolase. The TIF1 gamma is usually pretty commonly associated with malignancies. So that one's a pretty common one. Anti-NXP2, it would be the second one. Anti-MI2 is more associated with your classic autoimmune cases that aren't malignancy associated or perineoplastic associated. So this definitely seems like Dermatomyocytus due to a malignancy. They got the biopsy, again, showing that there's ischemia, necrosis, and atrophy probably of the muscle. And then the transvaginal ultrasound just confirmed that they got ovarian cancer. So that's probably the source of where all of this is coming from. All right. So Dermatomyocytus, ovarian carcinoma. Let's go to the treatment. What do you do now? I'd probably just, you know, same thing treat the endoline cause. For me, it'd be more just removal, oophorectomy if possible. And then from here, you got to hit them pretty hard right off the get go. Kind of like how you would with the patient we just talked about, with the perineoplastic encephalitis or encephalomyelitis. I'm gonna hit them with a pretty good pulse dose of steroids, but you don't do IVIG for these ones or Plex or anything like that. We just put them on steroids, get them to suppress those antibodies and then put them on immunosuppressants long term. So we kind of get control of the ovarian cancer. So I do things like methotrexate or azathioprene after I've kind of stabilized them with steroids going forward. Okay. Are there any complications you're concerned about with this patient? Yeah. I think the big one is dysphagia. So they can have some associated dysphagia in this kind of condition. So I would worry about that. And then potentially with dysphagia, it runs that risk of things like aspiration. So and then aspiration runs the risk of pneumonia. So those are the things I can get concerned about is what the amount of myocytus, if it's getting worse is aspiration. Okay. Let's move on to case seven. All right. We have a 48 year old man with six months of fatigable dyplopia, ptosis that's worse at night, chewing fatigue, a nasal like speech by evening and intermittent dyspnea with colds. For his review of systems, weight is stable, vitals are normal. His exam we note bilateral ptosis that worsens with up gazing, fatigable nasal dysarthria, limb strength normal at rest declines with repetitive use. Yeah. I mean, you probably know what this one is. Yeah, definitely. And it's like you said before, we talked about the limbs. Now we have the opposite. Yeah. And myocinogravus tends to like cause bulbar weakness too. So you definitely get the D's, the dyplopia, the dysarthria, the dysphagia. And then on top of that, you get usually muscle weaknesses that is proximal. But one of the worst things about myocinogravus, especially if you go into a crisis is it can spread to the diaphragm. And so that's when we get kind of concerned is if it gets to the diaphragm, it really can cause problems. But then the other thing with the weaknesses that it gets worse throughout the day, it's fatigable. That's the key term. Yeah. Fatigable. And with repetitive use, it gets weaker. Limited up gaze because their extraocular muscles become affected. They get difficulty being able to lift up their eyes. That was one of the tests that we would often do is I would have a patient to follow my finger and I would hold my finger up for a while and I would have them keep it there. And what you would notice is over time, it would get fatigued and it would start to drop, drop, drop. So that's kind of the things that you look for is these kinds of effects here. You had mentioned before with myocenia gravis, it could be from an underlying thymoma. If you are suspecting that or you have some idea of what could be going on, where do you start first with your testing? I mean with this, antibodies are the best way to go. I mean you could do repetitive nerve stimulation like we did with limbs. That's a classic one for the exam that they'll try to compare to. And all you look for is that term a decremental. So limbs is an incremental response with repetitive high frequency stimulation. Myocenia gravis is a decremental response with repetitive low frequency stimulation. And so that's one thing but I'm looking right at the antibodies. This myocenia gravis is acetylcholine receptor autoantibodies. And if that comes back, well you can have that one and you can also have another one, what the heck is it called, musk. There's a musk and that's a kinase enzyme. That one can also be positive in some cases as well. So I would consider that one if the anti acetylcholine receptor antibodies came back negative, I would just check my musk antibodies as well. Either way, I'm going to check those and see if those come back positive. If those come back positive for your exam, it's myocenia. You can do an EMG if you want to but at this point we have kind of an idea, especially given the clinical symptoms, the antibodies, it's likely myocenia gravis. And then from there, if you really wanted to say, hey, is it coming from the chest, you could probably, I'd probably say acetyl would be better because the chest acetylcholine won't give you any kind of like true look at the mediastinum to look to see if there's a thymic mass. Okay, well we do a couple tests here that you talked about. The acetylcholine receptor antibody is positive. The nerve, we do a nerve simulation. It does show that decremental response. The CT of the chest, we have an anterior mediastinal mass compatible with a thymoma. Yeah, we got my acetyl baby. So what next? So the next thing is treating them with something that's going to, I'd say, problem here is that when patients have these autoantibodies, they bind to the acetylcholine receptors, right? So what we want to try to do is competitively beat out these autoantibodies. We want to increase the concentration of acetylcholine so much that it can start to kind of competitively beat out these antibodies that are binding to the acetylcholine receptor. And so you give a drug called peritostigamine. And peritostigamine is a acetylcholine esterase inhibitor. And essentially what it's going to do is it's going to inhibit acetylcholine esterase. Acetylcholine esterase breaks down acetylcholine. If you don't break down acetylcholine, you have more acetylcholine in the synapse, it's going to start beating out that antibody at the receptor site. It's going to bind to the acetylcholine receptor and you're going to start causing more muscle contraction at that motor implant or that neuromuscular junction. And that's going to start seeing some improvement in their strength. So peritostigamine would probably be the way to go for treating them. If they had respiratory distress, then peritostigamine, we can still do that, but I'm probably going to say let's get the more important thing, which is either blocking the antibodies or removing the antibody. So I go with IVIG or Plex. That would be the way that we do it. Same thing as you talked about in LIMS. If you have that kind of crisis or any kind of respiratory distress, you don't play around. Peritostigamine's fine, you can still do it, but it's preferred to do IVIG or Plex and then start the peritostigamine afterwards. So how about cutting out the tumor? I do a thymectomy for the thymoma if they have that as well. That's definitely going to be helpful against source control in this case. Okay. Now for me, the most concerning complication is going to be the myosthenic crisis. In that scenario, if you have a myosthenic crisis, we're talking respiratory failure. You said you would probably do an IVIG or Plex. Does that change at all? Is there anything else you would do? No, I'd say at this point here that would be my biggest thing for this patient is treating them with peritostigamine. That's going to definitely help with the long term. IVIG or Plex is going to be the big thing for that acute crisis. Otherwise, yeah, I think that would be the primary thing. Also, I would watch out. When you put people, I've never seen it, but it is something that you got to get concerned about whenever you go high doses of peritostigamine. Sometimes you can cause them to go in the opposite direction. This is why you have to then say, oh, dose was a little bit too high in my peritostigamine. I got to drop it down a little bit. You can't get a cholinergic toxicity or a cholinergic crisis. You take them from when they couldn't actually, they had problems with contracting their muscles and moving. You get them to get better and all of a sudden, then you get them a little bit too problematic. What? They're twitching everywhere? They can have a lot of issues, especially significant problems with a lot of their salivary control, their blood pressure, their heart rate, their GIT. They can have a lot of different issues. You can make the problem worse. Cholinergic toxicity is definitely something that you can see if you overdo the peritostigamine. That's the one thing I'd be careful for. Case eight, we have a 62-year-old female and she has two months of migratory painful cord-like superficial thrombophlebitis on her forearms and thighs. My gosh, that was such a long leg thing. Yeah, I really had to drag that one out there. She now is presenting with unilateral leg swelling and pleuritic chest pain. Where do you, where's your mind? I'm curious, where does your mind go? There's so much, I just spit out a whole bunch of terminology here. Where does your mind go? So, you know, with this one, when you have the clots, these painful cord-like, probably waxy wainy, kind of like red cords that are appearing in the arms and legs sometimes, migratory superficial thrombophlebitis, right? Unilateral leg swelling, could it be a DVT since they have clots in their arms? Could they have a DVT possibly? Pleuritic chest pain, did that clot break off? Get into the lungs? Do they have a PE associated with this as well? That's possible. So, definitely there's something that's causing kind of a more of a hypercoagulable or pro-thrombotic state here in this scenario. The pleuritic chest pain just sounded random to me, but that makes sense if it's possible to be. Yeah, it's just the assumption off of this is something I would kind of think about is, did they have clots that broke off and then they got up to the lungs? Obviously, pleuritic chest pain is not the primary way that we would determine it, but it is a symptom. Obviously, things like dyspnea and hypoxia and tachycardia and all these other kind of things would be concerning as well if we had that. Okay, you have an idea here of what's going on. Where do you go next? What testing would you order here? Well, I think we're missing some more parts of the exam. Wouldn't you say here, my friend? Yeah. Yep. Yep. You missed the whole fucking section. My mic. The way my mic is, it's cut off. The way my make it kind of set up. Yeah. No, seriously, it was cut off. It's going to take three business days. Ah, yes. There's a few sentences I missed here. All right, let's head it. All right. So review of systems. We have anorexia, a 15 pound weight loss, vague epigastric pain radiating to her back. That's helpful. Is it? That is helpful. I'm happy to be helpful. She's had no recent surgery. Vitals, heart rate is 108. Respiratory rate is 22. SpO2 is 93% on Romare. For her exam, we have tender arrhythmtis cords, left calf edema, no heart murmur. Does that help you out there? That helps. Okay. Well, now, Zach, where do you go from here? Vague epigastric abdominal pain definitely is helpful here. So that may be something going on with the stomach, the pancreas. Again, pancreatic adenocarcinoma, lung adenocarcinomas. Those are pretty nasty ones where they can cause hypercoagulase. Those are probably the cancers I get worried about causing hypercoagulase for sure. So that's something to think about here. The other thing is that they're vitals. They're a little tachycardic that could be due to the pulmonary embolism, especially if they're the pleurotic chest pain. Rumare, 93%, not hypoxic. I don't think that I don't know what their underlying history is, but it's a little bit on the slightly lower end of normal. Tender arrhythmtis cords, we already know that that's explaining their superficial thromphyl ablitus, left calfedema. It probably explains the DVT. So I don't know. Right off the get go, I'm thinking that they have pancreatic adenocarcinoma. So this sounds like what's called Trissot's syndrome. Yeah. So it's a hypercoagulable state that's due to a musinous adenocarcinoma and two musinous adenocarcinomas that we get worried about is pancreatic and lung adenocarcinomas. So that's what I would be thinking about here. It is probably pancreatic. So that's where I would kind of start off with is, let's see. How would I go about this actually? Okay, first thing, let's see if they have a DVT. You gotta get a Doppler. Yeah, that's good. I'd get like a venous ultrasound. See if there's any, you know, with compression, if there's any good clots there that's actually kind of non-compressable. I probably, since I have kind of like a higher degree of probability of them having a DVT, I may even get like a PE scan. So I may do a CTPA. The other thing that I would say here is once I've diagnosed that they have a DVT or a PE, then you have to start thinking about what's the source of it. So let me give you that first. Okay. Let me give you that first. We do the Doppler. Yeah. We do have an acute DVT. Okay. We do the CTPA and we have a segmental PE. All right. So we got DVT, PE, and we got migratory thrombophilbitis. So you can't ever just assume that this is okay. Just because we're talking about perineoplastic syndrome, we need to be thorough clinicians and say, could there be other reasons why this patient has this? So could it be an inherited thrombophilia? Right, possibly. But usually those are recurrent. Usually those aren't going to happen at a one-time scenario. So usually I'd be more concerned about this is that this was a patient who had recurrent DVTs, recurrent PEs, unexplained issues. I'd probably start off with getting some basic coagulation studies. Make sure that there's no abnormalities in their PT, their PTT, their INR. Make sure that there's no problems with a basic CBC that they have low platelets. I would do all of those tests first to make sure that all of those things are normal and there's no coagulopathy. The other thing here is when you see patients who have these kinds of situations where they have clots like this, I also think it's kind of important to make sure that you think about inherited thrombophilias, yes, coagulopathies, yes, or hypercoagulable states, yes. So definitely get those workups. But in this patient, I also want to make sure that they have no other kind of like clots in other places. So sometimes you get worried about these patients, especially if they do have pancreatic adenocarcinoma. I get worried about something called non-bacterial thromboembolic endocarditis. So it's not infectious. It's kind of like non-bacterial. It's a non-bacterial thromboembolic endocarditis and it happens on the heart valves, especially in the left heart. You can pop one of those puppies off a little clock and go, cause a stroke, cause leg ischemia. So in this patient with superficial migratory thromboflbitis, DVT's, PE's, I also get worried, could they have MBTE. So I'd probably do an echocardiogram in blood cultures just to make sure, hey, is this possibly endocarditis, but it's more MBTE rather than bacterial thromboendocarditis. So that's kind of what I would start off with first is get an echo, look to see if there's anything there, get blood cultures, cause if you have a vegetation, you can't ever assume that this is not infective endocarditis. So I'd look for positive blood culture.  and alkyl-carnitine. There are a lot of things that I could start to think, could this be possibly pancreatic adenocarcinoma? It could be. Starting with the CBC, coagulation studies, they're normal. We then go to the CT of the abdomen, and we know a 3.2 centimeter pancreatic head mass with biliary dilation. We also do the echo, and we have a small sterile aortic cusp vegetation. Blood cultures, we do that as well, they come back negative. They got bunches of clots. They're in hyper-coagulable state. DVTs proved, PEs proved. Visibly, you see the migratory, the superficial thromophobitis, and then you want to make sure that they don't have MBTE. We checked. They do have an MBTE on their aortic valve. Blood cultures to make sure that it's not an infective endocriditis came back negative. For the major criteria for Dukes, I think we've ruled out that. You can still go through the minor criteria as well, and still make sure that you completely rule out infective endocriditis. In this situation, it seems like this is pancreatic adenocarcinoma that's caused this trisso syndrome. How do we treat trisso syndrome? A lot of it is you just have to treat the underlying disease. The pancreatic adenocarcinoma, depending upon where it is, you're going to have to do some kind of resection. Whipple procedure, distal pancreatic tail resection, maybe a splenectomy, things like that. I think that's the big thing, but until then, you have a provoked DVT, a provoked PE. You have to put them on anticoagulation. Since they've had a DVT and PE event, you're on anticoagulation indefinitely until we have changed the decision otherwise. I'd prefer to put them on an anticoagulation. I think heparin is the best for cancers. Lomolecloid heparin would be the preferred. That is a sub-Q injection, so if they didn't feel comfortable with that one, you can consider other alternatives long-term like a DOAC or things like that. That's what I would go through with this one, is I'd definitely put them on anticoagulation. What are you most concerned for with our patient? The next one that I get concerned is that DVT, PE, those are bad. Won't lie. Obviously, PE is pretty bad, but I get worried about strokes. Strokes, acute limb ischemia, so if that MBT flicks a little clawed off, I get worried about that. That's the things I get scared about in the long term is them having strokes or them having acute limb ischemia, splenic ischemia, all kinds of different problems that can arise from an embolic phenomenon. We talked about a whole ton of information today. So much. The stuff we were throwing around, is there anything you want to give a final send off just to wrap this whole podcast episode up? Yeah, I think you can really summarize a lot of this coming down to, we talked about small cell lung cancer a lot. There was a lot of tumors that were related to that one. I said you got to watch the lung cancer. Yeah. You got to make sure you watch it. So small cell lung cancer is a pretty common one that can cause three perineoplastic syndromes, SIADH, Cushings, and limbs. So I would definitely remember that one. Pneumicalsemia, remember that is usually, and these scenarios could be due to high PTHRP, which is in squamous cell, high calcitrile, which is in lymphoma, orlytic lesions and bone kind of like metastasis. So usually things like breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, multiple myeloma. For neurooncologic complexes, so the things that we get worried about is myostenia gravis. I would really worry about that one with your thymomas. Think about thymomas with that one. Baccholine receptor antibodies. For the patients who have perineoplastic encephalomyelitis, I worry about small cell lung cancer with anti-HOO, and I would worry about ovarian teratomas, so the anti-NMDA antibodies. And then the last thing is when you have a patient who is very hyperquaggulable, they have lots of clots. They have risk factors for potentially cancer, pancreatic, and lung. Definitely want to consider things like MBTE, so non-bacterial thrombolymint and endocrinol thrombolymbolic endocrinitis, as well as a lot of the reasons for them having DVTs, PEs, and bollock phenomenon. So that's something to definitely consider in pancreatic and lung adenocarcinomas. I can't wait to see this on the whiteboard. This is going to be a monster. Two whiteboards. It's going to be pretty easily. Easily. Sounds like some fun. Yeah, I think if you guys want a little bit more of a visual explanation, we'll definitely be hitting this on the whiteboard. There'll be tons more that we talk about on the whiteboard that we don't talk about here. Obviously getting into a little bit more of the depths on certain things. So definitely stay tuned. I think that you guys are going to like that. But man, I just thank you guys for hanging in. I thank you guys for listening to the podcast. I hope that you guys really are learning a lot, enjoying it, and just feeling comfortable with these things. And man, I just love you guys. I thank you guys. And as always, until next time.

=== FILE: Photobiomodulation ｜ Class IV Medical Laser Therapy ｜ Summus Horizon [SELWN3ClAGQ].txt ===

 and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, He also suffers from lumbosacral endervitibro dist disease. He also has a subarachnoid diverticulum pushing on his spinal cord. So he has a lot of problems, neurological deficits, ataxia, neuropathic pain, stuff like that that we try to treat. And so one of the things I actually experienced upon his therapy journey is photo biomodulation. It's essentially laser therapy. And I noticed a pretty significant impact in his overall neurological status and some of his actual symptoms. And so for me, that was something I thought I should actually talk to you guys about because it's a noninvasive option. I think it's a great adjunctive therapy. It's not a surgical laser. You're not doing any kind of cutting. It's a very simple, safe therapy that I truly think can maximize a lot of benefits and modern medicine. So let's talk a little bit about that today. So photo biomodulation, what really is it? It's essentially you're using light. Now, what kind of light is the question? It's really you're using what's called non-ionizing light. So non-ionizing, what kind of light? It's usually red or near-infrared. So non-ionizing red or near-infrared light. And what you're doing is you're using a laser. And this laser is essentially going to be attached on, you're going to have this probe. It's going to be placed on the skin. It's kind of just like almost like an ultrasound probe, essentially. You're putting it on the skin. And what it's going to do is it's going to shoot these photons of light into the skin, down to the tissues, into the target area that you're trying to focus on. Once it hits that area, we'll talk about what happens. It's going to absorb that, you know, this chromophores, especially cytochrome-C oxidase. We'll talk about that one. It absorbs that light. And when those photons get absorbed by that cytochrome-C oxidase, it actually helps it to perform a lot of physiological functions. And what is the overall result? Well, there's a couple things that we'll talk about, but I think there's three beautiful things that come from this type of simple therapy. And that is that it can decrease a lot of your pain. It can decrease a lot of the swelling and edema in a tissue. And it can actually speed up a lot of our cellular repair processes. And I think that's a pretty beautiful thing. So again, decreasing pain, decreasing edema, and increasing our repair processes. That's something that I think deserves a little discussion, right? Now when we think about this, let's say that I take this probe and I'll just give you, we're going to do a simulation to show you guys how this thing actually works. But let's say I take the probe, I put it over my arm, and I start shining that light into the skin. Well, what happens is this light from the probe, it's going to start working its way. And there's different wavelengths, and we'll talk about that. But it's going to start moving through the tissue. And as that light penetrates through the tissue, it can reach different depths. And that depths are dependent upon a lot of different things. It's dependent upon the chromophores that are in that tissue. It's dependent upon the melanin in the skin. It's dependent upon the size of the patient, but it's also dependent upon the type of laser that you're using. There's different classes of laser. The laser that we're going to be showing you guys today is called a class four laser. So these are lasers that essentially, they're FDA cleared. And so what they allow us to do is they allow for us to utilize a basically a way of penetrating deep into the tissue and fast enough into the tissue that we reduce a lot of the reflection of light, the scattering of light. We can maximize the penetration on that tissue. And so the way that we do that is that these class four lasers allow for us to use a specific power. And so they use a power that is usually greater than 0.5 Watts. And again, the benefit of this is that we get deeper penetration and faster penetration of that light. So deep penetration of light. And the benefit of that is if we can penetrate that light deep into the tissues where the muscles, the joints, the bones, the tendons are, you can get these physiological effects that we want to talk about. But the other thing is that you're going to get faster penetration of that light. And that's going to help to reduce a lot of the scattering of light, a lot of the reflection of light and make sure that we kind of focus on one honed in area. So again, photobiomodulation is the utilization of non-ionizing red or near infrared light. We're utilizing class four lasers that allow for us to give a specific power to offer deep and fast penetration where we can hone in on the area of injury and reduce pain, reduce edema and increase the repair processes in the tissue. How does it actually, you know, maximize this effect? Well, that's where we have to just very briefly dive into wavelengths of that red light and that near infrared light spectrum. So we have different chromophores in our tissue, things that can absorb some of the light, and that may be beneficial. The one that we really care about here is in green. And that's that cytochrome C oxidase. There's another one here in blue, which is actually very helpful because it helps to improve some of our microcirculation, our lymphatic drainage, a lot of the spasm that we can get muscles. We'll talk about a lot of this, but that's water. But let's go over a couple of these chromophores. So we have a graph here just kind of representing something. And I have one overall purpose of kind of going through this graph. So don't get bogged down in the details of specific wavelengths, synonymy. I really am just trying to focus on one overarching theme, which is something called the optical or the therapeutic window. This is the area of the wavelength of light that we want most of these lasers to be shooting photons in. And so here in this brown color, I want this to represent a specific chromophore called melanin. All right. Melanin usually has most of its absorption. It's more of its maximum absorption and that less than 600 nanometer range. And that's why we actually try to make sure that our kind of our lasers are targeting more above 600 and less than 1100 nanometers. Another one here in red. So hemoglobin has kind of different contours. There is some that are a little bit higher in the less than 600 nanometer mark. And there's a pretty decent size one here around that 915 nanometer mark. And again, we'll talk about that a little bit later, but hemoglobin is another chromophore that actually helps with absorption of that light. Another one here is this blue and that's water. And what you'll notice is that water is kind of like smaller than the less than 600. But as we kind of get over here, we notice a pretty good peak, probably somewhere around like the 980 nanometer mark. And so that's another one is going to be water. The last one is really important and that's that green one here. All right. That's called cytochrome C oxidase. So cytochrome C oxidase. So also we like to abbreviate this CCO, cytochrome C oxidase. It's basically, it's a part of our electron transport chain. So it's one of the components that it helps with the passing of electrons to help to generate a lot of our ATP production inside of the mitochondria. And so this is the true area that we want. And you see there's a peak here kind of around the 600, 650 nanometer mark. And again, I'm just throwing out numbers. Don't get too crazy, but you see a really large peak absorption here. So that's what I really want you to hone in on is the area that we are truly trying to focus our light is somewhere around that range. And this is called the optical window. That's where we want most of this light, that red light, near infrared light that we're using with a class for a laser to focus in on. That's the wavelength. And it's again, we'll talk about this more, but it's somewhere within that 600 to 1100 nanometer range. Because the whole purpose is that in this area, if you look, there's less absorption of other chromophores that can interfere with that light, like melanin, less interference by hemoglobin, less interference by water. And most of the absorption is occurring by the chromophore that we care about, which is which one? Cytochrome c-oxidase. So when we talk about this, again, it's kind of going into this wavelength discussion. If we were to use light at the less than 600 nanometer mark, what would really happen? You'd probably get more of your melanin and some hemoglobin absorption. All right? That's probably what would happen is you'd probably get more of your melanin, your hemoglobin absorption. You'd get some cytochrome c-oxidase absorption, but not as much. What happens here is that if you have that, you're really hitting the melanin, you're probably going to get more of a superficial effect. So you don't allow for those photons of light to have a deeper penetration. And so the problem with this is that you probably have more of a superficial effect. You'll still get some cytochrome c-oxidase involvement, but you're probably going to have more of a superficial effect and not going to have true of that deep effect that we're looking for. If we get in that 600 to 1100 nanometer range, that's the optical window. You'll probably have less interference with a lot of these other chromophores. You'll still be there, but you're not going to have as much. So you'll probably have less of that melanin, less of that hemoglobin absorption as well. So you'll probably have less of that melanin, probably less of that hemoglobin absorption. Now there is one little caveat here. Hemoglobin does have another peak, probably somewhere around 915 nanometers. So when you think about that, you may get a little bit of absorption of hemoglobin around that range and less of that deeper penetration. But again, you're going to get less of that hemoglobin absorption, less of the melanin absorption and what's going to result as the primary feature, you're going to get a lot of that cytochrome c-oxidase absorption. And the benefit of this is this is going to give you that deep tissue effect. This is where you're going to see a lot of benefits to the connective tissue, the muscle tissue, the bones, the joints, etc. One last thing I want to mention though before we move on to the next wavelength of 980 is again this optical window of 600 to 1100 nanometers, that's a pretty broad range. And when we talk about that, the reason why it's the best window is because you have less of these other chromophores like melanin and hemoglobin really absorbing some of that photon energy and it's allowing for the cytochrome c-oxidase to get most of it. And that's going to provide a really cool biochemical effect that we'll talk about in a little bit inside of these cells. But I want to say that there is some slight exceptions and we'll talk about it here, that 980, that falls within that range, there is a particular chromophore called water and that's actually going to help to absorb some of that photon energy and it'll produce a physiological effect. Hemoglobin has kind of different peaks, there's kind of a really decent sized peak less than 600 and then there's another peak, a really good one, around that 915 nanometer range. And so I really want to give you an exception to this in saying that there's less melanin hemoglobin absorption, yes, but around that 915 nanometer range there's a decent hemoglobin spike. Because of that you're going to get a good amount of absorption of that photon energy, now you're going to say okay, does that mean that we lose some of the cytochrome c-oxidase effect? Just a little bit, but guess what? There is a benefit to allowing for hemoglobin absorption. We'll talk about it a little bit later but what happens is when hemoglobin absorbs that photon energy, it changes its ability to allow for its oxygen delivery system to be improved. And so if we increase oxygen delivery to a tissue cell, that allows for it to take the action, convert pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and help to generate ATP. So there is a benefit to that, I just want to make sure that we talk about that first, that less than 600, really not the best area for these photons to produce their true physiological effect. You may get it but it's going to be more superficial at the skin kind of like mucosal level. When you get in this range you're getting more of that deep tissue effect on the mitochondria because you're having less chromophores interfering, except for at 980 with water and except for on 915 with hemoglobin. But they still have beautiful physiological effects. Alright, now let's talk about the water absorption wavelength at 980. So you get a lot of water absorption here. And one of the, it's not a problem, it actually can be a pretty good benefit, is again 980 that's within that optical window. So sometimes what happens when you get a lot of water absorption is this kind of produces a small little thermal effect. It's not very much, maybe one, three degrees Celsius change. It's just a small little temperature change where it just heats up the blood a little bit where it provides more of that vasodilatory, that circulatory perfusion change. And so we'll talk about that a little bit later but this is beneficial because this is going to provide more of an improvement and we'll talk about how it's really going to increase your microcirculation. And again, we'll go over that a lot more a little bit later. But if the water is absorbing most of that light, it's going to produce a small little heat change. That small little heat change will produce microcirculatory changes which are beneficial. So to kind of summarize this, when we use these class 4 lasers, and we're using the example here is we were thankful to work with Sumis on their horizon laser and they use wavelengths around 650 nanometers. So if you think about that, that's where, okay, that's within our optical window. We'll probably get more of a superficial effect in this region. So it probably gets more of that superficial effect here. We'll talk about how that really works. 810 and 915 is another one. So you'll probably actually get more deeper penetration into more of the muscle, the nerve, the connective tissue, the bones, the joints. 915 has a little bit of hemoglobin absorption as well. And so you may have a better deep penetration with 810 and a little bit less with 915. But these are probably going to be the deepest penetration. So when we think about how well these are working, this is probably going to be more superficial. This is probably going to be deep. And what was 980? That was the water absorption. And so because of that, you're going to get more of that kind of change and microcirculation. So what we're going to say is we're going to, for right now, I just want you to trust me, this can be around the superficial deep range somewhere in the middle, but the primary change here is you're going to get that microcirculation change. That's what's going to really, really improve here. All right. So taking what we've gotten so far, we're using a class 4 laser. It's delivering enough power that we can get the photons of light deep into the tissue, reduce a lot of the reflection, reduce a lot of the scattering of that light. We allow for this to get down into the tissue. Once it does that, that red or near-infrared light does what? It gets absorbed by specific chromophores. Which one do we really want to get absorbed? Cytochrome-C-Oxidase. How do we do that? We maximize our wavelengths within the optical window, the 600 to 1100. We try not to go to the less than 600 because we get hemoglobin, melanin absorption. We try to, certain scenarios we may target the 980, we really want to warm the tissue up just a little bit to reduce spasm, to reduce some of the edema, to improve microcirculation. But if our primary area is in this, we're trying to do this to reduce a lot of the melanin interference, to reduce a lot of the hemoglobin interference, and help to maximize the green one, the cytochrome-C-Oxidase absorption. You're probably wondering why? Well, now's the time to find out. Once this light, this photons, hit the actual cytochrome-C-Oxidase, what are the physiological changes? Let's talk about that now. All right, so we've taken our sumo laser as the example. We placed it on the skin, we've gotten good contact, we turn it on, delivers a really good power, usually greater than 0.5 watts. We allow for that red or near-infrared light, which is non-ionizing, to penetrate through the tissue, we're pushing photons through the tissue, and that power that it delivers allows for us to get deep enough without scattering reflection and really get to the specific areas. When we use the proper wavelengths, those ones that were talked about 6, 50, 8, 10, 9, 15, and 9, 80, it allows for us to hit the specific tissues at varying depths, superficial, deep, get the changes in the microcirculation. Once we've done that, let's actually try to understand how these things actually change the reduction in pain, the reduction in edema, the improvement in a lot of our cellular repair processes. This laser, we're going to shoot that light down, we're penetrating through the tissues at varying depths, but we're trying to target that cytochrome-C-Oxidase. So let's say the photons of light, right? So we'll say here's going to be our photons. All right, what's going to happen is they're going to move through, let's say that we're at a tissue. Let's say, for example, we pick the muscle tissue. We're having that light around that 8, 10, 9, 15, we're getting a good deep penetration down to that area. We hit the muscle tissue, and inside of the muscle tissue we have a special organelle called the mitochondria. When those photons pass through, they're going to pass through the cell membrane, they're going to hit here on the mitochondria. You see these little black dots here? Those are a part of your electron transport chain. We're going to label these as which one? Your cytochrome-C-Oxidase. That's what these are. They're going to absorb that light. They're going to absorb those photons. Whenever they absorb these photons, it basically, these puppies become activated, they become ready. And when they become ready, it increases the activity of the electron transport chain. They start passing electrons along like crazy. As a result, you're going to increase your electron transport chain activity. When you increase the electron transport chain activity, one of the beauties of that is that what do you make as a result of the protons moving down inside of the mitochondria? When they move down, it helps you to generate ATP. As a result, this patient who got that light is going to increase their ATP production. ATP is crucial for so many cellular processes. It's important for DNA proliferation, our DNA activity to undergo the DNA proliferation. It's important for a lot of our pumps that we need to be able to pump sodium and potassium out. There's so many different things that are dependent upon ATP. That's really going to be crucial. The other thing that's really cool is once the cytochrome c-oxidase is absorbed and gets activated, not only does it increase the electron transport chain activity, but what it also does is it leads to what's called nitric oxide disassociation. You're going to release a little bit of nitric oxide. There's also going to be a slight increase in the production of reactive oxygen species, just a little bit. And that slight increase is interesting because what happens is when these get released, there's little transcription factors. Let's draw them as these little things right here. Here's a transcription factor. So we'll abbreviate this as transcription factor. This nitric oxide, reactive oxygen species, what they're going to do is they're going to help by activating these transcription factors. When you stimulate these transcription factors, you help them to translocate here into the nucleus. Basically what it's going to do is it's going to activate specific genes and then shut down other genes. So maybe one of these genes I'm going to activate and the other one I'm going to shut down. So say I stimulate this gene and I inhibit this gene. What's going to result in? Let's say that I stimulate genes that are going to help with a lot of growth and proliferation to allow for that improvement in cellular repair. So maybe I activate genes and they're going to lead to the increase in, let's say, vascular endothelial growth factor or some type of growth factor in general. Just any kind of growth factors. You get an increased production of these. These are going to allow for what? Angiogenesis, cell proliferation. It's going to allow for that cell to start undergoing its repair processes. That's pretty cool. So maybe we're going to activate some genes that are going to upregulate some of those cytokines that are really helpful in the cellular repair process. But another thing that we're going to do is maybe we'll shut down some of the genes that play a role in a lot of inflammation. You know there's a couple of these. One is interleukin-1. Another one is called tumor necrotic factor alpha. These are some really nasty ones. So maybe there's a reduction in the production of interleukin-1 or interleukin-6 and maybe there's a reduction in tumor necrotic factor alpha. What this is going to do is this is going to help to increase things like angiogenesis, cell proliferation, and this is going to help to reduce a lot of the swelling, edema, and associated pain. So maybe this will help to help the repair process. And this is going to decrease the amount of your pain, the edema. And that's really the kind of the beauty of this if you think about it. You're going to get more angiogenesis. You're going to get more repair processes. You're going to decrease your pain and edema. This can really do anything. ATP can allow for a lot of the repair processes. It can really be very, very helpful. And so I think that's really where you'll see a lot of this ATP production is coming into the repair processes. All right. You're probably like, oh, that's pretty cool. That's not it. Another thing that can happen is when the photons of light hit that cytochrome c-oxidase, it can also cause a little bit of nitric oxide to kind of be disassociated. And so let's kind of show here that you have nitric oxide. And what it's going to do is I'm going to kind of show it like this. Let's say it kind of passes through the cell membrane and it gets out and it finds your vessels. And what it's going to do is it's going to go over here to your vessels. When it gets over to the vessels, it's basically going to act on the endothelial cells. All right. I'm sorry. It's going to act on the smooth muscle cells. I apologize. The smooth muscle cells in your vasculature. And what it's going to do is it's going to cause those smooth muscles to undergo relaxation. When they relax, what happens to the actual vessels? They undergo vasodilation. So what you'll notice is, is you're going to notice, this is your microvascular, right? Here is going to be your arterial, your capillary bed. You have some lymphatics here. You'll have a venial and here's your tissue bed. What we're going to do is we're going to change it and go to this. What you notice here, you're going to notice that there's going to be a increase in vasodilation. That's one thing. And that vasodilation is due to the nitric oxide. That's basically going to come over here. And what is it going to do? It's going to stimulate your smooth muscle relaxation. So smooth muscle relaxation. And as a result, boom, I think I'm done. Another thing that also is going to result out of this, and the mechanism isn't completely understood as well, but it's going to do something with your lymphatic system. Maybe in some way it helps to squeeze the actual lymphatics and push some of that fluid out. But another thing that we're going to notice is any of the waste products, so you're going to have a lot of lymphatic fluid here. And so that lymphatic fluid that's kind of in that interstitial fluid, the interstitial fluid that you have here, these lymphatics are going to start kind of going more active. And what they're going to do is they're going to drain more of that lymph. And so what you're going to notice is you're going to notice an increase in lymphatic drainage. So that's another thing that actually is going to be happening here. So not only do you get vasodilation of your arterioles, but you also get increased lymphatic drainage. What are you noticing? If you have vasodilation and a lymphatic drainage that are being improved just because of nitric oxide, what's going to happen? Well, one thing that's going to happen is when there's vasodilation, you're able to get more blood flow. You're going to allow for more oxygen, more nutrients to be delivered to the tissue bed. So what's going to result in here is you're going to have an increase in perfusion. And if you have an increase in perfusion, what is that going to do? That's going to enhance your oxygen and nutrient delivery. And if you enhance oxygen, nutrient delivery, you're going to really pump these cells up to be able to deal with any kind of challenges. You're going to help them to heal. So you're going to increase oxygen and nutrient delivery. That's a beautiful thing. That's a beautiful thing. All because of a red and near-infrared light therapy, this can happen. The other thing is that if you improve lymphatic drainage, you help to get some of that actual interstitial fluid and lymphatic fluid out of the tissue bed. If there is existing edema in that area, what are you going to help to do? You're going to help to reduce tissue edema. And so that's kind of a really beautiful thing. You're going to really reduce a lot of the tissue edema. You're going to help to really remove some of the waste products from this area. And that's what I want you guys to think about. So here we're helping to improve oxygen, nutrient delivery. We're helping that. And on top of that, we're reducing some of that edema. There's another thing that's also kind of cool here is that when you shoot photons of light, not only does it lead to this whole kind of like photochemical process on its own, which is pretty magnificent, but the photons of light itself, if you guys remember, just taking a second, let's say that we take a second, photons, if you're hitting, let's say that you're targeting around that 900, let's test your knowledge, that 980 nanometer range, which one of those chromophores is getting hit? So what's going to happen is, is you're going to get increased water absorption from that light. When you get increased water absorption, what's going to happen? That water is just going to kind of heat up just a little bit. It's nothing crazy. It's not going to like burn anything. You're not going to go crazy and like heat up like a monster. There's going to be a slight little increase in the temperature. So it's going to have a small increase in heat production. That increase in heat production is just enough, just enough, maybe one to three degrees Celsius change. That's just enough to trigger smooth muscle relaxation, to cause these arterioles to dilate a little bit, to help to improve that vasodilation, that perfusion to the tissue, that oxygen and nutrient delivery. And on top of that, it's also going to improve some of the lymphatic drainage to help to do what? To get some of that actual interstitial fluid in the lymph out of the tissue beds to reduce some of that edema. And so that's kind of the benefit when we think about this. So when you're using these photons of light with that, again, 650, 810, 915, 980 nanometer range. And a lot of these lasers, especially the Sumis horizon laser, these wavelengths, all four of them are being shot at the tissue at once. And so you're getting superficial effects, deep effects, and you're getting an improvement in microcirculation. And that's one of the true benefits of this. And I think that's pretty darn cool to think about. All right, so we talked a lot about the mechanisms of how these photons of light at different wavelengths produce these physiological effects. We talked about how most of them in that kind of 810, usually that 915 kind of nanometer range, they have really that deep tissue mitochondrial effect on the cytochrome c-oxidase. We talked a lot about how particularly when you think about that 980 nanometer range, when you think about the benefit that that has on the water absorption and how that generates heat, there is another thing that I want to kind of just briefly talk about. And again, we talked about a little bit over here when we talked about these spectrums of light and really what they're doing and where these chromophores are actually absorbing that light. And when photons are again in that, I'd say that 915 nanometer range, we talked about this. This is one of those areas of where you can kind of get some decent peak absorption of hemoglobin. And so you can get increased hemoglobin absorption. Now this may seem like this doesn't do much, but it actually is pretty beneficial. And what happens is whenever you have that hemoglobin absorbing that light, what happens is it allows for the hemoglobin to improve its oxygen delivery, the disassociation of oxygen to deliver that to the tissues. So then you get increased O2 delivery to the tissues. Now think about that. If I'm delivering more oxygen to the tissues, that allows for me to go through cellular respiration. If I go through cellular respiration, I'm going to be able to generate ATP via the electron transport chain. So you see the true benefit of all of these aspects that whenever you take photons of light, regardless of their wavelength, they have so many different types of benefits. 980, that's primarily the water absorption. That's going to be a little bit of heat production. That's the vasodilation, the increased microcirculation, increased oxygen, nutrient delivery helps to remove some of the waste, helps to remove some of the edema from that lymphatic fluid. We talked about how it's in the 810, 915 nanometer range. It's really producing that mitochondrial effect at the cytochrome c-oxidase. Now the last thing that we mentioned here is that 915 is an area where, again, you still get mitochondrial effect, but you get some hemoglobin absorption along that process.  because of that, that's another benefit, because it allows for increased oxygen delivery to the tissues. All right, that really gives us a pretty good appreciation of how photobiomodulation can produce these physiological effects. Now let's talk about how do we actually put this into a method of treating different conditions and making sense of them. We've shot the photons of light in, we've used our optical window, we're using that non-ionizing red infrared light, we're using the proper power to make sure we get proper depth penetration. We hit the cytochrome C oxidase, we increase ATP production, we shut down the inflammatory cytokines, we up-regulate the growth factor cytokines, we help to cause a little bit of improvement in microcirculation. A lot of these things are happening to help to reduce pain, to reduce edema, to improve our cellular repair process, that should make sense now. When we think about this, what could we actually treat when we use this laser? And I think that's the beautiful thing, is when you think about it, because of the varying depths, and again, this laser uses all four of them, you have presets that will show you, where whenever we turn this laser on, it can have varying, it has all four of those wavelengths moving through. And so if I have, let's say a depth of here, 650 and I get down here with 810, 915, right? And then I get over here with 980, what's actually happening? What kind of conditions could I target with this laser? And so if you think about it, that 650, it's gonna be more superficial, right? It's gonna be more superficial, it's not gonna be able to penetrate as deep. And so what kind of effects will we get? We're really gonna be targeting the skin. That's gonna be one. You also are gonna be targeting the mucosa. So yeah, you could actually use this in the mucosa. We actually use this a lot in oral mucositis, patients who unfortunately suffer chemotherapy-related side effects due to their underlying diagnosis of cancer. We can use this in dogs, we can use it for like licked granulomas and things like that. But another is very, very superficial tendons. And so if you think about this for a second, if that's what it's gonna be primarily hitting, if that wavelength from when we hit this laser onto the skin and we start shooting these photons of light, what could it actually treat? It's pretty straightforward. If we're targeting the mitochondria in the skin, it's gonna improve a lot of the cellular repair process, this is the panne adema in those areas. And so this is really good for like surgical wounds, surgical wounds or any kinds of incisions, things like that, right? Surgical wounds, let's just say, and incisions. For mucosa, you could get a benefit if they have underlying mucositis. You can decrease the pain, the inflammation and improve the processes there. So this could also be utilized in mucositis. Hey, say come on, pick the right colors, Zach. And then the last part here is if they have superficial tendons. So I mean, you know, de Quervin's tinocytovitis, some kind of superficial tendon where if you target that area, you could get a benefit. And so again, maybe more superficial tendinitis. So superficial tendinitis, right? And you could think about using this on animals, you could use this on humans, that's a pretty good benefit there. The other thing is if we target the 810, 915, 810 is gonna be the deepest penetration. That's gonna have no interference with melanin, right? Because that's usually in the less than 600. Also, you're gonna have less interference with water because water's mainly peak absorption around 980. 915, you get a little bit of hemoglobin, again, and there's another peak absorption of hemoglobin. You get a less than 600 and you get it again around that 915 mark. So 810 is gonna get the deepest penetration and the 915 will be the less, I mean, the second deepest penetration. But because of that, these things can get pretty far, man. I mean, you can get almost all the way down to the deep bones and joints. And so you're gonna see bones and joints because this is gonna be that deep mitochondrial effect. You're gonna get to the muscles and the nerves, right? And you're even gonna get to the deep tendons. And so because of that, think about that. If I'm using this wavelength of light to get deep into those tissues, what kind of conditions could I treat? Well, if it's impairing the cellular repair process, reducing the pain, reducing the inflammation in those areas, this would be good for things like osteoarthritis, intervertebral disc disease, degenerative disc disease, things of that nature, muscles and nerves. It's really gonna be beneficial, I'd say in patients who have things like neuropathy, radiculopathy, neuropathy, radiculopathy, things of that nature. Just barely squeeze that in there, apologize. And the deep tendons, it's really gonna be good for deep tendinopathies. So with that one, you could be targeting things like the rotator cuff would be a great example of this. So if a patient has like some kind of rotator cuff tendinitis, maybe a epicondylitis of some sort, you're gonna be able to target those. And so more of those deeper tendinopathies is gonna be extremely benefiting from this type of therapy. We have the 980. The 980 is really cool. And because of this one, you get that water absorption, right? And that's the peak for water absorption. 915, you get more of that hemoglobin absorption. So that's why it doesn't penetrate as deep as compared to 810. 650, you get a little bit of the melanin kind of interfering with it. So it stays more superficial. 980, you get a lot of the water absorption. And because you get a lot of that water absorption, you get a true benefit of this micro circulatory change, right? Now, when would that be helpful? Well, think about it. Let's say that you have a patient who has, for example, their early post-op. So they have early post-op edema and pain. That would be truly beneficial. Because if you think about it, they just had a surgery. They have a lot of edema. They're gonna have some pain in that area. And there's actually studies. And so what they found is that when utilizing this laser post-operatively, it actually truly reduced a lot of the post-operative edema and pain. And that's a beautiful thing. Another thing, and this is actually, I didn't talk about this, but that effect of that water absorption at 980 nanometers, right? Another thing is that when you cause a slight heat change, not only does it cause vasodilation to improve microcirculation, it also relaxes the muscles. It actually gets the skeletal muscles to kind of relax and stop spasming, bro. And so think about that. If you have an acute muscle, strain, or spasm, or you have some type of like myofascial trigger point area, this can potentially relax that muscle a little bit and on top of it, increase the perfusion to the muscle to allow for it to get more oxygen, more nutrients, help it to be able to heal faster and get more of that repair process, improve the lymphatic drainage and get some of the edema out of that area. That's pretty darn cool. And the last thing is when I was talking with, I assume they actually said that not only can this help with perfusion changes for these scenarios, but you could also improve circulation to poorly perfused tissue beds. I was told that there was a dog who got bit by a snake and unfortunately was suffering a little bit of necrosis of the skin from that. And they ended up doing laser on one part of the wound and then no laser on the other part of the wound. And what they found is in the area where there was some necrosis and they did laser, there was an actual improvement in the repair, improvement in the overall hue, decrease in the necrosis in that actual tissue area. And so that's pretty beneficial. So you're gonna improve the perfusion to poorly perfused tissue beds. So we're gonna increase perfusion to poorly perfused areas. And so that's a beneficial. So one of the things that we really like to use this is a lot in the post-operative state. You're really gonna get a lot more of that kind of tissue warmth, nothing crazy. It's not gonna burn the skin or anything like that. It's just gonna create a little bit of warmth which helps for the muscles to relax, to help to improve some of the post-operative edema pain from any kind of surgical procedures. And I think that's really, really cool. Now, when we think about all of this, we're kind of coming back to a little bit of discussion. So we take that probe, we put it over the area of injury, we shine the photons of light, we have a hit the cytochrome C oxidase, we target that optical window, we get the increase in the ATP, we get the increase in the VEGF and the other growth factors. We shut down the cytokines that are causing inflammation. We improve the perfusion to the tissue, oxygen nutrient delivery, lymphatic drainage, all of those things and treating these conditions. The power is key, man. You need these class four lasers to deliver a strong enough power because what this power is going to allow for is it's going to allow for that photons of light to get to the area of injury. What we want to avoid is scattering. We don't want the light to scatter because then we don't get the photons to where we need it. We also want to reduce a lot of the reflection. And so utilizing that power is really important. Obviously there's certain scenarios where you have to be careful because with higher power, sometimes you can create just a little bit more warmth. And so we want to be careful with using super high power on an area where a person has darker skin. That's one thing. Where they have lots of pigmentation, for example, me, if I did this over a tattooed area, it might heat up a little bit more. Or if it's like a very sensitive, irritated, ridiculopathy kind of area, I may not want to go with a super high power in continuous mode. So that's what I want to talk about next. Is when we use these, and I'll use a lot of these examples when we get to our simulation, but when we put the probe on and we have our power, when you have that high power and you have it set to a continuous mode, it's shooting that at a continuous rate. These photons are moving at a consistent, efficient rate. And so imagine here power, and let's say that this is continuous. This is shooting it in a continuous fashion. Whereas in pulsed, it's kind of like, as you would expect. It's more of a, you're kind of shooting it, giving a second, shooting it, giving it a little bit of time, shooting it. And so these are the two modes that we're utilizing. One is again, continuous, and one is pulsed. Usually when we set up these lasers, continuous is going to be allowing for us to use the proper high power and continuous mode. We'll offer us to ensure that you get deep penetration fast enough into the tissue, and you really get more of that deep effect for osteoarthritis, for some of these particular problems with radiculopathy, some of the tendinopathy, some of the joint issues. When we're doing pulsed, you're doing that more in the person who, let's say that they have a darker skin tone, and they're gonna heat up that skin a little bit more. Maybe they have tattoos. That might be another potential benefit, or they have a little bit more of a sensitive skin at that point in time. You may reach for that pulsed mode instead. But either way, when we're using photobiomodulation, think about how this actually works, and it makes sense why it can truly benefit these areas that you're targeting. So to finish off all of this on photobiomodulation, and using these class four lasers for the true therapeutic benefit that we've really discussed a lot about, what I want you to understand is that there really isn't a lot of drawbacks. There really isn't any. There's some things that we should talk about, just like some careful considerations. I don't think it's anything that really deters you from doing these. And a lot of this is like individual preference, provider preference, and you can kind of get into the weeds a little bit and do it, and so I don't wanna go too crazy. But what I want you to know is just some things to consider. And I think the most important things is the risk that it has. When you take red or near infrared light, and you, I'm not kidding, you just take it and you shine it directly into the eyes or anything like that, you're gonna cause some retinal damage. And so that's one of the things that we try to really, really be careful with, is reducing any kind of harm to the retina. And so how do we do that? There is risk of retinal, risk of retinal injury, but this is if you're kind of just not utilizing this therapy safely. And so one of the ways that we try to mitigate this is the use of goggles. And so I'm not kidding, we'll talk about this. We'll be using a lot of eye protection in these videos when we go through this and show you a simulation of how it works. So it's just, it's using eye protection to mitigate that risk. Again, I think this gets in more to the provider individual preferences and stuff like that. But when we talk about this in cancer, there's some providers that maybe will not institute laser therapy and patients who have a history of cancer or have active cancer. But what we've actually found, there's been some studies from the World Association of Laser Therapy that this has actually been beneficial in treating those patients who have cancer related side effects. So for example, this has actually been beneficial. So again, some people say, eh, don't use it in those who have active cancer, history cancer, that's again, that's provider preference. But what we have seen is it's truly beneficial and those who have chemotherapy associated side effects. And what's a good example of that? A good example of that is mucocytus. So when they have chemotherapy associated mucocytus, it's actually been shown to be beneficial. So that's what I wanna write down, is it's beneficial in chemotherapy associated side effects. Again, there may be a provider preference in those who don't wanna use it and those who have active cancer or history of cancer. But overall, it is something that can be beneficial in this scenario. The next one, and I think this is just overall safety. Again, this is non-ionizing red or near infrared light. And I believe in my honest opinion, it's not going to cause any teratogenic effects, but I think it's just to be cautious in pregnancy. So really just have caution in pregnancy. But again, I think if you think about this really, really simply, it is non-ionizing radiation. So the risk of teratogenic effects, I think is pretty like nil, all right? The last thing that we also talk about when we're utilizing this type of laser therapy is associated with specific types of injections. So usually if a patient is getting some kind of like, for example, they're getting a steroid injection, when they get the steroid injection, we should actually wait. So it's actually believed to say wait seven days. So wait seven days until you initiate laser therapy, until you start laser therapy. The concept behind this is that it may just increase the kind in production just a little bit more, and it may cause just a little bit of pain after you do the laser therapy. When we talk about injections, just in general as a side note, I actually have, you know, there's a lot of like research that actually shows that laser therapy by utilizing this photobiomodulation therapy, it's been truly beneficial after other orthobiologic injections. So patients who have gotten PRP or stem cell therapy, utilizing these adjunctively, very, very beneficial. And again, extremely beneficial when utilized postoperatively. For example, my dog who is gonna be getting a surgery, he's gonna be unfortunately getting a spinal surgery to treat the subarachnoid diverticulum. After he's gotten done with the surgery, there's going to be the utilization of this laser to help with a lot of the surgical wound, the incisions, a lot of the spasming of the muscles that can happen after these surgeries. And that's truly gonna provide a very, very beneficial clinical benefit for his overall process. Obviously surgery is gonna help with the overall neurological deficits that he's suffering from, but the laser can provide a true benefit for him postoperatively. So that's something as an example. Now, with all of this being said, we've talked about a lot of information. I think we've become pretty good experts when it comes to laser therapy and photo-biomodulation and how when you shoot a photon of light through the tissue with the appropriate power, with the appropriate wavelength, hit in the optical window, get in the cytochrome-C-oxidase to absorb it and producing all of these physiological effects, we know what it can do. I wanna show you guys a little example of this and how simple this can be instituted for you, for your patients, for your other animals. And so when we talk about this, we're gonna do two case scenarios. One, we're gonna use me. I'm a 35-year-old male. I got a pac-mediculation of C5 to C7 discarnation. I suffer with chronic neck pain and radiculopathy, and we're gonna have Rob, who's our filmer. He's going to be showing you guys how this works on me. And then we're gonna use my little buddy, McGee. He's my seven-year-old male French bulldog. He's got lumbosacral and vertebrodys disease and a subarachnoid diverticulum around the T10, T11. And he also, fortunately, suffers with some pain in ataxia. And we're gonna show you guys how all of this machine works. So let's now take some time. Let's go through a simulation. Let's talk about the machine, and then show you guys how this works on us. What's up, engineers? Today, we're diving into the Sumis Class 4 Medical Laser, specifically the Horizon Unit. And it's an amazing place in the clinical world. The system we are working with has a total of five heads, as you can see here. There's two open probes, two closed probes, and then one, it's more specialized than an intraoral probe for a pinpoint application. In veterinary medicine, the intraoral head is included to give providers easy access to the inside of the mouth. This attachment, it's most often used for your post-dental applications. It allows targeted treatment of oral tissues in a safe and convenient manner. Among the open probes, as you can see here, the 25 millimeter head stands out because it has an adjustable collar, as you can kind of see here. And what this does is this allows us to collimate the spot size of the laser beam. At a setting of around 11, the beam is wide and fully open, ideal for direct contact treatments on the skin or the musculoskeletal system. As you rotate the collar towards zero, the beam narrows and it zooms in, which can be useful when treating from a distance, such as on wounds or post-surgical incisions. The only time you'd ever, I'd say, want to close it completely to zero and hold it in one spot is when stimulating, like acupuncture points in places of needles. The other 25 millimeter probe that we have here is curved contact head. With this attachment, the spot size of the beam is fixed. And so you can't adjust the collar. It must always be used in direct contact with the skin. Many providers find that the curved glass dome is especially helpful because it allows them to incorporate some additional soft tissue techniques, like working out trigger points or gently massaging the area, while also simultaneously delivering the laser treatment. What I will say is if the average power of the protocol, when we kind of go through that, does exceed 15 watts, the horizon is really cool because it'll prompt the user to insert one of these 50 millimeter heads. The 50 millimeter open head, as you can kind of see here, it can be used either in direct contact or sometimes you can even, with the patient, you can hover it just above the surface when treating areas of open skin. Some providers also choose to use this head at a power under 15 watts when treating broad areas, such as like the low back. Because this is a class four laser, though, what I will say is it's extremely crucial to be using protective eyewear. They must be worn by both the clinician and by the patient. For us humans, that's easy enough. For our other patient that we're gonna be using, McGee, our short haired French bulldog, well, good luck keeping the goggles on him. But still, it's a critical precaution and you've got to do your best to make it work. And so in this video, we're gonna break down how each of these probes and the features make the horizon unit such a versatile and powerful tool in clinical practice. Let's do that now. All right, my friends, so we kind of got a little introduction into talking about this amazing class four laser. Let's actually put it into practice. And so let's do that first on our French bulldog. So as we talked about in the case scenario, he's a seven year old male French bulldog. He suffers from two conditions, an interpretive rotis disease. He also suffers from a little bit of the myelopathy, primarily because he has a subarachnoid diverticulum pressing on his spinal cord. And so what we're gonna do today is we're gonna go through the protocols and I'm gonna show you kind of how we can set up everything with amazingly, this is all done with preset protocols. Everything's gonna be kind of programmed properly for me. And then we'll show you the different probes that we're going to use and then we'll kind of show you the whole process and how simple this can be done. So let's kind of dig in now. All right, so we're gonna use this kind of interface here to pick which component we need. So obviously see here, this would be for me when I'm gonna be the patient, but Maggie is an animal. So let's go ahead and click on this. There's a bunch of different animals, obviously. All right, so we're back in here. And now you can see here that there's different types of animals that we could pick from. Maggie is gonna be a dog. So we're gonna go ahead and pick that one. From here, we have a bunch of different kind of system options. And so we can go musculoskeletal, dermatologic, and trothoracic. You can kind of, you have a bunch of different options here. Maggie's is primarily more of a musculoskeletal issue. From here, you can see that we could target joints. We could do postoperative, which is pretty cool for reducing a lot of that edema and pain and also just providing some warmth. We even have a couple other issues here, but I think the primary one that we're gonna focus on today is gonna be IVDD or we could do degenerative myelopathy. From here, we're gonna pick his fur color. He's a red font, so it's more of a lighter colored one. And he's a little bit of a porker. So he's around that 31 to 50 pound range. All right, so it's kind of interesting. That's kind of cool. The horizon is just kind of told us that we don't have a tip attached here. We'll put that one on. And it's also really nice because it tells us which tip is really best for this particular protocol. And you can kind of see here just a little bit of more of that physiology information that we talked about before, which is kind of going through and showing you that that's the power that we're actually gonna be generating for that pretty decent, deep and fast penetration to reduce a lot of the scattering of light, to reduce the reflection of light. Just make sure that we're hitting those chromophores and getting good absorption there. We now need to insert the proper tip. And so what we're gonna do in this one is we're gonna use the open 25 millimeter probe and we can adjust that again. I'm gonna adjust it to 11. And then we'll insert this on here and work that on the key. And then as you can kind of see here, we're just gonna follow this pattern. It's literally written out for you. It couldn't be easier how we're just gonna move along the spine and then we're gonna come up and down. And then we're gonna continue that pattern again. And so this is gonna be a really easy way that you can kind of initiate this on your patients, on your animals. All of these things are pretty straightforward and really, really set nicely by the sumus risin, the laser unit. So let's go ahead and get McGee in here. Let's actually practice on him. All right, my friends. So we got McGee. It took a little bit. He was a little worked up, as you can tell. Don't mind him. But we're gonna go ahead and get started. So we have everything that we talked about with the protocol set, but we have to get our safety going on. Now, let's see if he behaves with this. Come on, Bobby. Oh, this is gonna be cute. This can be. All right. All right. So we got all of our safety goggles on him. And then I'm gonna go ahead and get mine on. Hopefully he lets it stay on. Oh, bud. But we're gonna go ahead and get our open 25 millimeter probe set on. And then what we're gonna go ahead and do is now that all of this is done, he's actually cute as can be. Look at that. He's actually being really good. And we got that set all the way to 11, as you guys can see there. Oh, he's not unhappy again. We'll see how long these stay on. But the next step here is we're gonna go ahead and start treatment. And from here, and he's got him off already, we should be good to go. And then we're just gonna follow that pattern, moving kind of down. And this nice pattern coming back up. And then moving back down again. And then doing the same thing. We won't do it the full time with you guys here. We'll probably start speeding up here soon. That was a little bit of gas. Woo. That was a stinky one. But yeah, we're gonna go ahead and do this one. So I'll let you guys take a break here. And we'll go ahead and speed this up while you guys watch McGee get his treatment. ["Spring Day"] All right, we've been going for a bit. This is kind of simple. It's a nice three minute treatment. That's all it takes. McGee's definitely liking it. He's definitely calming down here. He had a couple more tooths in the arsenal, but this is definitely gonna make a pretty good difference here for him. Look at that, man. Simple as that, we made a pretty good impact on McGee today. And I think this is something that you really wanna consider for your animals. Obviously, again, eye protection is key with animals. You can't control that to a degree. But just making sure that you're sticking with that and making sure that you're following the protocol. And man, I just, I like this. I think this is a really, really effective therapy. So now let's actually move over and work on me. All right, my friends, so we finished off with McGee. Wasn't he cute? Didn't he do so awesome? He was an amazing patient. And now, hopefully I can follow up with that same kind of like cuteness. I don't think I will though, because that dog is absolutely amazing. But it's gonna be my turn now. We're gonna work. Rob's actually gonna be the technician in this scenario. We're gonna be working on my cervical area. And so it's gonna be my turn. Let's go ahead and get there now. All right, so you guys got to see the whole protocol with McGee. Now it's gonna be working on a human. And this is again, just kind of shows the versatility of this unit and how this really can be beneficial, not just for humans, but also for animals. And so in this scenario here, we're gonna pick our human. For me, I suffer from cervical disc disease. And so I'm going to primarily focus on the spine. And then my area is the cervical region. So we'll pop on that one. And there's a bunch of different types of conditions that we can treat for. And this is really cool. And this is why this unit is so amazing that it has all of these presets already set in. And so for me, my primary issue is I suffer from more of a radiculopathy. So we'll go ahead and target that. You can offer here again, what's the potential area that we're working on? I'd say mine's somewhere around like the average. We can select skin tone. And this is actually really helpful as well. And so for me, I'm probably gonna go with more of like a two. And then we can select the pain level. And we have anywhere from one to 10, obviously, the higher you go up, the more power is gonna be needed. And so for here, I'm probably gonna go ahead and go with like my usual three or four. And then from here, same kind of like interface. You can see here how we have everything properly set up. And it's kind of nice. Again, it shows you the whole pattern that we would have being followed for me. It gives you all the kind of different power ratings and everything that would be utilized here. So around that seven watt range. And again, it tells me that I don't have the tip inserted. So what I'm gonna do is again, I'm gonna pick this one. I'm just gonna use a different one. I'm gonna use that closed probe. This is gonna be the one that has that little curved edge, which we can kind of use more for that massage function, more of that trigger point. And so we'll try this one. It doesn't have any of that adjustable kind of columnator there that we talked about for the open one. But we're gonna try that one. We're gonna get some active range of motion in play and we'll see if we can get that one to provide some benefit. So let's go ahead and do that and then work on that with me. All right guys, so we're gonna go ahead and get started with me. Don't pay me any attention. Obviously I had to get the target area kind of focused on. So Rob is going to be the technician today. He's gonna be inserting in the closed probe with that kind of nice contact curve surface. And then we're gonna go ahead and get started. So you guys can see the same kind of process that we did with McGee. And then the other thing that we'll do is besides Rob kind of following the normal contour according to the machine is that maybe here and there, what we'll do is we'll kind of involve some active range of motion. So my problem area is more on the right side. And so maybe when he runs over that kind of like right side, what I'll do is I'll tilt my neck kind of laterally away. So maybe it can help a little bit, especially with that soft tissue. You work in that curve probe. I can kind of just keep doing that moving different angles. And that might help a little bit with some of that muscles to kind of relax, loosen up a little bit. But yeah, we'll have you guys hang out for a little bit. We're not gonna keep you here watching this whole thing. So we'll go ahead and speed it up and we'll be back in a little bit. Music All right, guys. So we're back. We're almost done here. We've been doing a couple of times where we can get some active range of motion. Definitely feel the warmth. It feels pretty good. Definitely helping out a lot.  and that's it. That was my treatment, just as simple as it was for McGee, and I liked it, helped out a lot. And again, I really hope that you guys appreciate how simple and how amazing this machine can be. All right, I'll see you guys in just a second. Let me get my clothes back on. All right, guys, so I hope that you guys like this video. I hope you learned a lot. I think he enjoyed it as well. And so thank you guys so much. I really hope that you can learn to appreciate what something as simple as photobiomodulation, utilizing a class for laser, can do for both humans and for our animals. And so thank you guys so much for the time. Thank you for the support. Thank you for watching this video. I hope you learned a lot. And man, I love you guys. I thank you guys. And as always, until next time.

=== FILE: Plasma Cell Disorders ｜ Clinical Medicine [u2ACTdg0HsM].txt ===

 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам What's up, Ningeners? In this video today, we're going to be talking about plasma cell disorders that includes the following. Multiple myeloma. It includes monoclonal glomopathy of undetermined significance. That's a heck of a name. And also, Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. We won't be talking about amyloidosis in this lecture. That'll have a dedicated lecture on its own. But these are going to be the primary things that we're going to focus on on this clinical medicine lecture. If you guys like this video, it makes sense. Please support us. You can do that by hitting the like button, commenting on the comment section. And also subscribing. It really makes a difference. Also, if you are a student who sometimes just really struggles with the burdens that comes with going to medical school and PA school and MP school, et cetera, I really do understand. And I think we have a way that we could potentially help you. Go down to the description box below. There's a link that goes to our website. If you become a member, you'll have access not just to our videos, but you'll have access to a ton of notes. And these notes are really high yield. They really will help you to understand the topic. We have tons of quiz questions that'll help you with that repetition based learning and really see if you guys truly understand that topic. And then if you want, we also are developing exam prep courses. So those of you taking things like the step two, go check that out. All right. Without further ado, let's dig into plasma cell disorders. Plasma cell disorders are sometimes viewed as like kind of complicated, but it's truly, I'm telling you, the pathophysiology, the causes behind this, it's actually probably one of the easier topics to understand in heme, I know, which is crazy because when you think about heme, you think about anemia, and it's like, oh my gosh, those are challenging. You think about platelet disorders, that's enough to kind of jump off of a, you know, a bridge. So there's a lot of complicated topics in heme. I think when it comes to plasma cell disorders, thankfully, these are pretty straightforward. And when you come down to it, it's really a monoclonal gamopathy. So there is a abnormality within the plasma cells or cells that are almost plasma cells. They're like tweeners, you know, like between B cells and plasma cells. But there's three different types that I want to discuss. And this is going to be monoclonal gamopathy of undetermined significance. I'm going to say mgus a lot, multiple myeloma, I'm going to say mm, and then Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, I'm going to say WM. For each one of these, there is a kind of somewhat of similarity with slight differences. So for mgus, there is a, it's a pre-malignant condition. That's the way I want you to think about it. So it's a increased number of plasma cells. So you have an increased number of plasma cells. It's not a malignant condition yet. It's pre-malignant. So here, let's actually write that down. This is a pre-malignancy. So I'm going to put it's like a pre-malignant, it's like a tweener where you're not at the point yet of it being malignant. But again, this is a pre-malignant condition that causes an increase in the number of plasma cells. If you have an increased number of plasma cells, what happens is these plasma cells, they make normally antibodies. And if you have a lot of plasma cells, guess what you end up with a lot of, a lot of antibodies. And the primary antibodies that can come out of this scenario is you end up with this plasma cell, right? And this plasma cell, when you actually kind of cause this condition where you keep proliferating them, you sometimes proliferate the same one repeatedly, repeatedly, repeatedly, and it produces the same antibodies in an overproduction manner. One of them, and this is probably the most abundant one, I'd say most of the time, this is 50% of the cases, sometimes even higher, is you overproduce IgG antibodies. And it's important to remember that these are not really truly functional. The other one that you can produce a lot of is going to be the IgA antibodies, right? This is kind of lower, maybe 20%. And then the last thing that you also produce a decent amount of, which you're going to count for about 15%, 20% is going to be these light chains. And so you have these things called light chains. Now there's different types of light chains, but oftentimes the two big ones are going to be what's called Kappa, that's a long A, Kappa and Lambda. These are going to be the two big ones here, but what happens is you're making a lot of these, right? So in patients who develop MGUS, they make lots of IgG, or they make lots of IgA, and they also make light chains, Kappa and Lambda. The concept behind this is when you look at an antibody, this sequence here, if I kind of follow with a black line, this part here, this part here, right here, right here, that's your heavy chain, right? And then these little guys that are coming off the edge here that are connected by disulfide bonds, those are going to be your light chains. So whenever a plasma cell makes antibodies, they are supposed to have these as immunoglobulins, which is a combination of these heavy chains and light chains. But what ends up happening, you make a lot of these normal immunoglobulins, and then you also have an excess amount of light chains. So that's the big, big thing I want you to remember. Now here's the big, big concept to understand with MGUS. When you make a lot of these, maybe you make these monoclonal antibodies and increase light chains, the big thing to remember is that these are present, but they do not precipitate organ damage. So there is no presence of organ damage due to these antibodies. And the most important types of organ damage presentation is usually something that we'll call the Crab criteria, which is classic and multiple myeloma. But the other thing that's really important, and we'll talk about this a little bit later, is with MGUS, when you make these lots of immunoglobulins and light chains, it causes, whenever you do something called a serum protein electrophoresis, where you basically separate the proteins in the serum based upon their electroneutrality and their charge, et cetera, it separates them out into different proteins. You can remember it via the Chaka. And so the Chaka kind of goes, you have albumin, the alpha one globulins, alpha two globulins, the beta globulins, and then the gamma globulins. And so what happens is in patients who have normal cases, they have like a normal gamma globulin level. But what happens is when a patient starts to develop a plasma cell disorder, that puppy goes up and that's the pinky side will really, really shoot up. And then up on the real, what's called an M spike. And that's really important to remember. We'll talk about that in the diagnostic section, but their M spike is less than three grams per DL. I'll get into that a little bit later, but again, remember it's less than three grams per DL and they have no organ damage. That's one of the big ways that we can differentiate MGUS from multiple myeloma. Now multiple myeloma is a malignant condition. So this is a malignant condition. And what happens in this situation here is you end up with a lot of these plasma cells, dude, and it's like, it's like a lot, lots and lots and lots of these plasma cells. And these plasma cells, what happens is that they end up making a lot of antibodies. If you have lots of plasma cells, you're gonna end up with a lot of antibodies. And again, this is a quick recap. What's the most common one? IGG, or what's the other one that you could make less commonly? Because again, it's either gonna be one or the other. It can't be both in these scenarios. So you see either the plasma cell makes a lot of immunoglobulin G and light chains, or it makes a lot of IGA and light chains. There's other types. They're less common. Sometimes you only make light chains and sometimes you only make heavy chains. We're not gonna talk about those. Which either make a lot of IGG or a lot of IGA plus a lot of Kappa lambda light chains. And I'm talking a lot. So let's do a double arrow here for these. Now when you make all of these, these actually are high enough and you have enough of an M spike greater than 3 grams per DL that it's actually able to precipitate organ damage. All right? And this organ damage again, we'll talk about it a little bit later when we get to the complication, but it's often referred to as the crab criteria. We'll talk about it a little bit later, but again, that's the big difference. When you look at these, you're like, oh wow, similarities here. Right? Pretty close. The only thing that's different is that you get more of these monoclonal proteins. So I'll write it down now here. But this is gonna cause an M spike. This is basically all of these less than 3 grams per DL. This right here is gonna cause an M spike greater than or equal to, greater than or equal to 3 grams per DL. It's important to remember these concepts. So you're gonna have so many monoclonal proteins in these scenarios that it's gonna cause an M spike, but the height or the degree of the M spike determines somewhat of a difference to be multiple myeloma and M guss. And the presence of organ damage or not determines the difference between myeloma and M guss. Walden strums. This one's a malignant condition as well. And what happens with this one is it's technically a tweener. And what I mean is you have like a B cell and a plasma cell. It's like a B cell that's trying to proliferate a differenti into a plasma cell, but it doesn't completely differentiate. So we call these lympho-plasmocytes. We call them lympho-plasmocytes. Now lympho-plasmocytes, basically, you have a over-proliferation of these bad boys. When you have an over-proliferation of these bad boys, these are gonna start producing a pentamer, a very specific type of immunoglobulin. And you're gonna make a lot of them. So you'll make a lot of this IgM antibody, which is our pentamer. And this is problematic because this can cause a lot of problems. And so this will precipitate organ damage. This will precipitate organ damage. The way that it presents is not a crab criteria though. We'll talk later. It's usually something called hyperviscocity syndrome. Or sometimes it can also cause tumor infiltration. And sometimes it can even potentially cause neuropathy. But big thing here is, again, you're gonna get so many of these that on the S-Pep, that gamma-globulin spike, the M-spike, which consists of the monoclonal proteins, is gonna be elevated. So what the M-spike here look like, greater than or equal to 3 grams per DL. And so it's important to remember that you're gonna get an M-spike for all of these. This one, not as intense. These two, intense. These two, organ damage. This one, no organ damage. Malignant, pre-malignant. All right? Now let's come down and talk about what are the causes of having too many plasma cells or too many lymphoplasma sites. It's actually, thank goodness, so straightforward. M-guss is a disease of old age. I know that sounds crazy. But we see that the prevalence is high when a patient is greater than or equal to 70 years of age. All right? And so what we notice here is something kind of interesting. That for every year, the percent chance that a patient can convert from M-guss into multiple myeloma is about a 1% chance per year. Let me explain something. There's a reason I wanna talk about M-guss, because M-guss is usually asymptomatic. There's no organ damage. There's no symptoms. All right? Not usually. So you have kind of this array, right? Our spectrum. So we're gonna say M-guss, it can convert into what's called smoldering myeloma. Sounds like, what was that movie? Jumanji, right? And he's like the smolder. It's a smoldering myeloma. And then you have what's called multiple myeloma. So this is kind of a spectrum, if you will. And so when a patient kind of goes, they can go from M-guss to smoldering myeloma and smoldering myeloma to multiple myeloma. How do you differentiate them? All right? So it's gonna have the M-spike, right? So it's gonna have that M-spike and it's gonna be less than 3 grams per deal, all right? But what happens is, is when it starts to get to smoldering myeloma, so maybe over a year or years, the chances of this kind of going up can happen. But it's a low chance. If it does break that point where you get to an M-spike greater than or equal to 3 grams per deal, you'd be like, okay, you smoldering myeloma. All right, well Zach, you just told me if I bump above 3, that's multiple myeloma though, right? No. Because in this scenario, guess what? No organ damage. Here, no organ damage. All right, so there's, and we're gonna actually call this the crab criteria. I just want you to trust me for right now. I promise it's the way that they have organ damage, but just trust me. And then here, they're not gonna have any crab criteria. So the only thing that really changes the number of these immunoglobulins, whether that's the IgG or the IgA, and the increase in light chains, it just went up. All right? So it's kind of progressed. So we started here, we got to this. How do I then finally get that chance for a patient to eventually convert? You see right away that now you have to have an M-spike greater than or equal to 3 grams per dl plus you have to have the presence of crab criteria. All right? That's really where it kind of comes down to. But this chance of converting is about a 1% chance. So this has a chance of converting of about 1% chance per year of this eventually converting from M-guss into what? Multiple myeloma. So about a 1% chance per year of them transforming. So that's why it's important to know this. So when we talk about multiple myeloma, what really happens here is we actually don't have good reasons as to why this condition occurs. There could be a lot of different factors, but what we've seen is it could be due to chromosomal translocations. And there's a lot of them. I don't want you to stress about them. I want you to know the most common one that's associated with the standard risk of multiple myeloma. And you'll see why I'm telling you that. And it's usually the 1114 translocation. So on chromosome 11, there may be this gene. And then over here on chromosome number 14, there is this kind of gene. So here on 11, it's a cyclin D gene. And then on 14 is an Ig immunoglobulin heavy chain enhancer. So basically this controls the production of immunoglobulins. This controls the, it's a proto-oncogene. So it controls proliferation of cells. What happens is you get this little chunk here that kind of moves over here. So then what you end up having is you have this translocation on chromosome number 14 where I'm going to have this immunoglobulin enhancer. And then I'm going to have this cyclin D gene. And this is going to really enhance this activity. And what it'll do is, is it'll cause a massive proliferation of plasma cells. So basically it'll stimulate the proliferation because the cyclin D gene is going to go ham. And so it's going to cause massive proliferation. And it's also going to kind of make them survive. So they're going to be resistant to apoptosis. But on top of that, it's also going to have in these, every single one of these plasma cells will have that IgH enhancer. And so now it's also going to trigger this to increase antibody production. And so now I'm going to end up with all these dang antibodies. What you see the point here is that you're stimulating these cells to proliferate, but you're also stimulating immunoglobulin G or immunoglobulin A production plus the light chains. That's the concept that I want you guys to understand here. So it's kind of cool when you think about this. And so this is the standard risk, meaning that they'll develop the common course. It's somewhat of a positive prognostic factor to that. And I'll talk about that a little bit later when I talk about the RISS, kind of like staging system. We actually look at chromosomal translocations. And 1114 is more of a favorable one. Other ones, they have less favorable outcomes. And so it's important to remember that. With Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, this is also potentially due to a mutation. One of these may be called the MYD88 mutation. I'm just mentioning it. I don't think that this is like super, super high yield. I just want you to understand that there's a mutation on a chromosome. And what happens is, is this actually causes the kind of the lymphoplasma sites, right, to kind of go into this hyperactive proliferative state and then prove their survival. The way it does is it actually causes a mutation that increases the expression of a transcription factor. Again, take this with a grain of salt with how important this is, but it causes an increase in what's called nuclear factor Kappa Beta. And this is a transcription factor that when it actually kind of gets into the nucleus, it really amps up the proliferative process. And so that's really, really important because it's going to go act on these lymphoplasma sites and really cause them to proliferate quite crazy. Right, so it'll definitely stimulate this proliferation, but not only that, it will lock these kind of cells into a state of antibody production. And it'll trigger these lymphoplasma sites to start producing lots of antibodies. And again, what are these antibodies that it's making? It is IgM predominant. Now, you're probably wondering, how do I tell if a patient is making like, you know, IgG versus IgM versus IgA. When you do the serum protein electrophoresis, it separates it out and says, okay, here's the gamma globulins. Any of these immunoglobulins are elevated. You just don't know which one. So then you take that sample and you do what's called immunophysicization. And that should tell you which one is actually elevated. All right, so we've talked about the patho, right, about how you separate them based upon antibody and organ damage. And then we talked about causes, particularly talking about MGUS, how it's pretty much a preliminary condition, but it does carry a risk of converting into multiple myeloma. We talked about how chromosomal translocations could be a source of really good or poor prognostic indicators for multiple myeloma. And then we talked about the mutation in Walden strums that causes hyperproliferation of lymphoplasma sites and IgM antibody production. Now let's talk about the complications of these disorders. All right, so let's talk about the complications of plasma cell disorders. So one of the big things that we already talked about with MGUS is that it's pretty much asymptomatic. So you're like, okay, well, how do I know if people have it? People talk about that. There's something called a protein gap, and it's actually kind of helpful in potentially having a degree of suspicion. But oftentimes MGUS is an incidental finding. So you do a lab and you're like, oh, wow, look at this. They have an elevated protein gap. You get an SPAP and you find out that they have an MSPYC less than or equal to three grams per DL. So with MGUS, there is that chance that it can convert to multiple myeloma, but you have to remember those antibodies aren't causing organ damage. With multiple myeloma, there is organ damage. And we remember that organ damage by the mnemonic crab criteria or just the crab. I like to add on another one, and I'm just going to do that to be extra. But I like to add in crab eye criteria. So if a patient has crab eye criteria, they really kind of show me that they have high risk of multiple myeloma. So let's go through this. So C is hypercalcemia. R is renal failure. A is anemia. B is bone pain. And then I is infections, especially recurrent ones. So hypercalcemia and lytic lesions. I want to talk about these together because they have similar kind of presentations, and these are often times the way that these patients may present. So in patients of hypercalcemia or lytic lesions, here you have your plasma cell. This is your plasma cell. Now one thing about these plasma cells is that when you have these being super malignant, right, so these are malignant plasma cells, they not only do they release tons of antibodies. Guess what else they release? They release other cytokines that are kind of detrimental. One of them could be what's called interleukin 1 and tumor necrotic factor alpha. These often times go together. Another one could be osteoclast activating factor. And another one could be what's called the rank ligand. So because they're malignant, they gain the capacity to produce these. And they produce them in kind of like abnormally large amounts. Now the why this is important is because these top two, they really hit osteoclasts in the bone. So these plasma cells will kind of get into the bone and they'll go to these osteoclasts. Look at these little puppies here. These are some big cells, dude. And what happens is these two primarily really go and act on these receptors. And what they do is, is they're normally supposed to stimulate these osteoclasts. The osteoclasts, when they're stimulated by rank ligand and osteoclasts activating factor, they release things like hydrochloric acid and they release, technically it's called collagenase. It's just, it's basically in all seriousness, it's a lysosomal enzyme. But one of the big components of bone is type one collagen. So we're going to release a lot of these things like hydrochloric acid and collagenase from these osteoclasts. And these go tear that bone up, right? It's going to get in here and it's going to start jacking things up. So it's going to rip through the bone and they're going to start chewing up the bone and generating a lot of different types of contents. Hydrochloric acid chews up hydroxyapatite. When you chew up hydroxyapatite, what does that liberate into the bloodstream? So you start getting high amounts of calcium that is liberated into the bloodstream. So this is called resorption. So it's called resorption. So there's going to be this like resorptive process where you chew away at the bone and this leads to high calcium. Now when a patient develops hypercalcium, they could be completely asymptomatic. You may not have any symptoms. But oftentimes this calcium can get pretty high, at least get up to like greater than 11. What happens with that is that calcium can do a lot of different detrimental things. One of those things is if it's bad enough, it could actually cross the kidney tubules. When it crosses the kidney tubules, it does have the ability if it's in the right circumstances to combine with oxalate or to combine with phosphate and then guess what could happen? They could form calcium stones. So that's a really, really important thing to remember is with high calcium comes high risk of kidney stones. And again, I'm not going to write it down, but I want you to remember the two big ones that are associated with hypercalcemia and that is calcium oxalate, calcium phosphate stones. That's one thing that you want to watch out for, definitely high risk. They could come in with kidney stones. The other thing is that calcium, dude, this guy is cool because what can happen is he can get over here and he can jack up the way ADH. You know ADH? ADH is supposed to bind on to what's called the V2 receptor. Let's do that here in this blue color. So it's supposed to bind on to this receptor, but whenever there's high calcium, that inhibits ADH from working on this receptor. And then what happens is your ADH is supposed to help you with water reabsorption. You're going to reabsorb water now? No. And so this process of water reabsorption is inhibited because of this. So ADH is supposed to drive this process of water reabsorption. But because you have high calcium and it inhibits this process, you don't reabsorb water and you lose tons of water in the urine. This is called nephrogenic DI. Nephrogenic DI. So you're going to have lots of water into the urine. So it's important to remember that they can have polyuria. They can have kidney stones. So remember that mnemonic stones, bones, groans, thorns, psychiatric overtones? These are the big ones to watch out for is kidney stones. But you also definitely want to watch out for nephrogenic DI that can cause polyuria. And then also, guess what? The other effect here is the lesions, the lytic lesions. You're going to have the bone problems. So let's talk about that now. As you rip apart the bone, you get these hydroxyapatites. You break up the collagen. You're going to start really breaking these bones down. And this is going to cause lytic lesions to form. You're going to stimulate the formation of these dangellitic lesions. These lytic lesions, they're pretty nasty, man. They can occur all over the place. The skull is a big one. The vertebrae is by far the most common one. So if it occurs in the vertebrae, and I would say this is definitely, definitely the most common, the next one is it can occur in the skull. This is definitely common. What does it look like? If you get these lesions, sometimes they may not present with any clinical symptoms. I will say that since this is the most common one, if you get these lytic lesions, you may find them on imaging, but sometimes it may be bad enough that it can cause fractures of the bones. So that's one thing you want to watch out for is, is there any development of pathogenesis pathological fractures, right? Because that can definitely cause a lot of back pain, or the lesions itself can cause back pain. So the complications that you want to watch out for is with these lytic lesions comes about fractures, or just comes generalized pain, especially back pain. And that's oftentimes the way that these patients present. Worst case scenario, and I've seen it, it's terribly sad, is that sometimes if you get enough of these lesions, right? So let's say here's the body of the vertebrae. Let's say you get a lesion right here. Look what it's right next to. So here's my lytic lesion. Look what it could be next to, the spinal cord. And dude, sometimes these lytic lesions can cause compression of the spinal cord. Sometimes plasma cells can infiltrate into the bone, almost called a plasmocytoma. They can cause like a solid tumor right there, and that can compress the spinal cord. And so the big thing that you got to watch out for here is the lytic lesions having enough encroachment on the spinal cord, especially since they occur in the vertebrae. So spinal cord compression is an emergency in this scenario. So definitely watch out for spinal cord compression. This could be due to a fracture that causes that displacement. It could be due to the lytic lesion being enough to compress on the area, or sometimes it could be due to a plasmocytoma. Definitely be wary of these. Now one other thing here, so we know that if a patient comes in with hypercalcemia or these lytic lesions, we have an idea of what we would be looking for radiographically, in worst case scenario. But how do I know that this hypercalcemia isn't from something else? Because hypercalcemia can cause kidney stones, nephrogenic DI, and it can cause a lot of these different lesions of the bone. How do I know it's not something else? Well remember, high calcium is going to suppress your parathyroid gland. So what's going to happen to your PTH levels? That should drop. So we know that it's not a problem with hyperparathyroidism. The other thing that you have to ask yourself is, could it be due to any other kind of malignancy? Could this be another source? And so remember, you always want to check other reasons. And so the big thing that you want to look for is these patients will have normal PTHRPs. Do you guys remember that? Come on, tell me you do. That was the squamous cell carcinoma. There's none of those. What about the granulomintous diseases like patients who have sarcoid or lymphoma? Do you remember what those could do? They could cause abnormal vitamin D. These patients will have normal vitamin D. So if they have normal vitamin D, normal PTHRP, and their PTH is low, it's not hyperparathyroidism. It's not a malignancy from the squamous cell. It's not some kind of sarcoidosis or lymphoma. This is a malignancy of a lytic lesion, multimyloma. That's really important to remember. Now, one of the things I want to talk about here, it's a small add-on, because we're going to talk about this more specifically when we get into amylidosis. But there is a type of amylidosis when these plasma cells, when they make these antibodies, right? They make these different antibodies, right? Some of these can get misfolded. And if they get misfolded, these can go and deposit into different organs. And that's where it gets kind of scary. And so one of these things that can happen is if it starts to cause misfolding of the proteins, so let's say misfolded proteins, and they start depositing, then we get something called amylidosis. It's called light chain amylidosis. This can cause deposition into the heart. And we'll talk about this later. You can get something called restrictive cardiomyopathy. That's one thing. It can also deposit into the glomerular base of membrane, into the podocytes. And you can get something called nephrodic syndrome.  these are the two big ones, there's other areas, but again, I don't want to talk about this too much, because we're going to talk about this in its own lecture, but do know that there is a high correlation of multiple myeloma with light chain amyloidosis, and we'll talk about that later, but there is other types of amyloidosis. Hypercalcemia, lytic lesions with multiple myeloma, we've already covered what part of the Crab criteria, C for hypercalcemia, and the lytic lesions, the bone pain. Usually it's the back, also watch out for the ribs, the ribs are another one, sometimes long bones, not too common, skull. All right, now we're going to take care of the other parts, renal failure, anemia, and infections. So let's come down, renal failure baby, not a good thing, really, really important to know multiple myeloma. So what happens here? When a patient develops multiple myeloma, they can make all those aminoglobin as we talked about, but these little puppies here, dude, the light chains, here's all those light chains, these are the problematic guys. All right, so here's my light chains, and again, these were the Kappa lambda light chains. When you're making a lot of these in a patient who has multiple myeloma, the problem with these is that they get into the circulation and they get filtered across the GBM. When they get filtered across the GBM, they can get taken up by the proximal tubular cells. Once in the proximal tubular cells, they can cause tissue death. They can cause a bunch of different types of chemical reactions, but eventually what they're going to do is they're going to cause necrosis. All right, so they're going to cause necrosis of this tissue. As these tissues start to undergo necrosis, what starts happening? They start shedding off their layers. So they start sloughing some of their tissue layers off here, and then here is going to be this cast, this muddy brown cast that can form here. You know what else? Sometimes these light chains can actually bind with other proteins and they may even cause like a cast nephropathy where they actually cause a little bit of obstruction there as well, but basically what you get here is you get an obstruction. You get an obstruction due to casts. When that obstruction forms, this basically prevents the normal flow of urine. So this ability to go here is now impeded. The problem with that is that now the pressure inside of the capsule goes up and you start inhibiting the filtration. If you inhibit the filtration, your GFR starts to go down. So now what happens is the patient's GFR drops. So let's say over here their GFR starts to drop as a result here. If the GFR drops, you lose the ability to excrete waste products. One of those waste products is creatinine. That can start to go up. So what happens is you're supposed to be excreting things that can be impaired. Your creatinine can start to go up. So watch out for an increase in the creatinine and a decrease in their GFR. The other thing is that sometimes if you're in an ability to actually secrete waste products occurs, you also run the risk of AKI complications. So the other thing that you want to watch out for is an elevated potassium and elevated protons, elevated volume, so hypervalemia and then elevated BUN, which can cause uremia. These are all things that you want to be careful. The patient does develop hyperkalemia, acidosis, hypervalemia, uremia. These are all potential complications. Now when a patient comes in, they have multiple uloma, oftentimes they'll have a degree of renal failure, but that's present due to this kind of what we call casnopropathy. They form cas, and they kind of get stuck there in the proximal tube, obstruct the flow, and lead to a drop in the filtration. That'll lead to a steady rise in the creatinine, and then over time you can get complications from AKIs or from severe NCKD. Big thing to remember here is that it's about the light chains. And so sometimes what we'll do is we'll measure these chains when they get into the urine. And what we can do is sometimes we'll do something called a upep. And so when you do a upep, what it detects is it detects the proteins that are in the urine, and it'll separate them out. You'll get an M spike just like you would in the serum, but that M pep, if there is the spike, what it tells me is that there's lots of these light chains that got stuck in the urine, and these are going to be elevated. So you get a positive upep, but all that tells you is you have lots of these light chains. It's important to know another name for this. Another name for these proteins that get into the urine that cause kidney damage is they're called Benz Jones. Proteins. And these are basically those Kappa and Lambda light chains that when they get into the kidney and they cause this nephrotoxic damage, they're called these Benz Jones proteins. So if you have a positive upep, the M spike, it may indicate the presence of these Benz Jones proteins in multiple myeloma. Now another thing here, anemia. This is a big one to talk about. The reason why is anemia can be due to a lot of different kinds of things. One of them is it could be due to the plasma cells just kind of infiltrating into the bone marrow. And as they infiltrate into the bone marrow, they make less space. So let's see here. I infiltrate the bone marrow. So this could be due to infiltration. What I mean by infiltration means that I take these dang plasma cells. Here's all my plasma cells and I got a lot of them. And I go ahead and say, hey, go into the bone marrow and really kind of get all on in there. Get in there, not some deep black. And when it gets in there, it starts crowding out that space. And so if I crowd out the bone marrow, I make less room. I take away the nutrients that are needed to make other cells. And it may cause cytopenias. Unfortunately, the one that we notice the most pronounced is the red cells. And so if I crowd out that bone marrow, what I do is I decrease my red blood cell production. And so I can end up with anemia due to that. And this is more of a normal cytokineemia. But there's another concept here. If I crowd out that bone marrow, that's one way. Another thing that also happens is that in anemia, these plasma cells, remember the cytokines that they were making? Sometimes, unfortunately, interleukin, one. Interleukin-6 is another one. Two-minicrotic factor alpha. All of these are inflammatory cytokines. When you have inflammatory cytokines that are present, what can they do? What do they tell the liver? They tell the liver, hey, lots of inflammation, bro. Do something about it. And the liver makes a molecule called hepsidin. And what does hepsidin do? It basically shuts down the macrophage and shuts down the intestines so that you can't release iron or absorb iron. And so this process gets inhibited. So you inhibit the macrophages, you inhibit the ferroportin channel, and you inhibit the release and absorption of iron. So what happens to the iron levels in the blood? They go down. If you have less iron in your circulation to be delivered to the bone marrow, can you make red blood cells? No. And so that's another factor here where you're going to inhibit the production of them. That's kind of an anemia of chronic disease. And so it's really kind of interesting when you think about this. Another thing that's really, really important is when you have all of these proteins and lots of inflammation, one of the things that happens is the red blood cells because of that inflammation, they like to stack. And so you end up kind of getting these stacks of red blood cells. And this is usually due to lots of proteins like immunoglobulins, as well as lots of inflammation. And this is really important to know. So when you get these stacked up red blood cells, it's called a Roulot formation. This is actually kind of helpful when we look at this on the peripheral blood smear. So when you look at the peripheral blood smear and you actually assess this, you're going to see these red blood cells that are all stacked up really, really nicely. All that tells me is that again, there's lots of inflammation, lots of proteins that are actually present there. And when you have that, sometimes the red blood cells start stacking up on one another. And what actually this could indicate, you know when you take a red blood cell, you put it in a tube and you see how fast it drops, it determines the erythrocyte sedimentation rate, ESRs will go up. ESRs are indicative of systemic inflammation. They don't tell you what's causing it, but they tell you there's some inflammation going on within So Roulot formation tells me that there's inflammatory processes that are going on, or there's lots of proteins that are increasing the viscosity to some degree in the blood. This is really important that you can pick this up on the peripheral blood smear. It actually looks a little bit like this. So anemia is another factor. Looking for a low hemoglobin, low hematocrit, a Roulot formation on peripheral blood smear, and usually these red blood cells, they're normal sized. And so that's actually important to remember that the MCV is normal. All right, so it's usually what we call normalcytic anemia. Whenever you have a normalcytic anemia, you always ask yourself the question, is it a lower tick index or higher tick index? You would check the retic index, it'd probably be to some degree low. And then you say, okay, is it something with a bone marrow, like an aplastic or an infiltrative process? Well, it's only my Loma does that. Or is it due to anemia of chronic disease? Well, it's my Loma does that. So it's both of them. All right, infections. This one's kind of interesting. And then the reason why is, it causes a relative hypogamma globulinemia. What I mean is, is that these plasma cells, they produce, let's say, decreased functional. These are less functional, immunoglobulin G or immunoglobulin A. So it's less functional immunoglobulins. They don't really do as good of a job as they should. All right, that's this is plasma cells are making these malignant plasma cells are making these. But the other thing is malignant plasma cells actually end up decreasing. So let's say here's a normal plasma cell. So here's your malignant ones. And this is going to be a normal plasma cell. The interesting concept here is that when you have all these like malignant plasma cells, what they do is, is they can actually suppress your normal plasma cells from producing true, good, healthy, normal polyclonal antibodies. And so this is actually kind of what happens as they these malignant ones can actually come over here, and they can take up space or crowd out or suppress your normal plasma cells. And so that causes this kind of drop in other immunoglobulin lines. And so you'll end up with a lot of these functional. So you end up with a lot of these less functional immunoglobulins. And you'll also end up with less of your functional immunoglobulins. The whole point of that is if I don't got good immunoglobulins, so I got less functional ones. All right, so I have let's actually put like this. Let's say I have more. I have lots of less functional immunoglobulins and then less of true functional immunoglobulins. That's the concept that I want you to think about. So less of functional immunoglobulins. Right. That's the thing that's important to remember. Because that unit, but what's called a relative hypogamma globulinemia. So you don't have true antibodies that can bind onto these bacteria and neutralize them or opsonize them or help with enhancing the phagocytosis process or causing them to be cleared by the spleen. Right. Or helping other cells to cause cytotoxic damage to these types of bacteria. And so what happens is you end up with an ability to allow certain types of bacteria to thrive. And those two bacteria that are really important to remember is streptococcus pneumonia. So you have a higher risk of infections due to streptococcus pneumonia and homophilus influenzae. These are going to be the two particular type of bacteria that are encapsulated that you can have a higher risk of infection with. All right. Watch out for that. And so if a patient gets these kinds of infections, oftentimes strep pneumo and homophilus influenza are sino pulmonary kind of areas. So they like to cause like sinusitis, like bacterial sinusitis and pneumonia. So patients who are developing recurrent episodes of pneumonia, that's an important thing. Right. So with this being said, we've really talked a lot about how multiple myeloma can cause a lot of different kinds of devastating effects. It's important to remember multiple myeloma, lots of immunoglobulin G or lots of immunoglobulin A plus a lot of light chains. The less functional immunoglobulins can cause problems with being able to fight off immunity. Plus these malignant plasma cells are suppressing normal plasma cells from producing true functional antibodies. A lot of these plasma cells infiltrate the bone marrow and they crowd out the space to be able to make red blood cells. They also suppress red blood cell production by lowering the true sufficiency of iron that's needed to go to the bone marrow. The light chains chalk up the actual kidney tube is in cause arena failure and plasma cells can actually signal the bone to start causing destructive processes. And in worst case scenarios, multiple myeloma can increase the risk of light chain amylidosis. So you see a lot of different things here. What I want you now to talk about or to learn about is Walden's drums. Walden's drums macrogobulinemia is again, it's a malignant condition. What happens in this one is these lympho plasma sites can do a bunch of different things. Let's say the first one son of a gun. The first one son is that these lympho plasma sites can come over and what they could do is they could deposit into different types of organs. Let's say that they come over here and you got lots of them and they decide to infiltrate. So there's a tumor infiltration process. They decide to infiltrate into the lymph nodes. If they cause lymph node infiltration, this will cause the lymph nodes to get bigger. And this can lead to lymph adenopathy, which is basically kind of an enlargement and swelling of the what lymph nodes. And usually this is like the cervical lymph nodes that get affected or the axillary lymph nodes that are get affected. So it's important to look for any kind of like painless and enlarged swelling of a lymph node. And when you palpate it, you'll be able to feel that kind of like rubbery feeling of that lymph node. That could be due to Walden's drums macrogobulinemia. The other thing is it likes to deposit into the liver and the spleen. And if it deposits into the liver and the spleen, it can cause liver and spleen infiltration. And that can cause hepatitis, splenomegaly. If this kind of event happens, how would this patient oftentimes present? Well with hepatitis splenomegaly, it'll cause enlargement of the liver. They may have kind of some potential like feeling there on that cost of vertebral angle. The spleen gets enlarged as well. But here's the big thing. As they get bigger, they take up space and they start pushing on the stomach. And so it makes less room for whenever you want to take in food. And guess what that leads to? It leads to an abdominal fullness and early satiety. So this can lead to abdominal fullness and distention sometimes too. Abdominal fullness. And it can also lead to distention. So these are things that definitely consider for that one. The other thing that can happen is that these lymphoplasma sites can also infiltrate the bone marrow. If they do infiltrate the bone marrow, again we already kind of have an idea of what that may do. If they do cause bone marrow infiltration, what may that do? That may make less space. If there is less space inside of the bone marrow that may crowd out that ability to make other types of cells. The most common one to be affected is the red blood cells. And so by crowding out that space crowds out the bone marrow. And by crowding out that bone marrow, you're going to lead to a decrease in red blood cell production. And again, this is going to be kind of a normal, acidic process. And so when I look at these patients' MCVs, you're going to notice that they will be normal. All right. The other thing here is that these lymphoplasma sites, they also can do some other things. This is only 10% of cases. So this is most common. In 10% of cases, let's say this there, in 10% of cases, they can make these auto antibodies. And these auto antibodies may go and bind on to different types of antigens that are present here. So let's say here we have a antigen. These auto antibodies may go and bind on to these antigens here. And what it may do is it may cause these red blood cells to be tagged and to be killed or to be ripped up, per se, in the spleen. And so this may cause these cells to get hemolyzed. All right. And that is called autoimmune hemolytic anemia. So this will go to the spleen and it'll get hemolyzed. This is called autoimmune hemolytic anemia. So sometimes you may have these patients who can develop an autoimmune hemolytic anemia. It's funny enough, one of the things here is that this can actually, you can see this increase in lymphoplasma sites. It's kind of like lymphoma, essentially. Honestly, it's a B cell neoplasma. And so because of that, B cell neoplasma, especially CLL, is associated with autoimmune hemolytic anemia. So that's why we could see this as well as the source of the patient's anemia. Only 10% of cases though. All right. So the patient has lymphotenopathy. It's because the lymphoplasma site's infiltrated. A pathospinal megalee, because the lymphoplasma site's infiltrated. And anemia, because of infiltration into the bone marrow, but also they could have anemia because in 10% of cases, you can develop autoantibodies. Which one is it? IGM. And these IgM antibodies may go and bind to the antigens here and trigger autoimmune hemolytic anemia. All right. Now, the next concept. It may cause hyperviscosity syndrome. This is the high yield. If you forget this, that's okay. This one you cannot forget. Now, in patients with hyperviscosity syndrome, these lymphoplasma sites are pumping out the IgM antibodies. So here's all my IgM antibodies. And again, you got to remember, I know I'm representing them like little y's, like they're monomers, but these are pentomers. They're huge, dude. And so because of that, you're going to get tons and tons of these IgMs. They're going to take up a lot of space and they're going to really thicken up the blood. So imagine here, I have good, normal blood, no viscous flow. So let's say here, decrease viscosity. And here you're going to have increased viscosity. Let's compare the flow. So here's normal viscosity. And here's super, super high viscous blood. What's going to happen to the flow? Well, normally it's going to be laminar, right? You're going to have that laminar flow. Here, it's going to be maybe laminar, but it's also going to be super sludgy. So you're going to have a very, very, very, very slow flow. It's going to be super, super slow. So you're going to have good blood flow here. And then decreased blood flow here. So increased blood flow. And here you're going to have decreased blood flow. You can imagine how that'd be problematic, right? So if you have super high viscous blood, that blood flow is going to be really, really low. And imagine having poor cerebral perfusion. If I have decreased cerebral perfusion, how could that potentially present? It may present with headaches. It may present with dizziness. It may present with an altered mental status, right? And this is because of decreased cerebral blood flow. So decreased cerebral perfusion. What if I congest the, so what if I have sluggish blood flow coming out of the retinal vein? So the blood leaving the retinal vein is impaired. Well, then the retinal veins can start getting super, super engorged and big. And so sometimes what can happen is you can have what's called retinal vein stasis or engorgement. And so what happens is you end up having decreased retinal drainage because it's super, super viscous blood there, bro. Right? So decreased retinal drainage leads to these retinal veins being gargantuous. So what's happening is you get these enlarged retinal veins, right? So this causes enlarged retinal veins, which if you do fundoscopy on these patients, you may see this. It actually can look a little bit like this. The other things that you may have seen on that potential image is that sometimes that back flow can actually cause like small hemorrhaging into the retina. It can cause like retinal hemorrhaging. The other thing that's also important to remember is that sometimes you can even get swelling of the optic disc and cause papillodema as well. So watch out for poor cerebral perfusion, which can cause these features. Watch out for poor retinal drainage, which can cause enlarged retinal veins, which may cause fundoscopic findings. But how would they present clinically? What would they may say? Well, what's the retina design to do? Help with your vision. That's what could happen. You can get blurred vision, right? So the other thing to watch out for is blurred vision. These are oftentimes the main ways that patients will present is a headache, blurred vision. Sometimes it's very rare, but imagine you have this super high viscous blood and you have to pump that blood out of the heart. It's going to be really hard. And so it's going to be difficult to get the amount of volume you want out. And so the stroke volume may go down. The cardiac output may go down. As a result of having this super, super viscous blood, if that happens and you end up aren't able to get your heart isn't strong enough to push this super high viscous blood out, you end up with a low cardiac output that may cause blood to back up. Right? So blood may back up into the left atrium and then into the lungs. How could that present with pulmonary edema in dyspnea? So these patients sometimes can develop congestive heart failure. I wouldn't say worry too much about this one, but consider it. All right, congestive heart failure may be a potential symptom here, but definitely blurred vision, the fundoscopic findings, and then features of headache, dizziness, and the altered mental status. The other thing is that these little jacked up fingers here that you see, I look, I can't draw a hand. I know, don't laugh at me, but you can get these real jacked up fingers. And the reason why is whenever you get in cold temperatures, this can actually cause against sluggish flow. And so you get poor perfusion with the digits. And they can actually end up with cyanosis of the digits. And so watch out for rainouts phenomenon. This is going to be that bluish discoloration of the digits due to poor flow. If you get them out of the cold temperatures, it should actually help. The other thing that's really important, I'd say this oftentimes is the way that I would be potentially worried to see this, is that whenever you have all these IgM antibodies, not only do they increase viscosity leading to these types of presentations, but the other thing is these antibodies, the IgMs, can actually bind to platelets and kind of coat the surface of the platelets. And when you do that, you basically inhibit the platelets. So you inhibit the platelet aggregation. When you inhibit platelet aggregation, are you going to be able to form a clot if needed? No. Guess what that leads to? Impairment and primary hemostasis. What's going to happen? The patients can bleed. And so bleeding is another way that these patients oftentimes present. What are the ways that you bleed when you have a superficial or we say platelet disorder related bleeding? Do you guys remember superficial bleeding? So how did that look? Petitier, Pepira, but the most common presentation is epistaxis. That's the one that you have to watch out for. Watch a patient who has gingival bleeding or epistaxis. Oral nasal bleeding is the most common way that patients with hyperviscocity syndrome will present. Now that we've done that, let's move on to the next step here. When a patient develops hyperviscocity syndrome, you have to watch out for these big complications. And it's super important because if you miss this, you're going to miss the proper treatment. For the next one is neuropathy. Neuropathy, so it was tumor infiltration that caused all these. It was circulating IgM that caused all these. What the heck about this one? All right, these lymphoplasma sites are pumping out these antibodies, right? These IgM antibodies. These IgM antibodies may attack certain types of areas. And sometimes this can cause an autoimmune like activity. So here, let's actually bring it over here. Let's say here I'm going from this guy to this guy. And what I'm going to show you, something happens to these myelins. Here, this myelin was normal. Here, where's my pink marker here? This myelin is jacked up beyond belief. Look, I got pieces flying everywhere of myelin. Myelin's all jacked up. Demyelination, going ham. So what you're going to notice here is that there is some demyelination that is occurring. And I think you have an idea as to why the demyelination is occurring. I'm taking this neuron, ripping apart that myelin. The reason why is these IgM antibodies come in here and trigger that process. They bind onto, they have like specific areas. It's called myelin-associated glycoprotein. I don't want you to go crazy. I'm going to put it here. I'm going to put like a little molecule right here. And I'm going to call this MAG, all right? Myelin-associated glycoprotein. This is an area where these IgM antibodies may bind and then activate the immune system and cause demyelination. If this causes demyelination, what happens to the neurons? Can they fire properly? No. And so you end up with this drop in the ability to send proper action potentials and conduct these things. All right? So now these usually occur to peripheral nerves. Peripheral nerves, dude. They're supposed to be supplying the peripheral, especially the lower extremities. Guess what ends up happening? Well, the first thing that happens is it's going to be a progressive. So I'm going to represent this in red. You're going to start off with some progressive, but symmetrical peristegias. So some numbness, some tingling, and this will get worse and worse and worse over time. So you're going to see symmetrical, progressive peristegias and sometimes worst case scenarios. These nerves, they don't just carry sensory information. Guess what else they carry? Motor information. So what else could happen? Weakness. So the one thing that you want to watch out for here is if this continues to happen, these patients can get what's called progressive, symmetrical peristegias. And worst case scenario, I'm not going to add here. That's the most common way, but in worst case scenarios, they may develop weakness. So if a patient comes in, you're trying to determine which kind of plasma cell disorder they have. You have to say, okay, are they symptomatic? All right, cool. Could be MGUS. Do they come in with crab criteria? Hypergalcemia? Do they come with lidoglesions? Do they come in with anemia? Do they come in with renal failure? Do they have any potential evidence of infections? Could be a multimyloma. Does the patient come in with hyperviscocity syndrome? What's the most common way? Headache, dizziness, ultra mental status and blurred vision and then the form of bleeding or nasal bleeding. If you've got the memory capacity, remember CHF, remember Reynard's phenomenon. What's another way? They can also have neuropathy and tumor infiltration with anemia, lymphoenopathy and a pathosplenomaglial. These are really important things to remember. The also big difference here is that MGUS and multimyloma are IgG or IgA with light chains. Walden strums is IgM predominant. So this is a lot of stuff that we talked about. How are we going to put this together? I got you. I'm a Fresnel. Let's move on to the diagnostic approach. Let's put all of this stuff together to see if we can come up with a way of being able to truly differentiate. Is this MGUS? Is this Walden strums? Is this multimyloma? I think I had a good way for you guys to think about this. We can do a lot of different tests. Whenever we suspect plasma cells, oftentimes, doing a really good history and physical can give you a ton of information. Thinking about this patient and saying, hey, do you have any kind of bone pain? Any kind of pain anywhere? Do you have any kind of symptoms where you're changing in your urination, your drinking process? Any kidney stones? Going through those kinds of things are really, really helpful to see if the symptoms are manifesting from the resulting issues, things like hypercalcemia, the lytic lesions, anemia, et cetera. A CBC is also  and alfalfa. This is going to be really good because it's going to be able to pick up anemia. A CMP will be great because it can actually tell me my protein gap, which I'll explain what that is, and it can also tell me what my calcium is and that that's elevated. A skeletal survey to go along with a good physical exam to say, hey, they have pain in their back and I find that this is a lesion here, or they have pain around their ribs or on their skull and I find these lesions here, that can be associated with a good combining of physical exam and also appropriate imaging. This can start really helping us to think about which one of these plasma cell disorders is presenting. Let's say, for example, we think about just general clinical presentation. MGUS really shouldn't present with anything. It's pretty much asymptomatic and so we don't have that classic crab criteria. Multiple myeloma should have at least in some way, should perform a crab criteria. That means that they should have hypercalcemia or renal failure or anemia or bone pain and lesions or recurrent infections is another additional thing to think about. Waldenstrom's the primary one I want you to remember is hyperviscosity syndrome, plus or minus the neuropathy is another one to consider. That's the really big one. Again, remember hyperviscosity was the, we're talking about the headaches, the dizziness, the altered mental status, the blurred vision from impaired cerebral refusion and impaired retinal drainage and then superficial bleeding from inhibiting platelet aggregation. That's the real thing I want you to think about here. Again, when we think about that in combination with one other thing is what's the protein gap? The protein gap I'll tell you a little bit later is the total protein minus the albumin. If that is elevated, it tells me that there's a bunch of different proteins in the blood stream that are elevated, we just don't know which ones and we got to dig in a little bit deeper. Elevated protein gap can be seen in all of these, but this is just a simple way to start developing a dichotomy to think about how can I truly organize these in my brain? Let's say that we got to get pieces of information on the clinical vignette and we see that, okay, their CBC shows me that they have some normal cytokinemia and they even give me a peripheral blood smear and it shows me this. This is indicative of a relo, and a relo is telling me that there's lots of erythrocyte sedimentation, that proteins are present in large amounts and the red blood cells are sticking to one another and they would easily be able to fall down the test tube super quick. Another thing is if I got a CMP and I told you that protein gap is elevated. Protein gap is really important to discuss. It's not something that we routinely do, but it is something I think it's always a good part of your process when you're evaluating blood work. When you evaluate blood work, you should look at the protein gap just as a quick little monitoring. You take the total protein and you subtract the albumin and all you want to know is where does that number fall? Usually if it's pretty high, like greater than four, we start getting a little bit more concern and thinking about potential possibilities. The protein gap isn't a perfect test and the reason why is it tells you that the total protein is elevated. That doesn't help you to determine if it's the alpha, the beta, or the gamma globulins that are elevated. I can't really tell you. All I know is that one of those, or maybe a bunch of them, are elevated. When you actually look at an electrophoresis, which looks at concentration on the y and the protein migration on the x, you have albumin, which is the most abundant. Then you have your alpha and then you also have your beta and then you have your gamma globulins. All of these can be various different types of proteins. Alpha one can be alpha one at the trypsin, alpha two you have seruroplasma and hapoglobin. These are made by the liver, beta globulins, six at transference, C through compliments, fibrinogen. Gamma globulins is where we're spending our time. This is where the antibodies are. I mean, globulin G-A-M-E-D. I just want to know if these are elevated, especially in plasma cell disorders. I don't really care about these other ones. How do I really determine that? I'd have to get an S-PAP. If my protein gap is elevated and I got some of these other problems, I would actually take the time to go ahead and order an S-PAP. That's what I want you guys to remember is it just tells me that proteins elevated, it just doesn't tell me which one. That's what I got to figure out because this could be the thing that's rising up my total protein. I just don't know that off of a protein gap on its own. Let's say that I keep evaluating the patient. I see that they have an elevated protein gap. They have some anemia. They're CMP shows that they have hypercalcemia. Their skeletal survey, going along with their physical exam, shows that they have lytic lesions. Maybe they have some scolitic lesions. Maybe they have some vertebral lesions. Maybe they even have some rib lesions. These things are present. That's what I really want you guys to think about. If a patient came and they had a protein gap that's elevated greater than four, and then on top of that, they presented with Crab criteria. They have hypercalcemia. They have renal failure. They have anemia. They have bone pain or lesions. Or maybe they even have hyperviscosity syndrome, which you can get from their exam. Maybe they present with a alter mental status, blurred vision. Maybe they're a headache. Maybe they're presenting with vision changes. On top of that, they have superficial bleeding. If they have a protein gap that's elevated, you should think about Waldenstrums. At this point, I'm definitely thinking they could have a plasma cell disorder. How do I really determine which plasma cell disorder it is? That's really the question. I have to determine if it's even antibodies or light chains that are even elevated. I'm going to get an S-pep. That's going to test for the proteins. I'm really looking at gamma-glybulins in the blood. The Bench-Jones proteins are your light chains in the urine and just your free light chains, how many of them are in the bloodstream. This is really going to be super helpful in something they can easily test you with on the exam. This is going to try and put everything together. S-pep is again testing the proteins in the blood. It's quantifying which one of these out of all of these is elevated. That's what I want to know. If I see this as an M-spike, that's a monoclonal protein spike indicating that this is prygamaglobulins of some sort that are elevated. That's all I want to know. If I detect light chains, it looks at the immunoglobulin G, the immunoglobulin A, the immunoglobulin M, E and D. Now, when we have an M-spike, all it tells me is that the gamma-glybulins are elevated. It doesn't tell me which one of those is elevated, like the IgG, A, M, E, D. I have to do immunofixation. That's going to tell me which one of those is elevated. If I see IgG and IgA, it could be multiloma, it could be M-guss. How do I determine that? It's looking at the degree of the M-spike. If it's less than three, that's M-guss, bro. But if it's greater than three, that's multiloma, especially if it's associated with crab criteria. We're putting this stuff together. If I'm immunofixating, it shows IgM, it's pretty much done, bro. We got Waldenstrumps. We good. That's the way I want you to think about that. This doesn't mean that it's definitely a disorder, but it definitely adds a lot of emphasis and support to it. That's when I would move to the next concept here, which is, again, S-pep less than three, no crab criteria, that's M-guss. S-pep greater than three, and there is crab criteria, multiloma. M-spike greater than three, and it's IgM on immunofixation. That is Waldenstrumps. Really important. Make sure you guys add that note. If it's IgM, Waldenstrumps, IgG, IgA are elevated, it could be these two. Just depends upon the degree of the spike that differentiates them. All right. Now let's move into the U-pep, the urine protein electrophoresis. This has really helped me to look for Bench-Jones proteins. I would be looking for those light chains to be enough on the urine that it's going to cause a spike. I would see this M-spike, just like you would see in the S-pep. When I look at that, I would actually be able to determine if it is the Bench-Jones proteins, those light chains that are building up in the urine, and that's the problem. That's the one that's causing all the acute tubular necrosis and the renal failure. That's what we see in multiloma. We don't see that in M-guss. We don't see that in Waldenstrumps. That's what you're really looking for is the U-pep to be negative on these two and positive for this one. Again, we're adding more layers of how to differentiate these. You differentiate all of these based upon the M-spike. The degree between these two and then the type based upon these two. Then U-pep is negative for these and it's positive for this one. Let's add one more layer. Then we talk about the free light chain ratio. The free light chain ratio is just telling me the amount of free light chains that are present in the bloodstream. The primary one that's going to be significantly elevated is going to be multiloma. You can have some free light chains that are elevated in M-guss. It produces IgG, IgA, and free light chains. It's just going to be nowhere near the degree of multiloma. You shouldn't have any light chains for Waldenstrumps. When I look at these, I'm going to look at the plasma cells. Once I have a high free light chain ratio, it could be M-guss or it could be multiple myeloma. It's the number that we look at. Usually we say that ratio is greater than 100. That's highly suggestive of multiple myeloma. A mildly elevated free light chain ratio could be seen in M-guss. When we put all of this together, if I say a mildly elevated one, cool. If I say this thing is huge, greater than 100, we highly associate that with multiple myeloma. Normal is Waldenstrumps. We've added layers to this. We talked about S-pep. If the M-spike is greater than 3, it could be multiple myeloma, could be Waldenstrumps. How do you differentiate? Which one's IgG, IgA? Multiple myeloma. Which one's IgM? Waldenstrumps. If I say M-spike is less than 3, no crab criteria, that is M-guss. If I said which one has the Bench-Jones proteins that are detected on UPEP, you would say multiple myeloma. If I say which two have an increased free light chain ratio, that means that they make a lot of light chains. That's M-guss and that's multiple myeloma. Which one's way higher? It's multiple myeloma. We really, I think, dove into this pretty good, but now we're not done because now we've got to take it one step further and confirm the diagnosis. You can't do that until you've done a bone marrow biopsy. Once you've done that and you need to determine the number of plasma cells or lympho plasma sites that are in the bone marrow, you can then confirm and definitively make that diagnosis. For example, if I took the bone marrow, took it out, drew up, aspirated all of that actual cells out of there, sent it to the lab and had them quantify the number of plasma cells or lympho plasma sites, I could go from there. If I said the plasma cells are less than 10%, that's M-guss. If it's greater than or equal to 10%, that is going to be multiple myeloma. If I see lympho plasma sites of greater than 10%, that is Walden-Trum's macroglobal anemia. We're really putting this together in layers where you start off with a protein gap as maybe a presentation or maybe the crab criteria is a presentation or maybe hyperfascosity is a presentation or maybe you have one of these two plus an elevated protein gap. You go to the links of getting an S-pep, a U-pep, a free light chain. That's really going to differentiate them. At that point, you confirm with a bone marrow biopsy. Out of all of these, there's one that I really do have to dig a little bit deeper. That's the multiple myeloma. The reason why is I need to know if they have the 1114 translocation or not because that's going to determine how I'm going to be with these patients. The other thing is that when we do this, we actually check the 1114 with the cytogenetics. We'll check an LDH level. We'll check a beta-2 microglobulin and we'll check an albumin level. All of these things really help me to determine the patient's risk and their prognosis and how well they're going to do and respond to therapy. If they have the 1114 translocation and normal beta-2 microglobulin and LDH albumin, this is actually a good thing. This means I can have a standard risk kind of patient. They may have a good prognosis. If I have the other one where they don't have the 1114, they have an elevated beta-2, an elevated LDH, and a low albumin. This is a very high-risk patient. This is going to be the one that's going to be a little bit more challenging. This is something that just takes you the extra step to really prognosticate for these patients. All right. We've gone through. We've talked about the different types of plasma cell disorders. We talked about the potential complications. We talked about the ways that we should diagnostically approach these disorders. How do we treat them? Well, elliptic lesions are pretty straightforward. You treat them kind of similarly to how you would treat a patient who has osteoporosis. A lot of the times with these plasma cells, again, they're pumping out rank ligand. They're pumping out osteoclasts activating factor and other cytokines. That's activating those osteoclasts. They're really hitting those osteoclasts and triggering them to release hydrochloric acid, collagenase that's ripping apart the bone, and that's causing these lytic lesions and even hypercalcemia. What I want to do is I want to come up with a drug that can target this. That's where things like bisphosphonates or dinosomab comes in. Bisphosphonates are great. The reason why these are great is because they would probably be your first line. This is going to be things like allondronase, zolondronate. What they're going to do is they're going to directly inhibit osteoclast proliferation. If you inhibit these cells from proliferating, you lose the ability of these cells to release hydrochloric acid and collagenase. That leads to less lytic lesions. That leads to less calcium release from the bone. Also, it kills these cells. It puts them into an apoptotic pathway. You have less of them in addition to that, not only killing them, but you're also triggering some of them to undergo that apoptosis process. You're inhibiting them from proliferating. You're killing them. You're really going to drop down this lytic lesion pathway. Dinosomab is another really good alternative. It's like a monoclonal antibody. It's a second line. What we would do with this one is it really is just going to be an antibody that binds to the actual rank ligand. Then it can't bind to the rank receptor. That means it can't trigger this pathway. It can't release hydrochloric acid. It can't release collagenase. It can't cause lytic lesions and calcium release from the bone. That's another alternative I want you to think about. Pretty cool to think about how that works there. Let's move on to the next thing. Infections. What do we want to do? These patients are super high risk for strep pneumonia, homophilus influenza type B, vaccinating them, making sure that they're up to date with their homophilus influenza, making sure that they're up to date with their streptococcus pneumonia is really, really key to reduce the risk of having these infections. If they keep developing these infections, that's when we would go to the links of saying, all right, now we need something a little bit stronger. Then I would go to IVIG because you're going to be giving them functional immunoglobulin. With vaccinations, you're helping them to develop their own antibodies against that type of infection pathogen. With IVIG, you're giving them immunoglobulins. You're giving them the amount to help them to opsonize, to help them to be able to neutralize the pathogen, help them to trigger the cytotoxic killing, to trigger the process by which we actually get rid of these pathogens. That can help to reduce the risk of pneumonia and cytositis. Again, we neutralize these pathogens. We'll be opsonize them to help them to get either destroyed by macrophages or getting taken up by the spleen. We help to allow for cytotoxic killing by natural killer cells or T cells that will kill these pathogens. We even help complement activation to lead to membrane attack complexes and putting holes in these pathogens. That's what the IVIG would help us with. That's all going to help to reduce the risk of those infections of the lungs as well as the sinuses. Acute renal failure. When you get this, a lot of the times you can do a couple of different things. Plesmophoresis or a special type of dialysis could be an option. Usually dialysis, and you can even combine that with plasma phoresis. You got to think about the problem with acute renal failure. It's all of these light chains. If you can clean the blood of these light chains, you can get rid of those. You'll reduce that nephrotoxic injury. That's the key thing to think about. Hyperviscocity syndrome is a similar concept. There's tons of IgM antibodies that are circulating through the bloodstream. They're causing an increase in viscosity. They're reducing cerebral fusion. They're reducing retinal drainage. They're helping to inhibit the aggregation of platelets. If I can remove some of those IgMs, I can potentially reduce the hyperviscocity types of presentations. That's something that plasma phoresis would be really, really good for is acute renal failure, multimyloma, and then hyperviscocity syndrome in Walden's trumps. You can think about this very simply. The multimyloma, again, it's making a lot of these antibodies. IgG, IgA, it's making a lot of light chains. The light chains are really where the capital lambda ones are causing the nephrotoxic injury. They're getting in there. They're destroying the actual proximal tubular cells. With Walden's trumps, it's pumping out IgM antibodies. The IgM antibodies are causing decreased platelet aggregation, and that's causing bleeding. It's also causing hyperviscocity syndrome, which is causing reduced retinal perfusion, cerebral fusion, reduced retinal drainage. These are all issues. What if I had a machine that could help to get rid of the light chains and get rid of the IgM antibodies and normalize that level? If I did that, I could potentially reduce the free light chain ratio. On top of that, reduce the IgM antibodies. That would be a great way to deal with this disease. That's what I want you guys to know there. All plasma phrases is you're taking the patient's blood, you're removing these antibodies and light chains, and you're just sifting them off. Waste those off, and then you're going to send back a substitution fluid and back all their plasma that's free of these circulating antibodies and light chains back into their circulation. Now, with Walden's trumps specifically, there is some things that we should talk about. We can consider things like a BTK inhibitor called a Brutinib. This is, I'd say, becoming the more prominent method that we use to treat patients who have Walden's trumps. We do this if they have lymphotonopathy or anemia or any kind of organi-megaly, so they have a Patosplenomegaly. These are things that we would treat these patients with a BTK inhibitor. It's actually going to kill a lot of these malignant cells, and that's going to reduce the IgM production. Rituximab plus or minus chemotherapy is going to be for the patients who are very, very symptomatic, but also they can't tolerate the BTK inhibitor because this is a pretty powerful drug. Or they have neuropathy. Rituximab may be a little bit better in those scenarios, but they do the same kind of thing. When you think about Rituximab, it's actually kind of interesting. Rituximab needs a CD20 molecule to bind onto on your lymphoplasma sites. It's going to go and bind onto the CD20. What that does is natural killer cells will use that as a way of being able to release things like Granzymes. Granzymes will then get released onto the lymphoplasma sites, trigger them to undergo an apoptotic process. When we give Rituximab, we need these patients to be CD20 positive, but then we can really give them this to help to really help to cause the destruction of the lymphoplasma sites. If we destroy these, guess what happens? They stop producing all of those IgM antibodies that are causing hyperviscocity syndrome and neuropathy and tumor infiltration, such as organomegaly. What happens though transiently, and we shouldn't stop it, we just have to monitor for it, is you can get an IgM flare-ups because you're killing these things and they're containing what? Antibodies, IgM. That can spill out a little bit and they can get a transient little IgM flare, but that doesn't mean that you have to stop it. You can just keep writing that out usually. Next thing is plasma cell disorders. We're talking about bone marrow transplants. I'd say this more particularly with multiple myeloma. In Gus, you're not going to need to know this. Waldenstrom's even to that degree, you probably won't even have to really apply this. It's mainly multiple myeloma. We want to know are these patients eligible for a transplant? If they are, we have a very specific process. We're going to start off with induction therapy. That's called your VRD. That's your Bortezimib, Linolytomide indexumethasone. That's going to be induction. Then after that, we're going to condition them. We're going to get them prepared for the bone marrow transplant with high-dose melphalam. Then after that, we'll do the bone marrow transplant. They're going to replace that with normal plasma cells. Then we're going to try to make sure that we keep them in remission. That's when we'll do just the Bortezimib and Linolytomide. If they are not eligible, unfortunately, we just do the VRD therapy and then we'll just continue after that, after we try to do induction with the remission therapy, which is Linolytomide plus or minus Bortezimib. Let's put all this together. It's a simple concept here. Let's say that a patient comes in, they're eligible for a metabolic stem cell transplant. What's going to be your first one? Induction therapy. Then after that, you condition them with Melphalam. After you condition them, you give them the bone marrow transplant. After they obtain remission, what do you do? You maintain Linolytomide plus or minus Bortezimib. If they're not eligible, you just do VRD. That's going to hopefully nuke a lot of these malignant cells. After that, what do you do? You just design is to maintain remission. If you have, then what are you going to do? You're going to do Linolytomide plus or minus Bortezimib. All right, my friends, that's plasma cell disorders. That was a lot. I hope that you liked it. I hope it made sense. I hope that you guys enjoyed it. Man, I just love you guys. Thank you guys so much for being so awesome. Hope you learned a lot. As always, love you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Prostate Cancer ｜ Clinical Medicine [YBcBOJbipgs].txt ===

 alfalfa, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, prostate cancer is kind of asymptomatic or silent. So let's go through these different zones. So this is the anterior zone here in red. Now, when we talk about prostate cancer, it can occur in any of these zone. It's just less likely. It's going to be more often, and I'll talk about which one it's going to be in this pink zone. Before we do that, though, what's this next one? This is this green one. This one's called the transitional zone. Now, some people will actually consider another little zone in the transitional zone, which is just around the urethra. It's called the periurethra zone, but I'm just going to consider a part of the transitional zone. This one here in blue is called the central zone, and the last one is going to be which one? This here is going to be the peripheral zone. Now, when patients develop usually some type of prostate cancer, it usually develops in the peripheral zone. Now, the peripheral zone, as you can see here, goes all the way posterior and even can come a little bit more anterior. Most of the times whenever it develops, it develops in the posterior and lateral portion of the peripheral zone. If I were to draw here a tumor, let's say that I draw a tumor here, most often this would be the location of where prostate cancer or prostate adenocarcinoma would usually arise. Again, what is the most common location? It's going to be the posterior lateral peripheral zone. Now, the reason why I tell you this is this is going to be the most common location. It can occur in any of these, but this is going to be the most common. Now, here's what's interesting. If you think about this, think about how far this tumor is from the urethra. Most of the time, if a patient develops like a really, really large tumor that gets close enough, it can compress on the urethra, or if it gets close enough, it can bleed into the urethra. But this is pretty far, and so it often doesn't cause a lot of clinical manifestations. And based upon the location, this usually explains as to why it's relatively asymptomatic or silent. This explains why it's usually, and what do I say about usually? I mean, 80% of cases, usually asymptomatic, or as we would say, a silent presentation. Now, that's really important. Now, if the tumor did get big enough or it occurred in other locations, like if it occurred near the transitional zone, or if it occurred there in the central zone, you may get more potential complications or presentations. But oftentimes, from this posterior lateral peripheral zone, we're too far away unless the tumor's really, really grown and invaded for it to cause compressive symptoms or to cause bleeding. Now, here is one really interesting thing. Let me get my marker here. What do we know is right here. So posterior, here's the bladder, here's the prostate. What do you think runs just behind here in males? The rectum. So what we do know here is that if the rectum is actually located right here, if a patient has a mass and you pop up there and you try to palpate and feel around, what could you potentially feel? You could feel this mass. And so that's where we talk about things like digital rectal exams is as we are trying to go up there and feel we may feel this nodule or asymmetric hard nodule on the prostate. So that may be one way that they present. It kind of just gives you an idea that when you look at the anatomy here, it makes sense why it doesn't cause a lot of presentation. And maybe sometimes you find this on DRE or during screening. All right. One other thing to talk about is when we talk about prostate adenocarcinoma, again, it does develop in this posterior lateral peripheral zone. If you were to actually take a piece of this tissue and you really look at it, it's a specific type of tissue. There's a basement membrane. They have all these different types of cells, but there's a very specific type of cells. And we call these luminal A-cells. Luminal A-cells. These are just like, it's like a glandular tissue. I'm not even kidding. It's just like a glandular tissue. So if we were to actually zoom in and look at normal prostate tissue, there's like basal cells. There's neuroendocrine cells and there's luminal cells. Luminal cells are really important because they produce a lot of different enzymes. One of those is called prostate-specific antigen. All prostate-specific antigen does is it kind of like liquefies the sperms. It makes it easier for it to be able to navigate its way into the female vagina to help to trigger the, you know, when it reaches the actual egg so it can actually help with that process. So it's really, really important that we know that these are the cells that really make up most of the prostate tissue, especially here in the posterior lateral peripheral zone. What happens here is that unfortunately at some point in time in life, for whatever that trigger may be, these cells undergo a mutation. Right? I think that's pretty common with all the things that we've talked about with cancer is that there's mutations. These mutations arise and then that tissue becomes more malignant. Right? So now we can develop potentially a malignant prostate tissue where it replicates, replicates, replicates, replicates. Then from there, if this thing replicates enough, it can actually cause this prostate adenocarcinoma. What I want you to know here is something kind of interesting. On prostate tissue, it has receptors for DHT. That's a type of steroid hormone, right? It's usually a male sex hormone. And whenever a patient has a malignant prostate tissue, guess what they express more of? They increase their DHT receptor expression. And all that means is if I increase the number of receptors, guess what that can do? Guess what that stat hormone DHT can do? If it does that, it accelerates the growth. And then this malignant prostate tissue can easily, it can accelerate the growth and cause this carcinoma. So it can increase the growth of this malignant prostate tissue. And that is where we get this carcinoma. Right? That can form. So it can start off like a normal tissue to help some mutation. If you have lots of this DHT around and you have lots of receptors that are expressing where it can bind to it, guess what? It can then grow very rapidly and become a nasty cancer. So that deserves just a little bit of discussion. The reason why I want to talk about it is it's going to come up in the treatment section. I think this is actually really, really helpful. So we have this hypothalamic pituitary testicular ovarian axis. Your hypothalamus makes something called GnRH, gonadotropin releasing hormone. Right? So that's made by the hypothalamus. From here, this GnRH travels down via the portal system and it gets to the antipituitary. Stimulates the antipituitary and antipituitary makes two hormones. One we're not going to talk about because it's not super relevant to this and that's called FSH. We'll just have that capped off there. The other one that we do care about is called LH. All right? So whenever the hypothalamus makes GnRH, then stimulates the antipituitary to make LH and FSH. LH then goes down to the testes and when it goes down to the testes, it stimulates particular cells, right? To make, like your light excels, to make testosterone. So now I have testosterone. Right? Testosterone, what we know about this is that there's another enzyme called 5-alpha reductase. And this enzyme is super critical and it's definitely found all over the place, but what it does is it takes testosterone and converts it into what's called DHT. So we have this enzyme here which helps to stimulate this step. All right? And then DHT, what it does is it goes all over the body, but one of the areas which we care about in this particular discussion here is it gets to the prostate luminal cells. Now these cells are mutated. All right? They start kind of growing and then if DHT is there, guess what it can do? It can bind on to these intracellular receptors and stimulate an increase in cell growth. So an increase in cell growth leads to, what do we know? This type of carcinoma formation. The reason why I tell you this is if I could come up with a drug that could potentially shut down aspects of this, that'd be very helpful, right? Because DHT has to bind on, I'll give you an example, it also has to bind on to these little like blue things here. These are called androgen receptors. These are called androgen, which is specific for DHT or any kind of steroid hormone and they're usually intracellular androgen receptor. These bind on to the actual nucleus as a transcription factor and trigger this cell growth. Imagine I came up with drugs. I have a patient who has prostate cancer. Can't get rid of it. They're stage four, they're metastatic. We actually don't technically call it stage four. We just say it's metastatic, hormone-sensitive, prostate cancer. If I gave a drug that blocked G and R H, oh, then I could potentially lower L H, lower testosterone, lower DHT, lower the cell growth. If I gave a drug that theoretically could block DHT or any kind of androgen binding here, that could also decrease cell growth. Well, that's kind of cool. There is another pathway. It's very small amounts and I don't want to go too crazy, but you're adrenal gland. Your adrenal gland also does contribute to some of this pathway. So if you guys remember a little bit, G and R H is not that stimulus, but the antropotuitary also makes another hormone called ACTH. ACTH is supposed to stimulate cortisol release, but ACTH also helps to stimulate the production of androgens, so adrenal androgens. One of them is called DHEA and eventually DHEA and Androstine Dione eventually can get converted into testosterone. And so there's a lot of different enzymes that play a role there. So I can give drugs that can inhibit that spot right there. We'll talk about these later. We have a drug who actually is working against G, it works with G and R H, just called Luperlide. It's a G and R H agonist. We have another drug called Degorelix, which works against G and R H, a G and R H antagonist. We have drugs that inhibit the synthesis of DHEA from the adrenal gland. It's called Everotorone. We also have drugs that help to block DHT at the androgen receptors and these are your Lutomides. So we have all these different ways. We also could cut out the actual testes and do a bilateral orcheectomy and that would drop to testosterone levels. So the reason why I'm trying to really, really give you this information is, is this hormone pathway really plays a role in the growth of these prostate cancers. And if we understand this pathway, we can understand how we use drugs or surgical procedures to shut down this pathway. That's why I'm trying to stress that. All right, so to recap, different zones of the prostate. What's the most common location? The posterior lateral peripheral zone. Would you have any symptoms? No, because it's super far away. If it is, it's got to be really big. If you have a presentation, what would it be? Most likely palpable on digital rectal exam, given its location to the rectum. When we think about how this thing develops, it's mutations. There's a lot of things that cause mutations. Could be hereditary, could be simple as diet. There could be a lot of different things like ethnicity. Either way, it happens. The problem is not necessarily that. It's that if hormones like DHT are higher in amount and you have lots of receptors available for it, it'll make the cancer grow. That's why I need you to understand this pathway because we're going to target this pathway a little bit later. Now again, it kind of comes into play. What's kind of really causing these mutations? There's a lot of different things. There really is. You have to think about this. What we know is that a family history, and I think that comes into play with really all of it, a family history of prostate cancer, especially in a first degree relative, that definitely should start sending off alarm bells to think about this patient having a risk of prostate cancer. Another one is a patient who is African American. Now, the reasons why with the African American descent is kind of interesting. With family history, there could be a germline mutation. We just don't know why they have an unfortunate germline mutation. With African American, there is this thought that they have higher androgen levels. We'll actually write that down. It's kind of interesting that they may have higher androgen levels. If they have theoretically these higher androgen levels, that may be the very reason why they have this DHT receptor growth process. That's something to potentially consider. Another one is we may see this in kind of like cancer genetics. Sometimes patients who have BRCA1, we always associate this more likely with breast cancer or variant cancer, BRCA2. Another one is and Lynch syndrome. We talked about this in colorectal cancer. These can also be associated potentially as a germline mutation that we can see in patients who have prostate cancer. Another one could be what do we think about? What population would you see prostate cancer in? Males. Usually, it's advanced age males. When I say advanced age, we just consider this as not me being, I don't put the number here, I just say greater than 50 years of age. These are patients who are a little bit more high risk. As you get older, you get more time dependent mutations. Time dependent mutations increases the risk for you to develop this cancer. The last one's diet and this is usually your western diets. Believe it or not, they say a very high fat diet. Very, very, very high fat diet may increase the risk of these types of inflammatory conditions occurring. I don't know. I think that's somewhat controversial, but a very poor diet may be contributed to prostate cancer. Either way, out of all of these, which is the ones that you really, really want to remember, you want to remember this one. This is probably the biggest risk factor. It's a family history of prostate cancer in a first degree relative who's like maybe less than 60 years of age. African American descent puts you at a very high risk category and then, if you're an advanced age male, at least greater than 50. These are the three that are going to put you at the highest risk of prostate cancer. When a patient comes in and you look at their chart and you see that their father passed away or was diagnosed with prostate cancer, that's one thing. If they're African American, you add that risk and if they're a male that's greater than 50, you should start discussing with them, hey, I'm concerned because prostate cancer could be missed because it doesn't present with symptoms. The only way we may find it is a digital rectal exam, but you have a lot of the risk factors. I would like to screen you for prostate cancer. We used to consider DREs a part of the screening. They nixed that now. Now we look at things like PSA levels, but we'll talk about that. That's the reason why I'm trying to tell you this is to understand location, what that explains, also what you could potentially find it on, also the mutations could be due to these three factors, these risk factors, but the big thing that maybe drives the growth is the androgen levels and that's something that we'll talk about when it comes to the treatment process. All right, now that we've done that, let's talk in a theoretical scenario. If this tumor did get big enough or it occurred in other zones, which is less common and it started to compress around the urethra, get close to the urethra, what are some potential presentations? And then the scariest thing is oftentimes unfortunately the way that we find this disease is when it metastasizes the other areas, what are those metastatic sites and how will they present? All right, so what are the potential ways that they could present worst case scenario? This is not very common. Again, 80% of cases are asymptomatic. You don't know. And so you just have to think about what are the risks? If they're, again, if they're African-American, if they have a family history, if they're male, that's a little bit older, 50 or older, they're at risk. If you happen to do a digital rectal exam and you find an asymmetric appearing nodule, that puts you in kind of a scare to say, could this be prostate cancer? Now, when a patient comes in with other complications, it may not be top of your differential, but it's something to consider if they come in with signs of urinary retention. Let's explain this. All right, for example, let's say that you have a tumor and again, this is usually near like the transitional zone, but if you get a tumor that does appear in the transitional zone or it starts in the peripheral zone and it really, really enlarges and gets towards the urethra, it can compress on the prosthetic urethra. If you compress on the prosthetic urethra, can urine get out? No. So then you end up with a buildup of urine. All right, so now you're going to have a increased urine that's appearing in the bladder. Now, with increased urine comes distention of the bladder, right? And now what happens here is, so then you can actually have some clinical presentations, right? You're going to get increased distention. So you're going to get increased stretching of the bladder. It's going to get enlarged, right? Increased stretching of the bladder. So what we sometimes do is, is we can actually say, okay, if they had this increased stretching, what if I, you know, said that, hey, can you do me a favor? Can you go pee quick? And then after I have them pee, I take and I do an ultrasound right over the bladder and say, how much pee is actually there? Because if this thing is obstructing, so here's the tumor. So there's a tumor compressing the prosthetic urethra. Because that's what it's doing. It's compressing at the prosthetic urethra and that is right at the neck of the bladder. So if this thing's trying to go through and it's hitting the roadblock, it's not going to move. And so it's hitting this roadblock right here and it's going to back up. Well, if it stretches, one of the things that's going to happen is, if you did what's called a post void residual, you try to have them pee and you check the bladder afterwards, guess what? They're going to have filled with urine and they're going to have a struggle to get any urine out. So this presents with two symptoms. One is because of the obstruction and causing stretching, they have lower urinary tract symptoms. They feel like they have to go to the bathroom, but every time they go to the bathroom, it's like they're having to force it or it's a very poor stream, right? Or they have hesitancy or dribbling. And so these are called obstructive luts. So lower urinary tract symptoms. What are those? One, hesitancy. They're trying to go, but they can't get it past the bladder neck. A weak stream because very little is getting past that compressed area. Dribbling because maybe a little bit is getting passed after you're trying to push through there. And those are oftentimes the way that they may feel and they feel like they just can't completely empty their bladder. Those are all very common signs. The other one is a very high post void residual. And so if I had them try to pee and they don't get a lot out and I check the size of the bladder afterwards and it's gargantuous, that could suggest an obstruction. Now, the first thing in your differential is probably not going to be prostate cancer. It's probably going to be things like do they have BPH or do they have some type of like neurogenic bladder? That's what you would potentially think about. You wouldn't go right away to pancreatic cancer. I'm sorry, prostate cancer, but it is something to potentially think about in the differential. Something is going on at the bladder or bladder neck that includes prostate and the bladder. And so this would be coming apart of the differential. The other thing that can happen here is when you think about this, when urine builds up, one of the things is it can backflow. If it does backflow and it gets some backflows into the kidney, what's going to happen here? Well, an increased backflow into the kidney is going to cause the pressure to build up. And if you have an increased pressure at the level of the glomerulus, what's that going to do? Do you guys remember? It's going to make it harder for filtration because you want fluid plasma to filter across the glomerulus into the capsule. The capsular hydrostatic pressure is going to build up. Your GFR is going to drop. So what's going to happen is they're going to have a drop in the GFR and that's going to cause an acute kidney injury. So whenever you have this backflow so much that it causes the GFR to drop abruptly and there's two things. GFR drops abruptly. And the other thing that can happen is the creatinine usually as a result will shoot up. So the creatinine will go up. That's going to be indicative of an acute kidney injury. What kind of acute kidney injury? Is it occurring at the kidney, before the kidney, or after the kidney? After the kidney. So this is what we refer to as a post-renal AKI. Now the other thing is if you get backflow into the kidney, think about this. Oh shoot, look at this. Now you backflow into the kidney, it gets filled with fluid. What's it going to start doing? It's going to start enlarging. And if it gets enlarged, you'll be able to pick that up on ultrasound. What kind of presentation would that give you? Not just a potential acute kidney injury. If I did an ultrasound, a renal ultrasound, what would I find? Hydro nephrosis. So I could potentially have hydro nephrosis that would be present on imaging, like a renal ultrasound or a CT scan. And so these are all things to think about. If a patient is having difficulty getting urine out, their post-void residual shows that they have a lot of urine in their bladder after trying to pee. You think something is wrong with the bladder or the bladder neck. If their creatinine is going up, and they also have an enlarged kidney filled with fluid, then you know something is going on where this is obstructing the entire flow. The other thing that's scary here is if urine builds up, guess what sits in urine. Let's actually do this and yeah, let's do it in the green color. What's something that actually is part of your kind of like your normal flora, bacteria. But if urine stays and it can't get out, it can't exit, what's it going to do? It's going to potentially colonize and sometimes it can go back. And you can get this build-up of bacteria somewhere within the bladder, or you can get bacteria that build up and colonize in the kidneys. What's this going to be potentially leading to? If I get a build-up of bacteria, so increased bacterial stasis is what we like to say, increased bacterial stasis, too much bacteria sitting in the kidney, too much bacteria sitting in the actual bladder, what can this lead to? This can lead to urinary tract infections. And the way that we determine urinary tract infections is what? Well, we would get a urinalysis and we would find that they potentially have an increased leukocytesterase, an increased white count in their actual urine, they would have nitrites. These would be potential signs and they may even have symptoms of dysuria and having to go to the bathroom a lot, combined with their obstructive luts. So the problem with urinary retention is it can present a vast amount of ways. And prostatic carcinoma is not the first thing that you'll probably be thinking about. But it is something to think about in the differential, especially if you have these symptoms, this, this, and maybe recurrent UTIs, especially since this is a tumor that could be there for a long time, if a patient keeps getting recurrent, so frequent UTIs, that should also be a part of your differential, something as obstructing causing stasis. All right, another way that they could present, not a common one, but it's something to be on your differential. Whenever you have a patient who has hematuria, you have to think the blood could be coming from the kidney, could be coming from the ureter, could be coming from the bladder, could be coming from the urethra. And so we look at that kind of hematurias, is it hematuria throughout? Is it hematuria initially? Is it hematuria terminally? And so what happens is if you have a tumor that's big enough and it's near the actual prostatic urethra, yes, it can potentially cause bleeding. But that bleeding usually comes at the end of urination. So if I have a tumor that is near urethra, it could bleed, right? It could potentially bleed into the lumen. And then you could end up with what's called hematuria. Now, when a patient gets hematuria, we go through a lot of different thought processes, right? First thing we like to think about is, okay, could this be glomerular? So what do you do when you do a workup? First thing you do is you order a urinalysis to make sure that it's actually blood and you do it with microscopy. And so the UA would come up when you would do this with a microscopy. And what would that show? Well, the first thing it would probably show is that you're going to have true blood. So you'll actually have blood in the urine. So you're going to have red blood cells. That's the first thing. So that'll be present. Second thing is when you look at the microscopy, you want to see if there's any cas. Will there be any cas in this? No, because that's glomerular. That's a glomerular problem. So there'll be no evidence of cas, red blood cell cas. The other thing is, would you have lots of protein area? No, you're not going to have any protein area. That's glomerular disease. So you shouldn't really have any protein area, right? And then the other thing is you want to make sure that there's no evidence of an infection, right? And so you want to make sure that you clear out that there's no evidence. So a negative UA for infection. So what does that look like? That there's no like pyuria that there's no leukocyte esterase or nitrites or anything like that, right? Now they could still have an infection because of stasis, but generally in a perfect world, this hematuria should be hematuria that has no evidence of glomerular disease or pylonephritis. And then the other thing you'll have to do is you'll have to go imaging. But here's the other thing that could add a little bit. When we talk about the hematuria, we think about it being initially or throughout. Usually, if this was up at the kidney or the ureter level or even kind of around the bladder, those would usually not be at the end of urination. The type of bleeding that these patients would have would be at the end of urination. That would suggest something at the bladder neck or in the urethra. So whenever you read the questions and they state in here that the patient has terminal hematuria, so blood that appears in their urine at the end of urination, I'm going to write this down, terminal hematuria. And they also have all of these other signs that are listed in their UA if they give you that. Then you want to think about potentially prostatic cancer that's eroded in and causes a bleeding into the prostatic urethra. Not something that you're going to see too often, but something to consider if it presents like that. The way that you probably will see a patient present with prostate cancer, especially in your vignettes, is they're coming in with bone manifestations. That's the most common location of metastasis. So here a patient has a prostate cancer, right? And usually what happens is when you have prostate cancer, it can kind of like stay localized, it can extend beyond the capsule. And if it extends beyond the capsule, it can get into like what's called Batson's plexus. It's a venous plexus. And when it gets into this kind of like plexus, this circulation, it now can start circulating all over the place. Like I told you, the areas that it likes to go to is the bones. So it likes to go to your vertebrae, loves the vertebrae, and it likes to go to the pelvic bones, right? So part of the sacrum, the coxa, the ilium, all those different types of bones, it's going to want to go there. Now what it does is that when it gets to these areas here, it doesn't kind of cause problems with osteoclasts. It actually gets in here and it kind of causes a lot of osteoblastic lesions. And so you actually get what's called osteoblastic lesions. So again, we actually really, really have to remember this. These get in there and they cause osteoblastic lesions. So what does that mean? That means that whenever you look at these, these don't cause like those true lytic lesions. These are diffuse sclerotic. That's the best way of describing them. These are kind of like sclerotic lesions. Now they're very painful and that's what really sucks about these, is these osteoblastic lesions are super painful. They don't cause the classic hypercalcemia though. So one of the things that you won't really see with this kind of problem here is you won't see a lot of hypercalcemia. So usually with this, because of these osteoblastic lesions, let's actually write this down here. With this, let's actually bring these guys over here. So we have some room. With these osteoblastic lesions, you don't have, so there's  there's no problems with calcium, so there's no hypercalcemia. That's very helpful. The other thing is that there's no lytic lesions, there's sclerotic lesions. What you may see, what you may see is that because of these sclerotic lesions, there's a lot of bone turnover, the alkaline phosphatase level may go up. They may have an increased alkaline phosphatase level, but here's the true presentation. Because of these osteoblastic lesions, they occur in the vertebrae and they occur in the pelvis, they're very, very, very painful. This is going to cause painful, very, very important here, painful sclerotic lesions. What would they potentially complain of? They would complain of back pain or pelvic pain. When a patient comes in and they have a history of prostate cancer and all they're presented with back pain, like low back pain, pelvic pain, hip pain, you really want to be scared. They actually metastasize to the bone. You could get a workup, you're not going to see any calcium that's going to be elevated, but you could see an elevated alkaline phosphatase. Oftentimes you may have to scan this patient, especially with a bone scan, to look to see, hey, did it spread to the pelvis or did it spread to the vertebrae? You'll see these lesions, they'll show up very, very well on a bone scan. The other location here, and this goes along with the bones a little bit, but it can spread, again, it goes back to the vertebrae. It's kind of like a double whammy here. It's kind of interesting. Let's say that this spreads to the vertebrae. We're kind of just going on a little bit more, but when it spreads there, it can do two things. One is, let's say that here on this side, I get an osteoblastic type of lesion. Here's an osteoblastic lesion. If it does occur here and the bone starts to fracture, so they get like a fracture, if this bone starts to fracture a little bit and then you get some movement, that fracture theoretically could cause shifting and compress the spinal cord. If they did get a fracture causing spinal cord compression, that could potentially happen. What's more likely to happen, sadly, so here you have a met, and the met caused unfortunately a little bit of erosion that caused fracturing, and that fracturing compressed. Here we're going to show some compression. We're compressing the spinal cord because the fracture causes some movement. That could cause spinal cord compression. The more likely problem though is that a tumor. Here you have the spinal cord. Here's going to be the actual spinal canal. Right here, we're going to say that there's the dura mater. Right outside the dura mater, I could have this tumor. This is called an extra dural tumor. Extra dural tumors, extra dural here, let's actually erase this up a little bit. Extra dural tumors, extra dural tumor, that can also cause spinal cord compression. So causing spinal cord compression. This is what you usually get absolutely terrified of, is that they get a tumor and that thing is compressing right on the spinal cord. Whether it's an extra dural tumor or whether it's a met that caused a pathological fracture, we should actually write that down. A pathological fracture as a result of that osteoblastic met. The symptoms, no matter what, could be relatively the same. If you compress the spinal cord, because again this is going to be around the body portion, if this compresses the spinal cord, what kind of problems would you get? Well if it's enough that it compresses it, it could cause a presentation of cauda coina syndrome. So what would that potentially look like? If you get compression, this could give you cauda, the coina syndrome. They're going to get bilateral weakness. They're going to develop saddle anesthesia and they can also develop urinary changes. So this could be retention or it could be incontinence. This is what we get potentially scared of. Is urinary changes, saddle anesthesia, bilateral weakness? This right here could be indicative of cauda coina syndrome due to a spinal cord compression. And that spinal cord compression could be due to an osteoblastic met that caused fracturing and then shifted and compressed and then exposed into the actual spinal canal or it could be a tumor that formed there because it spread and it's causing compression and compulsion there. So you have to think about these kinds of things. If a patient has prostate cancer, you know that all of a sudden they present with low back pain, pelvic pain, no hypercalcemia but an elevated alkyphos, you've got to get a bone scan. If they come in, they have prostate cancer and all of a sudden they can't pee or they peed themselves. They can't, they have saddle anesthesia so they have no sensation around the perineal region. They have extremity weakness and their lower extremities. You better be concerned that this could be spinal cord compression due to that tumor. The last one I'd say it's the least likely but it is something to consider is if these get into the lymph nodes. They do like the pelvic lymph nodes especially around the obturator nodes. So if they get near the pelvic node, they can really enlarge the pelvic nodes and if they enlarge the pelvic nodes enough, that could actually cause some reduction in lymph flow. And if these get enlarged, then the lymph flow is actually going to become kind of stagnant and then this lymph is going to build up and build up and build up and it's going to be harder for us to drain lymph from the lower extremities. That's that called whenever you develop swelling of the legs due to a lymphatic obstruction. So this is going to lead to a decreased lymph flow and this is going to lead to what's called lymph edema. That's what's really important. So if these things get into the nodes, they enlarge the nodes, they obstruct the lymphatic flow that can lead to lymph edema. And if you see something like that, what's prior natural assumptions? Sometimes you would think, oh, it could be a DVT. You would think so but and I think you should always work them up and do an ultrasound to make sure that you don't have a potential DVT. But with these patients, sometimes it actually tends to be bilateral and they have usually bilateral swelling that usually will present in this scenario. But again, definitely something to consider to rule out a DVT first before actually going to that route. So again, whenever a patient has prostate cancer, they can be asymptomatic or silent most of the time. Rare cases they could present with some types of urinary tension, maybe hematuria. Oftentimes the way that you'll find them is they have a known diagnosis of prostate cancer or they don't and they present with low back pain, pelvic pain, high alfos, no hypercalcemia or they come in with an emergent situation like caudal coiness syndrome due to spinal cord compression. And then you find unfortunately the tumors there. Less commonly you could find lymph edema. Usually you can actually find this if they do like a radical prostatectomy and they get rid of some of the nodes and stuff like that. That's when we can actually start seeing lymph edema usually it's postoperatively rather than preoperatively. But that really gives you what I think you need to know about prostate cancer. So at this point what have we really talked about? Where it occurs? How they present? What are the patients that are at risk? Why hormones are really important in controlling its growth? What are the weird potential presentations if it happens to grow big enough or in certain locations? What's the most common presentation unfortunately? Now let's talk about the scenario where we have a patient who is either they don't really have any risk. What do we do? What about the patient who is very high risk or what about the patient who presents with symptoms? How do we go about determining if this is prostate cancer or something else? Let's do that now. Hi my friends let's start talking about the diagnostic approach. So when we have a patient who comes in with prostate cancer, I think one of the biggest things is that it's oftentimes asymptomatic. And that's because it's in that posterior lateral portion of the prostate which is kind of far away from the urethra. It doesn't usually get to the point unless it's like gargantuous that it's kind of compressing on the rethra you can get some blood symptoms. But the problem is with this location that you could identify it on a DRE or you may find it a little bit too late when it's actually spread. And usually what happens is when it spreads it spreads to the bones. Usually you can get in the pelvis, you can get in the vertebrae. So you get lots of bone pain and you can also get potentially super elevated alkyl phos levels. And sometimes if the tumor is kind of like you know decent size it can get near the spinal cord and cause compression of the spinal cord too. So you can get some pretty scary stuff with that one but oftentimes we don't see it a lot of the times and it's relatively asymptomatic. So then what do we do? Well then you have to assess the patient's risk of developing prostate cancer. And that's oftentimes something that we try to look at in consideration with the patient doing a good history, doing a good physical exam. And oftentimes with these patients it's based on shared decision making if they want to go through surveillance. All right, so do we want to take the time to say, hey, let's do a PSA level. Hey it's not really a part of the guidelines anymore but I think it should be implemented. This is my personal opinion of digital rectal exams. I think it should be a combination of the two. Because the PSA can be elevated as we'll talk about for multiple different reasons. And a DRE if you find something that appears abnormal, irregular, hard, I definitely should go a little bit further, evaluate that PSA, consider doing more imaging. So I think it's really, really important to combine these things but I think the decision to go that route to prevent over diagnosis, to prevent over treatment, to prevent a lot of different downfalls without an improvement in mortality and morbidity with prostate cancer because you oftentimes will not die from prostate cancer. You will usually die as a result of other things. Usually they say you don't die from prostate cancer, you die with prostate cancer because you're probably going to die from something else regardless of that one. But I think the big thing to remember with this is when it comes to average risk patients, we can if the patient agrees upon it, we can do a PSA. If they're greater than 50 years of age or we think that they have a greater than 10 in your life expectancy, then it's worth contendering screening these patients. Now the high risk ones are the ones that we should probably do earlier than 50 years of age. We should probably go 40, maybe even 45 and we should do a PSA level especially if they have African American ethnicity or a family history of prostate cancer in our first year relative. The whole point of talking about this is that if they have no specific risk factors, family history, African American ethnicity, you can talk to them, hey, when we get to 50 or greater, do you want to check a PSA level and would you mind us doing a DRE and checking to see if there's anything abnormal there. And then you can go that route. It's just obviously you have to discuss with them. If we do that, we find something abnormal, we may have to recheck it. If it's still abnormal, we may need to go the route of doing an MRI, maybe doing a biopsy. So there's all these different things and it may not provide a true benefit and it may not find anything. So that's why it's really, really important to talk to them about that. If they do have high risk features, African American, greater than 50, family history, you should consider getting it earlier than 50. So 40, 45 years of age, you should be screening them and getting that PSA considering the digital rectal exam. All right. Again, the PSA is really the one that we screen with not as much the digital rectal exam anymore and that's based upon the USPSDF. All right. So you're going to get the PSA level. And that PSA process specific antigen is made by a lot of the the luminal cells that are present within the prostig gland. And these cells, they make it because it helps to kind of like liquefy the sperm helps basically an aiding and fertilization for that sperm. And so that's really, really an important factor of it, but we can use it as a measurement of likely potentially prostate cancer, but it can be elevated in a lot of different diseases. It doesn't just have to be prostate cancer. So again, PSA is something we're going to order. The DRE is we're going to obviously check, we're going to stick our finger up there and we're going to see if we feel for any regular kind of like nodular peering masses. And that's why it's kind of important to consider that because sometimes you can have a PSA that's normal ish and you get a DRE and it comes back very abnormal. And you should be a little bit more considerate of things. So if the PSA levels are high, and we say greater than four, then that could mean that they have something going on with the prostate, but it doesn't necessarily mean cancer. So the best thing to do at that point is to repeat it because things like just sexual activity that day can cause it. Going on a bike ride and just popping up and down that can actually I'm not even kidding that can increase your PSA levels. BPH can increase your PSA levels. There's a lot of different things. If they got a digital erectile exam, they say it shouldn't, but any kind of manipulation near that area does theoretically bring the risk of bumping the PSA. So we should repeat it in six weeks and see if it's still elevated by removing all of those factors out of the equation the best we can. If the PSA were to come back elevated, then we can go a different route. Now, if we have a symptomatic patient, meaning that they come in with potentially hematuria, which is a possibility if the tumor gets near the periurethral zone, it's usually also associated with luts. So lower urinary tract symptoms. So they may have some compression there. So they feel this sense of where they have incomplete inking of the bladder. They feel like they have to go to the bladder, but they are really straining. There's lots of dribbling. These are usually consistent signs that you can see and it may be associated with hematuria. Worst case you might find this patient has severe bone pain and elevated alfalfa, suggesting that you're already finding it too late and they got potentially some bone metastasis. So these are things I think that are pretty scary and at that point, again, I would get a PSA and I would do a DRE. Look to see if you feel any mass and then check the PSA to see if it's elevated. Again, I think the important thing to remember is at this point that if the PSA levels are elevated or you have an asymmetric hard nodule that's usually not painful, that really is concerning for prostate cancer. Just because you have an elevated PSA level initially and you have no symptoms does not mean that you have the risk of prostate cancer. You should check it and if you have recurrent elevation in the PSA, it brings about the concern of prostate cancer. So you need two recurrent levels of PSA to be elevated and an asymptomatic patient, but if they have symptoms in an elevated PSA or symptoms in a positive DRE, then you should go straight to the next step. So what we would do here is we would get what's called a multi-parametric MRI. Now this is going to just be favored recently. We used to just go straight from here to a biopsy. So in other words, you should just go straight, transrectal ultrasound and biopsy that area. We try, I think a lot of clinicians now are favoring the multi-parametric MRI because one that's going to prevent the overdiagnosis is going to prevent this from actually going straight to get a biopsy if not needed. And it actually helps that if you are planning to do a biopsy, this really helps you to target your cores of where you're going to biopsy. And so that's why it's shown to be very beneficial. So again, if they have symptoms in an elevated PSA levels, symptoms in an asymmetric appearing nodule on the prostate gland, get the MPMRI, some textbooks will suggest going straight to a transrectal ultrasound with a biopsy. If they have no symptoms, you screen them, PSA elevated, repeat it, PSA elevated, boom, you should do an MPMRI or some textbooks say go straight to the transrectal ultrasound with biopsy. Now, I do think that this is a great, great test because as you can see here, we have so many sequences. And you can appreciate here, this is kind of like a hypointensity here on their 2D. You can appreciate here, there's like a hyperintensity, this is actually a hypotensity right there. This is a hyperintensity. You can appreciate a hyperintensity. So all of these things are telling me I got a prostate mass. And one of the benefits of this is that it can really help in really targeting the cores and where I want to go and actually biopsy. And that's one of the benefits of this is that they can literally, I'm not kidding, they can superimpose this onto the ultrasound as they're doing it and doing the biopsy. So it really helps to prevent overdiagnosis, to really get an accurate biopsy result. And I think it's one of the better ways of doing things now. Again, some clinicians will go straight to the transrectal ultrasound with the biopsy without even doing the MPMRI. But again, it's starting to become more favorite to do this prior to that transrectal ultrasound. The whole full goal of doing this is that whenever you go in and you do this procedure, you're going to reduce false negatives. If you go in, you biopsy an area and it comes back that it's actually negative, guess what? This is really, really helpful to make sure that whenever you take those samples, you're targeting the best areas to take the cores from. All right? Now, if you do that, you get the MPMRI, it's just like breast cancer. You get a radiology report and it reports the Pyrad score instead of the Byrad score. And so anything greater than or equal to four is pretty concerning. It's a suspicious lesion. It could be malignant. At that point, again, you're going to be going to get that transrectal ultrasound with the biopsy. So they're going to take an ultrasound probe. They're going to run it up here, unfortunately. And then it's going to help to find the mass. Usually it'll appear as kind of a hypo-coagulation. They usually just say, go straight to a transrectal ultrasound with MRIs instead of that one. But it's not as great. It's not as sensitive when it comes to finding these kinds of lesions and ruling out other ones. But you could say if you have the known image from an MRI and you do the transrectal ultrasound, it will help you with the procedure to say, okay, I see that kind of hypo-coagulation. Let me bring the MPMRI and map over it. And that's going to help me that when I stick my needle in, I'm taking the best possible cores for my sample. All right? So that's kind of how we would do this. When it's really, it's more utilizing it for the biopsy procedure. Now, once we take the biopsy, we'll send it off to the pathologist. They'll read through it. They'll calculate something called a Gleason score and a Gleason grade. And all this does is this prognosticates the patient. We're not going to go into the Gleason score and Gleason grade. It's not necessary. I think the biggest thing that you need to know overall is the Gleason score as it kind of guides to a degree. What we're going to be doing for their treatment. But overall, all it does is prognosticate. And it really helps us to say this patient has prostatic adenocarcinoma. And their Gleason score is this or their Gleason grade is this. And usually it's either less than or equal to six, seven, or greater than or equal to eight that we kind of go off of for that kind of scoring system. Now, once we've diagnosed prostate cancer, it's pretty critical to know should we be investigating if it did spread. Well, if the patient has like pretty bad bone pain, or we check an outfoss and it's really, really heavy turnover, that's really, really concerning. I'd say that's probably one of the biggest reasons of the patient having a high risk disease, meaning that it prime a tacit size. The PSA level in itself does not diagnose prostate cancer. One thing we can say somewhat with the relationship is that the higher the PSA level, the likelier, the more advanced the disease is. And so as the PSA level starts approaching greater than 20, that's when we start getting a little bit more concerned. Okay, he definitely could have an advanced disease. We should consider scanning for other areas where this could have spread to. Another one is the Gleason score. Whenever that Gleason score and Gleason grade is greater than or equal to eight, we definitely a little bit more concerned. They're more of a high risk disease. They're more of a high risk prostate cancer. And that would warrant, I would say, to make sure that it hasn't spread somewhere else, like the bones, as it involved the pelvic lymph nodes. And those are something I would definitely consider. So if you have a lot of bone pain, suggestive of metastatic disease, if you have a super elevated PSA level, or if your Gleason score and grade is at the highest point, you should probably get a CT MRI of the pelvis. One of the two, it doesn't really matter. It's the MRI is always going to be the best bet, is it's going to give real good looks at soft tissue. And I would do a bone scan. The bone scan is really going to be critical. CT MRI pelvis is also going to be pretty good, because the MRI of the pelvis is really going to show bone structure as well. So that's definitely something I would also consider. But if you need to, you can definitely get a bone scan. Here, we can see in green is this rounded lymph node. And then over here, we got this mass. And this is definitely pretty concerning. And so I definitely have a pretty decent sized problem here, where I'm pretty concerned that this patient has got likely a tumor, where it spread to a nearby lymph node. And so that's kind of concerning. That's a very common area is the pelvic lymph node metastasis. But this is the pretty common one. So you may be able to see the lesions, and these are not lytic lesions. These are osteoblastic lesions, as we talked about. You may be able to pick that up in the MRI of the pelvis, and even the CT. But a bone scan would definitely be able to show any kind of metastatic disease, as you can see here. It's riddled. All there's heavy amounts of radio tracer uptake and the vertebrae on the anterior and posterior views of this patient's spine. So that's pretty nasty stuff. And that would definitely tell me that they got metastatic prostate cancer. Transrectal ultrasound and biopsy will diagnose it, give me the score, the grade, determine the prognosis, for the most part. If that score grade is high, their PSI, PSA is super high, or they got symptoms of metastasis, get the scans to look for the metastasis. If it's present, you now have metastatic prostate cancer. Now, one other thing to also consider is that we are trying to, I think, in the future, get away from doing a CT MRI of the pelvis and the bone scan. And the reason why is PET CTs may offer way more superiority to really, really find these metastatic lesions. And so that's something that we're starting to see. And I think the MBME is actually starting to adopt that concept that the PET CT scan, if it actually is ever on the exam between a CT MRI pelvis and a bone scan, I would pick the PET CT. It's going to be a superior test. And they're actually starting to integrate that in more, that it's going to be more sensitive for detecting metastatic disease as compared to these two combined. All right. So that's something I would definitely consider. Woo, that's a lot for the diagnosis, but I think we got it. So again, asymptomatic screen, screen them based upon average risk, high risk. So 40 to 45 for the high risk is the really big one. 50 or greater, this is all shared decision making, get the PSA. If it's repeated, get the MP MRI. MP MRI is the newer thing, but we're saying it's better because it's going to help to reduce over diagnosis, reduce false negatives. It's going to give a lot of help whenever you get the actual procedure going on for the biopsy. If that comes back abnormal, get the trans rectal ultrasound with the biopsy. If they got symptoms and they got an elevated PSA or symptoms and an abnormal DRE, do the MP MRI from there, you may get the trans rectal ultrasound with the biopsy. You can diagnose prostate cancer, PSA is elevated, they got symptoms of bone disease, or their Gleason score grade is really, really high. Get the actual metastatic imaging. PET CT is going to become the more superior one that we would do to look for metastatic disease, but you still can do an MRI, the pelvis with bone scan. All right. That covers that. Now, how do we treat this? This is really, really, really important. Complication-wise, these patients can get urinary retention if it's really, really bad. You got the tumor that's starting to compress on the urethra, right? If that happens, the first thing is if they have urinary retention, they got urinary tract obstruction that's causing post-renal AKIs, you got to fully them. Right away, pop a fully in, start draining the bladder, especially they got a really, really high post-void residual. After that, start them on alpha blockers. Get them on something like Tamsylosin. The reason why is this will give some time to allow for the medication to work while they have the fully catheter in, and then you can pull the fully catheter afterwards, because you don't want to keep those in for too long. Tamsylosin, doxazosin, prasicin, terasicin, these are going to be great drugs. They're going to target inhibiting the alpha one receptor, which is on the internal urethra sphincter. It's going to relax that puppy. When that thing relaxes, it's going to help to open up that prostatic urethra just a little bit more to allow for less obstruction, and then maybe allow for you to urinate a little bit better. Oftentimes, with these, the best thing to do is just cut out a chunk of that prostate, because you're going to try to cut out the chunk of the prostate that's really impeding and obstructing on that. That's what we'll do, a transurethra reception of the prostate, if it's pretty bad. What about if it's spread to the bone? So you've got that painful bone metastasis. Oftentimes, with this, radiation therapy is going to be great, because it's going to target those areas, and it's going to help to reduce some of the actual pain that's associated with that osteoblastic mets. Now, spinal cord compression is definitely common with prostate cancer, especially in combination with painful bone metastasis. So if you get that tumor that's actually compressed, if it actually does give a tumor, or you get some osteoblastic mets that causes pathological fractures and retropulsion of the vertebrae into the spinal cord, the best thing is getting steroids. Steroids is going to reduce a lot of the associated vasogenic edema, but you're also going to want to pair that with radiation therapy, because that's also going to help to kind of decrease the size of the tumor, bring it down a little bit, kind of make it less angry, so it's not compressing on the spinal cord as much. Sometimes, you may have to debulk the thing, though. And so that's an option. Usually, what we do is when we have a patient comes in with spinal cord compression, that's an oncologic emergency, especially if it's from a tumor. We'll hit them with IV steroids, usually dexamethasone, 10 milligrams right up front, and continue it on a scheduled basis. Reach out to radiation oncology, reach out to neurosurgery, and based upon that, they will make a guided decision, and interdisciplinary decisions. Should we go radiation therapy to really hit this and shrink it down, or should we go and debulk this thing the best that we can to relieve the spinal cord compression? So those are all decisions that are usually made from those specialties. And it's not likely something that you'll have to decide on the exam. So if they do have these metastatic lesions of the bone, and they're getting androgen deprivation therapy, this is really important. Remember, androgen deprivation therapy is going to lower your testosterone levels. So when you lower testosterone levels, and you have osteoblastic meds, you're increasing the risk of this degenerative disease of the bone. So these patients need to get dexascans. And oftentimes, we have to combine this, because they have a malignancy, we'll put them on things like bisphosphonates to help to reduce the osteoclastic activity, or denosomab to reduce the osteoclastic activity. Because we're trying to help to, even though it's osteoblastic meds, there is bone disease, there's bone breakdown. And so with that, we want to try to mitigate to the best of our ability. So dexascans to watch their bone mineral density, and considering adding on things like denosomab or bisphosphonates to really, really reduce that bone breakdown. Treating prostate cancer, now you got the tumor. You tested it, it came back, Gleason score said it was less than or equal to six. This is a low risk patient. You honestly, you could do nothing. You could just do surveillance. You could just keep doing the PSA every six months. You could offer them a radical prostatectomy. That's definitely something that is an option for them. So that's something I would bring up was I would say, hey, let's hold off on doing any surgery now. Let's check the PSA in six months, see if it goes up, see if it stabilizes. If it really, really goes up, hey, I really think that we should go to the route of a radical prostatectomy. If not, then you can continue to keep surveying. All right, my friends, the next part is intermediate risk. The Gleason score is about seven now. So we're definitely in the intermediate risk now at this point. Us seeing actor surveillance is really not wise. There is a risk of this thing getting worse. It's a risk of it metastasizing, and we don't want that. We don't want it to get bigger. We don't want it to cause more symptoms. We don't want it to metastasize. So offering a radical prostatectomy would probably be the way to go. An alternative that we have seen to be pretty beneficial in this stage is radiation therapy. So you can do radiation therapy as an alternative, but radical prostatectomy is you're removing the prostate gland with its tumor and the seminal vesicles and the common ejaculatory duct. So that's going to be one of the ways that we can go about this. But you can consider radiation therapy, but oftentimes if we go that route, we consider should we go the route of using androgen deprivation therapy. And you're probably like, okay, what in the saying hack is androgen deprivation therapy? It's pretty straightforward. Is it kind of cool this mechanism? So there's a couple different drug targets. So your hypothalamus makes something called GnRH. This is called the hypothalamus pituitary gonadilaxis. So hypothalamus makes GnRH tells the pituitary, antipituitary to pump out things like LH and FSH. LH is really the big one that we want to talk about. Now, the pituitary gland also makes ACTH. It's not dependent upon GnRH. CRH actually is what tells the antipituitary to make ACTH, but ACTH is also made by the antipituitary. And that will then go to the adrenal glands, and it's supposed to tell the zone of acetylata to make cortisol, but it also tells the zone of acetylaris to make androgens. You're going to add a cotycoids, which is androcynodione and DHEA. DHEA is an androgen that can be converted into testosterone. So LH can tell the light excels in the testes to make testosterone. DHEA can actually be converted in those into testosterone. So testosterone then goes to the prostate. It's like, hey, bruh, I got to do my job, but I got to convert it into something called DHT, and that's dependent upon a 5-alpha reductase enzyme. Now DHT then says, okay, you got less of this. You got some of this DHT. DHT is the active. It's really the active testosterone molecule, because then it's going to bind onto the angina receptor, get into the nucleus, and it's going to start causing the growth of these prostate luminal cells. I don't want that. I got to shut this down. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to give something very interesting. I'm going to give something called genaree jaggedness. You're like, wait, what? Because that's going to act like this dude. That's going to amplify this. It does, but watch what happens. It's kind of cool. You stimulate the angiotipituitary to pump out LH a little bit, right? You're going to get a surge. Then you're going to get a surge of testosterone, but guess what happens when you get a little bit of too much of a surge in testosterone? We got to keep things in balance, bruh. So guess what it does? It then goes back and does a negative feedback mechanism, shuts down the genaree, shuts down the LH, shuts down the testosterone, shuts down the DHT, and you don't cause the cell to grow. That's pretty cool, man. Genaree jaggedness is just straight to the, right down to the crux of the issue. It's blocking genaree. That's blocking LH, testosterone, DHT, and the cell growth, my friend. So that's the concept that I want you guys to understand is that we're either going to be doing this to trigger a little surge to negative feedback or we're just shutting down the pathway in general with these. So looper-lite is definitely one. Degorelix is an alternative. Now usually it's one of these two in combination with radiation therapy we would consider. It's not until we get to the later stages, usually high risk, metastatic, that we start adding on other ones. And so there is another one called an angiogen receptor antagonist. And it's going to do this. It's going to block the receptor. DHT can't buy him, bruh. This is insolutomide. Now insolutomide will block this receptor. You can't get the DHT to bind. If the DHT can't bind to this, you're not going to get any cell growth. And so that cell growth is going to shut down. So these are the benefits. And this is usually something that you would add on to looper-lite or add on to Degorelix if they got a little bit later on. And we'll talk about that. All right, now we move into the high risk patients. So when we have a high risk patient, this is again, you can do a radical prostatectomy. That would be the way to go in this one. I'd say that would probably be the best bet.  given that it's at a pretty extensive stage. Again, you still have the option, but at this point, I would say radiation therapy alone is a little bit dangerous, and you should really try to combine this with the antigen deprivation therapy. So again, we start off with surveillance in that low risk, right? Consider bringing out the radical prostatectomy if it gets worse, or radiation therapy if it gets worse. When you get to the intermediate risk, radical prostatectomy is gonna be the best way to go, but you can consider offering radiation therapy. And after they do the radiation therapy, you could offer a very short course. You can consider adding a short course of antigen deprivation therapy. Once you're at the high risk, it's radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy, and it's definitive. It's a very high dose long course of antigen deprivation therapy. And so that's definitely the way that we go about that. And again, so it's gonna be usually either looper-lied or degorellics, all right? Now, what happens is when we get to the metastatic, a metastatic prostate cancer, you're not gonna be going the route of doing a prostatectomy, all right? It's gonna be medical castration is oftentimes the most common way that we go about this. So we're gonna do an antigen deprivation therapy like looper-lied or degorellic, and then we'll add on another agent. This could be a chemotherapeutic agent like doctataxyl, or it could be insolutamide, which is that antigen receptor antagonist. So there's definitely ways that we could go about this, but oftentimes when we're at this stage, it's not offering radiation, it's not offering any radical prostatectomy. It's just medical therapy with ADT, plus likely this agent. That's what I would want you guys to remember. Now, there is options. We can consider a surgical castration, a bilateral orcheectomy, and this is literally what it sounds like. You're gonna get rid of. So the hopeful goal here is to minimize testosterone chemically. But if you can't, then you gotta surgically remove the source of testosterone, which is the testicles, right? And so you would literally cut and remove the testicles bilaterally, now you don't have the ability to make testosterone anymore. Once you've done that, your testosterone sources are going to go away, and you're not gonna allow for that prostate gland to continue to keep growing aggressively. So that's what we would consider, and it's really only something that we do if they truly can't tolerate the antigen deprivation therapy, or they absolutely are non-compliant with it. They just will not do it. That would be an option if they really wanna take care of their prostate cancer, all right? Now, again, just kind of reminding you that when we give antigen deprivation therapy, it's dropping testosterone. So you run the risk of things like erectile dysfunction, reduced libido, gynecomastia. But the big thing is the osteoporosis, right? The pathological fractures that oftentimes goes hand in hand with the osteoblastic mets. And so again, doing the DEXA scans, considering denosomatobisphosphonate is very, very beneficial for these patients. All right, that covers prostate cancers, my dudes. I really hope that you enjoyed it. I hope that you learned a lot. I hope that whenever you see this on the exam, you'll be like, bro, nothing, rip it, boom, roast it. I hope that you guys got this seriously. And I love you guys, and thank you guys so much for being awesome engineers. And as always, until next time.

=== FILE: Skin Cancer ｜ Clinical Medicine [xR-WHInabDA].txt ===

 alfalfa, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, the caratinocytes of the stratum spinosum. All right, what about the basal cell carcinoma? It's pretty simple. It's the actual stratum basale. And again, it is the caratinocytes of the stratum basale. And then lastly, the melanoma is cancer involving the, well, the melanocytes. And that usually is going to start where? It starts in the stratum basale, but it can extend into the stratum spinosum. So that's really what I want you guys to understand is that whenever patients develop skin cancer, it's infecting or it's involving the epidermis. And which layers, stratum spinosum, those caratinocytes, when they become mutated, it can become squamous cell carcinoma. When it's the stratum basale, it's basal cell carcinoma. When it's the melanocytes, it's melanoma. Okay. Now that we've discussed that, the next question that you have is, okay, I know that this is going to be the cells that I'm hitting, the part of the skin. But my question is, what's causing this cancer to arise? When we think about the mechanism, it's actually kind of interesting. A lot of the time, and it's pretty simple if you guys have, you know, been around, is that UV exposure is going to be the most common exogenous or environmental trigger. The concept here is that you're causing skin cell damage. And these skin cells, they contain a nucleus that has DNA. So again, what is the primary trigger, the most common one? It's chronic UV exposure. So if you have UV light, and that is constantly leading to what? Damage to the skin cell, that's where we're going to start seeing some potential issues. That UV light is ionizing radiation. And that ionizing radiation can start damaging some of the skin cells, but more importantly, they hit the actual genetic material inside of the skin cells. And again, if I said which skin cells can become affected when I talk about UV exposure for a squamous cell, you would say the carotenocytes of the stratum spinosum. If I said a basal cell, you'd say the stratum basale. If I said the melanoma, you'd say melanocytes. So at some point there is UV light hitting those particular skin cells. What is it doing? How is it actually causing cancer is the question. Well, let's actually kind of zoom in here. Let's say that you have the UV light nailing that actual DNA inside of the nucleus. When it does that, basically you have a bunch of different nucleotides. And that ionizing radiation is going to cause specific injury to the DNA. What kind of injury? Let's actually zoom in. So I'm going to zoom in now on this double helix. When you zoom in and that UV light hits this, what it does is you have naturally these nucleotides and they want to form interactions, complementary, right? So A with T, T with A, G with C, C with G. It's a simple concept where this is generated by hydrogen bonds. What if the UV light hits some specific nucleotides and you lose the hydrogen bonds going from T to A and they start to form here. And now you get a dimer of these two thymines. We call it a thymidine dimer. So what happens is the UV light will cause DNA damage. But the question is, is what kind of DNA damage? I'm glad you asked. UV light hits the skin cell, hits the nucleus inside of the DNA, hits the DNA inside of the nucleus. When it damages the DNA, it produces this thing right here. These are called thymidine dimers. Thymidine dimers. Now think about this for a second. If I form this, it's going to distort the DNA double helix. Now here's what can happen. This could stay like this, but we shouldn't, right? Because what happens is all my enzymes like DNA polymerases, helicases, tau boy somerases, all of those things need a proper functional DNA double helix to be able to do their thing. If that is right there, any kind of replication process that you want to undergo is going to be blocked. So how do we fix that? Generally what happens is, is you have what's called DNA repair enzymes. Okay, so let's say that you go through and you fix this process. So you have certain types of DNA repair enzymes. They come in there and they actually break this bond, and then they regenerate the connection between the T and the A. That should work. And now this is normal, normal DNA. Now there's no chance of this developing a proper mutation because what you did is I took away the thymidine dimers and I said, let's reconnect these. Alright, what if I don't allow for DNA repair? In other words, there's some kind of issue here. Maybe this is spontaneous. Maybe this is genetic. And what happens is the DNA repair enzymes that are supposed to come in here and fix those thymidine dimers don't do it. If that happens, and these thymidine dimers persist, let's say here we have them right here. What happens now is you are going to increase the risk of mutations in this area. So now I run the risk of mutated DNA. And if I cause a DNA mutation, now this section of DNA, let's kind of color coordinate this. Let's say here's a specific section of DNA that now becomes mutated. Here's another one. Let's do this in red that becomes mutated. Here's another one in green that becomes mutated. These specific sequences of nucleotides could be a gene. And if those genes become mutated, now what their function is supposed to be becomes altered. Let's say, let's pretend for a second, these genes that become mutated could contain genes like the PTCH gene. You're probably like, okay, Zach, I don't know what the heck that thing does. I got you, don't worry. Another thing is maybe there is an alteration in the RAS or RAF genes. So let's say the RAF genes. This is a particular pathway that we'll talk about in a second. Or I bet you guys know this one, the TP53 gene. So now if I have these thymidine dimers that never got repaired, now I have mutated DNA. And now this mutated DNA can lead to some specific issues with these particular genes. And now these genes are all mutated. And their function becomes compromised. What's the point of all this, Zach? You jack up the DNA. It's mutated. Okay, cool. I got it. You know, there's no DNA repair process. They get mutated. This is where cancer arises because here's the thing. These genes I'm using as examples, there is certain things that there's drugs that we can use to target these. And so it's important to know what these genes do. For example, the PTCH gene, sometimes we call the PATG gene, it controls the hedgehog pathway. And the hedgehog pathway is naturally kind of like a tumor suppressor pathway. Same thing like this one. And I know you guys know this one, the P53 gene. That's a tumor suppressor gene. So because of that, this is a tumor suppressor gene. And then this one is a tumor suppressor gene. Now, if you mutate these, what happens is now you lose the ability for this gene to function properly. And so now this activity of the tumor suppressor gene goes down. This activity of the tumor suppressor gene goes down. You lose the ability to shut down cyclin-dependent kinases. These are enzymes that want to push you from G1 to S phase. They want the DNA to undergo replication. They want to make new cells. If you have decreased activity of this gene and this gene, you now lose the ability to inhibit those cyclin-dependent kinases. And they can just keep on going through the cell cycle. For the RAF gene, this is more of a stimulatory pathway. This is a proto-oncogene. And so now when you mutate this, it gains more activity. It's a gain of function. So this is going to be an increased proto-oncogene activity. Proto-oncogene. Now, here's the thing. If one of these becomes affected or if all of them become affected either way, so let's say we kind of consider this a plus minus, plus minus. No matter what, whether it's the solitary involvement or all of them combined, if this happens, you start to see what kind of effect. A increase in cell growth because this is going to cause you to replicate. And these are no longer going to be able to stop that replication process. So that's what we're going to start seeing. These cells just growing like crazy, like a bunch of rabbits. These things are going to go crazy. So you're going to have a massive amount of growth here. Here's what I want you guys to understand for a second. We just kind of map this all out to this process just from you getting exposed from chronic UV light. Ionizing radiation, hitting the skin cell, damaging the DNA inside of the nucleus by causing thymidine dimers and losing the ability to have DNA repair, then leading to the mutations in these specific genes that then push your cell cycle to keep going going. There's got to be other things. This is by far the most common. But I'd say, think about it, but in those patients who have albinism, their albino, what does that do? Remember I told you melanocytes produce something called melanin. Melanin is supposed to have the ability to protect against UV light rays? Well, if you have albinism, guess what that does to your actual melanin production? It decreases it. Well, if I have decreased melanin, do I lose some of the protection from UV light now? Yeah. So when there's a decrease in melanin, the problem with that is that that decrease in melanin leads to decreased UV light protection. And now more of that light is going to just shoot right into these actual keratinocytes or into the stratum basalia or the actual stratum sphenosum, or it can even hit the melanocyte. And so the problem with that is that now you just increase the risk of these skin cells getting damaged, more damage to the DNA, more risk of these thymidine dimers. If you don't repair it, you get mutations in these genes, boom, cell starts growing like crazy. So that's one thing to consider. Another one, and we see this more likely in squamous cells, but patients who experience something called immunosuppression. So what type of patient population would I be worried about this? I'd say anybody who has like HIV, AIDS, they have solid organ transplants. You know, we have other cells inside of the skin, layers, we call them lanyerhan cells. And lanyerhan cells are important because what they do is they help to clean up any kind of cellular debris. What if you have an immunosuppressive state where you now don't have that ability to clean up some of the damaged skin cells? Now those damaged skin cells stay there. They incur more DNA damage, more risk of thymidine dimers. If they don't get repaired, mutations. And so it's important to remember that immunosuppression basically, it decreases the, let's say, removal of damaged skin cells. And the problem with that is, is that when you decrease that removal of these damaged skin cells, you get the same kind of pathway. So all of these things really push this pathway in this direction. Now let's say you have a patient who, they get exposed to just a little bit of UV light. It's not chronic. They don't have albinism. They don't have any immunosuppressive state, but they just get exposed to a little bit of UV light. Damages of the skin cell, they get DNA damage. They cause thymidine dimers. Most people have proper DNA repair enzymes. But what if you don't have the DNA repair enzymes and you shut down this process and you really, really amp up this process and you push it in this direction? That'd be a condition called xeroderma pigmentosum. It's, it's a genetic condition and it does increase the risk of skin cancer. And so if you have that condition, you don't have the DNA repair enzymes. If I don't have the DNA repair enzymes, can I repair it all? Even if I get a little bit of sun exposure? Because you know normally we get a hit with sun exposure. You get thymidine dimers. That happens. But if we have normal DNA repair enzymes, they're going to fix it. If you don't have any of these dang things, guess what? You're shooting it into this area. That's what I want you to understand. So to summarize, you've chronic UV exposure, albinism, immunosuppression, all of these things lead to an increased damage of skin cells leading to this pathway. Also, if you have just a little bit of UV exposure, just a little bit, and you have this condition, you increase the risk of developing skin cancer because you don't have the DNA repair enzymes. Now let me kind of just take one more step to bridge us, I think into the treatment section when we get there. I talked about this gene, this gene, and most people know this tumor suppressor gene. Let me explain something about why these are important. You know you have a, it's called the patch. We kind of like call it patch, but this is the PTCH protein. It's made, it's kind of generated from that gene. Little ligands bind onto this little extracellular domain on the surface, and these are called your hedgehog proteins, right? So these are called your hedgehog ligands or proteins. And what they do is, is once they bind here, they're going to bind to this spot, it's going to act on this gene. Now normally this gene is supposed to decrease cell growth. That's what it's supposed to do. The way it does that is actually interesting. It works by inhibiting this protein on the other surface called SMO. So normally it inhibits a protein over here called SMO. And whenever SMO is inhibited, that decreases its activity. When its activity goes down, it's less activation downstream of a particular transcription factor. What is that transcription factor? We call it Gli. Gli, when I'm up a TF or transcription factor. If there's less of this activity, are you going to have less of this? You got it. I got less of the transcription factor. The problem with that is, is that now this little guy is going to have less translocation into the nucleus on specific genes. And if I have less of this, what's it going to do is not going to activate those genes properly to undergo constant cell growth. And so what it would actually do is, this is kind of going to seem odd here, right? It's going to decrease cell growth. That's the normal function of a tumor suppressor gene. So normally it should kind of flow this way. But now, let's say that you get sun exposure, you get this whole process and you mutate the PTCH gene. If it becomes mutated, you now have loss of function. If you have loss of function, this is gone. Now, if this is gone, so let's say that this is inhibited, can this pathway inhibit SML? No, it becomes stimulated. If that becomes stimulated, is this going to become hyperactive? Yeah. Is it going to increase its signals down to Gli? Yeah. Is that going to lead to increased activation of particular genes to increase cell growth? Yeah. Do you see the process there? And so what we're talking about is that there's drugs that can alter that pathway. Tell me that's not cool. So we can use this a lot. And the one that we tend to use this in, we'll talk about a little bit later, is called squamous cell carcinoma. All right. Another thing, RAPH. You have a bunch of different types of receptors. It could be tyrosine kinase, could be jack stat. There's just a ton of different types of growth factor receptors. Let's say you've got some growth factors here. We'll put here growth factors. A lot of them activate this pathway. There's different types of pathways, PI3K, AKT, MTOR, but there's a really important one called the RAS pathway. When growth factors are basically going to act on these receptors, it activates an intercellular signal through something called RAS, which is a GTPase. This will then activate something called RAPH. RAPH will activate something called MEK. MEK activates an enzyme called MAP kinase. And MAP kinase is a very potent transcription factor. So when this pathway is working, it does what? It leads to this pathway increased. It's going to stimulate these genes that are going to increase your cell growth. So this is a normal pathway. Now you develop a mutation. You get some chronic sun exposure. You hit that DNA. You cause the thymidine dimers. You don't repair it. And then because of it, if it happens in that gene, now what's it going to do? It's going to increase the activity of the RAS. That's going to increase the activity of the MEK. That's going to increase the activity of the MAP kinase. That MAP kinase is going to stimulate the crap out of that gene. And you're going to increase your cell growth. So you're going to have a gain of function. You see that? I don't think that's not cool. I mean, it's a sad condition. But either way, the whole point I'm trying to make is that you can understand now, just from this point here, how you get to this skin cells replicating like bunnies. We got this down. I think the pathophys has been nailed. All right? We got this thing really good. Now what I want to do is, let's talk about, you got a skin lesion. How can I know based upon the description and also identification that it's a basal cell, that it's a squamous cell, that it's a melanoma? Because I'm learning all this information and I get how I can get skin cancer. But how do I identify which type of skin cancer it is? Because I can't just go and say, oh yeah, that's all the stratum spinoceum or the stratum basalia. No, no, no, no. You got to identify this based upon the overall characteristics of it. Then get a biopsy to say, oh, it looks like it came from this particular area. Let's do that now. All right. So let's talk now about the classic findings. So whenever a patient comes in with skin cancer, one of the biggest things is you have to be able to identify that particular lesion. And that's a challenge, right? And I think for these, they technically will have these buzzword terms that I really want you to remember. I want you to consider. I want you to think about. And I'm going to show you some pictures of what this looks like. But for right now, I have a couple goals. One is to tell you the basic buzzword terms of how we would describe them and what you may read them as on the clinical vignette. And sometimes you'll get an image and I'll show you what an image would kind of be like that. And then the other thing is like, what are the locations where they tend to be a little bit more prevalent? They all have a little bit of overlap, but there's some specific things that I want to talk about. So start off with squamous cell carcinoma. Squamous cell carcinoma. Let's say that again, let's remind ourselves, which cells, keratinocytes of the stratum spinoceum get nailed, right? And you get some mutation. And then that causes proliferation of some of these specific genes. With squamous cell, what happens here is it typically forms what I would describe as a plaque with usually a central ulceration, right? So we're going to say that this is going to be oftentimes described as a erythematous plaque with a central ulceration. And so if they are at risk of bleeding. And so that's one thing I want you definitely to think about. So again, squamous cell carcinoma is mutation that arises in the skin cells, the keratinocytes of the stratum spinoceum, they get nailed with UV light, causes mutations, incurs those gene kind of changes and causes uncontrolled cell growth. That cell growth then leads to this proliferation of the cells within the epidermis. And what happens is they come up towards the top and they produce this erythematous plaque with a central ulcer. Now, with squamous cell carcinoma, if I were to describe where does this generally occur, what would I say? All right, with squamous cell carcinoma, you tend to see this involving the ears. It can hit sun exposed areas. So the ears tend to be a big one. And here's the next one. This is a little bit weird, but it helps me to remember it. And this is sometimes where the boards will try to get you. They ask location of the lips. So when I talk about squamous cell, S is going to come later. It's going to come after B. And so I know that the lower lip is going to come after the upper lip. And so the squamous cell tends to hit the lower lip as where basal cell involves the upper lip. That's something to consider. Now, the other areas is that it tends to affect other sun exposed areas. So the arms are pretty common one, especially the forearms. All right. So that's what I want you to think about is when we talk about squamous cell carcinoma, loves to hit the ears, loves to hit the lower lip, can even hit the neck, but it definitely also appears to affect on the arms. Now, last thing, what would this, what would this look like? Here, I'm going to pull up a picture. You see this picture here? You can appreciate that with this, you'll see kind of a weird looking plaque. And you'll appreciate that it has this central ulceration. And the problem with this is that these can bleed. You know what's an interesting way, sometimes to identify these is that sometimes you'll have this weird skin lesion where you pick it and it bleeds and it just keeps going back and it never goes away. That could be a concerning feature for squamous cell carcinoma or skin cancer in general. So in a rathymidous plaque that is a central ulcer can bleed and it just doesn't go away. Think about squamous cell carcinoma. Now, there's one other thing I just want to leave you with. There is a lesion that can be, I'd say, like a precursor. So it's kind of like a premalignant condition where if you see these, this increases the risk of squamous cell carcinoma. What are those called? We see these actually a lot on the scalp. And so these are called actinic keratosis. All right, so I'll write this down for you. There is a precursor lesion. So I want you to think about this. It tends to happen. We see this a lot on like the scalp area. There is a premalignant condition that puts you at high risk of developing squamous cell carcinoma. And you tend to see this a lot in older individuals and they are like, I'm not kidding. They look like a periodic, they look like a weird plaque, a yellowish plaque. If you take a look, you can actually see, you see how this kind of plaque appearance is? This is called actinic keratosis. And that is kind of a precursor lesion for a patient developing something like squamous cell carcinoma. So sometimes they will ask you that question. Within this plaque, central ulceration, that's the buzzword terms, wear, lower lip, ears, sometimes the head, and on top of that the forms. Basal cell carcinoma. Where does the actual mutation arise? And what cells? The keratinocytes of the stratum basal. Yeah. And what happens with this one? We'll keep it the, let's do this one. I want to do this pink color. You'll have a mutation. Boom, the cells grow. They grow, they grow, they grow. And then what happens with this one is it forms, you see how this one's like a plaque and it can be red. This one is more pearly and it's more nodular. And so the way that we oftentimes describe this lesion, oh look at that, I just took the pink one.  and an anhyzerine. With this one is a pearly papule, a pearly papule, and it's usually got these really, really nice, like, rolled borders, as you can see here. So pearly papules with what we call rolled borders. The other thing I will add on is that sometimes with this, you tend to get some blood vessels towards the edges. And it's like these little small vessels towards the edge. You know what that's called? Talangiectasia. I'm not even going to dare to try to spell that out because I'll know a little bit. But these are called pearly papules with rolled borders. And on the edges, you can see these small little superficial vessels that it's called talangiectasia. That's what I want you to think about as the buzzword term. If you're not given a picture to describe it, that's the way we would describe this one. Now location-wise, where is this one? This one tends to love the face. Really, really heavy involvement in the face. Usually what you see is, remember I told you B is going to be, think about coming before S. So it's going to hit the upper lip. It tends to involve, like, the cheeks. Really a lot of where you're going to see it on the exams, the nose. And then on top of that, we can see it in sun-exposed areas, like the forearms. But you definitely see this one a lot in the median cheeks, the nose, and the upper lip. With basal cell carcinoma. As you can see from this picture, what are you kind of appreciating from that? You see that nice little rolled kind of like papule? So it's kind of pronounced and it's definitely going to be a little bit bigger off the skin. And it's got those little bit of blood vessels on the edges of it. That's what we would see in a basal cell carcinoma. As compared to some wasquama cell, it's going to be more erythematous. It's more of a flatter pack. It's a little bit kind of like raised, but it has sometimes a little central ulcer that can bleed. All right, beautiful. We come to the most feared. This is the scary one, melanoma. So melanoma, again, it's a mutation and replication of what's else. The melanocytes in the epidermis. So they start off to get mutated. They start growing, growing, growing, growing, growing. And these ones tend to be kind of nasty. And here's the problem with these, right? They're going to have a dark pigmentation. So most of the time they're going to be a pigmented lesion. And it's hard to describe these. Anyone know why? Is because there's different subtypes. And also they can look a little different. We'll talk about something when we get into the diagnostic section. There is a way that we utilize a very simplistic, and I'm sure that a lot of you have heard it at some point in time in life, but the way that we try to describe these pigmented lesions, as we use something called, we check what's called the A, B, C, D, E rule, or the criteria. So that's what I want you to always consider is to check the A, B, C, D, E rule. I'll hit you with it briefly. When you look at the lesion, does it look asymmetric? All right? Does it look asymmetric? Do you have more bumpies on one side and less bumpies on the other side? B, border irregularity. Does it look like it's rounded on one side and a little bit spiky on the other side? C, color. It usually has variable different colors. They're usually dark. Maybe brown, black, bluish discoloration of the skin. That's why we say it's usually a pigmented lesion. Unless it's amelanotic, but we won't talk, we won't get that far because those are rare. D, diameter. We often use the example of a pencil eraser. If you were to compare the pencil eraser, which is about six millimeters, so if it's greater than about six millimeters of pencil eraser, that is an abnormal appearing lesion. And E is evolution. Does it change? If I looked at it at this moment as a dermatologist and I looked at it six months later, did it change in that timeframe? That is something that brings about a concern for something like melanoma. And we can't describe one lesion for melanoma because there's different types. So let me do a better job in explaining this pigmented lesion. We talk about these. Sometimes these lesions, they occur a lot in the face, especially in a very specific type. And usually they can be nodular. So there is one and it's called nodular melanoma. If you get this one, I'm sorry. And the reason why is this is going to be the porous prognosis. What I mean by that is when you think about this one, let's imagine here is the lesion. Lesions can grow horizontally or vertically, which one's worse? Vertical. So if the lesion starts growing and growing and growing vertically, that means it has the increased risk of metastasis. So nodular melanomas, they tend to be a little bit more common, especially in the head and neck region. So nodular melanomas, they are thus the term, they're more nodular appearing. But what I want you to remember with the nodular melanoma for this particular scenario is that these have the worst prognosis. They're the second most common out of all the different types of melanoma that we're going to talk about. It is the second most common, but it carries the highest risk of metastasis and the worst prognosis. Where would you see it more often? I'd say you see it really in the face and in the neck region. All right. That's one kind of explanation for there. All right. Another one is called lintigo. All right. We call it lintigo maligna melanoma. You're like, oh my gosh, here we go, Zach. So what does it call it? Lintigo maligna melanoma. This one, again, we tend to see this in the face and in the extremities, usually the upper extremities, because again, those are sun exposed areas. With this one, when you look at this one, it's kind of an irregular lesion. And when we look at this one, what we're going to appreciate more with this is that you're probably going to see this more often, you're probably going to see this more often in older individuals. You're going to see it more often in older individuals with chronic sun exposure. Nodular, second most common. You're going to see it in the face. You're going to see it in the neck. All right. Lintigo maligna melanoma, this is going to be more common. This is how they kind of will present it on the exam, more common in elderly individuals with chronic sun exposure. All right. So I'll write that down for you just so that you guys have that. Again, which type of population would I see this in? Elderly is going to be one. And then increased sun exposure. Obviously increased sun exposure increases your risk for any of these. But if you have an elderly individual with chronic increased sun exposure and it's on the face and it's on the extremities, this is the one that you definitely want to think about as lintigo maligna melanoma. All right. The next one, this one is the most rare. But it's something that sometimes they'll try to like throw at you. If you see some lesions, and this is going to be in darker skin individuals, so more likely the African-American population, maybe other ethnicities that carry more of that darker hue, you'll appreciate these more on the palms of the hand and the soles of the feet, right? Because they're going to be a lighter coloration. And oftentimes you can even have them under the nail. We call it subungul. But as a general category, this is referred to as acral melanoma. So what do we call this? Acral melanoma. And again, you can see this where, palms and hand soles of the feet. This is definitely going to be the least common. But one that they try to sometimes throw around is there's a type of acromelanoma that when I go into this palms and hand soles of the feet thing, if you see it under the nail, we give it a specific name. We call that a subungul melanoma. All right, so that is the thing for this one. All right, palms and hand soles of the feet, big things, and I'll kind of add this here for the feet as well. That's acromelanoma. What is the last one? It's the most common. The last one is that it's the most common. It tends to occur on the extremities and on the trunk. And it doesn't grow very much vertically. And it actually does grow superficially, thus the name, but it spreads really slowly horizontal. And that's a good thing probably, right? Yeah, that carries the best prognosis. So this last one is called superficial spreading melanoma. And again, all of these are going to be characterized based upon that ABCDE rule. And I'll pop up a picture here in a second, but I just want you to start appreciating these based upon a couple different things. But I think this right here helps you to appreciate superficial spreading melanoma is going to be by far. It is the most common, but it has the best prognosis. And that's what I want you to remember. All right. So to recap this, melanoma, you should consider this and a person who has chronic sun exposure, albinism, xeroderma pigmentosum. But what is the big thing? They have an abnormal pigmented lesion that is going to appear on the skin. I evaluate it by the ABCDE rule and it appears abnormal. If I see it on the palms of the hand, soles of the feet or under the nail, which one would you think? Acral. If I said it appears nodular and we see this more on the face in the neck region, which one would you think? Nodular. Which one has the worst prognosis? Nodular. If I said dark skinned, elderly individuals tends to be on the face and also on the extremities. You would say lintigo, maligna, melanoma. And if I said this one has the best prognosis, occurs generally on the trunks and the extremities and when I evaluate it, it has very slow horizontal growth. You would say superficial spreading melanoma. And again, I'm going to pop up a picture here that you guys can appreciate just what this looks like as a review. All right. We've done this. I think we have a pretty good understanding now of how to describe these. What I want to do now is I want to say, if I find a patient has skin cancer, I diagnose it because obviously you'll see the lesion, you'll appreciate the lesion and then you'll have to go through a series of steps to actually determine is it basal cell, is it squamous, is it melanoma and we'll talk about that. But the biggest concern is has it spread? How do I tell if it's spread? What kind of clinical manifestation should I be thinking about? And if they are asymptomatic, how can I prove that it hasn't spread somewhere? Well, the only way to know that is which cancers are most likely to metastasize. And if they metastasize, what are those most common locations? And if they do metastasize to those locations, what would be their symptomatology? Or what would be some lab findings that I could think about? Let's talk about that now. All right, my friends, for the last part here, a patient has skin cancer. You identify that skin lesion and you start to ask yourself the question, why do they have bone pain? Why is there LFTs elevated? Why do they have a pleural effusion that keeps coming there? Why are they seizing? Why do they have a bleed in their brain? These are things that can happen as a result of metastasis. But let's think for a second. We talk about metastasis. There's a really, really important note. I want you to think about which ones are the most likely to metastasize? Which one would that be? It is more than likely going to be melanoma. So melanoma is the most common out of all of those skin cancers to metastasize. For the most part, for example, I would say it's pretty rare for things like basal cell carcinoma to metastasize. Squamous cell carcinoma can metastasize, but it's not too common if it does. It goes to local regional lymph nodes. Melanoma is the worst one. I've seen this one wreak havoc in patients' brains. They don't have melanoma diagnosed, but then they come in all of a sudden and it's their first onset seizure. They have neurological deficits. We scan their brain and we find that they have a bleed or they have masses in their brain. They get a biopsy or they get some surgical resections. They send it off to pathologists and it comes back that the source was melanoma. This is a really nasty disease that sometimes can be very insidious. When it presents, it presents with an unfortunate complication. Sometimes you don't even have a skin lesion. You have one of these situations and you end up biopsying it and finding out that it was metastatic melanoma. That's why I really want you to remember that. If basal cell, so basal cell, it doesn't metastasize really. What it can be is locally destructive. What the stink does that even mean? What that means is that since this tends to occur in areas like the nose, the medial cheeks, the upper lip, they can erode into the bone. They can cause local bone destruction. When I talk about this, I'm talking about bone destruction as the example here. That's what I mean. Basal cell carcinoma is not really going to metastasize, but if it can get deeper and deeper and deeper, it can invade to the bone in those local areas. That's where it can be concerning. Basal cell carcinoma, since it tends to happen in the face, can cause local destructive processes in the bone. Because melanoma is the most common to metastasize, what are those locations? Lung, liver, bone, brain, and lymph nodes. Let's say here you have this lesion and it spreads to the lymph nodes. The reason why I talk to you about this is, we'll talk a little later, melanoma, you have to take a pretty good excisional biopsy. When you take that excisional biopsy, you look at it and you do something called the Breslow Depth. The reason why is that oftentimes these cancers, when they do spread, they spread to your local regional lymph nodes, what we get concerned about is how do we know if it's spread to the lymph nodes? What we'll do is we'll check what's called the Breslow Depth. We look to see if it's 0.8 to 1mm in depth or greater. If it is, you have to check what's called your Sentinel lymph nodes. We do what's called a Sentinel lymph node biopsy to see if the melanoma has spread from that lesion to local lymph nodes. That's really, really important. It's kind of just a precursor is when this happens, is you want to do something, you want to check what's called the Breslow Depth. We'll talk about this and then check a Sentinel lymph node biopsy if the Breslow Depth is greater than or equal to 0.8 to 1mm. Again, we'll get into the diagnostics. Here, melanoma can spread lymphatic, but it can also spread hematogenously. If these little suckers get into the bloodstream, they can go all over the dang place. They can get into the lungs. They can get into the liver. They can get into the bone and they can get into the brain. What would be a concern if we spread to these particular areas? How would I even know? Now, we've talked about this and it's kind of like we're repeating the same thing a lot, but that's okay. Repetition is a lot of keys to learning. When you spread to the lung, so if I get lung mets, liver mets, bone mets, brain mets, how do I identify these? A lot of the times you end up having to get an image. You have to get a pan CT scan or brain MRI and you find them. Like I told you, sometimes patients may come in with particular symptoms. But a patient has persistent, let's say that they have a new onset hemoptysis. This oftentimes involves some type of imaging evaluation. If they have recurrent dyspnea or if they have malignant pleural effusions, what does that mean? That they have recurrent pleural effusions that keep occurring. And then you end up doing a thoracentesis. You tap into it and you find, oh my gosh, this is a exudative effusion. You send off cytology, you find that they have some type of malignancy. These are some things to think about, right? Melanoma could be considered. Liver mets. Oftentimes, I'd say it's really just maybe a bump in the LFTs. But oftentimes with this one, you may get some epatomegaly. And with that, you may end up having to get what's called an ultrasound or you may get a CT scan of the abdomen, the pelvis, and find that they have a bunch of different liver mets. It's not usually one, it's usually multiple. Bone mets. I think clinically having bone pain is definitely one. This also puts them at pretty high risk of pathological fractures because they can cause like lytic lesions and really chew through the bone. But the other thing is, is when you chew through and cause a resorption of bone, what does that do to your calcium levels? It can pump it up. I wouldn't say it's super common as compared to like lesions like that we see in like multiple myeloma or lung cancer is really one best cancer. Melanoma can do that. But seeing something like hypercalcemia would be concerning. And another one is another level, alkyphos. That's a monitor or harbinger of lots of bone turnover. It's not specific, but if I see high calcium, high alkyphos, bone pain fractures, I could consider that. And lastly with the brain mets. This is the one I'm telling you. I've actually seen these bleed a lot. I've seen patients develop, I'd say focal deficits. But oftentimes this could just be because of the lesion and the surrounding edema. So sometimes it can cause edema. But the other thing it can do is I'm not kidding. I've seen mets bleed. I've seen these mets bleed. And so that I have seen patients develop hemorrhage, ICHs. And the last thing is sometimes if it gets up near the cortex, it can cause a lot of agitation of the cortex and we can see things like seizures. And this is usually like a patient coming in with their first like new onset seizure, no underlying trigger, you get imaging, boom, you find that. So this is something I do want you to think of. Patients don't always have to present with an obvious skin lesion in melanoma. They can present unfortunately with these particular symptoms and then you end up kind of investigating it further, finding out that that came from, usually in pathology, a metastatic melanoma. But oftentimes our goal is to be able to say, hey, we found the skin lesion early, we found a superficial spreading melanoma and they don't have any symptoms. We span scan them. We don't find any kind of lesions anywhere else. That's obviously the ideal goal. Sometimes it just doesn't work that way. All right, we've taken our time, really kind of dissecting skin cancer. We talk a lot about melanoma because that's one of the most concerning ones. What I want to do now is I want to see if we can put this all together. Let's take a second and let's actually kind of redirect our minds. Not to think so much on the whiteboard as the mechanism mind things. I think that's good to kind of build a foundation, but let's think clinically now. We have a patient coming in and they have a skin lesion. Let's learn how to evaluate it, know what's the next steps to do. What's the first diagnostic step? What's the best diagnostic step? When we get those findings, what do we do next? Then let's finish off by talking about how do we treat them when we get the diagnosis back. All right, my friends, let's now move into the diagnostic approach of skin cancer. We talked a lot about melanoma. We talked about basal cell carcinoma. We talked about squamous cell carcinoma. We talked a lot about the pathophysiology. Really it comes down to just chronic UV exposure and understanding a lot of the times that these patients will present with very odd or suspicious skin lesions. That's what you have to be able to identify and recognize. For example, if I had a patient here with basal cell carcinoma, we oftentimes define this as a nodular appearance. It's a papule, if you will. It's usually going to have this pearly type of appearance. Usually the border is nice and rolled. If you get lucky, you may be able to see some telangiectasia. Maybe there's some central ulceration. These are all things that really scream more of that basal cell carcinoma. Again, that tends to happen more along the ears, maybe the nose, maybe the medial cheeks, the upper lip. Sometimes you can even see this in other areas as well, like the arms. Again, I think this is important to really think about and visualize when you're hearing the terms basal cell carcinoma. For squamous cell carcinoma, we're thinking about more of like a plaque-ish. It's more of like a firm. It's more irithematous. It can be nodular, but it can be also more plaque-ish. You're going to see here that you're going to see this plaque-ish appearance. There may be some central ulceration as well. These also tend to bleed decently. That's going to be more of your squamous cell carcinoma. The melanoma is a little bit more challenging. That presents more as a pigment lesion. The thing that we oftentimes use for these pigment lesions is to determine if they carry that concern or that risk for melanoma as compared to them just being like a mole, is a couple of different things. That's when we use something called the ABCDE criteria. For example, A is asymmetrical. If you look at this, you can appreciate how this doesn't have the complete symmetry all the way around. The next thing is border irregularity. Is it a nice circular kind of border or is it jagged appearance as we can see here? The next thing is color. As their color variation, as you can see, there's color changes all over the place. It's not one color. It's multiple colors that are really, really concerning for melanoma. D diameter. If you look at the size of this, is it greater than at least six millimeters or a pencil eraser is one way that we look at it. Then lastly is evolution. In this case, evolving. Has it changed over the weeks, months, or years? In other words, did it start off as really small, then it got bigger and bigger. That's what really concerns us about melanoma. All right. We now know pearly papule, rolled borders, telangiectasia, maybe some central ulceration, basal cell. Firm, erythematous plaque or nodule with, again, more of that erythematous appearance and it can have central ulceration and bleed. Squamous cell. Pigmented lesion that is asymmetric has border irregularity, color variation, diameter greater than six millimeters and is evolving is concerning for melanoma. With that being said, that was B when we actually decided to say let's get a skin biopsy. This is really important in high yield because you'll probably be tested on the specific type of skin biopsy for that concerning or suspicious lesion. Let's say that I have a patient here, they have an abnormal skin lesion. I want to know do I need to get a shaved biopsy or do I need to do a punched biopsy? Shaved biopsies are really, really preferred for your squamous cell carcinoma and basal cell carcinoma. That's literally when we're going to shave off a layer of this actual lesion, send it off to the actual pathology lab and have them identify what type of skin cancer do we have here, how deep is it penetrated, et cetera. That's our shaved biopsy. Another option is a punched biopsy. If you have a skin lesion and you're trying to identify particularly what that skin lesion is, you can do a punched biopsy. That'll give you pretty much close to the shaved biopsy would do. These are the two options that you would utilize to biopsy for a suspected squamous cell or basal cell carcinoma. For melanoma, we prefer excisional biopsies, wide excisional biopsies. You really want to do that so that you get a really good margin, so that you can truly tell has this spread. How far away is it from the actual normal skin margins and the actual kind of cancerous tissue? It's really, really important to remember, shaved, punched biopsy, squamous and basal cell, melanoma, excisional biopsy to get a really good margin to see where the cancer ends and begins. From this, that skin biopsy is going to be able to tell me what is the likely type of cancer. If you see these basaloid cells and you hear that term peripheral palisading from the pathology report, it screams more basal cell. If you hear a lot of keratin pearls and intercellular bridges, that screams more of the squamous cell carcinoma. If you see particularly more of this atypical melanocytes that is invading the dermis, that screams more melanoma. From here, the next thing that we have to consider is when we have a patient who has melanoma and we take a wide excisional biopsy, we want to know how deep do the atypical melanocytes go into the dermis and beyond. We want to know something called the Breslow Depth. The Breslow Depth is we kind of determine how deep has this thing invaded into the underlying dermis and beyond. Anything greater than 0.8 or 1mm is really concerning that this could have spread to nearby lymph nodes. Even if they don't present with lymph adenopathy, we should check the sentinel lymph nodes to see if this metastasized to the nearby lymph nodes. So then when that happens, when the Breslow Depth is greater than or equal to 0.8 to 1mm, we need to do a sentinel lymph node biopsy. We need to sample the sentinel lymph nodes to see if the actual tumor cells, those melanocytes, spread to nearby lymph nodes. It's just as though we talked about it in patients who experience breast cancer. All we're going to do is we're going to inject a particular dye into a primary melanoma. What we're expecting is that that dye is going to then move to the appropriate sentinel lymph node. Then we actually kind of examine that. We'll find potentially those cancerous cells in that lymph node. That's what we get concerned about right here. Let's see that you do find that the patient has some metastatic melanoma in those sentinel lymph nodes. The next question is, could it be anywhere else? Could it have spread to the lungs? Could it have spread to the liver? Could it have spread to the brain? Could it have spread to the bones? I got to know these things. That's when we sometimes consider doing CT chest adenpelvis, a PET CT scan, which is really going to give a better idea of overall metastasis or a brain MRI, usually only if they have neurological symptoms. If I got a chest CT and on that I see this type of lung met's presentation, I'm concerned. They have melanoma and they may have pulmonary metastasis. If I see this, I'd see some liver met's, usually multiple hyponensal lesions on the CT scan. If I got a brain MRI and I see there's multiple lesions, and again, these usually bleed inside of the brain, that may make me concerned for potentially a metastatic melanoma to the brain. Another reason that we would do these brain MRIs is if they have new onset seizures, they have neurological deficits, we find that they have these brain lesions. Get an MRI, find that, we biopsy and it comes back as metastatic melanoma. These are the things I want you to consider. If a patient has evidence of metastasis, that's when we're concerned about metastatic melanoma. Metastatic melanoma is the really overarching theme that I want you guys to think about here because it guides overall what treatment we're going to go with. Obviously, having a wide decision on biopsy is important, but then we add on specific therapies depending upon if it's metastatic or not. One other thing to add is that sometimes we will confront from those actual tissue samples, we'll do amino histochemistry. It's not often, the only time you really do this to differentiate and exclude melanoma from an atypical kind of presentation or from basal cell or squamous cell, it's really in those weird situations where it's really hard to differentiate between a poorly differentiated basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, atypical nevi and melanoma. We'll order that amino histochemistry test and we'll look for specific types of proteins that may help us in those scenarios. That gives us the diagnostic approach to skin cancer. The next question that we have to ask is, okay, we identified that the patient has skin cancer and it's basal cell. How do we treat it? Surgical excision is going to be the go-to for these patients. It's a standard of care. You're going to literally remove the actual skin lesion from the area. You remove the risk of any kind of chance of metastasis or further kind of deeper dermal invasion. A Mohs micrographic surgery is an alternative to surgical excision in very sensitive areas and what I mean by that is usually the face. Usually in lesions that are appearing on the face, we want to really be careful. We want to have a cosmetic appearance to it. We may use a Mohs micrographic procedure where we're kind of like taking layers off one at a time, one at a time, one at a time to try to be able to get down and get most of the actual kind of tumor removed without taking that wide excisional kind of removal of tissue ending up with some undesirable cosmetic appearance. That's the goal with a Mohs micrographic surgery. It's usually an alternative to an excision, but it's actually when a patient has a lesion on the face. Other options if you have small kind of lesions, particularly on the arms or they're very, very superficial, you can consider things like topical 5FU, which is kind of a chemotherapeutic kind of drug. It's working to inhibit particularly DNA synthesis in these cells. You can also use topical amicromyla, which is kind of like an immunomodulated kind of drug. These are for very small superficial lesions that are usually on the trunk or on the limbs, like the arms. The one that I really want you to remember as we talked about this a lot is Vismodigib. This is a hedgehog pathway inhibitor. This is when we use it in patients who have advanced. It's really kind of extended beyond maybe to the, it's caused destructive process of the bone, maybe it metastasized. That's when we consider Vismodigib. What it's going to do is it's going to work particularly on the SMO. It's going to inhibit that SMO protein, which is then going to affect the Gly. You're going to decrease that Gly transcription factors, and you're going to decrease that cell proliferation. So that's one of the drugs that we can give. Again, you're thinking about this. Remember you have that PTCH protein. This gene normally kind of encodes the PTCH gene, codes for PTCH protein, which binds hedgehog ligands. That hedgehog ligand binds to the PTCH, and what it does is supposed to inhibit the SMO protein. SMO protein controls Gly transcription factors, and Gly transcription factors are supposed to play a role in cell replication and growth. If you have less of that, you're not going to grow. So whenever you develop a mutation, you lose that ability to inhibit SMO. And that's really where this kind of process begins in basal cell carcinoma, which can happen due to UV light. It can be in immunosuppressed states. It can be in certain types of genetic conditions.  that are predisposed, but either way, now you lose that ability to inhibit SMO. Instead, it starts to stimulate this protein. Now this increases the activity of gly, and that's going to increase the cell replication and cell growth process, and that's what's going to lead to these cancers kind of forming. If I give a drug like Vismo to give, which is a hedgehog pathway inhibitor, it's shutting down the SMO. It's kind of replicating that process of having a normal PTCH gene. And because of that, that's going to shut down SMO, shut down the gly transcription factors, and then shut down the actual cell growth process. And that helps to prevent these cells from constantly replicating and growing. All right, that is going to be basal cells. So again, surgical excision is first line. If it's on the face, you can do a M.O.S. If it's on the arms, on the trunk, and it's very superficial, it's very shallow, you can do 5FU and a Myckelma topically. If it's metastatic or very, very advanced, you then need to consider a hedgehog pathway inhibitor. For squamous cell carcinoma, it's kind of the same thing. Stomach excision is going to be the first line. It's the gold standard of therapy. But again, if this is in a particular area which is on the face and it's a little bit more cosmetically desirable that you kind of be a little bit more careful, then we may go with something like a M.O.S. micrographic surgery, where again, we're going to take layers off kind of piece by piece by piece by piece, where we try to make sure that we preserve a lot of normal tissue and we maintain a decent cosmetic appearance. All right, the other one is topical 5FU or topical Mykelma. We can use this for small superficial lesions on the trunk and on the limbs. Where it differs is we may use a particular immunotherapy, like an anti-PD1 inhibitor like Sumapilumab, only in metastatic or advanced squamous cell carcinoma. So we don't use that hedgehog pathway inhibitor. It's almost the exact same as basal cell. With this one, you kind of go back to, if you have a tumor cell, what it does is it expresses something called PDL1. That's important, right? Because another molecule that it expresses on its surface is called an MHC1 with a small antigen. T cells usually use a T cell receptor to bind with that MHC and then they also, actually with the antigen, and then they use a CD protein to interact with the MHC. Then on the T cell, it expresses something called a PD1, which interacts with the PDL1. When this occurs and these two interactions kind of click together, it shuts the T cell off and it doesn't want to kill or harm that tumor cell anymore. All right, so it survives. If I give a drug like an anti-PD1 inhibitor, it binds to the PD1, no longer allowing for that interaction between PD1 and PDL1. Now the T cell becomes active. When the T cell becomes active, it can then trigger the death of these tumor cells. So that's what I want you to remember for squamous cell carcinoma. All right? Now with that being said, again, surgical excision, that's going to be the first line. If it's on the face, mose micrographic surgery. If it's on the superficial kind of like level and it's on the arms or on the trunk, topical 5FU and micromod. And then if it's kind of metastatic, it's going to be the anti-PD1 therapies. Let's move to melanoma. First line therapy is always going to be surgical excision. There is no kind of mose micrographic surgery here. It is the standard of care. It's a wide surgical excision to try to remove as best of a margin as you can. The sentinel lymph node biopsy is one of those things that we do again, if the Breslow depth is greater than or equal to 0.8 to 1 millimeters on the biopsy. We want to see if there's any of this involvement of those lymph nodes. We may have to remove those. The next thing that I want you to remember is again, this is more part of the diagnostic process where we're trying to see if it did spread to the sentinel lymph nodes. And if it did, we may need to again remove those appropriate lymph nodes, especially if there's a lot of them that are involved. The next thing that I want you to remember is if they have metastatic melanoma, it's spread to the nodes, it's spread to distant organs. That's when we use an anti-PD1 inhibitor like Pembralismab or an anti-CTLA4 inhibitor like Ipilimumab. That's primarily for metastatic melanoma. One thing that I want you to consider is that sometimes these patients can exhibit what's called a BRAF V600D mutation. If they have the BRAF V600D mutation that's potentially contributing to their underlying cancer, you can use a BRAF inhibitor like Vimiraphonib. So that's the other thing I want you to know. We'll talk about that in a second. But again, anti-PD1 inhibitors, anti-CTLA4 inhibitors, a similar concept. Here we have a tumor cell. It expresses an MHC1 with the antigen. T-cell comes, interacts with the antigen with the T-cell receptor and uses cluster differentiation proteins to bind with the MHC. T-cell expresses a PD1 which interacts with the PDL1. If I give an anti-PD1 inhibitor, what am I going to do? Block that interaction and the tumor cell will die. Anti-CTLA4 inhibitors are otherwise going to be particularly doing what? They work on the T-cell by doing something very interesting. On the T-cell, they always interact with antigen-presenting cells, which also can activate them. They do that with a CD28 protein. That CD28 also is going to compete with a CTLA4. Tumor cells are smart where they actually increase the CTLA4 expression on these T-cells. That beats out the CD28 to interact with B7. When this happens, the tumor cell just continues to survive because the antigen-presenting cell doesn't tell the T-cell to get activated. What we want to do is we want to give a drug like an anti-CTLA4. That's going to bind with the CTLA4 and then it's not going to allow for it to bind to B7. Then who interacts? The B7 and the CD28. This causes that co-stimulatory signal, activates the T-cell, and then it can trigger the tumor cell death. Metastatic melanoma is either anti-PD1 or an anti-CDLA4 inhibitor. If they have that BRAV V600D mutation, you then consider vimiraphinib. That's the only time this will be considered as an alternative is if they have the BRAV V600D mutation. How does this really work? You got to think back to the mechanism here that whenever you have these receptors, these could be a bunch of different receptors, tyrosine kinase receptors, epidermal growth factor receptors, but they'll bind onto these receptors and activate an intracellular molecule called RAS. This is a local GTPase. That activates RAF. RAF then activates MEK, which then activates your MAP kinase pathway, which activates particularly the specific genes that you want to undergo lots of proliferation. It's going to activate those proto-oncogenes, so proliferate, proliferate, proliferate. If I give a drug like a BRAV inhibitor, I'm essentially inhibiting RAF. I'm going to give a drug to basically do what? Block RAF. If I do that, I drop down the MEK. If I drop down the transcription factors, I don't activate those proto-oncogenes, and I shut down the cell growth. That's where this drug comes into play. Again, melanoma, surgical excision, it is the standard of care. Do the sentinel lymph node biopsy if you have a Breslau depth on that excision that shows that it's greater than 0.8 to 1 millimeter to see if it's spread to sentinel lymph nodes. You may have to remove those. If you have lymph nodes that are involved, if you have other distant organ metastasis, use an anti-PD1 or an anti-CTLA4 inhibitor. If they have a BRAV V600D mutation, you use a BRAV inhibitor as an alternative. All right, my friends, that covers skin cancer. I really hope that you liked it. I hope that you learned a lot. I hope it made sense. Man, I love you guys. I thank you guys. As always, until next time. Bye.

=== FILE: Skin Cancer ｜ Podcast [Ca9ZBUokW-4].txt ===

 packageddashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdash obviously difficult. So, you know, I'll do the best I can to visually explain things with my mouth, but you know, in words, but I think a lot of the times it's about identifying what it looks like, and then knowing what's the proper way to buy OBSIET. And then the other thing is just knowing potentially like, what's the treatment and the scenarios where it's like, maybe in a cosmetically, you know, appealing area where you want to be careful. What if it's advanced and it's metastatic, and it's gone all over the place, what do you do? So I think that's the big outline or kind of like objectives to talk about in this in this podcast. Alright, well, let's not waste any time then case one, we have Mr. J, a 72 year old male, retired sailor comes in with a slowly enlarging pearly papule on his left cheek. His wife noticed that it bleeds very easily when he shaves. There's no pain associated. He has a history of significant sun exposure. Of course, he's a sailor and no immunosuppression. When you hear pearly papule, I think that's the key like, you know, if we can give you like pathodemonic or buzzword terms to think about these, that's the best way I would try to use it as a pearly papule. Rolled borders. You hear the term telangiectasia, which is just basically like these like small superficial blood vessels that are like near the edge of it. That's usually the key thing. Another one is that it can have a central ulcer. But I think one of the key things is it bleeds. So if you keep having like a like a skin lesion that's a little bit like enlarge like a papule and it bleeds a lot. And it has that kind of like, papule pearly appearance with like some small little blood vessels along the edge. That's something I would always consider as a potential cause of like skin cancer, especially basal cell. So basal cell would definitely be the thing. And then all of these gun skin cancers, we all know this UV exposure is going to be one of the biggest risk factors. So prolonged chronic UV exposure basically causes it causes something called thymidine dimers. It basically causes dimerization of the thymine nucleotides. And it basically causes an issue where you can't allow for these proper processes to occur when you have that DNA damage. What it does is it increases the risk of developing things like mutations and mutations bring about the opportunity for leading to carcinogens or carcinogenesis, the formation of cancer. And so that's really the key thing is UV exposure, chronic UV exposure is going to be one of the biggest risk factors for developing skin cancer. There is other risk factors. And I think that's why this was mentioned here is it says no immunosuppression immunosuppressive states like HIV significantly increase the risk of developing something like like squamous cell carcinoma. So having a recent transplant being on heavy degrees of immunosuppressants or having a immunosuppressive disease like HIV AIDS really increases your risk of something like squamous cell. And then the last thing is like genetic conditions that basically put you at risk. So having mutations particularly. So I think something like being albino like albinism that you have less melanin to kind of reflect some of that sunlight. And it puts you at higher risk of developing kind of like skin cancer. And I think the last one very rare but it's a condition called xerodoma pigmentosum. So that's another type of a condition where you definitely have a pretty significant risk of developing skin cancer as well. But yeah, I think the biggest thing is for me looking at this patient, the way it's described, even though I can't see it, and then having the risk factors of the UV exposure, that that's really the things that make me pretty concerned. Now, benefit of basal cell is it's kind of like it rarely ever metastasizes. And so that's kind of one of the benefits of this one, where you don't have to worry about it like metastasizing all over the place, it can happen. But it's just I think less likely. But so I guess I'm wondering, what's the big deal then? Why do you have to get this treated? But of course it's skin cancer, you want to get it treated. I don't want to like, you know, just leave a big old papule there hanging on it. I don't want to dismiss that. But if it does rarely metastasize, is there less of a concern or less of a rush to handle this? I mean, even though it doesn't like, distantly metastasize, it can locally erode. So I think because it occurs more commonly on the face, especially like nose, lips, eyelids, another one as well, it can erode into the bone. And so you can get kind of local destruction from that cancer, if you don't take care of it. So if it goes for a long period of time, it can actually cause like local like soft tissue bone destruction. So that's kind of the thing I would be a little bit worried about. But I think the best thing in this scenario is just the biopsy. And there's different ways you can biopsy. For these, a shave biopsy is pretty good. Punch biopsies aren't bad. I think you just got to be careful. But I would probably do either a punch biopsy or a shave biopsy, I'd probably lean more to the shave biopsy in the scenario. But that's what I would do. And I would see what the histology shows me. And that's really the key thing. A lot of the times I don't think you need to know this. But you look for what's called the term is peripheral palisading, like of the actual like histological appearance. Again, we're not going to focus on pathology, because I'm not I don't have a slide to pull up on the on your podcast as you're listening to. But we will we will. This is gonna be a little extra, right? Yeah, exactly. Because of course, like you always do, we have a YouTube video on this. Yeah, exactly. So you will get that. Yep. But I think the biggest thing is if you hear the term like palisading, peripheral palisading of some of the actual cells, the basal cells, and you could think about this what I think the key thing is that if you see pearly papule, roll borders, telangiectasia, bleeds easily, usually on the face, UV exposure, biopsy, it shave it. If you don't take care of this thing, it can locally cause tissue and bone destruction. And I think that's the key thing to do here to see what that biopsy comes back with, can guide your decision of how you treat. So if it's localized, I'm guessing we can just quickly excise the area and get rid of it. Yeah, if it's if it's not like invading pretty deep into like the dermis and getting kind of like to where it's really challenging, or it's again, I'd say like the key thing is is if it hasn't metastasized, which is pretty rare, but if it hasn't gotten advanced where it's invaded into the bone, yeah, you could probably just get away with like a normal just excision, just an excisional removal surgical excision will be the key thing. Now, I think if it's like a nasty big one, and it's on the face and like, you know, you don't want to have like a cosmetic like, oh, this looks a little funky kind of thing. There is another option you where they kind of take like small slices of the of the tumor over time and that they spare kind of the tissues and they keep going until they get good margins. You could do what's called the Moe's micro graphic surgery. So that's another option I'd say that's going to be one, I'd say primarily more for the face, but you could still have a pretty good like look, if you got like the surgical excision, I kind of think it just depends upon the degree of the tumor. So excise it or Moe's, I think that's kind of the key thing here. If it was like superficial, like on the arm or something like that, it was like in the small one. Another way that we describe this is, you know, if it's like a tiny little guy, you could do something like topical five floor urus or amyquamod. Oh, wow, you can use something topical. Yeah, if it's really superficial, it hasn't really gotten invaded in deep and down into the dermis, it's kind of like staying right there. You and it's a small one, you could consider something like topical five if you're a myquamod. But if it's spread, that's when I would say you just have to unfortunately you actually have to be kind of look really aggressive. So let's say metastasize on it's tough. But if it did, it invaded into the nearby bone and metastasized to the lungs or something like that, you have to use like and I'm not making this up use what's called a hedgehog pathway inhibitor. I think it's called VisMotigib. And basically, it's going to work to be able to kind of shut down that pathway and prevent the cancer from continuing to grow and allow for it to at least kind of slow down the growth process of it. So generally, first line standard of care is excision. You can do that surgically, you can do the mose if it's like in a cosmetically appealing area. Again, topical five if you a myquamod you can do if it's a very small superficial lesion. And then if it's advanced, you have to use like targeted therapy and we use like a hedgehog inhibitor, usually for that one. Okay, hedgehog. I know it's very it's a cool name for it though. Yeah, it makes it fun. I don't know. Sometimes science can be fun. It could be a lot of the time it is. Yeah. Alright, let's move on the case to Zach. We have Miss L. She's a 66 year old female who is a kidney transplant patient on long term immunosuppression presents with a scaly, arithmatist nodule on her lower lip that hasn't healed in two months. She also has actinic keratosis on her forearms. Yeah, I'm seeing some buzzword terms here. I'm seeing some things that, you know, a nodule on her lip that hasn't healed. Yep. What's going through your mind? So when you hear scaly, and like arithmatists just read nodule, and then you hear the term actinic keratosis, like that's usually so actinic keratosis is kind of like a scaly like it's, it looks like flaky too. And it's kind of like it's definitely kind of more protuberant appearing on the skin. So it's kind of like a pre malignant condition, essentially, to developing squamous cell carcinoma. And then if they have an arithmatist lot nodule that's very scaly on their lower lip, that's another common place for squamous cell carcinoma. And then you hear the term immunosuppression. So when I see immunosuppression, scaly and arithmatist nodule lower lip hasn't healed and they have a tinnate keratosis, they're like three of the risk factors for developing. I mean, that's that's a couple risk factors for developing squamous cell carcinoma. And the way it's described, described squamous cell carcinoma. So that's what I would think for here is that there's definitely the immunosuppression, the actinic keratosis, and then the way it's described as being on the lower lip, scaly arithmatist nodule sounds like squamous cell carcinoma to me. Okay. Well, I'm wondering, it sounds like squamous cell carcinoma. How do you prove that? I eat biopsy. Yeah, you take a piece of tissue. Again, I do a shave biopsy, you can do a punch biopsy and just take a look. Again, you know, when you talk about astrology, we're talking about it's something called keratin pearls. And that's the key thing that you're going to look for on the exam or something like that, if they kind of present a histological finding is keratin pearls and intercellular bridges. So that's really the big way that we kind of see this one, it's because of the different stratum layer that involves it often involves usually the stratum spinosum, whereas the basal cell carcinoma involves the stratum basale. So you see the basaloid cells with peripheral palisading for basal cell. And then for you know, your squamous cell, you get involved into the stratum spinosum, there's heavy amounts of keratin there. So you get a lot of keratin pearls and intercellular bridges that usually form there. But that's really the key thing here. Now, with squamous cell, it can metastasize, it's definitely a little bit more likely to metastasize than basal cells. So I think the most common area is the lymph nodes. So you got to watch out nearby lymph nodes, if they spread there, that's something I would definitely consider. But again, squamous cell basal cell not as highly of a metastatic skin cancer as compared to the last big honcho, which is the melanoma. But that's something I'd still watch out for. Because there's a risk of nodal spread. Is this something where you would maybe consider using a Sentinel lymph node biopsy? You could. I think it's only if like, not very necessary. No, I'd say that's definitely more necessary, depending upon melanoma. So melanoma, if I biopsy like melanoma, and I found that it was pretty deep, I have a high suspicion that it probably spread to a Sentinel lymph node. Yeah, and then I would probably do something there. Okay. Yeah. Is the treatment strategy at all similar to basal cell carcinoma? Or is there some differences? It's almost exactly the same. Okay. Yes, that's the nice thing is you for the most part, if it's like, you know, I relatively localized, you know, I'd say for the most part, you can just pretty much surgically size it, get good margins. If it isn't a cosmetically appealing area, which this person seems to be on the lower lip, that's probably something I would maybe like a mose micrographic surgery would maybe be preferred in this scenario. I think again, if it's like actinic keratosis, guess what you can treat with that? Because it's kind of like a superficial premilagant condition, you can treat that with topical that'd be a perfect example of topical 5FU or a nickel mod. So I would use that as a perfect example. You see this on a board if they asked you like, what would you treat this with? Topically, if you wanted to, you could give 5FU or a nickel mod for that actinic keratosis. Alright, cool. If it did spread, let's say it metastasize, you know, again, less likely, but it's possible, you treat these with anti PD1 inhibitors. I forget what the name it is. I think it's like some a some a pillow, Mav or something. There's all these maps. I like to remember it's a map. It's a checkpoint inhibitor and immune checkpoint inhibitor is the key thing. Semiplamab, semiplamab. I don't know. I just am I right? Yeah, semiplamab. I don't know if that's a pronunciation. Yeah, I'm terrible with these. I usually just like to say maps. Yeah, so usually any immune checkpoint inhibitor, you can remember those as your maps. That's the way I always learned it. And so these are really going to be the key thing. So your checkpoint inhibitors consist of anti PD1, anti PDL one and anti CTLA for inhibitors. And usually those are under the kind of broad easy way to remember as your maps. So Ipilim, Mav, Nivala, Mav, Pimberlism, Mav, Semipila, Mav. So this is definitely going to be my key go to is my immune checkpoint inhibitor if it was metastatic. Okay. And then I'm guessing like you said before, a really big thing with this case is that immunosuppression, you're going to have a skyrocket. Yep. Yeah, you high risk. Yep. Exactly. So I think that's the key thing. Basil cell really high risk for UV exposure. Squamous cell same thing. But even combining UV exposure and immunosuppression catapults that. Okay, so I think those are the the big things to separate when it comes to like risk factors essentially. And then the way that they're described key, pearly papule, rolled borders to landgectasia, basil cell, scaly, erythematous papule that can bleed squamous cell. That's usually the key differences there. Alright, well, we have one more case left, Zach. We have case three. You can probably guess what we're going to be talking about. Yeah, we have Miss T a 48 year old woman comes in with a changing mole on her back. It used to be a flat and light brown mole. But now she states that it's darker irregular. It's now raised. Ah, shoot. No pain. But she noticed occasional bleeding. Her father died of melanoma at 55. Yeah, I mean, that's that's pretty scary. So I do the same thing. I mean, I just went to the dermatologist recently. Yeah. You know, you get it. I was like, I think I was telling you, oh, this is this is the SOB that's going to get me. I got I got you know, it's not hard to do right? Like you go to you go to the dermatologist and say, All right, strip down and I want you to check me from head to toe. Yeah, you can look and cranny. Exactly. Don't don't you miss a spot? No, you can't go wrong. Yeah, so I think that's why whenever you evaluate any of these like irregular pigmentation or moles, if you will, it's really establishing a criteria or like at least a pattern. And I think the common one that most people know is the ABCDE criteria. So you want to look at and see if it's like asymmetric. A lot of the times when you look at moles, they're pretty much like circular, they're relatively symmetric, you know, in this case, if it's asymmetric appearing, that's kind of a little bit concerning. The next thing is like border regularity. So does it when you look at it, is it a perfect circle? Or does it kind of have like, you know, some some edges that are a little bit jaggedy and kind of loopy out and then on this side, it's kind of nice and circular. That's key thing color. Is it dark, but more particularly, does it have variations in dark pigmentation? So is it brown, light brown, purple, black, anything like that? That's a key thing. And then diameter, is it pretty I think they say the pencil eraser, that's what I learned. Yeah, so greater than six millimeters is about the size or the size of a pencil eraser is one. But I think the most important thing is keeping an eye on the mole, or the irregular appearing like skin lesion, and saying has it changed in size. So it started looking like this, or not just in size, but did it become asymmetric? Did it become a little bit more irregular with its borders? Did the color change? Did the diameter change? So evolution is really the key thing. It used to be people saying elevated elevation, like if it was elevated, it's more evolution has it changed rapidly or changed at all. So that's the key thing here. So she noticed that there was a changing mole on her back used to be flat and light brown. Now it's darker irregular, it's raised. Those are pretty much like concerning for me. And that's right away. It's a red flag. And I need to go ahead and say we should biopsy this and get a pretty good wide excisional biopsy. So that's the next step you would do an excisional biopsy. Yeah. And well, what's next then? When I get the wide excisional biopsy, you want to make sure that you get a pretty good one. And then when you do that, you want to look at the so you want to get what's called the Breslau depth. So essentially, you want to see how far does this thing go down? Yeah. And so usually melanomas, the invi is cancer of the melanocytes. So cancer of the stratum spinosum cells, that's squamous cell, basal cell, cancer cells, the cancer of those cells, that's basal cell. And then the melanocytes is going to be melanoma. If you get cancer of that, and it starts invading down into the dermis and deep, deep, deep, you want to say how deep did it go? So you took it to Breslau depth. Anything I think greater than 0.8 to one millimeter in depth is an indication enough to say there's a concern that it could have spread to a Sentinel lymph node, you need a biopsy. Okay. So that's what I would say is let's get the wide excisional biopsy, check the Breslau depth first, how far is it invaded? If it's invaded pretty far, check the Sentinel lymph nodes, and then also evaluate them. Do they have any other concerning features that make you think that it could have spread anywhere else? Do they have any cough, homoptysis, dyspnea? Do they have any pleural effusions on chest x ray? Or did they on exam? Do they have any neurological changes? So headaches, altered mental status, focal neural deficits, new onset seizures, bone pain, fractures, hypercalcemia, outfoss levels. These are all things that I'd kind of be assessing to see if I need to do thorough scans to scan their chest scan their abdomen scan their pelvis scan their, their head to see if it's metastasized because once I get to say, Okay, it's gone to a Sentinel lymph node, potentially, I'm going to do a Sentinel lymph node biopsy. The other question is, has it spread anywhere else? Yeah. And that's going to guide my decisions on how I treat the patient as well. So that's kind of how I would go through this step by step. And then when you're doing a biopsy, is it like a is it like a punch biopsy? Are you like shaving it or never? No, only shave and punch is for basal cell and squamous. Okay, so for melanoma? No, no, wide, wide, like, excisional biopsy. So you want to really get a good, like, pretty like wide excisional, you want to go get good margins that you can really make sure that you're not missing any kind of skin cancer. Be very careful. Exactly. Yeah. Okay. Yep. Alright, so my next question then is, we have a good idea. And let's say we know it's localized, how do we treat it? And what happens if it has spread? How do we treat it? Yeah, so let's say like you said, like we checked it, preslo depth was good, didn't need to do a Sentinel lymph node, or we did the Sentinel lymph node, nothing there. Pretty localized. And that's an area you can just, again, cut it out. Okay, so wide local excision establish really good margins, you're done, you don't need to do anything else. You do the Sentinel lymph node biopsy if that preslo depth was, again, greater than 0.8 to one millimeter, we could do that there. Okay, let's say you did that, and it showed that there was some lymph nodes that were involved, or let's say worst case scenario, shoot, it spread, we he had, you know, some spread to the lungs, he had some spread to the brain, because he had some neurosympathies, you get a brain MRI, he has some spread to the bones, you know, things like that. If that is the case, then unfortunately, in those scenarios, you have to change up your therapy, and it's no longer excisional or surgical, now it's more like immunotherapy. So first line for like metastatic or really advanced melanoma, as we do, you guessed it, the MABS, right? And so it's the MABS, it's going to be your immune checkpoint inhibitors. Now out of those, we do the anti PD one just like you wouldn't squam a cell, but we also combine that with an anti CTA for inhibitor. Alright, so usually I have to because I don't remember all of these guys, I apologize, but your anti PD one is your Pembrolyzumab or Nivellumab, and then your anti CTA four is your Ipollumab. And again, I think there's a key thing is that you're going to be combining two of those types of agents. That's the key thing that you're going to be combining here. And that's going to be for a patient who has metastatic melanoma. There's one little thing. So let's say that you had the patient, they have melanoma, it's metastatic, it's confirmed. Another thing that you should be doing is checking what's called a particular mutation. So the BRAF v 600D mutation. The reason why is if you check this, and it comes back that they have this, you can actually give a targeted therapy for it. So it alters the RAF pathway. And so I remember that I actually do remember this one by Vimu RAF anib, because it alters the RAF pathway. So if you think about the Vimu RAF anib, it alters the RAF pathway. Yeah, or it's involving the BRAF. So BRAF v 600, the RAF is in BRAF and RAF is in Vimu RAF anib. That's the only way I remember that it's the only way I remember that one. But Vimu RAF anib is one that I would use if they have the BRAF v 600D mutation, you could use that one as an alternative. But otherwise, surgery for again, usually localized, if you get do the Sentinel lymph node biopsy. And it shows that that depth, you know, because because the depth is beyond what it's supposed to be, you have proven there or you find it's metastasized other areas, immunotherapy, usually dual anti PD one, and an anti CTA for antibody. And then lastly, if they have that BRAF v 600D mutation, remember Vimu RAF anib, and you can add that one on sometimes you can combine it with like a mech inhibitor, but I don't think you need to know that just I like to remember that little thing with the Vimu RAF anib and the BRAF mutation. But otherwise, that is what I would say that you use to treat melanoma. You briefly mentioned it before, but where does melanoma commonly spread lung liver brain bone. So those are the primary ones that I would want you guys to remember lung is definitely a big one. Brain is AI've actually seen that one I went super sad because again, you don't oftentimes what ends up happening with this one is that you find a patient I had a couple of patients come into the you know, the neuro ICU and they had, you know, nuance at neurological symptoms, you scan their brain, and then you find that they have like these weird bleeds in the brain because it's a metastatic melanoma bleeds, it's pretty nasty one. And so we ended up scanning them get a brain MRI, they had just tons of little like, you know, sites of metastasis. And then we had to figure out where it was, we did a CT just having pelvis, we kind of scan them. And then we ended up finding nothing. And then what we ended up doing is we ended up getting a biopsy, and it came back that it was from melanoma. So it was from melanoma. Did you find the original source skin that I don't know. At that point, they had kind of like come out of our care. But yeah, I think if you would have done like a thorough evaluation, you may have found you could have found something. So I think that's the key thing is that, you know, it can spread and then one of the concerning areas is the brain. But the same thing as lung is a really scary one liver. I say that's probably like the less common bone is another one that can do as well. So yeah, those are some concerns. And I think that's why you know, if you have any symptoms, or even if they're diagnosed with melanoma, for the most part, you should you should kind of do a pan scan and make sure that they haven't actually metastasized the brain MRI, I would really do that one only if they had like some potential neurological symptoms. But otherwise, if they diagnose a melanoma, I don't think it's a bad thing to make sure that it hasn't spread to things like the chest, spread to the bone spread to the liver. So that's what I would do is I check that and I would do the brain MRI if they have some neurological symptoms. But yeah, melanoma is a pretty nasty one. It's a pretty scary one. You want to make sure that you're staying on top of those, those moles, you know, I mean, yeah, mulling, mulling, mulling, mulling. Got to watch them moles. Now, a quick wrap up here, Zach, if we can go over some high yield exam pearls, those buzzword terms, yeah, things that you should you got to pick up immediately with each one. Yeah, I think just pearly papules, roll borders, telangiectasia, central ulcer, bleeds easily, basal cell, scaly, erythematous type of like, you know, nodules. I think I would associate that with squamous cell. And then for the melanoma, I would associate that with like a symmetry of a kind of an abnormal appearing like, you know, pigmented lesion, border regularity, color variation, diameter greater than a pencil eraser, six millimeters, and then it's evolving, it's changing. With basal cell, it doesn't usually metastasize it's locally destructive, especially if it's on the face, it can cause like bone and, you know, soft tissue destruction, especially near the eyes. And then for squamous cell, it can metastasize is usually the nearby lymph nodes that I'd be concerned about. And the melanoma is the most metastatic lung, liver, brains and bone. So that's the ones I'd be scared about there and just keeping on that one. biopsying these squamous cell basal cell, you can do a shave, you can do a punch melanoma has to be a wide excisional biopsy treatment for these again, if it's kind of like superficial, it's localized, it's not like super kind of aggressive, you can just do like surgical excision for all of them. Yeah, mose micrographic surgery more for like that cosmetic appearance, especially if it's on the face. And then once it starts getting metastatic for any of them, you're kind of going to target a therapy for basal cell, you're using the hedgehog pathway inhibitor for basal cell, you're using more of a immunotherapy, squamous cell, I'm sorry, squamous cell. Yeah, I apologize. You're using more of a, particularly an immune checkpoint inhibitor, like an anti PD one, right? And then for metastatic melanoma, you're doing kind of a dual immunotherapy or immune checkpoint inhibitor. So you're doing the anti PD one anti C TLA for and if they have that BRAF V 600 emutation, you can add on the Vimurafinib as is the alternative therapy. But yeah, I think that's kind of the biggest thing to think about with with with skin cancer. All right, well, hey, that's skin cancer in less than a half hour. Nice. Let's say pretty darn well done. I like it. And don't forget, of course, of you know, we're talking about skin cancer, you need to visually see these things. Yeah, we got you. Yeah, it's up and coming. Absolutely. Well, my friends, I really hope that you like this podcast, I hope you learned a lot. I hope that you had an opportunity that, you know, maybe if you're again, I don't know, hanging out with your family, maybe you're just trying to chill out, maybe you're on the treadmill, you're working out, you're doing dishes, you're outside cutting the grass, whatever you're doing, you're trying to just stay busy and active. I hope that this podcast helped you in that timeframe. And man, I just love you guys. Thank you guys so much for supporting us. And I wish you guys the absolute best. Love you. Thank you. And as always, until next time.

=== FILE: Testicular Cancer ｜ Clinical Medicine [AUkiaZU_ZdI].txt ===

 Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, medicine. But if you have the ability to, on our website, which I'll have a link down below, go there. If you become a member, you'll have access to our high yield notes, illustrations, quiz questions, flashcards. There's a lot more there. So go check it out. All right, without further ado, let's get into talking about the meat and potatoes. All right, my friends, let's start talking about a little bit the pathophysiology of testicular cancer. So when you got like a, unfortunately, like a tumor in the ball bag, this is really problematic. And when we think about it, it's really important to understand that testicular cancer, it oftentimes, we'll talk about it, I promise, but it's going to be broken down into like, synomomas, which are usually the most common germ cell tumor. And then you also have non-synomers. There's also non-germ cell tumors. They're just very, very rare. Most of the time we have germ cell tumors. That's probably like 95% of the cases. But for germ cell tumors, they're usually synomabase, which I'll explain. These are usually going to prevent, present in males greater than or equal to the age of 30. Whereas the non-synomers, those are more likely to present in males less than 30. So you can see this obviously within kind of a different age range, but usually synomers, which are the most common, greater than or equal to 30, non-synomers, more in the younger patient population. When we think about these, the testicles are obviously going to be within side of the scrotum, but there's different components, right, inside of the scrotum. So obviously we have one structure here. This is kind of like a C-shaped structure. And this is called the epididymis. So we have the epididymis. This is one of those that where it kind of like you actually store sperm. And then whenever a patient gets ready to ejaculate, it gets moved. And then it usually gets moved into something here, which we can have like the vas deferens, right? So we could actually write that one out as well. This is called the vas deferens. And that's basically the transportation tube for all those little sperm cells, right? So that's the vas and we don't really care about these areas, right? We care really about this one here. And so this area is the testes, right? So this is the testes. And we talk about the testes. There's a couple different components into it. I don't want to get too crazy into that. We talk about that in some of the anatomy of the reproductive system, but here in red we have something called semineferrous tubules. And semineferrous tubules are where basically you make sperm. You make sperm, but you also have some other cells in this area kind of around it that also make some steroid hormones for males. And then back here you got something called the retitestis and then just you have some ductules that connect to the epididymis because you're trying to get sperm to get made here and transported stored here. So what I want to do is I want to cut in and zoom in on these semineferrous tubules. So now we're looking at the microscopic anatomy, we're really zooming in and I'm really only focusing on what we would call here, this is a a semi, let's see if I can get this here, nephrous tubules. And we're only really looking at one, right? We're only looking at one of these, but this is what we're going to call this thing, a semineferrous tubule. I've just taken like a slice of it and I'm looking here in the center. In the center you're going to have these guys. This is your sperm cells. So we call them spermatocytes really is what you should be calling them, but we call them spermatocytes. Now spermatocytes are really made from germ cells, but we usually these germ cells, they differentiate into what's called spermatogonia. Spermatogonia then usually go through their process where they'll make spermatocytes. So we need to know where the heck those are. So if you imagine as you go up towards this edge where the basal kind of like layer is, there's these like circular blue cells, you see these the circular blue cells all there, those are called your germ cells. They're the ones that are going to eventually differentiate because spermatogonia and then eventually help to make your spermatocytes. So we'll kind of represent this guy. This is going to be your germ cells. All right and these are the ones that are really going to be helping you to make your spermatogonia. All right and then eventually here's spermatocytes. Now we also have these other cells, these black like weird wonky looking cells. These are called the sertoli cells. They're more supportive cells like physiologically they really just kind of help to control what's called the blood test these barrier and they allow they basically like they're like little guards where they open up like little spaces between them for spermatogonia to go down through their division and makes spermatocytes. So they help to control the movement all the way from this basal layer all the way to the inside of that lumen. All right so that's kind of cool. They also will make a thing that binds testosterone to keep testosterone. But I'm getting off track. This is a sertoli cell. This sertoli cell is not really a germ cell. It's a supportive cell. So it's again it's important to remember that it's a non germ cell if you will because that terminology is going to come back a little bit later. All right but sertoli cells they're really just supportive. They may they help a little bit with testosterone concentration inside of that where the sperm cells are. They make what's called sertoli testosterone binding protein. Binds testosterone keeps it in the area so that the sperm can really divide. And then on the outside so you usually say if you could imagine like imagine here I had like another like I had another seminiferous tubule right here right. Usually in between we have these cells called light excels. Light excels. So here we got we didn't annotate that part. Here we have the light excels. The light excels are cells that basically they they really help in hormone production. Testosterone right in males. And so they help they get stimulated by LH and LH helps the these cells to produce testosterone. And then testosterone can go and get into this area when it binds the testosterone binding protein keeps the concentration high helps with sperm production. So that's the basic kind of like anatomy. Now you're probably like okay Zach I um not what what does this have to do with testicular cancer. When we talk about testicular cancer they're really kind of get broken down classified as what we call germ cell tumors and non germ cell tumors. So again there's what's called germ cell tumors. And when we talk about it 95 percent of the cases are going to be these. All right that that's what's happens here. And really when it comes down to it out of all these cells that we just mentioned that are really in that vicinity which ones are going to be affected. Think about it. It's the germ cells. Now there is two types and we'll talk about this a little bit later but there's what's called synomers which we'll get into which they kind of retain some of what of that primitive germ cell kind of like look. And then we have non-seminomas which means they don't really kind of preserve um that original germ cell look. They look like something else right not like a germ cell is going to make a sperm. Then the other ones is your non germ cell tumors. Well what the heck is that? Well we don't really have any testicular cancers that are involving spermatocytes. So we're really only left with sort of totally cells and light excels. But we just call them non germ cell tumors. And so these make up the other's very small percentage of testicular tumors. And again well if you can do math this would be about five percent. So it's not a very small it's not a very large amount. And so this is going to be two different types of tumors. One is a tumor of the light excels. They malignally transform. They become abnormal. You get a bunch of them and they start unfortunately producing lots of testosterone. All right so that's one potential problem here. So we got light excel tumors. All right and again relatively uncommon not something that you probably see a lot but again something to mention. Light excel tumors. There's nothing you know kind of crazy name for it. And then for this one it's the same thing. You get a malignant transformation of their sertoli cells. And these unfortunately don't really have too many things. They may have a little bit of like higher testosterone concentrations but they don't usually have many symptoms or any kind of weird like hormonal effects that you would think. So that's kind of the big things that I want you guys to remember. So when we talk about testicular cancer it's obviously a tumor that will really be involved here in the testes. When we think about how it actually derived from you got to then dig into the microscopic anatomy. Talk about the seminiferous tubules. And then say that there's germ cells which make the spermatocytes. And then there's also sertoli cells which are supportive cells. Really control the blood testes barrier. Help to control concentrate testosterone. Help to transport you know the spermatogonia into spermatocytes down into this interlumen. And then you got light excels which are on the outside and between the seminiferous tubules that release testosterone. What I want to talk about is what in the heck causes these cells unfortunately mutate or to become lignit. And there's not a lot of great reasons. We have one very common risk factor that we definitely like to preach for exams. And this I'd say is going to be the most common one that you'll probably see. Crypt orchidism. Let's see if I can get this one. Crypt orchidism. So this is basically when you have an undescended testicle. And so there's different ways it could actually so unfortunately sometimes well generally the testicle should be sitting down inside of the scrotal sac. And if it isn't, if it's a little bit higher like unfortunately maybe it's within parts of the usually in the anguinal canal is where we kind of say if it's sitting somewhere near the anguinal canal that is when we consider that to be an undescended testicle. And that is a pretty high risk factor for developing testicular cancer. Even if you fixed it, even if you actually take it and actually fix that condition you still carry the risk of testicular cancer. Another one, I wouldn't go too crazy but it's always sometimes presented. I don't think that you'll oftentimes see this because client filters as a chromosomal condition and but it doesn't usually cause testicular tumors in that sense. It can actually cause usually it's non-seminomas, right? But they tend to form in like the mediastinum which is odd. So they kind of form midline which is really weird. You can get these things to form usually in the mediastinum most common but sometimes it can form like in the sacral, the coccyx. It can form all over the place so that's weird. It's like extra testicular non-seminomentous tumors which is like we don't see that too often. Crypto-Orchidism would be the most common reason. And obviously if you potentially have like a family history of you have contralateral testicular cancer those are possible. But by far this is right here. This is going to be the most common one right here. So I'll try and like see if I can get that to be a little bit more... Bang! Crypto-Orchidism is going to be the big one that I need to know. All right? So Crypto-Orchidism is going to create a risk, a scenario where some of these cells will immediately transform. But then I want to talk a little bit about that. I want to talk about seminomas, non-seminomas, light-excel tumors, certoly cell tumors and really just kind of not crazy in the pathology and cellular makeup. More just talk about is there anything that helps us to identify them based upon maybe some things that they secrete? Maybe a little bit on what they're made of? And then from there we'll talk about what's the most common presentation besides having a goober in the ball bag. All right so let's move into talking about these different types of tumors. And we'll start with obviously seminoma first which is a part of your germ cell tumor. So you take a look here, you got that tumor, you zoom in on it. When you think about the germ cell look, it was like a bluish circular cell, these are going to resemble germ cells. I mean they're going to be malignant, right? They're going to be malignant and that reason why they change from being normal stem cells to becoming unfortunately these malignant ones is because they had something like Crypto-Orchidism maybe in the future or in the the past for these patients. What I need you to remember is that with this tumor it is the most common cause of testicular tumors. That's really the big thing. So again I told you that it's an age-or-age thing so usually this is the most common tumor and those patients greater than or equal to 30 years of age. All right that is really really important. Most common tumor and also usually occurs in males greater than or equal to 30 years of age. Now one of the things here about these tumors is that obviously it's the most common. We can see it maybe it'd be more likely to occur in older greater than or equal to 30 males. But another thing is also we use these things called tumor murders. So sometimes these tumors gain the capacity to secrete hormones that we can use as a way of identifying them. Now there's not a lot of identifiers for seminomas so there's different things that they can release. There's things like LDH, there's things like alpha-fetal protein, there's things something called beta-HCG which is basically human chorionic anatotropin. We see that whenever a woman is pregnant this is something that they actually release. Well sometimes with these seminomas there's not, there's a little bit. It's usually very very minimal, very very minimal but you may get a small little increase in alpha-fetal protein. But usually for LDH and for the alpha-fetal protein level it's pretty much normal. We don't see these like large jumps in these tumor markers. And so that's really really important. There may be a small little increase in the beta-HCG but the LDH and the alpha-fetal protein not too much. So again most common tumor in males greater than or equal to 30 you don't have a lot of the big specific tumor markers that are significantly elevated. You may get a little bit of the beta-HCG. When I talk about non-seminomas it's not as simple as seminomas unfortunately. There's subtypes to these. So for example if I take here there's a tumor sitting in that ball bag and I look in on it is it going to look like the germ cells? That's what's important remember. No it's not going to look like these. And so that's when we say okay if it doesn't resemble the germ cells what the heck does it look like? Well that's when we start getting into the different subtypes. With this first one we'll use an example is embryonic carcinoma. So you can kind of see here that it looks a little bit different. There is maybe some somewhat like germ cells present but you're going to notice there's a lot of like apoptosis that's going on around these. So here we have like some cells that shriveled up like a prune. So there's going to be some apoptosis but you're also going to notice that in the center there's a lot of dead cells a lot of dead tissue. So you're going to notice a lot of necrosis that's going to be present and usually this is necrosis is hemorrhagic. All right so you're going to even notice some areas of hemorrhage which is going to be represented with that blood tinge there. So you're going to have some hemorrhage, some necrosis, and again you're going to have some apoptotic bodies or apoptotic cells that are going to be present. With embryonic carcinomas sometimes this can actually cause a painful testicular mass. Oftentimes the testicular cancer is usually painless. But another really important thing to remember with embryonic carcinomas is again hormones. Do they really make a lot of them? Well it's not a big thing. Usually with these you may see a little bit of beta HCG. Alpha fetal protein is not really going to be too elevated but they can have somewhat of a beefy up tick sometimes and LDH. So you may see an increase in LDH but this is really the interesting thing. The beta HCG may be a little bit elevated. The alpha fetal protein for the most part should be normal. There may be a little bit of an increase in LDH. But here's the important thing to remember. Embryonic carcinomas, pure, so meaning that these are just their pure embryonic carcinomas, aren't that common. They're usually mixed meaning that we have like this mixed with like a little bit of like yolk sac tumor tissue. And so sometimes it's it is kind of important to remember that this is variable. This AFP if it is increased it could indicate it could indicate a mixed tumor. So here's what I want you to remember that in mixed tumors, so if I have what's called a mixed tumor which is actually kind of common unfortunately with embryonic carcinomas, then you may have an AFP that could also be elevated. Alright so with mixed tumors you may have an increased AFP but most of the time this is the scenario that you get. So so far we haven't really had much help in really using these markers to identify something. It's usually just going to be pathology that once we do the orcheectomy on these patients when we find that they have testicular cancer we'll look at the tissue and say oh that's embryonic carcinoma. These markers aren't going to be super helpful. Again we'll take a orcheectomy look at the pathology say oh that looks just like germ cells as a synominal. Not going to have a lot of help here with these unfortunately these tumor markers. But when I get to these it's a little bit more of a different story especially this one and this one. Yolk sac tumors what happens with these is you do have somewhat of a like a similar look to the germ cells except they're really they got gargantuous nuclei and a lot of chromatin like material. But one of the key things is in the center of these they have this like a really vascular area of tissue super vascular and these are called shiller duval shiller duval bodies and so all these are is just kind of a pretty vascular area and you get a lot of primitive tissue that actually looks somewhat similar to the yolk sac during embryology embryological development. What I want you guys to remember here is with yolk sac tumors yeah you may see these shiller duval bodies you may see some primitive yolk sac tissue present. But the big thing that's really important to remember is they do secrete some of these tumor markers which are actually really critical to remember. So do they have any impact on the beta HCG? Not really. Do they have any impact on the alpha fetal protein? You betcha. Do they have any impact on the LBH? It's kind of variable to be honest with you. So the big thing to remember here and this is where I really want you to find some significant importance here. Beta HCG normal alpha fetal protein through the roof. LBH is kind of variable where it could be normal but it also could be high. It kind of just depends. But this is the big thing that I want you to remember. So what I want us to emphasize here at this point is the significance of the alpha fetal protein in identifying a yolk sac tumor. Because we can identify based upon the pathology but it's also going to be helpful if I get labs and I see that an AFP is super high in the clinical vignette I could be thinking it's a yolk sac tumor. Now choreocarsinoma is also kind of important to remember. The unfortunate thing with choreocarsinomas is that they are super aggressive. Very, very aggressive tumors. So the embryonic carcinomas can be kind of nasty too but choreocarsinomas are probably the most aggressive malignant testicular carcinomas. Usually when you actually diagnose this one they probably have metastasis to a couple different areas. So with this one it's weird. It doesn't look a lot like the germ cells and so the germ cells really they differentiated and they turned into these different types of cells that look like placental tissue. What was the hormone that made placental? I mean that was made by the placental beta HCG. I wonder if that's going to come into play here. Well obviously when you look at the histology there's different types of cells. So we got what's called cytotrophoblast. I wouldn't go too crazy but I just want you to kind of understand this is what really, really makes up the placental tissue and then you got what's called syncytiotrophoblast. And these are really kind of like when you look at placental tissue it's almost like night and day. All right so when you take it to stick to the tumor you look at it you're going to say oh man this looks a lot like placental tissue. The key thing here to remember is that when you look at the tumor markers that's really the key. That's really the key because you can look at the beta HCG and that's usually going to go ding ding ding. This is the one and these levels are usually through the roof man. AFP not too bad. LDH is usually pretty nasty. LDH is kind of like a marker of like turnover and so if you have kind of an aggressive turnover of cells you're probably going to have somewhat of a bump in LDH but it can sometimes be variable with these tumors. And so the real parts to emphasize is the beta HCG or the AFP but you're seeing here that it doesn't help you with some of them. What really really is key that we've already noticed is that the beta HCG is like that that light up factor for carcinoma and it's that light up factor AFP being elevated for yolk sac tumors. It doesn't really help a lot with these. All right well then you come to the teratoma. All right teratomas are like they're like the Frankenstein tumors. I'm not even kidding. You look at this and you're like wait holy son of a gun is there a tooth in that tumor? Yeah. Is there a muscle in that tumor? Yeah. Is there bone in that tumor? Yeah. Is there hair? Yeah. So you're like wait there's just a bunch of different types of tissue in this testicular tumor. Yeah that's what teratomas are. They're like Frankenstein tumors. I'm not even kidding. If you look here you can have bone tissue. You can have cartilage. You can have the brown representing hair. You can have muscle tissue. You can have tooth or tooth. So you can have teeth in this tumor or things that resemble it. You could have bone. You could have cartilage. You could have hair. You could have muscle tissue. It's literally a conglomerate of a bunch of different tissues. Now when we think about teratomas obviously knowing this fact is pretty easy because you'll it's now it's kind of easy to remember oh man it's the one with all the different types of tissue in it. Yeah. But teratomas also are really important to remember because there's two different things about this one that sometimes can get tested on. So when we think about this in adults, it can happen in adults, but it can also happen in children. When it happens in adults it's malignant. Can be aggressive. All right. So when we talk about this in adults it's malignant. Can be pretty aggressive. If we talk about it in children it's benign. All right. So that's kind of a prognostic kind of indicator here as well. Helps us to kind of think about the likelihood of these tumors being really really nasty. Okay. All right. So so far with non-seminomas there's four types that we talked about. Embryanocarsinoma which has hemorrhagic necrosis can be painful. It may have the elevated beta-ACG. The AFP could be elevated if it's mixed, but oftentimes it's just knowing that is it existing as a mixed tumor most of the time. These are the two big ones that are easy to differentiate. Shilu Deval bodies yeah but AFP yolk sac tumor. Remember that. Shove it into the cortex. Tell that hippocampus you will remember this. Choreocarcinoma you can remember the placental tissue similarities but the big thing is the beta-ACG. Teratoma Frankenstein tumors can be malignant and adults can be benign in children. All right. Let's move over here to the non-germ cell tumors. All right. For non-germ cell tumors it's actually pretty straightforward honestly we don't have to go too crazy on these but again you're going to say does it look anything like the germ cells? No that's why we call them non-germ cell tumors. So then what you have to do is you have to break this up. So let's say here I'm just using as an example there can be two different types of like cellular makeup or tissue makeup and that really just determines these types of tumors. Your light-ig cell tumors or your sertoli cell tumors. Obviously these are going to look like a bunch of light-ig cells. The only thing I really wanted to add on to this one is that these cells can really bump up their production of testosterone and that can be helpful when we talk about some clinical manifestations potentially but really light-ig tumors again these in general super uncommon but testosterone are going to be the big things that can be a little bit elevated unfortunately in light-ig cell tumors which can cause some symptomatic presentations. Sertoli cells they don't really make anything so if you're trying to really look for something they may have some kind of effects on like estrogen or something like that but it's not very common so you're not really looking for any kind of like true like clinical symptomatic effect. It's usually a testicular mass they may may have gynecomastia but it's not often too much that you're going to be seeing here. It may just be that they're not making the testosterone binding protein so they get kind of similar effects but even then again there's not going to be too many symptoms for this one. So from here we've really talked about testicular tumors where do they originate. We talked about the microscopic anatomy. We talked about the cells that make up these potential tumors. We talked about the different types of synomomas, non-symmenomas and the non-germ cell tumors. What I want to do now is let's say okay you got a tumor hanging out in that testicle. What are the potential presentations beside having a testicular mass? Let's talk about those. All right obviously when we talk about testicular cancer the most common presentation is usually going to be a testicular mass. I mean look look there's a bowling ball in this dude's screw so that's definitely going to produce symptoms right now when we think about that when a patient has a testicular mass just because you have a testicular mass doesn't mean that you have testicular cancer. There could be a lot of different reasons why right. Usually one of the big things to think about is in this patient they're going to have a painless for the most part it's a painless testicular mass. Now there's a lot of different things that you obviously have to go through on your differential here and so this would be something that would like be palpated by the patient. Usually this is best obviously during hot showers because the testicle is not even trying to be weird but they become a little bit more flaccid so it's easier to identify some of these things or it could be during a physical exam by the actual practitioner. But whenever we see these and they feel hard and they feel painless that's usually something that's kind of concerning but again there's a lot of things that can cause a testicular mass. Things like hydroceals which are benign findings. Things like spermatosials benign findings. Things like varicoseals for the most part benign findings. And usually if they're painful we would have a little bit more evidence of something like trauma that would suggest maybe a testicular torsion or potential infections like epididymitis. So these are definitely things that would help us you know to think about it. If they come in with painless there's only a limited amount of things. Oftentimes a testicular ultrasound will be able to take a look at that and say hey it's likely one of these things. All right so that's really all I want you to think about that is usually it's going to be painless and then the differential is relatively small for that and really the best thing about this is to get an ultrasound. Now one other thing is that with painful testicular masses the next thing that you should always do is do a trans illumination test. And so what we would do is is we would not even kidding it's like Star Wars you take a light and you shine it on the scrote where the actual effected mass is and you look to see if that light kind of shines and illuminates the testicle. And the reason why is that can give us some potential theories of what could be going on. Usually for an example if I have trans illumination so in other words that thing really lights up then I could be thinking something like a hydrosil. Right and sometimes other things like spermatosils as well but those aren't going to be super common. If it doesn't trans illuminate the differential is so dang wide. So if it doesn't trans illuminate you got a very very wide differential diagnosis. And so you have to compare that with if it being painless. If it's painless that could be a varicoseal. It could be something like potentially testicular cancer. You get the testicular ultrasound oftentimes and that's usually going to be pretty good enough to tell you what's going on. Alright so gynecomastia is definitely a possible presentation. Usually we're going to see this more in the adult patient population. Now one of the concepts behind this is that there can be two different types of tumors that cause it. There's one way more common one and I'd say that would be the choreocarsinoma. As you can tell this one's a pretty nasty one. It's a pretty aggressive one. You could have another one. Again they only account for a very small percentage but your light excels tumors. They could potentially cause gynecomastia. Now when we think about this in the scenarios of a choreocarsinoma what would be the primary hormone that would be released? Well think about it. Beta HCG. Beta HCG. Alright so there's going to be a lot of beta HCG. This is interesting because guess what it does? It goes to the light excels which we represent that over there is pink. So let's draw some light excels. So these can actually kind of act like LH. And so they're going to go to the light excels. They're going to act like LH. When they do that these are going to stimulate the light excels to produce what? So these light excels are going to then be stimulated by the beta HCG and that's going to tell these light excels to start pumping out testosterone. Now that's interesting because if you have a tumor like a light excels tumor. Let's say that this tumor is a light excels tumor. What would be the hormone that it would actually just pump out? Testosterone. So we're kind of like right passing. We're kind of like bypassing that if you have a light excels tumor. Now the concept here is kind of cool that whenever this is a person that's developing that testosterone could be utilized and it could cause them to grow a little bit quicker than they should during pu-  before puberty. So if testosterone's elevated and you're kind of a more amount of adult individual, it can be utilized in some ways, but oftentimes, if it's a quick bump, it gets aromatized and gets converted into estrogen. So you see these enzymes that look like toenail clippings? This is called aromatase. This is an enzyme called aromatase. And aromatase, I mean kind of what its name is going to do, it's going to convert testosterone from these pathways into estrogen. Now if you got too much of that estrogen pumping around as a male, unfortunately, what that's going to do is, this is going to cause the moobs. It's going to cause gynecomastia. So here, this estrogen is going to increase the enlargement of the breast tissue. And if you do that, you're going to end up with gynecomastia. So that's one thing to think about. So our film guy here, Rob, looks a little bit like him. But we like to joke, but in all seriousness, when we think about patients who have choriocarcinomas or light exceltumers, it can potentially cause gynecomastia. Usually they're in adult patients. Precocious puberty is you're kind of looking at the same pathway. And funny enough, if we think about this patient, again, you could have a tumor and it can still be the same thing. It could be a light exceltumor. So it's the same concept. It literally is. It's just now you can actually utilize that testosterone in this prepubescent male. So light exceltumor and a choriocarcinoma, these are going to pump out your beta-HCG. So that's going to be pumping out that beta-HCG. This is going to be pumping out testosterone. What we know is, is that beta-HCG acts on over those cells that we represented in pink over here, over these cells. These were your light excels. And what do the light excels actually produce when primed by beta-HCG? They produce testosterone. What do light egg cells produce whenever they're really unfortunately proliferating and there's a lot of them that are malignant? Testosterone. If you get a lot of testosterone in a prepubescent male, it's a young child, usually less than like nine. I'd say usually less than nine years of age. If all of a sudden, they're not, they shouldn't be hitting puberty at like the age of five. But if all of a sudden, you notice that this testosterone, what it does is, is it usually can hit areas like the larynx and can increase the prominence there and deepen the voice. Now you got this five-year-old walking around like, what's up dude? You know, that's, that's definitely concerning. So deep voice change would be concerning in a five-year-old. All right. The other thing is that it's also going to change some of the growth of hair. So all of a sudden, this kid is walking around with more axillary hair and more pubic hair. That would be abnormal. All right. So an increase in axillary hair and an increase in pubic hair. So let's put pubic axillary slash pubic hair. All right. So if they have an increase in the axillary slash pubic hair, that would definitely be a potential thing. And the last thing, I'm not even trying to be funny, but if they walk around and they got a, you know, a decent size, you know, schmeat, that would be definitely concerning, especially in like a five-year-old if they had an enlarged penis. All right. So enlarged penis would also be kind of concerning too. All right. So now we have this patient who's coming in. They're very young and they got a deep voice. They get enlarged penis. They got axillary pubic growth. They're, they're height. They just all of a sudden, they catapulted to be the height of LeBron James all of a sudden. This is definitely concerning. And you start thinking about precocious puberty. Usually whenever you have a precocious puberty like patient, you'll order a lot of hormones. You'll check their LH. You'll check their FSH. Guess what else you might be looking for? Do they have any testicular tumors, especially something like a choreocarcinoma or a lidaxel tumor? All right. Now, these are possible. All right. This is oftentimes the most common presentation. But while we're on the topic of possible, there is something else that can occur, but I'd say it's probably extremely rare. It's just mentioned in a textbook, so I want to make sure that I talk about it. That if you have a testicular tumor, and again, you're going to be like, oh my gosh, does this tumor ever let up? No, it's a really nasty one. It's an aggressive one, choreocarcinoma. So if you have a choreocarcinoma, we obviously know that the beta HCG levels can be problematic. It can be a tumor marker, but it can also cause precocious puberty or it can cause gynecomastia in adults. But the other thing that's also interesting about this choreocarcinoma is again, beta HCG has similar subunits. And so the best way of saying is it kind of has similar subunits, especially when it's in high levels. Okay. So let's say here, I'm going to represent it with you got like super, super high levels. What can happen is, is this can act like TSH. So when it's a super high levels, it can act like TSH. Well, then you get to say, what the heck does TSH do? Well, TSH is thyroid stimulating hormone. If it has the ability to, it'll bind on to the TSH receptors on the thyroid gland. What's the thyroid gland going to start pumping out? It's going to pump out thyroid hormone. And so now you're going to have bumped up levels of T3 and T4. Now this patient is going to have hyperthyroidism. Again, it's not super common, but it is something to think about if you have a patient who has a high T3, high T4. And what happens when your T3 and T4 levels are really high? What should it do to your actual hypothalamus and anterior pituitary? It should shut this puppy down. And it should lead to low levels or suppression and TRH and a suppression. So it's going to lead to less levels of TRH. And it should also shut down TSH. And so if a patient has low TSH, high T3, T4, all right, what could this be due to? And this is something I would potentially think about is, does the patient have a Tsticular Mass? That's definitely a possibility. So something to consider. The last thing that I want to talk about with Tsticular tumors is the probability of it spreading. Now Tsticular tumors actually have a really good prognosis. Even if it's Choreocarsinoma, they still can have a pretty decent prognosis. I'd say that's the worst of them all, though. But when we think about these, what can they do? Where do they spread? I mean, we know that certain cancers love particular organs, like breast cancer. You think about that when it loves the brain, it loves the lung, right? Most primary tumors love the liver, but it'll even consider going to the liver. So that's important to remember. So when we think about this, the common areas for it to spread is usually lymph nodes that are around the aorta. So for this, it actually would have to break through. So you know there's a layer here. I'll kind of represent it here in this blue color. It's called the tunica abugenia. And this tumor cells, if they break through the tunica abugenia, what happens is their first area that they kind of prefer to go to is your para-aortic lymph nodes. And these are usually retro-paritoneal as the aorta is, but this is some common areas where these tumors, they really can go and reside. They can hang up around these. And so oftentimes, we may have to do some scans, like CT scans, to see if we see any of these areas where they're involved. All right? Now, the other thing about metastasis is that when these things do distantly spread, they hop into the vascular supply. So you have gonadal veins, in this case, testicular veins for the male. So if these tumors do happen to kind of start seeding and they get into the vascular system, they can go a lot of different places, right? Because now they got a transport system that they can just go and right on to the highway and they're going to go to organ to organ. When we think about this, here's the testicle. Here's the testicle. We have the testicular veins. If these puppies do get into the bloodstream, right? So here we have a tumor. Let's say here, let's actually use this one as an example. Here's the tumor and it starts to seed and it gets into the circulatory system and it gets into the inferior vena cava. From here, it could really, it could go to the liver, it could go to the lungs, it could even spread to the bone. So from here, we see the possibility of this thing really going to a lot of different organs. It's usually going to go here to the lungs. That's a, I'd say the most common one. It's also loves the brain, unfortunately, and I'll explain to you what I've seen with this. And another location I'd say it's the least common is going to be the bones. So once it gets into the vascular system, it can go and spread hematogenously. The area that it likes to go to is the lungs and usually I'm not even kidding when I make this term up. It can cause bilateral cannonball pulmonary metastasis. That's what we call them. I'm not even kidding them. We call them bilateral cannonball metastasis. So we got bilateral cannonball metastasis right here. The other thing that happens is when these tumors get into the brain, they're nasty, man. They can really break up the vascular tissue. And so they oftentimes can cause hemorrhage. So they can cause like a bleeding mass. So you can actually get a mass here that spreads to the brain, but these are nasty ones. They can actually cause a bleeding, a bleeding metastasis. And that's a nasty one. And then the other one is it can go to the actual bones too where it can lead to some unfortunate lytic lesions. And so these patients usually they present with things like bone pain. And if you just so happened to be a good clinician and you think about it, sometimes if it's presented on the exam, you see this elevated alkaline phosphatase that could be indicative of lots of bone turnover. So definitely something to consider. But you can see here the most common organs that it likes is going to be the lungs. I'd say the brain would be a really, really important one. Now, the last thing to consider is which one of these tumors usually spread locally and which ones usually spread distant. That's an important thing to talk about. With local spread, usually this is going to be your synonymous and your embryonal. These are the ones that are usually they don't go too far. They don't go too far. So embryonal carcinoma, this one does like to go after the periortic lymph nodes. And synonomous like to go after the periortic retroperitoneal lymph nodes. For this one, I bet you can guess which one likes to go everywhere. The choreo carcinoma. So for this one, it's usually the choreo carcinoma. All right. So this is the unfortunate one where it really, it likes to go all over the place. It can definitely get into the vascular system, get into the actual lungs, get into the brain and potentially the bones. So we have a patient who maybe has a history of cryptorchidism. They come into the physician's office and say, I have noticed this painless testicular mass. At this point, maybe you examine them. And maybe this patient does have a painless testicular mass and they're not really presenting with any of these like symptoms that we talked about. Well, that kind of rules out like the non-seminomas. Your next goal here is to say, okay, does the testicular mass need me to get an ultrasound? That's what I'm going to do. I'm going to get an ultrasound. And then from there, I'm going to be able to kind of figure out, is this a mass? But then how do you start really differentiating a non-seminoma from a semenoma? We'll talk about tumor markers and we'll talk about pathology results. So let's get into that now. All right, my friends, let's start talking about the diagnostic versus testicular cancer. So when we talk about testicular cancer, we talked a lot about the different types of testicular cancers, right? Really determining if it's like a germ cell or a non-germ cell tumor. We talked a lot about those, right? And we really defined semenoma, non-semenomatous. We went through some of like the non-germ cell tumors that kind of really talked a little bit more about like the sertoli, lidig kind of sergic cell tumors. So I think what I want to really kind of talk about next is when a patient comes in with usually like a painless testicular mass, which is kind of the classic finding here, you definitely want to have a concern of testicular cancer, right? That's pretty important to remember. Now, I think we talked a little bit about what testicular mass is, yes, you know, especially with these, can they have the opportunity to present with some odd symptoms? Yeah. Yeah, they definitely, depending upon if it's kind of hormone related, one especially associated with like the coreocarsinomas and more of like the lidig cell tumors, they can have hormonal effects that can cause either precocious puberty in a younger pre-pupil male or it could potentially cause, I'd say, more changes in, we would describe it as changes in their overall demasculinization or they would have things like gynecomastia and reduced libido and things like that that we would see more in the adults because of the aromatization of testosterone and estrogen and things like that. So I think those are definitely possibilities. Hyperthyroidism with the coreocarsinomas is also the other one to remember, but the metastasis is the really, really scary one with coreocarsinomas, but oftentimes they come in with like a painless testicular mass. When you have a testicular mass, it's always crucial to think about what could be the cause. It doesn't always have to be, you know, testicular cancer. And so I think a scrotal ultrasound is really good. Sometimes you can even do the transillumination test to see if it looks like a hydrosil hydrocells usually do transilluminate and they'll show up really, really bright as you put a flashlight to it. Whereas things like, you know, tumors, those are not going to be like transilluminatable. Usually things like varicoseal is also, so it's really important. I think it could be an initial test. They may prove that and they may actually present that in an exam when they say a patient comes in to stick to the mass, they do a transillumination test. It shows that there is no transillumination. All right. That could support is a stick of the mass. A scrotal ultrasound would be the best way to go because what it's going to do is it's going to help you to see that mass instead of seeing something like a varicoseal or seeing something like a spermatosil or seeing something like whatever it may be that even like it's unlikely because usually it's more painful, but epitomitis and things like testicular torsion, those are usually very, very painful. Whereas usually things like hydroseals and spermatosils and varicoseals and even testicular tumors are usually more painless. So if I were to see this ultrasound and I see definitely this kind of like hypoachoeic nature here, this is pretty consistent with the testicular tumor, especially like, you know, your synomnos. But one of the big things that we like to talk about, especially on the exam is tumor markers. They're not, I wouldn't say that they're diagnostic of a particular type of tumor, but they have some degree of suggestion of that being the possible cause, especially when they talk about these on the exams. Orchiectomy would be both therapeutic, but also would be diagnostic because we would take the actual testicle, send it off to pathology and see what it would come up as. And so, oh, this is a choreocarsinoma. Oh, this is a yolk sac tumor, et cetera. But I think tumor markers may provide some benefit, at least to start kind of like stratifying and thinking about the possibilities. For example, if I said that the beta ECG was like really, really high, I would say it's more likely a choreocarsinoma. If it's just mildly elevated in the AFP is kind of like normal. I would say it could be a synominal, but if it's super, super high, always think choreocarsinoma. If AFP is elevated, I would definitely think if it's really, really elevated, think a yolk sac tumor. If the AFP is like mildly elevated and maybe even a little bit of mild elevation in the beta ECG, it could be a mixed tumor, especially like an embryonal carcinoma. Those are very commonly mixed. They're very rare for them to be kind of like solo or primary. If I say an LDH is really high, that just means that there's a heavy degree of tumor burden, which we would see in things like choreocarsinomas. We would see that even in some degree of like yolk sac tumors and things like that, but I think it's really, really, really important to think about beta ECG associated with choreocarsinomas, a highly elevated AFP associated with yolk sac tumors. If you get kind of a combination of both, it could be some type of mixed tumor. All right. Now, from here, we have some suspicions, but the definitive diagnosis and therapeutic aspect of this is a radical and guinoarctomy. And essentially you are removing the testicle. And when you remove the testicle, you remove the source of cancer, especially if it hasn't metastasized, you can get complete curative source control. Now, it's important that the tumor markers are more as a guide. They are not designed to diagnose. They are to determine the assessing of the response to how the therapy works. So for example, patient came in, had a testicle of the mass, you get a score of ultrasound, shows it, you get these levels, and you find out that they have a yolk sac tumor and AFP level was super, super high. You cut that thing out. You measured it a couple of months or a year later and the AFP has significantly declined. Great. That means that you probably had a great response. If you check it and then you still have a persistent or even worse case scenario, elevated AFP, beta Hg, Ldh, that may pretend a poor sign and not a good response to the orcectomy. And you have to dive in a little bit deeper into this one. Now, from here, the orcectomy is great because it's therapeutic, but it also gives definitive diagnosis. We got tissue diagnosis now. It'll tell me if it's a semenoma, which is going to be the most common one, especially in males greater than 30. If they're less than 30, it could be a non semenoma, but it'll tell me, is it a choreocarsanoma? Because it has syncytiotrophoblastin, cytotrophoblastin tissue. Is it have tissues of that suggests more of like a yolk sac tumor? It's got those chiller duval bodies that they talk about. Right? Does it have potentially like hemorrhagic necrosis and cystic material that would suggest an embryonic carcinoma? Does it have like teeth and hair and bones and muscle and nerve tissue? Oh, that could be a teratoma. Right? And then it also tells us if it's more of like the non semenoma tumors, like the sertoli or lidaxel tumors. So it's really, really important, I think, to consider those things. Now, when we talk about metastasis, these are very common to regionally metastasis. They can metastasis a little bit distantly, but I'd say it's more common for them to locally or regionally metastasis. A CT chest out pelvis would be good because it'll help up any distant metastasis, but that abdomen pelvis area is going to be really good to see if it's kind of spread. Particularly, did it spread more to the peritoneum, did it spread to nearby lymph nodes? Those are really, really helpful. So for example, retroperitone lymph nodes are usually the area that these like to spread right to. You want to see if those got involved. All right. So here, I kind of give you an example here. You can see that this patient has a large cysticular tumor, right? Pretty large cysticular tumor here in that right side. And then also, if we kind of look up here, here's going to be the vessels. You can appreciate here on the side of these vessels, there's some lymph nodes that are absolutely gargantuan. They have some pretty significant retroperitoneal lymphenopathy around the aorta. All right. And then also, if you kind of span, you can see here that they have a significant amount of fluid. So they have kind of like a hydrosil if you will. That's kind of running up through that anguinal canal. All right. So this is kind of just giving me an idea that you can see, here's the tumor, but you can see where it's spread. And that's going to help to unfortunately tell me, oh, that this is actually metastasized. And that's really, really helpful because it determines how I'm going to treat these patients. Distant metastasis is less common with cysticular cancer, but it can spread. It can go to places, I'd say, you know, the liver is one to think about, the lungs is another one to think about. So if I had a chest CT and I say, oh, here, oh my gosh, I got all these like lung Mets, that's definitely something to consider. And one of the worst ones, especially when you see like cannonball lesions or bilateral, like big, big cannonball lesions, they really make me think about choreocarsanoma. So remember that bilateral cannonball lesions associated with the choreocarsanoma. Again, here we have some brain Mets. Choreocarsanoma loves to spread to the brain. It can actually cause a lot of bleeding in the brain as well too. So that's another one I would definitely consider if it was like having these images. If I say lung brain, ooh, could it be a choreocarsanoma? And again, the radical and guineal orchiectomy would have told me that. All right. So at this point I've diagnosed, I've determined that the patient has testicular cancer based off of what? Really it's the orchiectomy. The tests up to that helped me to really kind of sift through the other likely causes and unlikely causes. So getting the scrotal ultrasound associated with the tumor markers, digging into their history helped me to think about what it could be. But the true answer was the radical and guineal orchiectomy. And the pan scan really helped me to determine, has it spread anywhere else? What's the most loved area as the retroperitone olimpinose for kind of like the seminomas and non-seminomas? Which is the one that can really, really distantly metastasize your choreocarsanoma. That's the scary one. All right. Use the tumor markers more as a way of assessing response rather than truly diagnosing a disease. All right. Let's dig into the treatment of testicular cancer. So we've diagnosed testicular cancer. I think one of the big things I think about is what do we do to treat this? It's really just removing the source. I think it does, you know, when you think about a testicular mass doing a orchiectomy would be the best way to go about this. So the radical and guineal orchiectomy would be the best way for regardless of any kind of testicular tumor, whether it's a seminoma or whether it's the non-seminomas. Right? And so when we talk about, you know, these types of tumors, there's germ cell tumors and there's non-germ cell tumors. So your germ cell tumors are going to be your seminomas and also consists of like the particular ones like your choreocarsanoma, your yolk sac tumors, your embryonic carcinomas, your teratomas. And then you have your non-germ cell tumors and that's going to be the ones that are less common, your sertoli, your light exceltumers and things like that. But either way, all of these, you could do a radical and guineal orchiectomy. You're theoretically, you're removing the source of cancer. And so you'll make an incision and you'll cut out things like this chromatic cord in the testicle and you'll remove that and kind of suture that area off. It's getting rid of any way for this thing to possibly be there and also spread. Now, the thing that you have to think about is afterwards. So depending upon the degree of spread, how much it has kind of gotten invasive, the overall size of it, you may have to do radiation therapy. Now, one of the big things that they're going to talk about on the exam is that the semenomas are radio sensitive. So they respond well to radiation therapy. So this could be done for a semenoma after you've done the orchiectomy. All right. For patients who have like the need for, because they have retroperitoneal lymph nodes that are oftentimes a very strong affinity for testicle tumors to spread there. This could be something that could be utilized. So you're basically dissecting out those retroperitoneal lymph nodes. This is usually done for non semenomas because they do like to spread to those areas. Your coreocarsinoma likes to do that. Your embryonic carcinomas like to spread to those retroperitoneal lymph nodes as well. So that'd be something that we would do after an orchiectomy or even after they've gotten chemotherapy. And theoretically, you can have different approaches where you only remove these retroperitoneal lymph nodes and this surgical approach, or you remove these retroperitoneal lymph nodes and this surgical approach. All right. But these are definitely options. So what I would say is a radical and we know or get them is going to be good for testicular tumors, regardless of the underlying type, you know, germ cell, non germ cell from their radiation therapy is really great adjuvant Lee after orchiectomy for your semenomas retroperitoneal lymph node dissections are really good for your non semenomas tumors. So that's going to be the yolk sac tumor, the coreocarsinomas, the embryonic carcinomas, all of those are going to be better afterwards. All right. Now chemotherapy is a very common one that can be given to patients, especially if they have semenomas or non semenomas, and it's usually done after the orchiectomy as well. So what I want you to think about is let's say that we have a patient who has to stick to the cancer, maybe you could be confused about this. When you have to stick to the cancer, the radical and we know orchiectomy is going to be the primary treatment. It's the first line from there. If you have a patient who has a semenoma, what is going to be the best way? Well, it depends. Do they have the stage one where it's really just confined to the testes? It hasn't spread. If that's the case, you don't really have to do anything. You can just stick with a radical and we know orchiectomy and that's it. Monitor their levels, their LDH, their AFP, their beta HCG, see how they do in response to that. If there are anything beyond that where it started to invade past the tunica albigenia, it's kind of gone into the nearby lymph nodes. It's actually spread to other distant organs. At that point, that's when I think radiation therapy and you can consider chemotherapy as well, is going to be the go to radiation therapy is going to be the go to though, for semenomas. So remember that. Now the chemotherapy to Gagens, I don't think that you need to go crazy memorizing this, but the BEP regimen is going to be one of them. So bleomycin, topocytosis, platen, or you can just do a topocytosis, platen, but I would really want you to focus more on the radiation therapy is the secondary therapy that can be utilized in semenomas for non semenomas. Again, you're going to be doing the radical and we know orchiectomy. If it's stage one, it's confined to the testes. What could you do? You could just actively survey. All right, that's it. However, a lot of the times non semenomas can be a little bit more aggressive, especially if it's choreocarsinoma embryonic carcinomas. So oftentimes you may have to go to the next thing. So if it's stage two where it's a little bit beyond the testes, it's actually getting towards retroperitone lymph nodes. It's getting beyond that to distant. That's when I would say that the retroperitone lymph node dissection is going to be the best way to go because you're going to remove those sources of where the tumors like to go to. And then you can again, follow that up with chemotherapy or you can add it on. All right. My friends, that's a stick of the cancer. I know that sometimes when you think about these topics, they can kind of seem stressful. They can seem like there's a lot of information I have to know, but I really hope that after taking all of this in, you feel a little bit more comfortable. You feel like you're able to kind of take a patient who comes in with a painless and desiccular mask and kind of know what's the first thing that I should do. I can do translimation. I can do ultrasound from there. I see the mask. What do I do next? Okay. Get the tumor markers. Helps me to think about what it could be, but the best test is a radical and guineal orcheectomy. So reach out to a surgeon to do that. From there, I've got a tissue diagnosis. I've determined what kind it is. Follow up with pain imaging. I think that they could have metastasis, especially to the retroperitone lymph nodes. Best thing to do, cut the tumor out from there. Radio therapy is going to be the radiation therapy for the synomomas. And again, retroperitone lymph nodes or the sections are going to be for the non-synomous. We think about the stickular cancer. Again, the most majority of them are going to be synomomas and males greater than 30 years of age. What's the primary risk factor? Crypto-organism. I really hope that you guys feel like you got something that out of this lecture. I really hope that you learned it. I really thank you guys for always sticking around and just being the best possible fans out there and just thank you guys so much. Love you. Thank you. And as always, until next time.

=== FILE: Testicular Cancer ｜ Podcast [cp3fBz7PY78].txt ===

 packageddashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdash Chris Tucker. But hey, serious note, we're talking about testicular cancer, one of the most common malignancies for men. Yeah. And something that should definitely be talked about and will be talked about. Yeah, let's get right into it. Let's talk two cases, right? Yeah, it should be two. Two cases. Let's do it. Let's do it. All right, case one. We have a 32 year old man. No past medical history notices a firm, painless lump on his right testicle while he was showering. There's no trauma, no gynecomastia, no systemic symptoms at all. So Zach, what do you think with this? I mean, of course, it's it's obvious what you think, right? Yeah, it's a stupid question. But it's like still a reason through it. Yeah, reason through it. Obviously, you hear someone with a painless lump on their testicle. Yeah, it's pretty alarming. But yeah, I know it's not only just testicular cancer, there's other things. But of course, that's where our minds go. I mean, you're kind of like off to like a good start in the sense that if we have a painless testicular mass, you obviously have a lot of things in your differential. You know, usually things like hydro seals, a common one, varica seals and other ones, permatosil, you can get those. Usually things like epididomitis or testicular torsion, those are usually more painful. So that's going to be pretty easy to say that's unlikely. But I still think like at this point, you can definitely consider malignant. That's why always whenever you have that get a scrotal ultrasound. And that's going to give a lot of information at least to say, okay, this definitely looks like it's more hydro seals, more spermatosil, more varica seal. Hey, this is like a more of a hypoechoic mass. It's it looks like it's a little bit more solid. And that could be suggestive of cancer. So I would definitely say get a scrotal ultrasound. So tumor markers would be another one that I would order. The only reason I would even consider that is based upon the scrotal ultrasound itself. So if I got the scrotal ultrasound, it didn't show like a hydrosil look, it didn't show like a varica seal, it didn't show like a spermatosil, it showed something that was suspicious for a malignancy. That's when I would get tumor markers. And the reason why is it can help a little bit. And it's mainly adding utility to especially in your clinical vignettes, to talk about the possibility of which type of tumor it is, is it a germ cell, a non germ cell, if it is a non germ cell, which one it is, is it, if it's a germ cell tumor, is it a semenoma, a non semenoma. So those are things that I would order. And so those tumor markers are usually going to be primarily like beta HCG, AFP, I wouldn't say we often order, it's called placental alkaline phosphatase or plop. You can do that, they bring it up on the exams, but we don't really routinely order that one. The one that we do, I would say in place of that is LDH, but LDH doesn't point to a specific type. It's mainly beta HCG and AFP, LDH those are the three, but beta HCG and AFP will be the most helpful for your exams. Well, let me start you off with the ultrasound. Okay, show you what we got. So for our patient, we perform an ultrasound, and we determine a homogeneous hypoacholic 2.8 centimeter intratesticular lesion, no cysts or calcifications. So what does that tell you? I mean, definitely tells me about potentially like cancer. I mean, there's different types. And so here's the other thing this patient is 32. 32. Okay, so usually anything greater than equal to 30 makes me think semenoma. Semenoma is the most common testicular tumor. When it comes to it, especially over the age or equal to the age of 30. And so that's what I'm thinking right off the get go given their age given the overall look. But I think the tumor markers may add a little bit more to help me out. Okay, we have an AFP beta HCG and LDH. Okay, and I'm also going to go ahead and just state the norms for people who are watching. So for the AFP, we get that result back and it was four, normals less than 10. Alright, beta HCG is 12. Normals less than five, just a little bit a little bit high. And our LDH is 260 normal is 100 to 190. So what's that interpretation? What is that telling you? Alright, so LDH again, that's not every like specific as well. It just it kind of just tells me there's a little bit of turnover cell turnover. And so you can see that really in any in all of them, it could be sometimes normal and it doesn't really help. But beta HCG being minimally elevated and AFP being normal makes me think a little bit possibly likely a semenoma. Again, semenoma is one of the big things about them is that they have a very mildly elevated beta HCG. It's very minimal, usually a normal AFP. And that's what I'm thinking about at this point. So you've talked about a semenoma and that's fine. But when we when we're talking about semenoma versus a non semenoma, just so we kind of understand what are the other types, it's looking lay them out for us. Yeah, non semenoma is usually going to be an embryonic carcinoma. I'd say that's not like super common. But it's usually if you get like a orchiectomy and you look at it, under pathology, it's like a hemorrhagic kind of necrosis and a lot of apoptotic bodies that are present. Usually that one's possible. It may have a little bit of elevated beta HCG usually AFP is normal for that one as well. Unless it's mixed with another kind of tumor. But then there's teratomas teratomas are like Frankenstein tumors, they're like tumors that got a bunch of different tissues. And I'm not kidding, it can have bones, it can have teeth, it can have hair, it can have muscle, it can have cartilage. And so that's another one. Another one is called yolk sac tumor. So it's actually derived from like primitive yolk sac tissue, which is in the embryo. And that one usually has a very elevated AFP level. So that would make me think about a yolk sac tumor file like a super high AFP level. Choreococinoma looks like placental tissue, I'm not even kidding. It looks like placental tissue. It's like syncytiotrophoblast and cytotrophoblast tissue that pump out lots of beta HCG. So beta HCG levels that are super, super high would make me think like choreococinoma. So that's what our non semenoma types. But for our patient, we are thinking most likely a classic semenoma. Yeah, I think it's definitely more likely semenoma. Now they have a elevated beta HCG. They're greatly equal to 30, which makes me think again, that's more common for semenomas. You could still say like, could it be an embryonal? It's possible, but embryonic carcinomas don't make up a large proportion of like testicular cancer. So I'd say yeah, I feel pretty good that it's probably going to be a semenoma. And if we're doing the radical orchiectomy, you have to do that in order to obviously get pathology. Yeah, it's kind of nice with this because I mean, it's not it's not great. But you know, removing a testicle is never fun. But at least in this, you get like almost like curative result, which is beautiful. But it also helps you to determine the type, which may guide a little bit more of your treatment. So when you do a radical and guenal orchiectomy, you're removing like, you know, the testicle, the epididymis, you're moving a lot of this chromatic cord stuff like that. So you're removing a lot of different like vital tissue here. But you're most importantly removing the tumor so that it actually can grow or spread. So that's definitely something I would do. And I would definitely probably even do that before doing like staging. I was gonna ask you so you you wouldn't do any CT yet? No, I don't think because no matter what, you're gonna have to do it. You're gonna have to remove the testicle no matter what. So doing a radical orchiectomy, whether it's metastatic or not, yeah, it's still gonna be an option. Gotcha. Okay. Well, hey, we do the the post orchiectomy pathology comes back as a pure semenoma, no vascular invasion. Oh, that's good. That's that's pretty good. Actually, that probably means that in this case, it's semenomas don't usually like metastasize. If they do, it's very local. So they usually go like nearby lymph nodes. So they may go like the retroperitoneal lymph nodes, if they if they do potentially invade there. But you know, only way that you can really see that is getting a CT scan. So I'd have to stage them a little bit. But usually the pathology, that's pretty good. It tells me that it's at least like for right now, it seems like it's local. But I'm going to go ahead and get a CT scan. I probably do like chest, just to make sure because choreocarsanomas, those usually go to the lungs. But there's a semenoma. So I probably wouldn't need it. But I would probably do it just in case abdomen, pelvis, that's the main one abdomen, pelvis, CT scan is going to be the big one. Because I want to see if it's spread to the to the nodes. So it'd be the big one I would do. All right. Well, we do a CT scan. It's clean. Nothing wrong. Good to go. So this is definitely one of those kinds of cases where if you got a semenoma like this, I'd say it's like, you know, you can do stages, but I like to just consider like low risk, high risk kind of patients. So I would consider this more of like a lower risk semenoma, or like a less advanced stage, like a lower stage like a semenoma. So radical and green orcectomy is probably good enough for this patient. And I can just like do some active surveillance by trending the tumor markers, and just making sure those are okay. I could even potentially do like a repeat CT scan if I need to to make sure that nothing else is kind of occurred. But that's probably the good way to go. You don't have to do much else. If it was like, I was a little bit more high grade dysplasia, if there was some lymph node involvement, then I may go to doing what's called radiation therapy, because these tumors, semenomas, that's a classic term for your your step one or your step two, they're radio sensitive. So the things that they respond very, very well to radiation therapy. So that's something I would consider, but I would only really be doing it if it was something that like, they had some node involvement, because we can maybe get some benefit with that radiation therapy. Well, what happens if he can't comply with intensive follow up? Then I would do the radiation therapy. Yeah, if you can, if you don't stick with that, I would suggest radiation therapy just to make sure. Yeah. All right. Well, that does it for case one, pretty straightforward, good prognosis. Yeah, yeah, this is overall I mean, testicular cancer does have a favorable prognosis. Overall, in general, it is a pretty good prognosis, especially semenomas. All right. Well, case two, we have a 25 year old man with a three week history of rapidly enlarging left testicle, mild shortness of breath and new bilateral breast tenderness. Well, what do you think in here? There's some there's some pretty big red flags. I think he's got testicular cancer. We know that there's something else something obviously is leading us in that direction. But the question is, is like, okay, how do we like think about this? Right? So gynecomastia seems to be the case bilateral gynecomastia, which that sucks. mild shortness of breath. Maybe some lung involvement. That would scare me if I hear that. That's concerning. Yeah, Disney and definitely could be concerning because like, you know, they're always like non specific symptoms like metastasis like cough, dyspnea, you know, maybe hemoptysis if you really want to be scary, but it's not usually super helpful. But rapidly enlarging left testicle with mild shortness of breath and new bilateral breast tenderness kind of makes me concerned for like choreocarsanoma. And the only reason why is that choreocarsanoma, it's very, very aggressive, it grows quickly and metastasizes quickly. And so you would see and it also happens non seminomas are common in males less than 30. Okay, so this probably is a non seminoma is my guess. And then it's aggressive. That makes me think choreocarsanoma the most common location for choreocarsanomas to go the lungs they usually get bilateral they call it cannonball metastasis. So I think they got gyno prior from a lot of beta Hg. I think they probably got some pulmonary metastasis causing the shortness of breath. But either way, I'm going to do the same thing. I'm just going to get an ultrasound, get some tumor markers. Theoretically, if this is a choreocarsanoma, it'll show like a mass that is concerning. But the beta Hg will be through the roof, theoretically. Okay, alright. Well, hey, we do that we get an ultrasound, we have some markers to follow. For the ultrasound, it reveals a heterogeneous mass with cystic and hemorrhagic areas. Okay. What does that say it usually that's not seminoma. So usually like seminomas, they don't usually have that kind of pattern. Non seminomas, they can look a lot of different ways like for example, embryonic carcinomas can have this kind of appearance. Yolk sac tumors don't usually have well actually, Yolk sac tumors can have a lot of like vascularity to them. So they're gonna have like chiller deval bodies and stuff like that. But choreocarsanomas have a good amount of like vascular tissue and placental tissue. So yeah, either way, I think this is non seminoma pattern, but I'm still going to wait for those markers. I got him. I got you. AFP is six. Normal range is less than 10. Beta Hg is 105,000. Geez, I don't mean to laugh. But like that's that's crazy high. So that kind of tells us a lot already. But normal range is less than five. Yeah, you overshot it there. Yeah. LDH is 680. And again, normal is 100 to 190. Yeah. And so that's that's a tumor burden, heavy, heavy cell turnover, the more cell turnover, the more the LDH, AFP screams more yolk sac tumor, beta Hg screams more choreocarsanoma. So I definitely think that's explaining everything. And you know, usually with gynecomastia, the reason why that actually develops in these males is because beta Hg, it kind of acts like luteinizing hormone. And luteinizing hormone stimulates light excels to make testosterone testosterone in a male whenever you have too much of it like abruptly, it gets aromatized aromatized by aromatase. And that makes estrogen and estrogen, unfortunately, in higher levels in males can cause some feminization, which is going to result in them getting some some moobs. So yeah, and then the I definitely think the shortness of breath is probably some some lung met. So we should definitely follow up with some, some some chest CTs if that comes up. But yeah, that's what I would think from this one. But either way, I gotta do the same thing that we did with the seminar. I was gonna say, no matter what, it's gonna be the same exact process. We did ultrasound, we got the tumor markers and guess what? Now we're gonna have to do the radical inguinal orcheectomy, right? And they get past them. Yep. Yep. Yeah, clip them. So for pathology, we have a pure choreo carcinoma, extensive syncytia trophoblast. But this is bring me back to embryo. Let's get away from embryo. No, I'm just thinking embryo. Yeah, it's placental tissue similar to splicental tissue. Definitely. Yep. That's crazy. So now we have the pathology, we perform the orcheectomy, we have to stage. So I would think actually first, you wanted to get a CT and say, has this metastasized, which Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's what I would do. I definitely would focus on the chest, but I would even go with the abdomen and the pelvis just to make sure it didn't go anywhere else. Yeah, because this this they can go other places. Usually it's not too common. They go to the liver, but they can. They definitely can go. I want to say another area is the bones, but the brain is a really big one too. Okay, so so far with that choreocarsanoma lungs and brain. Yeah, lungs and brain would be the big ones. You can get some bone involvement. But yeah, the first and you can obviously they spread the nodes. So any kind of retroperitoneal node involvement, you can probably pick up from the abdomen and pelvis, but the chest is going to be the big one. But yeah, choreo loves the brain, it loves the lungs. So those would be the areas that I'm really going to be kind of focusing in on. So for the CT, we have numerous bilateral pulmonary nodules, retroperitoneal nodes that are three centimeters, and the brain MRI is negative. They got that going for them. But either way, it's metastatic, unfortunately. So this is a pretty significant and then that's also what happens with choreocarsanomas. They're pretty aggressive. You know, like, when you think about the non semenomas, like embryonic carcinoma isn't great, but it's not as aggressive as this. Yoke sac tumors, they're not they're malignant, but they're not like super aggressive. And they don't usually metastasize like this. Teratomas unless it's in a adult, those can be a little bit more malignant. But if they're in children, they're actually pretty much benign. Wow. So but yeah, in this case, this is definitely, you know, metastatic either way, we got to we already did it, we did a radical and we know orkyectomy. These patients don't do well with radiation therapy. So chemotherapy, chemotherapy would be a good one. I'd probably do my best to see if that can shrink down some of these like areas and then especially some of the nodes and see if I can get those nodes a little bit smaller, the retroperitoneal nodes. And then from there, we may try some, you can do like lymph node, you can do retroperitoneal lymph node like dissections. Okay, so that's something I would consider if I really, really needed to is I would definitely get them systemic chemotherapy because that's going to be the only thing that's really going to help with the degree of metastasis. And that may help to shrink these nodes a little bit. But then afterwards, I would see if I got that node down a little bit more. And I would do a radical, what's called per retroperitoneal lymph node dissection, anything else for case two. The only other thing I would say is just make sure that you're monitoring, you know, your your tumor markers. Because if, for example, if, if I did this, let's say that it wasn't metastatic. Alright, so let's say that they didn't have any involvement of the lungs and any other kind of like nodes, in no situation where you just have like a choreocarsinoma just in the testicle, just that's it, you do the radical and glenal orcheectomy and you can go straight and remove the retroperitoneal lymph nodes if you want to to prevent it kind of from spreading. But again, I would I would just say in this particular situation, we are I'm pretty happy with what we did. We removed the source of the tumor, we're doing chemo for the degree of metastasis and considering, you know, this kind of like retroperitoneal lymph node dissection if the nodes get smaller. Alright, well, there was two cases for you, pretty straightforward. First case, favorable outcome, good prognosis. Second case, it's less than ideal, but you know, hey, we gave we have the run through we know what we have to do now. Yeah. And I think now we're just left with Zach, if we can do a quick recap, maybe a maybe a 60 second recap on what we've talked about, I'm gonna time them to I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm not gonna make it. I'm gonna definitely time you now. So yeah, 60 second recap. Let's see what you got here. I'd say the big thing is like synomas you want to remember with these that they're the most common tumor and males greater than or equal to 30. Non-synomas are more common in those less than 30. With synomas, radio sensitive is the big exam pearl. They probably have a little bit of an elevated beta HG, but their AFP is going to be normal. Non-synomas are going to be usually something where the two important ones is choreocarcinoma think elevated beta HG, spresa the lungs, spresa the brain, very aggressive. Yolksac tumors, usually those are going to be having a super elevated AFP. The thing is, is that regardless of the type of tumor, you're going to be doing a radical and green orchiectomy, you should do this for pathology results, removing the source and then then proceed to staging. Never biopsy because you can seed the tumor. From there, I would say my decision afterwards after the radical and green orchiectomy depends upon the degree of the disease. So if it's a semenoma, oftentimes, if it hasn't really gotten like that bad and gone to nodes or metastasize, I can probably just survey. If not, I can offer up radiation therapy for the non-semenomanous kind of tumors. Usually that's going to involve pretty much chemotherapy and we can consider removing some of those retroperitoneal lymph nodes. But overall, these can have a decent prognosis. I feel like especially with the younger age, I mean, with our first patient 32, I feel like even trying to survey that it's like, well, hey, you're 32, let's be a little bit more aggressive here. Maybe you might want to do the radiation therapy. Yeah, definitely always an option. And some people will actually go on and go that route just for the safety aspect of it. They are more reassurance, I guess. Yeah, I think that would probably be my thing is like, Hey, I want to be like really, really sure. And with everything comes risk, but sometimes reassurance is it says it all for you. Yeah, really does. Peace of mind. Yeah. Alright, well, that's all I had. Yeah, man. So I think overall, just always think, you know, what are the tumor markers tell me? You know, after that, consider or to me, stage them and then tailor the treatment depending upon that stage. I think that can give you everything you guys need to know. But man, I think this is a good one. I really hope that you guys like that. I hope you enjoyed it. I hope you learned a lot. And man, engineers, I just love you guys, you guys are awesome. So thank you, love you and as always, till next time.

=== FILE: Urinary Tract Malignancies ｜ Clinical Medicine [9U2sD00Oc1w].txt ===

 and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, website. If you guys are interested in some of those things, things like notes, illustrations, quiz questions, all really high yield geared for you to succeed at the best possible rate for your exams, go check it out. We'll have a link down our website. Go check that out. I think you guys will enjoy that. All right, without further ado, let's really dig into the pathophysiology. When we're talking about urinary tract malignancies, oftentimes the most common clinical presentation for these patients is hematuria. And we could think about that pretty simply that if there's a tumor, there's a little bit more vascular supply to that tumor. Maybe these tumors are a little bit friable, meaning it's easy for them to bleed. They bleed into the mucosa of that organ, and that's going to potentially lead to bleeding in the urine. And that's why we would oftentimes see that as the most common presentation. But in order to understand that, let's kind of just take a quick step back, talk about the patho and how these things actually develop. What are the risk factors that really put patients at a high risk of having these urinary tract malignancies? Because not every patient who comes to the office that has hematuria means that they have bladder cancer or renal cell carcinoma. So this is where digging in a little bit into the patho, talking about the risk factors, helps you to risk stratify, talk about, I think that they could potentially have a malignancy, but their symptoms and their history and physical exam suggests other things. So let's dig into that. So when we talk about renal cell carcinoma, this is going to be the more common of the two of the malignancies. Now, when it occurs, usually it's going to occur. So when you think about the kidney, we have the cortex, this outer portion here, and that's where a lot of like the portions of the nephron, like the glomerulus and the proximal tubule and the distal tubules live. Then there's the inner portions, which is like the inner medulla. That's where a lot of your loop of Henle and a lot of the medullary interstitium lives. Oftentimes when these tumors form, they usually form in the cortex. So they're usually going to be more cortical, but they can extend down into the medullary region. But oftentimes we're going to see these as a cortical mass. That's going to be the more common types of presentation. Now the size of them differs, obviously, and that's what determines the prognostic indications of what we're going to do. Are we going to remove the whole kidney? Are we only going to remove a piece of that kidney? And that depends upon the size of the mass. Usually we measure that in centimeters, but that's the first thing is that usually they're more commonly going to be cortical. Now, if you think about that, and you actually dissect into the cortex, what did I tell you was the primary component of the cortex? Well, it was the glomerulus, which is going to be containing a lot of the vasculature, these capillaries. And then you're also going to have the Bowman's capsule. And then what's this portion? The proximal tubular cells. So the proximal combolid tubular cells are oftentimes the most common location. So these are the cells that are usually going to transform. So let's say that here they're green, which is this is normal. They're going to become malignant. And so we'll represent that by kind of giving them an abnormal kind of shape, if you will, and a different color. So this is going to be the most common location. It's usually cortical. And the cells that are affected is you're going to have your proximal tubular cells. These are going to be the most commonly affected. So when I talk about location of where it's going to occur, this is going to be the first thing. Location is going to be cortical. Second is when we dive in a little bit deeper into the actual histology. And I say what type of cells in that cortex is most involved. So most affected cells, you're going to tell me that's the proximal tubular cells. These are the ones that malignally transform from this to this. Now then the question is, is what in the heck actually happens? That's really the mechanism. How do they go from this to this? So there is a gene that's interesting, and it's inside here in the nucleus obviously, that's why we have these here. So you're going to have this one gene. Let's say that this is called the von Hippel Lindau gene. So this is called the von Hippel Lindau gene. And it's located on chromosome number three. So we're going to actually, let's represent this with maybe, let's do like a little bit of a red kind of portion of the DNA. And this is just indicating that is the gene. So this gene is really cool because it's supposed to help to regulate blood flow, right? Whenever patients have a mutation in this gene. So let's say that they develop a mutation. So in other words, this gene we're going to, unfortunately, we're going to have this thing get knocked out. What it normally does before I show this process, what it normally does is, is it helps with the activity of another molecule called hypoxia inducible factor, which we're going to represent as HIF, right? Hypoxia inducible factor. So it helps to control that level of hypoxia inducible factor. Hypoxia inducible factor then helps with the production and the release of a growth factor called VEGF, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor. So von Heppel-Lindau gene controls HIF, HIF controls VEGF and VEGF controls what? The blood flow to the surrounding cells. So not only can this gene increase the risk of us causing proliferation and mutation, but also it changes the blood flow. And so what VEGF does is it actually gets over here and hits onto some receptors. We'll represent these as like these blue color here. And so what VEGF is going to do is VEGF is going to bind onto these receptors. And what it's going to do is after it binds onto these receptors here, it's actually represented like this, it is going to increase angiogenesis. What the heck does that mean? All that means is that these endothelial cells are going to grow off like little stalks. They're going to grow off like little branches where blood vessels start to form around that area. And this is called angiogenesis. This is called angiogenesis. This is one big problem because if we start having all these branches that form, you increase blood flow to these cells. The other thing that happens is when you cause this von Heppel-Lindau gene to just go wonky, it also affects hypoxia-inducible factor, which also controls cell proliferation. There's other pathways that it leads to. And so this also can affect your cell proliferation. Alright, we'll say cell growth. Now here's the problem. This is supposed to regulate this. Keep it under control. But if, let's say, you develop a loss of the von Heppel-Lindau gene, it no longer regulates hypoxia-inducible factor. What happens to hypoxia-inducible factor? It goes up. What happens to the cell growth? It goes up. What happens to the VEGF? It goes up. What happens to the angiogenesis? We already wrote that. That goes up. The problem here is that if you increase cell growth, this is what's going to lead to your mass, your renal mass. And this is what it's going to lead to, increased blood supply to that mass. So right here, this is going to lead to a renal mass, an abnormal growth of tissue. And this is going to increase the blood supply to the mass. And this is going to allow for that to increase in its size and grow bigger and get more scary. So when we talk about renal cell carcinoma, usually what happens is it's more often a cortical mass. When you zoom in on the histology, it often involves proximal tubular cells. These proximal tubular cells become a renal mass and have increased blood supply by doing what? Losing control of the von Hippolindau gene. They lose the control of HIVF, which leads to upregulated VEGF release that increases blood supply. Also, you're going to see an increase in uptake and cell growth. Now, the HIVF may do this via other pathways. It's not just going to be the blood supply. And there's a lot of other things that happen, but basically this is the big thing I want you to take away. And the reason why is later I'll talk about drugs. We get into what's called metastatic renal cell carcinoma. And metastatic renal cell carcinoma, what we actually like to target is we can target these VEGF receptors. And we can target other pathways that alter hypoxia-inducible factor. And so that's why it's really important. So I just want you guys to know that this is kind of the basic mechanism here. Bladder cancer, on the other hand, is going to be a little bit different. And it's not as complex. There's not a lot of like this genetics aspects to it. When we talk about bladder cancer, it's a tumor that occurs in the bladder, right? Now, location-wise, I wouldn't say it's like super, super important, but I'd say that there's going to be two common locations. One is where you can have the posterior lateral portion. So over here is where I would say you're going to have potentially a tumor form. So here's going to be like in your posterior lateral walls. That's by far going to be a pretty common location. A second location is usually near the trigone. And that is another one that I would actually consider as being another possible location. So when we talk location-wise of tumors, let's say location, the most common is usually going to be in the lateral walls. So we'll put lateral walls and usually a little bit more posterior or the trigone. All right. And so that's something I definitely want you guys to consider as potential possibilities of tumor location. I'd say location isn't as key because either way, these can occur in other places that we don't actually expect. But what I do think is important is understanding what these tumor cells actually consist of because that's going to come into play for your exams is determining if it's a uroothelial or transitional cell carcinoma or a squamous cell carcinoma. Now, normally when we look at the epithelium, if we were to examine the bladder mucosa and look at the cells, it's usually transitional epithelial tissue. All right. It's transitional epithelium. Now, if for some reason you have insults, right? Just like when we talk about renal cell carcinoma, we got to get to the bottom of what causes this gene mutation. Same thing here. What causes the transitional epithelium for some reason to develop a mutation and to convert into these malignant types of cells? Well, one is it can malignally transform and stay the same type of tissue, but it's just going to be malignant now. So this is normal and we'll represent this one as being an abnormal. How can we do that? Let's just throw a little bit of black lines in here. This is just an abnormal transitional epithelial tissue. Now, this one, we would call this transitional cell carcinoma. Another term is called, and actually we should do this in red. This is called uroothelial. Uroothelial carcinoma. What that means is it retained the transitional epithelial tissue. It just became unfortunately malignant. This one, does it look the exact same? No. This one developed a little bit of a change in the tissue. And so this is it became squamous cell. And so you can see by the flat squished cells, this is called squamous cell. Squamous cell carcinoma. These are the two different types of bladder cancer. If I were to ask you which one is the most common, you would then say what? You would say it's going to be uroothelial carcinoma. So uroothelial carcinoma is by far going to be the more common one. So when we actually represent these are the two types, these are the two types, I want you to know that this is the more common one. So we can represent that. Maybe I'll kind of put here this is most common. So location, somewhat important that it can occur in the latter walls, the trigone, but more importantly is knowing what is the actual tissue makeup. And the reason why is there's different risk factors for those two things. Also, this is going to be the more common one that you'll see. You may see this in like sub-Saharan Africa, Egypt, Egypt areas. And the reason why is there are certain risk factors and we'll discuss that. What's really, really important because I think it also helps with understanding this disease is that whenever you have whether it's being transitional epithelium, staying transitional epithelium or transitional epithelium becoming squamous cell is how the tumor actually grows, the pattern of that tumor. So the reason I'm trying to tell you this is that we have different layers. So here in the oranges here mucosa, so we'll have the transitional epithelium, then in blue you have the lamina propria. Then after that you have the musculars propria, which we also call the detrusor muscle. And then in pink we have the adventitia or cirrhosa. These are the layers of the bladder If a tumor grows, let's say here's a tumor, it's a polypoid tumor and it's kind of budding off of the surface of the bladder, but it only goes through the mucosa and the lamina propria and does not invade the musculars propria. Again, let's actually write this one, this is called the muscularis propria. Another terminology for this is called the detrusor. So whenever this tumor grows, if it grows here and it doesn't invade into the muscularis propria or the detrusor muscle, this is given a specific type of name. This is called non-muscular invasive bladder cell carcinoma. It means that this tumor did not invade into the muscularis propria or the detrusor muscle. Now if I take this tumor, whether it's urethalia, whether it's squamous cell, and it's growing, it's a polypoid mass and it invades all the way down here now. And now this tumor is extended past the transitional epithelium, past the lamina propria and invaded into the muscularis propria, the detrusor muscle, what do we call that one? It's pretty straightforward. We call this the muscle invasive bladder cancer. The reason why I'm telling you this, and again how do we determine that? Well just look, what does it invade? What did it invade? It invaded the muscularis propria. So if you invade the muscularis propria and beyond, again another name for that is the detrusor, then again you've actually accomplished this goal of becoming an invasive bladder cell carcinoma. The reason why I tell you this is that when we think about patients who develop bladder cancer, we don't dig too much into the pathophysiology in the sense of how does this genetically occur. We dig into it more in the sense of okay location-wise, yeah we can find these, but if I were to biopsy that, so if I did a cystoscopy and I'm looking for it, where would I most commonly find it? You'll find in those locations. If I biopsy it, look at it under the microscope. What kind of cells would I find? Well you could see malignant transitional cells or you could see malignant squamous cells. We don't dig into the genetics and genes and anything that we talked about here, but once I take the biopsy and I get into a good deep biopsy, I want to know how far it invaded. The reason why is this determines everything and how we treat the patient. Very, very important. Just like in this scenario, I need to know if they have metastasis of their renal cell carcinoma, because if it does, it changes everything and how I treat them. All right, we got down here the two different types of big urinary tract malignancies. What we need to kind of dig into a little bit more is what's really leading to this von Hippolindau gene mutation. What's causing those transitional epithelial cells to become malignant? Well, perinosal carcinoma oftentimes more than not, it is sporadic. This is what you're going to see for most patients who are like 50 years of age or older. This is going to be more in your adults. You can have hereditary causes, except you're probably not going to see those too often. If you do, guess which population you're probably going to see that in. You're going to see these in younger patients. Sporadic, more likely to be an older patient and here more likely to be a younger patient. But now, without further ado, let's talk about what are those things that lead to the von Hippolindau gene problem. So, well, forgot my parentheses. This would be smoking is a really, really big risk factor for renal cell carcinoma. So, I really, really want you guys to know that. So, smoking is a really big one. Obesity, believe it or not, is another huge risk factor. And sometimes we can see chronic hypertension as this. Now, the concept here is that in some way, shape, or form, these are causing von Hippolindau gene mutations. That's leading to the uptick in hypoxia-inducible factor. That's leading to the uptick in this VEGF. There's also other pathways that are involved in cell growth, like the mTOR pathway. But there's a lot of these things that are leading to that problem. In hereditary cases, it has nothing to do with these. It's a gene that's then mutated. And guess what that is? We call this condition von Hippolindau disease. So, in the younger one, we call this von Hippolindau syndrome. Now, with von Hippolindau, or actually, we call this a disease, in true honesty, not a syndrome, we call it a von Hippolindau disease, you're going to see this as a gene loss. That gene is going to be turned off. And that's on chromosome number three. So, when that gene gets kind of turned off, that's when we see this potential problem. What would be something that would cue you off to think about that? Because if you looked in the history where you said a patient's coming in with hematuria and they are 50 years or greater and they're a heavy, heavy smoker overweight, that's probably going to lead to that one. If you have like an 18, 20-year-old kid who's coming in with hematuria and they have other symptoms that can make you think about von Hippolindau. So, these tumors, not only are these vascular tumors occur inside of the kidney, but they can occur in the cerebellum and they can also occur in the retina. And we call these hemangioblastomas. So, hemangioblastomas are these tumors, very, very highly vascular tumors that can occur in two locations. One is the retina. So, oftentimes, if a patient gets diagnosed with von Hippolindau disease, we have to be doing annual retinal kind of like fundoscopy to make sure that we're not missing any of these. And then sometimes we may even have to do brain immorized to make sure that we're not missing any hemangioblastomas in the cerebellum. So, somehow they mentioned this in the exam, very, very interesting and good to know. Another one is that they also happen to have tumors that occur in the adrenal medulla. What would that one be called? So, these are not vascular tumors. These are usually tumors that can occur in the adrenal medulla. And this is called a pheochromocytoma. So, a pheochromocytoma is a tumor that can occur inside of the adrenal medulla. So, a really, really important one to remember there. All right? So, pheochromocytomas could be incidental. Sometimes they can cause like periodic hypertension. They can cause palpitations. They can cause headaches. They can even cause hyperglycemia. So, it's really, really important if you see that in a young child who has like parapsysmal hypertension and they have diaphoresis and headaches and palpitations in combination with these things, you can definitely consider it. But the last one is the tumors here. They often have renal cell carcinomas, but it's not just one kidney. It's often both kidneys. So, having the presence of bilateral renal cell carcinoma also really helps to support von Hippolinda disease. So, if I see the presence of bilateral, we're going to abbreviate this, renal cell carcinoma. So, these are the things I really want you guys to think about when we talk about risk factors here. Oftentimes, more often, you're going to see the sporadic cases. But in the rare scenario of a younger individual with these types of presentations, you think about von Hippolinda disease. Now, bladder cancer is pretty straightforward and we again broke it down into uroothelial or squamous cell. This is helpful in determining how I am going to treat the patient. This is determining what is the more likely risk factor. Again, uroothelial is going to be much more common. And when we talk about uroothelial carcinoma, this is usually seen, I'd say more in the western countries. Obviously, the US is a big one. And this will be more associated with smoking. It's going to be the most common risk factor. So, that's why if a patient has a smoking history and hematuria, you definitely want to have a high degree of suspicion for urinary tract malignancy for both. Another one is carcinogens of sort. And they like to do this sometimes in the vignettes. Is there exposed to some type of environmental exposure or occupational exposure? Would even be a better way. So, aniline dies. And this is usually like in your rubber dies. Any kind of like factory die, we can see that as a potential carcinogen. And the last one is a drug that is often an immunosuppressant and can be utilized in a bunch of different diseases. But cyclophosphamide, you can use it in vasculitis. You can use it as an immunosuppressant for multiple different scenarios. So, cyclophosphamide is another one to definitely consider. All right. So, these right here will definitely lead to the transitional epidemial becoming mutated, transforming into this one or transforming into this one. That's where the issue usually exists. With squamous cell, on the other hand, this one's interesting. And again, it's not very common. But what we actually see with this one is it's more chronic irritation. So, what do I mean by that? So, there's two potential scenarios. With these, we want to think about chronic irritation. So, usually one of them is called schistosoma. So, schistosoma hematobium. Now, this one we see in Egypt. We see in sub-Saharan Africa. And it's basically a type of like worm. It's a parasitic worm. And what happens is it gets into the skin. So, usually it's going to be some type of exposure. And what happens is these, they're usually in like fresh water sources where they get exposed. And these get into the body. Once they penetrate through the skin, they get into the liver, they go to the lungs. And then eventually what they do is, is they migrate their way. So, after they've kind of gone, if I want to pick the particular organs in sequence, they usually will break through the skin, kind of make its way to the liver, make its way to the lungs. And then from here, it'll then go and bury itself into this nasty here. Look at this. It's going to bury itself into the walls of the bladder. And that chronic irritation is what brings about chronic inflammation. That chronic inflammation is going to lead to the increased risk of this turning into a squamous cell carcinoma. Alright? So, having that worm is definitely a possibility. The second one is going to be chronic catheterization. So, if a patient has a chronic catheter that is in place, that is another definite consideration that I would think about. So, if they have a catheter in place, they have a chronic like foley catheter that's up here, and it's constantly draining urine, that is something that it's constantly coming into contact with this area near the trigone. And this can cause chronic irritation as well. So, having a foley catheter, this can definitely lead to some chronic inflammation as well. And that brings about the opportunity for, you know, bringing out squamous cell carcinoma. So, this is the two things that I would want you guys to think about here. This one they like to present on the exam just because it's a ridiculous name and something that you're probably not going to see in often in life, but you'll see it on the exam. So, shishisoma definitely associated that with squamous cell, whereas smoking, dye exposure, uroothelial. All right. Usually this is chronic irritation, inflammation that's causing this. This is usually carcinogens of sort that are causing this. All right. That really, I think, gives us a good breakdown to start with on the pathophysiology. Now, what we got to do is we actually got to dig in and say, okay, patient who has hematuria, that's the classic presentation. How do I know that it's actually a malignancy off the get go? What are some things that make me think about it? And then after that, what are some potential complications that can be associated with these conditions? All right. So, the next thing I want to talk about is the presentation. Oftentimes, hematuria is going to be the most common presentation for these kinds of conditions. They may present with other associated symptoms. For example, when you think about hematuria, they both can present with gross or microscopic. I'd say, oftentimes, if we had to look at the presentation of these, this could be gross or microscopic. This is usually gross hematuria. So, there's one way that you can kind of compare and contrast here. So, if I were to compare and contrast for renal cell carcinoma, right, and I were to compare and contrast here for bladder cancer, the first thing I would say is that this could be gross or it could be microscopic, meaning you don't see it. All right. You don't see that they have that type of hematuria. It just comes up present on a urinalysis. This one is oftentimes more gross hematuria. And to go along with this, this usually has a little bit of clotted blood in it sometimes, too. So, think about that. If you ever see that presented in the exam, where there's even blood clots that you see in the actual collection, like the urinalysis sample, definitely should be thinking potentially bladder cancer. Another one that I would want you guys to think about is that this usually has associated symptoms. This one is usually just that primary presentation is gross hematuria. This could present with a triad. So, there's a triad presentation and I'd say and true clinical reality, probably like 10 to 15 percent of the time. But for your exam, definitely think about it. Where if you have a patient who presents with flank pain, a palpable mass, and hematuria, these three clinical pictures should make you consider the possibility of renal cell carcinoma, even though it's not super common. All right, definitely something to think about. And here, just to make sure that we can see this distinct separation here, again, flank pain, palpable mass, and hematuria. This one is there's usually no associated symptoms. So, there's usually no associated symptoms. Now, the next component here is that whenever we do a urinalysis, that can also be helpful within the kind of sussing out renal cell carcinoma from bladder cancer, for the most part. But you're going to notice that they have similar pictures here. So, for example, if I took the urinalysis of a renal cell carcinoma and I took the urinalysis of bladder cancer, it's going to have some similarities in it almost. So, for example, the urinalysis, that would potentially show that there's going to be no red blood cell cast and there's going to be no protein urea. Especially if I did microscopy, I could even say that there would be like not a lot of like cast as well. So, depending upon the extent of how I order the urinalysis, I would say no red blood cell cast, there'd be no protein urea, maybe no even like white blood cells. If I did the bladder cancer, it'd be the same kind of like picture here where they would have a urinalysis with microscopy, and I would say there's no red blood cell cast, there's no protein urea. And if I added on like let's say that I was looking for leukocyte esterase and looking for nitrites and things like that, I wouldn't even see those. And that's the whole point of this is a very specific reason. You're trying to rule out other types of pathologies. So, for example, if I had a patient who came and they had no red blood cell cast, no protein urea, what that does is it helps me to rule out a glomerular disease. If I added on there other factors too, so it's not just this, but I even said oh there's like there's no presence of things like leukocyte esterase, there's no nitrites. That would help me to rule out etiologies like a UTI. So, if I have no leukocyte esterase, we're going to abbreviate that LE and no nitrites or pyuria. That's another one, no white blood cells that are in the urine. So, leukocyte esterase, no nitrites. And I could even add in white blood cells. It's telling me that it's less likely a glomerular pathology. It's less likely a urinary tract infection of sorts. And it tells me that there's probably a renal or ureter or bladder source of this bleeding. And that's when I have to start kind of sourcing in the possibility of images. All right, so same thing here, no white blood cells is something I would also consider. All right, so if I added that into the case here, I could even say no pyuria. So, no pyuria. And again, no pyuria here. These are things that really helps me in thinking about the potential cause. So, if I have a  if you have a patient come with no glomerular, no urinary tract type of source, they have a flank pain, they have a papillomastohemiteria, it's microscopic or gross, I could definitely think about renal cell carcinoma. And I'm going to probably just go to get an abdominal CT scan of the abdomen pelvis with IV contrast. Whereas if I have a patient with gross hematuria with some blood clots in it, they have no other associated symptoms, it rules out glomerular, it rules out any kind of UTI, then I may have to do a CT urogram with a cystoscopy to see, hey, is there potentially a renal source, a ureter or a bladder source. And so again, that would make me think about bladder cancer. All right, so at this point we've now talked about the most common clinical presentation. Before we move into talking about the diagnostics, we need to talk about the worst case scenario. What are some other potential complications that we can see in things like renal cell carcinoma or bladder cancer? All right, so you've got a goober in your kidney, right? You've got a big old tumor. What are the potential complications besides peeing blood? I mean, there's a lot of different things that can go wrong with this one. For the exam, they love to test the perineoplastic syndrome. So imagine you've got a patient who's peeing blood, they've got phylloic pain, they've got a palpable mass, and they start presenting with some other wonky things that just kind of seem like out of place. For example, when you've got a renal cell carcinoma, this thing can pump out a hormone called erythropoietin. So erythropoietin is a hormone made by the kidney, usually in low available oxygen states or in tumor states. And what happens is that goes to the red bone marrow. Here in the red bone marrow, we're supposed to make blood cells. Epo is erythropoietin, so it's important for making erythrocytes, red blood cells. Guess what you're going to get? You're going to get an increase in the red cells. So if you get an increase in your red blood cells, what does that call? That's called polycytemia. And so that's what we can start seeing is we can start seeing an increase in the red blood cells. Red blood cells carry hemoglobin, and so what we'll see is we'll see a bump in the patient's hemoglobin and hematocrit. It'll be pretty elevated. And that brings about the concern for a condition called polycytemia. So there's one, and this is usually a secondary polycytemia. So it's not polycytemia there. Another hormone that's actually made, and it's actually kind of an enzyme, is called renin. So renin is an enzyme made by the kidney, and what it does is it helps to convert an inactive molecule called angiotensinogen. And so angiotensinogen is made by the liver. So it's made by the liver here. So if we wanted to, we could actually represent that the liver is going to make this molecule called angiotensinogen. And angiotensinogen, when coming into contact with renin, it will convert angiotensinogen into angiotensin one. And then angiotensin one will go to the lungs, and in the lungs there's an enzyme called ACE. And ACE will help to convert angiotensin one into angiotensin two. And angiotensin two works on your blood vessels to constrict them, increases aldosterone production, which helps to hold onto sodium and water, and so you hold more blood volume, higher blood pressure, and activates ADH to help to increase watery absorption, more blood volume, more blood pressure. So what happens to the BP? The BP starts to go up. And so what we see is, we see this pathway of increased angiotensin one, and this is going to be driven into angiotensin two by an enzyme called ACE, and then increased angiotensin two and increased blood pressure. So what you'll see is you'll see a patient with refractory hypertension, right? So that's something that we get kind of a little bit concerned about is something called refractory. Refractory hypertension. So a little bit of a higher blood pressure that maybe requires multiple medications, maybe three or more, or a high blood pressure in a younger individual that's come about all of a sudden. These are things to think about. The other one is that this tumor also gains the capacity to produce another hormone, and this hormone is called PTHRP. So this is, so far we're talking about perineoplastic syndrome, so it's a tumor that gains the capacity to produce hormones or enzymes. And so another one is called PTHRP, parathyroid hormone-related peptide. What this one does is, is it actually goes to the osteoclasts in the bone, and it goes to the distal tubules in the kidneys. It helps to do what thing? One is it helps to cause bone resorption. And bone resorption helps to liberate calcium from the bone, and so calcium will go up in the bloodstream. And so you end up with an increase in the calcium because you're liberating it from the bone via osteolysis, or bone resorption in this case. So that's one way, is we're going to stimulate the bone resorption. The other way is we're going to reabsorb the calcium across the distal tubules by increasing calcium absorption channels, and by helping to move the calcium into the bloodstream. So what that leads to is, is it leads to hypercalcemia. And so hypercalcemia obviously can present in a variable amount of ways. It can present with, what's that classic way that we try to remember? Stones, bones, groans, thorns, psychiatric overtones, right? So with stones, it can present with kidney stones, calcium oxalate, calcium phosphate stones. Bones is it can present with bone pain because you're resorbing bone, you're trying to help to break down the bones so that can increase the risk of fractures and osteoporosis. Growns is it can cause abdominal pain. And thorns is polyurea, it can actually block ADH at the collecting duct, and so you don't reabsorb water and you lose a lot of water into the urine. So you're peeing a ton. So polyurea, you'll be a nevergene di. And then psychiatric overtones, it can cause things like psychosis and irritability. So that's another thing that we worry about. The last perineoplastic syndrome that I want to talk about is that if this tumor gains the capacity to release something called ACTH. So increasing amounts of adrenal corticotropacormon or ACTH acts on the adrenal gland, especially the adrenal cortex. And when you act in the adrenal cortex, this helps, especially the zona fasciculata, it increases the production of cortisol. And cortisol can do a ton of different things. It can increase your blood sugar. It can increase your blood pressure. It can cause lipolysis and fat distribution. It can affect your immune system by kind of suppressing it a little bit and affecting wound healing. It can do a lot of different things. So what we can start to see with these patients is that they may have kind of a cushion-gloid appearance. And that's literally what we call it, is they say they can have a cushion-gloid appearance. So they can have the, due to the fat breakdown and redistribution aspect, they can present with the moon face, they can present with the buffalo hump, they can present with abdominal obesity and striae. They can present with thin or atrophied arms, hyperglycemia, hypertension, immunosuppression. There's a lot of different things that we worry about in that type of clinical picture. So these are the things that I want you guys to remember for the perineoplastic syndrome here, is that they can present with polycythemia, revactory hypertension, hypercalcemia and a cushion-gloid appearance. Now if the tumor spreads a little bit, it doesn't actually kind of like go to another organ, it gets into the vascular system or it leads to thrombosis in the vascular system, we can see a couple different complications. So let's say here we have a renal cell carcinoma and the tumor itself starts to invade. So it starts to invade into the renal vein. Well when it gets into the renal vein, sometimes what can happen is it can actually take any other, it can increase the risk of tumors seeding, but it also can increase the risk of thrombosis. So sometimes you can get a thrombus or you can get this tumor that will seed a little kind of like tumors out into the inferior vena cava. So here's the renal vein, here is the inferior vena cava. What's the problem with this? Let's imagine that this tumor or thrombus propagates into the inferior vena cava. So it started off here, here's your tumor, got into the renal vein and then it started to propagate and go up through the inferior vena cava and then some of it started to block off here at the hepatic veins. So we blocked off the inferior vena cava and then we started to block off the hepatic veins. Well when you cause obstruction of the hepatic veins, you can't drain blood. So blood trying to get out of the liver becomes inhibited. And so what happens to the liver? If you can't drain your hepatic portal system and get it into the hepatic vein and get it into the inferior vena cava because you're hitting this wall of tumor or thrombus, it's going to cause the liver to get larger. And when that happens, when the liver gets larger and it starts to become a little bit bigger, it can cause apatomegaly. It can also cause injury to the liver itself which can cause a presentation of increased LFTs if you get those. And on top of that it can cause back up into the hepatic portal system and start causing fluid to leak into the peridium causing ascites. This presentation that we get worried about is if it starts to propagate into the hepatic veins is this can lead to a condition called a bud kiari syndrome. So bud kiari syndrome. This is essentially when there is an obstruction of the hepatic veins that causes apatomegaly, a bump in the LFTs and ascites. So that's something I would watch out with if we get a thrombus or a tumor from that renal cell that invades into the renal vein and gets into the inferior vena cava. So here we have this tumor that's propagating in here and that's eventually obstructing the hepatic veins. Now another presentation is let's say that you have a renal cell carcinoma. Here's a tumor and it starts to spread into the renal vein. Well there's another potential problem here. Now this is going to be a little bit more within the left sided because with the right sided this empties into the inferior vena cava and then there's another structure here called the gonadal vein which empties into the inferior vena cava. With left sided renal cell carcinomas if these tumors start to propagate into the renal vein there's another structure that empties into them. What's this structure here? This is called the gonadal vein. So this is called the gonadal vein. And the gonadal vein especially in this case the left one this empties, this here empties into the renal vein, the left renal vein and then empties into the inferior vena cava. So this is again, this is going to be your left renal vein right here. So the left renal vein is going to be this one right here. If the tumor propagates into this it obstructs the drainage from that left gonadal vein. So blood is supposed to drain the testicles and bring this up here where it can empty into the renal vein and then into the inferior vena cava. But what's obstructing that path now? This tumor or thrombus. So now this can't move this way it starts to back flow. And then what happens is all the veins in the panpina form plexus of the testicle starts getting dilated. And so now this starts getting these to become enlarged and gorged and torturous and then eventually it causes swelling of the testicle. And whenever you try to palpate and feel around there you'll feel this corded kind of like enlarged gourd and dilated vessels there. This is called a varicoseal. So this is what we would potentially see as a varicoseal. Now again varicoseals are more common to be left sided just because of the natural concept that I just told you that they have to empty at a 90 degree angle into the renal vein. But again you can see it in right sided just less common but it is a possibility and that's another thing to think about. With left sided varicoseals they could be benign they could be malignant. It's just more common for left sided varicoseals to occur just because of the natural angle. If you get a right sided varicoseal you really have to have a high degree of suspicion from a lignancy. And the reason why is that means that this tumor invaded into the inferior vena cava and what comes up and eventually dumps into the inferior vena cava the right gonadal vein. So if I had a problem here where this tumor did actually completely occlude the inferior vena cava then it could block up which vein if I did have this issue the right gonadal vein. I'm going to put just V there. If there was an obstruction of the inferior vena cava from a renal cell carcinoma then you could definitely get a right sided varicoseal. Highly highly suspicious of a malignancy in the abdomen or pelvis if you had a right sided varicoseal. And the patient knows a renal cell carcinoma that that tumor does invade into the renal vein and obstructs that left gonadal vein that could also be a possibility. So it could be something that's normal could be something that actually indicates an ominous thing. Right sided almost always indicates an ominous kind of finding such as a renal cell carcinoma retroperitoneal tumor something like that something that's really obstructing the inferior vena cava because the right gonadal vein dumps right into that. So now let's focus on if the renal cell carcinoma does actually start to distantly spread in other words it's not local it's getting a little bit farther it's getting to other organs that's what we got to be wary of and it can cause a lot of scary complications. Let's say here we have a renal cell carcinoma gets into the vascular system and now these tumor cells are starting to see they're starting to get all over the place. Where can these start to spread? The most common locations are as going to be here you're going to have them spreading potentially to the brain right they can spread to the lungs they can spread to the bones and they can spread to the liver. Now whenever these happen what I actually have seen here is with renal cell carcinoma when you get a tumor into the brain these ones actually have a high risk of bleeding and so we can see brain mats here being pretty scary. So brain metastasis I would say you'd have to think about this one if a patient comes in with a very nasty headache, seizures, focal neural deficit that's something I would think about if they have an underlying history of renal cell carcinoma. So renal cell carcinoma can spread to the brain watch out for headaches, seizures and focal neural deficits. If it's spread to the lungs you can get metastases all over the lungs. This can lead to definitely things like dyspnea it can lead to cough it can even lead to haemoptysis. So definitely something to consider here as well. If it gets into the bones it can cause some nasty lesions here and often times when we see this when we think about things like bone pain. So bone mats is something to definitely, definitely consider in situations of two scenarios and I actually do want to write these out here and the reason why is yes it can cause things like bone pain but also not only can it cause bone pain but there is a big rapid turnover of bone and so whenever that happens there is something released from this area of mats and that is called alkaline phosphatase and so whenever alkaline phosphatase levels are high and a patient who has an underlying primary tumor like renal cell carcinoma that brings about a concern is there a possibility of bone mats. So the patient symptomatically presents with dyspnea, haemoptysis, cough, cool. Think about getting a CT chest. If they present with a headache, they present with focal neural deficits or seizures think about getting a brain MRI. If they come in with bone pain get a bone scan. If they come in with an increased alkyphos get a bone scan. And lastly it can actually also go to the liver and if it causes these hepatic mats usually this can be asymptomatic but with the paddock mats I would always consider things like LFTs. So this can potentially cause a slow and chattering rise of your LFTs. So I would watch out for that as a potential finding here. So these are all things that if it does hematogenously spread it could go to these locations. Other locations is this tumor can also not only hematogenously spread but it can spread to the nearby lymphatic. So there is lymphatic vessels that are nearby and a bunch of different nodes that are nearby. And so these can potentially spread to nearby nodes like retroperitoneal nodes, periorotic nodes. And so I would watch out for that especially when you're doing CT scans to look and see did this tumor actually spread to nearby nodes. So we think about metastasis as we're talking about nodes. We're talking about other particular types of organs. Now that we've covered this let's move into the last type of complication for your intertractable illnesses and that's bladder cancer. With the last one here being bladder cancer complications of this is relatively rare. It's usually going to be hematuria that's the most common presentation. And you definitely got to worry about just a muscle invasion or not. If it does actually lead to complications in the rarest scenarios if it's a large enough tumor that's near the trigo and it can obstruct the bladder outlet. So if I have a tumor here that's near the bladder outlet, let's say here's a bladder outlet tumor, that's going to lead to an obstruction, right? Like that's no bueno man because now urine is supposed to go this way and then go in that way now. And so what happens is it hits this wall and this leads to urine backing up via the uritors all the way into the kidneys. And so now you get back flow into the kidneys here and this can be bilateral. That's what kind of makes us a little bit more risky. And so if this happens now the kidney is going to start kind of blooming up. And what could that look like? Well, now the kidney was this size, guess what's going to happen? It's going to get a little bit bigger. And what's that terminology called whenever the kidney is bigger? It's called hydronephrosis. And so that's a potential complication that we worry about is the presentation of hydronephrosis. And that's just kind of like a water bogged or fluid filled kidney because at this point the kidney is so built up with fluid because of an obstruction here at the bladder outlet. That's one potential thing. You can see this on ultrasound. You can see this on CT scans. It's very, very evident. The problem with this is that if the pressure builds up in the kidney enough, think about it. You can't have things filter out of the glomerulus into the Bowman's capsule. But if the pressure is too high in the Bowman's capsule, you can't filter things across. And so these patients run the risk of developing an AKI. So if this backs up enough where you end up with a lower or a rapidly kind of dropping GFR, what's the ultimate result that can happen here? You can end up with a post-renal AKI. And so evidence of post-renal AKIs are usually a quick jump. We don't base it off of the GFR. We base it off the creatinine. And so they're going to have a very acute rise in the creatinine. And so that's one thing that we definitely want to be able to see. Another thing is that is any urine going to be getting out? If it is, it's very, very, very little. And so another thing that's also evidence here is very little urine. So we can say oliguria or anuria. So oliguria or anuria is a potential presentation depending upon the severity of that obstruction. So hydronephrosis is an imaging finding, but a laboratory finding of a post-renal AKI can occur in the scenario of a significant bladder outlet tumor. Now, the other thing is that if this tumor is obstructing it, not only can it back up this way, what can also happen to the bladder itself? Think about that. This bladder can start to get a little bit bigger. So you can have bladder distension. Bladder distension is another potential problem too because that can cause them to have a little bit more desire to want to go to the bathroom. They're going to have to feel the sense of urgency and kind of like frequency, but they're probably not going to be able to get things out. So they can have lower urinary tract symptoms that are present. But the other thing here is that if we do something where we try to test their ability to urinate and then see how much is left over. So we do something called a bladder scan. So we'll have them pee. Then we scan their bladder and we want to know how much is left over. If they have a lot left over, that's called a post-void residual that is going to be a lot left. So an increase in their post-void residual or their PVR is usually indicative of something that would be very, very concerning for a bladder outlet obstruction. Maybe a tumor, maybe BPH is another potential source, but it's something to definitely think about. So when a patient comes in with an acute rise in their creatinine, making very little urine, and then on top of that, maybe some urinary tract symptoms, you get a CT scan. An ultrasound shows a big old large kidney. They don't have a stone that's present. You do a post-void residual, which is you have them pee, then scan their bladder and they have a very large post-void residual greater than 200, 400 mLs. That should make you think about a bladder outlet obstruction and you need to start going down the route of thinking about what that could be. And oftentimes it could be a bladder outlet tumor or it could be BPH. All right, cool. That's something to think about, relatively rare, but something definitely to think about. Now the last one is can it metastasize? It can. It's definitely possible for this tumor to get into the vascular system and spread to different areas. If it does, it's going to be three typical locations. One is it can spread to the liver. All right, second, as you can see here, to the lungs and third is to the bones. And so again, it's kind of a similar thing like renal cell carcinoma. If they have apathic mets, what's one way apathic mets will present? Well, they could be asymptomatic, but another way is that they could have a little bit of a rise in their LFTs and maybe some epatomegaly if there's enough met that have extended there. Another one is it can spread to the lungs and so they can get some lung or pulmonary mets. And so lung mets is going to present potentially with symptomatology such as cough, dyspnea, haemoptysis. That's something else to consider. And lastly is going to be bone mets. And again, bone mets, this is obviously going to be a potential lesion that can occur in a bone due to osteolysis that can precipitate bone pain. But again, I don't want to discount the fact that sometimes bone pain isn't present. So another way that we look is if there's lots of rapid bone turnover, there's an enzyme released in rapid bone turnover and that is called alkaline phosphatase. And an increase in alkaline phosphatase in a patient with an underlying primary tumor, maybe bladder cancer, should pollute the thought of maybe having bone mets. Here bone scan, here CT chest, here a CT of the abdomen usually is going to be done to elucidate if they have any apathic mets. All right. All right. So my friends, that covers the complications of bladder cancer and then overall look at urinary tract malignancy. Now what I want to do is I want to take all of these pieces together and come up with a diagnostic approach. How do we really take a patient who comes in with hematuria, figure out the right test to order, how to interpret those tests. Once we get that, what do we do for the next one? How do we elucidate that, so on and so forth? And then how do we treat it? Let's dig into that now. All right, my friends, let's now talk about the diagnostic approach to urinary tract malignancy. So we talked a lot about renal cell carcinoma and really kind of digging into the path of physiology, the risk factors we talked about, how it really tends to involve like the proximal convoluted tubular cells really hits a lot of the cortical regions. And we can see this genetically with like von Hippel Lindau. We can see it obviously more often with sporadic risk factors, things like obesity, smoking, hypertension, and older individuals. So these are definitely things that we can associate with that. We talked about how the classic triad for your exam is that palpable flank mass, the hematuria, the associated flank pain. We talked about the perineoplastic syndrome is associated with it, like hypertension due to the high renin, hypercalcemia due to PTHRP. We talked about polycythemia secondary due to the elevated EPO. We talked about it can metastasize, can cause things like varicoseals, can metastasize into the inferior vena cava caused by the bud kiari syndrome, can get all over the place, and bones, and brain, and it's a NASA. We talked about how bladder cancer, it's primarily transitional cell type, right? And we talked about how we can see that heavily in patients who smoke. We see it in older individuals, if they have some kind of job where they work with weird rubber dyes or they have exposure to like cyclophosphamide and things like that. We talked about how when these form, they typically tend to cause painless gross hematuria. If it's a rare occasion where it's a large enough mass that blocks out that urinary outlet, the bladder outlet, it can cause urinary tract obstructions. But oftentimes the big thing is that painless gross hematuria and there's not much more beyond that. So what I want to talk about is taking these things into consideration. And out of these, the primary presentation of these is hematuria. It could be gross, it could be microscopic. If you happen to see this, this means it's gross, it's visible. It's visible to the naked eye that this patient has some pretty significant hematuria. It could look like Coca-Cola, it could look T-colored, but it's usually something that does not look like normal P. When I see this, I definitely would start off getting a urin microscopy. A urinalysis will give me a look at the red cells and tell me if there's any casc off microscopy. It'll tell me if I have any leukocyte esterase, some nitrite, some pyuria that would suggest a UTI. These are going to be kind of my first go-to based upon the results of the urinalysis. I probably get a urine culture, especially if the leukocasterase is high, the white blood cells are high, the nitrites are high, they have symptoms, I get a urine culture. I'd start off there. So if I see no red blood cell cast, no protein area, I for the most part rule out a glomerular disease, things like nephrodic nephritic syndrome. So that's a pretty important one. I'd say nephritic syndrome most often because that causes red cells and protein. The urine culture comes back negative. I'd say for the most part I can rule out, for at least the most part, things like pylonephritis or some type of really nasty infection of the urinary tract. So that would kind of get me started. From there, I'm then left with a lot of structural diseases, things like nephrolithiasis, so a stone somewhere in the renal pelvis and the ureter, something like that, right? Could be a tumor, could be malignancies, renal cell carcinoma, bladder cancer, could even be something structural like polycystic kidney disease, could be like renal papillary necrosis. There could be a lot of different reasons why this could be happening. Could be trauma. Sometimes a good punch to the kidney can do that because you're causing trauma. Foley catheters can cause bleeding from kind of like friction against the urethra. There's a lot of different things to think about with this type of presentation, especially gross hematuria, I'd be pretty concerned about something in the kidneys or in the bladder. So from there, what I would say is let's assess the patient and ask them if they have any symptoms that could suggest more of an upper urinary tract. If I ask them, do you have any flank pain? Do you have any palpable masses? If I look through the complications, like for example, do they have any things like polycythemia, hypertension, hypercalcemia, varicoseals, I would probably say, okay, if they do, let's get an image because that could potentially give me a little bit more of a narrow down look. It could also be a kidney stone. If they have flank pain and hypertension and they have some type of underlying history in the family of polycystic kidney disease, could be that. So I got to go down that rabbit hole a little bit. But the whole point of this is that if it seems like it's flank pain or a palpable mass in that vicinity, you should image that vicinity. So that's what I would do with CT abdomen pelvis with an IV contrast. It'll show the uncontrast, the non-contrast phase, and then it'll show it kind of flowing through the kidney in just the beginning parts of excretatory phase. So that's kind of what I would start with. If I do that and I see, oh my gosh, look at that. On that left lower pole of the kidney, you can kind of look at the asymmetry here. Look at that. That's a pretty significant heterogeneous mass. I can get you another one. Let's take another CT look here. You can see here's the left kidney. Boom! There's the right kidney, a big old mass. Their heterogeneous appearing in that right upper pole. So it's kind of just giving you an idea that you right away, you could identify this patient as a renal cell carcinoma. You could tell even for the most part, do they have hydranophrosis with a big old stone? Do they have polycystic kidney disease bilaterally? Do they have any kind of weird lesions that could suggest renal babillary necrosis? Things like that. So I think it's really important to start there and kind of get an idea. From this, I can kind of diagnose that the patient's got renal cell carcinoma, just off the renal mass. I put in here renal vein or IVC thrombosis because these tumors do like to spread. They kind of hit the renal vein first, that's where they can get the varicoseals if it blocks off the gonadal vein. But the IVC is the nasty one. If it gets there, it can really propagate all over the place to the lungs, to the brain. But on top of that, it can block off those hepatic veins. That's how you can get kind of like a Bud Kiari syndrome. Now you want to know if they have metastasized. So a lot of the times this is symptom driven metastatic imaging. So for example, if I said that a patient needs a CT chest, that's probably because they have something going on the lung. Do they have cough, dyspnea, haemoptysis, recurrent pleural effusions? Okay, get an image of the chest. Do they need a bone scan? Well, do they have bone pain? Do they have pathological fractures? Does their dexa scan suggest they got a really massively reduced bone mineral density? Do they have hypercalcemia, elevated alfalfa? Okay, get a bone scan. Let's see if it's spread. Did they present with neurological symptoms, focal neural deficits, terrible headache associated with nausea, vomiting, papillodema? They have a new onset, first time seizure. Get an image of the brain. All right. Especially if we know that they have a primary cancer like this and it can spread to these areas, that's when I would actually go to the decision of kind of getting those images. Now if we do that, we get these images and we say, oh, there it is. There's the lung mats. That's a pretty important one. These are going to love to hit those areas. They like to cause a lot of lesions in this area. Bones, you'll see this potentially in the vertebrae as well. Maybe even the pelvis. You can see some red lesions there. The brain mats are going to see lots of scattered ones. These also bleed a lot. They can definitely cause a lot of hemorrhagic kind of bleeding that we can see with these. That's kind of a nasty one. That would kind of give you an idea if you have metastatic renal cell carcinoma. The question is, what if they don't really have any symptoms that suggest kind of an upper urinary tract? Well, then it's probably best to say, I should probably image the upper and lower urinary tract. You could say, okay, the CT-adm pelvis with IB contrast does that. It does. But when you add on a CT urogram, what it does is it has a prolonged excretatory phase. You get a better look at the ureter. You get a better look at the bladder. Then I would also follow it up with visual imaging of the lower urinary tract, like a cystoscopy to really get a better look at the bladder cancer. You may miss more of a flat kind of like sessile mass that's adhered to the surface. If you have a tumor there in the bladder, it may miss that in the CT-U. That's what I would start off with first. You have to kind of assess the need to get this. You don't just get this on all patients. You do this more if they're a heavy smoker, they're older, and they have recurrent hematuria. Those are pretty big indications to say, hey, let's get a CT-U with a cystoscopy and then biopsy if needed. A CT-U is great because one of the first things it could show me is a renal mass, which I would have identified off of this if they had some symptoms that suggest it was there. But if they didn't and I got that CT-U, I could potentially find renal cell carcinoma. Again, it's just showing you that you're going to get that nephrogenic phase. What happens is you get the non-  contracphase, which is that kind of the blood is not in the kidney yet, then you get the nephrogenic phase where the contrast is running through the kidney, that will highlight any areas of the kidney. And then from there, you get the excretatory phase, which gives you more of that ureter and then the actual bladder, gives you a little bit more of a prolonged look there to see if you see any polypolypoid lesions there in the ureter and the bladder. So this right here would tell me if I had kind of a mass in the kidney. But here's another interesting thing is after I've done that, I would still go through the same steps, right? I'd still go through, do they have any need to get some metastatic imaging? Okay, let's get those based upon symptom-driven kind of explanations. But if I did a CTU and I say, oh wow, look, here's that excretatory phase. If I scan down, I see a polypoid mass there, present in the bladder, probably near the trigone. Oh dude, that could be bladder cancer. But sometimes you don't always pick these up. That's why you go to the next thing, which is getting a stysoscopy. It's a visualization with a camera. You run up through the urethra, up into the bladder. You can visibly see the lesion. And then from there, you could actually biopsy. You could remove a piece of that tissue, send it off to the pathologist, and confirm is this actually cancer. So that's the benefit of doing all of these images. It shows you upper, lower urinary tract, and then the cystoscopy visualizes something that you didn't see on CTU to get a potential bladder tissue and say, oh, that's cancer. From there, that's how we can really get the underlying assumption of bladder cancer. From here, the biopsy is very usually superficial. We probably want to get a little bit more tissue. And so that's when we do something called a terp. Not a terp, a terp. It's a transurethral section of the bladder tumor. It's going to give me a pretty deep kind of biopsy and tell me how far the bladder cancer invaded. Because it usually starts in the mucosa. It's epithelial, right? So it's a transitional cell. I usually also turn clear cell. And then it kind of moves its way down to the submucosa, to the muscularis layer, where the detrusor is, and then it can kind of break through there and then out into the pelvic areas as well. So that's what I want to know. I want to know if it's invaded the muscle or not. So if I look and it does not invade the muscularis propria, the detrusor, that's a non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer. If it did, you got it. It's a muscle-invasive bladder cancer. The reason why I tell you this is it determines how we treat the patient. So if they have concerns from a tassus, in other words, bladder cancer, it can spread. It can spread to the lung. It can spread to the liver. It's less likely, but I would get those kinds of imaging to see if it did spread. Look for the lung meds if they have some symptoms that concern you. Look for potentially bone meds if they have some features that really concern you. Look for the liver meds if they have potentially some increased LFTs in a paddle megalae. And that would tell you if they have metastatic bladder cancer. All right? So that's a lot. I really hope that you guys get the point is that when a patient presents with hematuria, get the UA with the microscopy, determine that you're in culture reflexively based upon that. If that doesn't give you much information about glomerular disease or about, you know, your tract infections, assume a structural cause. If they have structural causes located in a potential region, image that. CT-ADPELV with IV contrast may show your renal cell mass. If they just have hematuria and no other kind of focal symptoms and they have risk factors for malignancy, CTU and cystoscopy is the way to go. Either way, it'll tell you if you have renal cell carcinoma, it'll tell you if you have bladder cancer from there. If it's renal or if it's bladder, you probably need to do symptom driven metastatic imaging. But for bladder, the key thing that is really, really important more than the metastatic imaging is the turpt because it's going to be somewhat therapeutic, but also it's going to tell you how deep the tumor is innovative, which kind of guides your decisions after the turpt. Do I need to indwell something called an intravestical therapy like mitomycin C or some type of a BCG type of a container? All right. So with that being said, let's move into talking about how do we treat these conditions. So with renal cell carcinoma, I just want to know that a metastase size or not. If it did not metastase size, oftentimes it's just an nephrectomy and it depends upon the size of the tumor that determines how much of the kidney I'm going to remove. I can do a partial one, especially if the renal cell mass is less than seven centimeters. That's kind of our number. If it's bigger than that, then we got to go to a full nephrectomy. With partial nephrectomies, it's nice because you can preserve renal function here. I have a kidney that has a tumor in it. All I'm going to do is I'm going to cut out a wedge of that and I'm going to preserve a decent amount of cortical tissue and even medullary tissue to keep the renal function going pretty well. All right. So that'd be my partial nephrectomy. If I got a pretty decent size mass greater than right seven centimeters, then I'm probably going to have to remove the whole kidney. So that's where I'm literally taking. I'm clamping off the vasculature because I got to remove unfortunately the entire kidney. It's just too much. Me removing this much of the kidney, I might as well take the whole thing out. So usually we're going to clamp these puppies down, reduce the blood flow, get rid of that, get rid of the ureter and we're going to cut and tie that whole area off. That would be a radical nephrectomy in this scenario. Now if they have spread, it's the lungs, it's to the bone, it's to the brain, therapies like surgery aren't going to be of much benefit now because we got it all over the place. So that's when unfortunately we go to pharmacological therapy and this is going to be your targeted therapy. This is actually pretty high yield and it's actually kind of interesting the mechanisms here. So we're going to talk about your VEGF inhibitors and then we'll talk about some other kind of immunotherapies which is kind of cool too. We have mTOR inhibitors and VEGF receptor inhibitors. So what happens is, let's say here we have a tumor cell that's going to start kind of forming. What happens is that that von Heppel Lindau gene either sporadically or genetically gets kind of lost. You lose that function of it. That's what leads to the increase in the hypoxia inducible factor. This is coming back, right? So when that happens, the VEGF production goes up. That tumor cell pops that VEGF out, that goes to the nearby vessels, tells the endothelial cells, hey start making more vessels and that causes the angiogenesis. You start getting blood vessels that are popping up all over the place. The whole point of that is to give lots of blood flow to the tumor so that this thing can continue to keep jiving and thriving, right? Other things is that other growth factors, especially even the tumor cell or nearby tumor cells, they're keep pumping out growth factors. Growth factors really love to hit these receptors and trigger kind of an intracellular cascade via PI3K and AKT pathway. All this leads to is an increase in mTOR. MTOR is great because what it does is it pumps up hypoxia inducible factor. More VEGF, more angiogenesis, more blood flow to the tumor. So what if I could give drugs that could block the VEGF at the receptor and what if I could give drugs that could block the mTOR? That'd be pretty cool, right? So my VEGF receptor inhibitors is going to be accident nib and that's going to hit that receptor, block the VEGF, shut down the angiogenesis and starve the tumor cells. That could reduce its growth, right? So that's one of the benefits here. Some mTOR inhibitors like Everlems, this one's going to shut down the mTOR pathway. That's going to reduce the VEGF production. That's going to reduce the VEGF acting on the receptors. That's going to shut down the angiogenesis and starve the tumor. When do we give this? It's metastatic renal cell carcinoma, but it's usually used as a combination. So for example, when we give these targeted therapies, they're usually given with another drug like an immunotherapy that we're going to talk about next. It's usually not just solo on its own. And funny enough, we would prefer to give two immunotherapeutic agents, which we're going to talk about in a second, over giving an immunotherapy and an mTOR. But that is an option. So sometimes we do one immunotherapy and one targeted therapy. Sometimes we just do two immunotherapy drugs because they're super powerful. These are also called checkpoint inhibitors, which we're going to talk about now. So these are really cool. So here you have a tumor cell, right? So tumor cells, they're really kind of cool because they express these things called a PDL1. It's a programmed death ligand. And you also have an MHC1 complex that these can present with kind of an antigen on them. And then you have T cells that use their T cell receptor to interact with that antigen on the MHC complex. Well, what happens is, is T cells are really kind of interesting. Whenever they come up to a tumor cell, if the tumor cell expresses this PDL1, the T cell will actually express something called a PD1. And when they interact with one another, it kind of shuts the T cell off. It says, hey, T cell, leave me alone. All right, because tumor cells are smart. They'll increase their expression of PDL1 so that whenever the T cell does that it shuts them off. Now the T cells can't kill the tumor cell. All right, so that tumor cell just continues to keep surviving. What if I gave a drug that blocked the PD1? All right, what if I did that? So I gave a drug that blocks that. These are usually pretty powerful drugs that whenever you do that, now the T cell is not getting shut off because you're not having the PDL1 and the PD1 interact. Now the T cell is active and it can start killing them tumor cells. That's a pretty generous thing there. This is Nivellumab, right? Or Pembrolizumab. These are your great anti-PD1 antibodies. They're very powerful checkpoint numbers. We use them in a ton of different cancers. We talked about this in colorectal cancer. We've talked about Pembrolizumab and breast cancer. We've talked about these in lung cancer. There's so many different ways that we can use these at checkpoint inhibitors like Pembrolizumab or Atezzolizumab or Nivellumab or there is just so many Dervalamab. There's so many different types of immune checkpoint inhibitors that can hit these pathways because they can target both the PD1 and you have other ones that can target the PDL1. So these are great. The other one is the anti-CTLA4 antibodies. These are interesting. This mechanism is quite interesting. I'm not going to lie. So tumor cells are smart because what they do is they increase the production of cytokines that tell our T cells to express something called CTLA4. CTLA4 is a nasty son of a gun because it likes to compete with CD28. So antigen presenting cells, they have the MHC2 complex that they present, right? What they're antigen with the T cell is the T cell receptor and they interact with one another. What's really, really important is that on the antigen presenting cell, there's a molecule called B7. Now if B7 has the choice, if there's lots of CTLA4, CTLA4, it'll bind with the CTLA4. Problem with that is it shuts the T cell off and now the T cell can't kill the tumor cells, right? If you have an ability to say, let me give something that blocks CTLA4, now it can't interact with B7 and that would be Ipollumab. Now the B7 can interact with the CD28. This is the co-stimulatory signal. Now the T cell's active. It's like, oh yeah, baby. And what's it gonna do? It's gonna kill the tumor cell. Tell me that's not cool. Oftentimes we'll combine these. So oftentimes we'll give something like, for example, Nipolumab and Nipolumab and we'll do those in conjunction with one another as the first line therapy. And if that doesn't work, then we'll kind of give one of these plus one of these as the second line therapy, all right? Bladder cancer is a little bit more interesting. We don't give systemic things like that that much unless it's kind of metastatic. But oftentimes that turp that we talked about is the best way to go. When we got a tumor and it's not really invasive, we can kind of, like we can get that tumor pretty decently. Maybe we get down to the submucosa and we kind of pull that down. You can even get a little bit into the muscularies layer and you can get a good chunk of tumor out. You're removing that tumor, all right? And so that's one way that we could do that. If you see the lesion and cystoscopy, you'll refer them to a surgeon, they'll come in, they'll do that turp procedure, remove the tumor, send it off to pathology, determine if it was muscle invasive or non-muscle invasive. The benefit is that if it is non-muscle invasive, from there you have one therapy after that to follow up with. And that's an intravestical therapy. They'll take and they'll literally and dwell into the bladder, a chemotherapy to gage. And it could be mitomycin C, right? This one's actually pretty quick. You can give this within like six hours, I think, after getting a turp. You don't want to do that for BCG. There's a theoretical risk of sepsis and stuff like that, so we don't want to really do that one. But mitomycin C would probably be a good one if they're kind of like a lower risk one. So you can kind of fill that in there, leave that and it can kind of kill a lot of the remaining micro residual disease. BCG is another one, but that's going to be more in the high risk population. So low risk bladder cancer, you can give this one. I'd say the mitomycin C. If they're more of that high risk, it's a really high grade dysplasia on pathology. That's when I would go with the BCG. But just in general, just remember, intravestical chemotherapy plus a turp is great for your non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. If it's muscle invasive, we're kind of stuck with chemotherapy, really starting up with that first. So we may do what's called a neoadjuvant chemotherapy, cisplatin, gym cytobine, we'll get us started. And that's going to be if you have just invasion of the muscle of the bladder, but it hasn't gone to the lymph nodes, hasn't gone to distant organs like the lungs or the bone. From there, we don't have the option of doing a turp. If this thing's invaded a lot of the muscle, we're kind of stuck, man. So at that point, we got to remove the bladder. Now, when you remove the bladder, you have no way of getting urine out now. So you have to divert things. And so what we'll do is we'll cut out the bladder, all right? And then we have to have a place to take the urators and have the urine be emptied. And so what we do is we do kind of a urinary diversion where we have this thing dump into a part of the intestines, usually like the ilium. And then here is the condos. So this is going to collect the urine from that, and it's going to move it to this thing on the outer surface called a stoma where it can empty into a urosthemy bag. And so that's a way that they would urinate, right? So again, reminding you, non-muscle invasive, turped is the way to go, intrabescal chemotherapy. Non-muscle invasive, shrink as much of the tumor down as you can with giving them a chemotherapeutic agent and then follow it up by then chopping the bladder out and then diverting the urators to an intestinal source, which will offer them to dump out of the body. That would be the way to go with this one. My friends, I really hope that you guys learned a lot about urinary tract malignancies. I know sometimes that these topics can be challenging and bogging you down. You feel like sometimes it can't get you. You know, you don't feel like you understand these things sometimes or you do, and then you forget it afterwards. You're not alone. We're all together in this. But I will tell you something. If you feel like you need a little bit of extra help, go to the Ninja Nerd website. We offer things like notes where you can kind of recap this stuff. You can look at our illustrations and kind of draw things through with us together. You can take some quiz questions and really kind of have that space repetition. But just don't give up. Stay strong. Man, I love you guys. You guys are awesome. And as always, my fam, until next time. Bye.

=== FILE: Urinary Tract Malignancies ｜ Podcast [5YvWWaZ9E9Q].txt ===

 mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere some degree of ringing bells for urinary tract malignancy. Things like renal cell carcinoma or bladder cancer. Usually that's transitional or we call it uroothelial. But those are the two ones that I would think about right off the get go for a patient presenting with hematuria that is painless, it's gross. Think about a urinary tract malignancy. All right. Well, let's get right into it here. Case one, we have a 58-year-old male, 35-pack-year smoker. He also has hard-to-control hypertension. He shows up with three weeks of intermittent painless gross hematuria and dull left flank pain. On exam, you feel a mobile non-tender flank mass. Where does your mind go immediately? This seems like if you had a step two question like this, like a vignette that set you up, they'd be like, you know, like Jordan Slamdunk and renal cell carcinoma. That's what it seems like. And the reason why is like 10 to 15% of patients in a true clinical world present with the triad of renal cell carcinoma, which is hematuria, flank pain, and a palpable mass. Oftentimes, more than not, you may not even see any of these symptoms, but usually out of these, the most common one is going to be hematuria. So this tells me it really screams renal cell carcinoma off the get go. All right. So first differential renal cell carcinoma, you're not concerned with like bladder cancer or you have to further elucidate that? It could be bladder cancer, but the lack of, usually in bladder cancer, they don't have like flank masses or any kind of flank pain. So that's less on my differential. Now, bladder cancer is one of the uroothelial carcinomas. And what I mean by that is that there's a mucosa that we talk about in like, you know, our basic foundational sciences, and it's called transitional epithelial tissue. And that lines pretty much your ureter and we can carry that thing down all the way to the bladder. And so if you have a cancer of the uroothelial tract, you can have what's called uroothelial carcinoma out of that tract. The most common location is the bladder, but the fact that they have against other symptom etology, like a palpable mass and flank pain, it's less likely that I think that it's bladder cancer. It could be a stone. I mean, palpable mass less likely, but I definitely would want to get, you know, maybe some kind of imaging to think about that. But I want to think about nephrolithiasis or perinephric abscess. But usually with a perinephric abscess, you'd have like a history of pilonophritis. You'd have some kind of like history that would make me think about that. So I don't think it's pilonophritis, but I would still want to consider that. I'd want to consider a stone. I think it could be a carcinoma of the transitional epithelium, maybe at the renal pelvis of the ureter, but I think that's low in my differential. Right at the top is renal cell carcinoma, especially with the history of smoking. Having hard to control hypertension is kind of interesting. And the reason why is if patients have renal cell carcinoma in a perfect world, what happens is they, the tumor can release renin. And so it releases an increased amounts of renin that can help to activate angiotensinogen and to turn it into angiotensin one. Angiotensin one gets converted to angiotensin two. Angiotensin two helps to squeeze the heck out of your vessels and your pressure can go up. And so that's why they can have hard to control hypertension. It's usually a secondary cause. So that's one thing I'd be looking for. The other thing here is with renal cell carcinoma, they have other perineoplastic syndromes. So they make not only lots of renin, but they can make EPO. So I would actually consider checking this and see if they have a high hemoglobin and hematocrit for polycythemia. I check like a CMP to make sure that the calcium is like not elevated as well because that can also be a potential cause as well. So these are all things that I'm thinking about. Yeah, renal cell carcinoma is definitely at the top, but really I got to get some labs. I got to get some imaging to really kind of like start checking with those off. So what would you go with then? Your analysis, I'm guessing a CT. Yep. Like, hit me baby. BMP. I'd probably expand it to maybe a CMP. Okay. Just to get some liver function as well. And then baseline CBC. Yeah, I think they'd be good. You're covered. I think the reason why I do that is your analysis is if they're peeing blood, what looks like blood, I need to make sure it's blood. And then with your analysis, it's always good if you have a patient with hematuria. It's always good to rule out other causes. And so you always want to rule out things like an infection like pyelonephritis can cause that. So I would do a UA, probably even with a microscopy and a culture potentially. And then I would also want to look for red blood cell cast. I'd want to look for protein to see if there's like an nephrodic. I'm sorry, a nephrodic syndrome or a glomerular disease kind of present. So that's why I would get that one. I'd get the CT-admine pelvis with IV contrast probably first because I think that this is going to be a real mass. And so that's going to give me a really good look at the mass and say, is this a mass? Is this a stone? Is this pyelonephritis? Is this something else going on in the kidney first? The baseline CBC is going to help me to see if they have any high hemoglobin hematocrit. And the CMP will just help me to look at their liver function. It also will just give me a good idea of particularly their alkaline phosphatase, which can also be elevated in bone mats. And then on top of that, it can show me the calcium. So the calcium will be helpful to see if they have a high calcium level. So that's kind of what I would start with if I could. Okay, cool. Well, we do those results. We perform those tests and we get the following back. We have a urinalysis, which does show us hematuria, no cast or protein area present. We do the CT-admine pelvis with IV contrast. We have a heterogeneous enhancing 5.8 centimeter cortical mass, no renal vein, or IVC thrombus. Some baseline labs you were interested in are a hemoglobin of 19, creatinine of 1.0, and a calcium of 11.2. Our chest CT, we also do a chest CT. The chest CT shows no mets, bone scan is negative, and there's no bone pain or ALP rise. Okay. So that looks normal. All right, so yeah, with your liver test. Yeah, so I think with this right here, we definitely got a pretty good answer that the urinalysis, it shows that there's hematuria, but there's no glomerular disease because there's no cast, there's no protein. I would get a culture. You always should get a culture just to make sure that they don't have like pylote. I'm going to suspect that the pylote's not going to come back because they usually would have a fever. They'd have some CVA tenderness as well, but I don't think that this is pylote. And then on top of that, I know it's not pylote because the CT-admine showed me that I got a big honkin tumor inside of the renal cortex. And so that right there tells me it's likely a renal cell mass like renal cell carcinoma. And then on top of that, the hemoglobin is elevated. So they got polycythemia. The creatinine's fine. I don't know what their baseline is, but the creatinine's still fine even at one. And the calcium is 11.2. That's elevated. So they have hypercalcemia. They have polycythemia. And on top of that, they got a tumor with hematuria that's likely not glomerular, likely not pylorelated, or any kind of stone or any kind of renal pathology related. So this is pretty interesting. And on top of that, once they found the renal mass, usually you do go to the route of a chest CT and you can consider a bone scan if they have bone pain or they have an alfosso. If they didn't have bone pain and their alkaline phosphatase was like normal, I wouldn't have gotten the bone scan. But the CT chest, you should always get just to look to see if it's spread to the lungs. Another common location is the brain. I've actually seen this once where a patient came in seizing, ended up getting a CT. They had a bleed in their brain, ended up getting MRI. MRI showed an actual brain mass. So they had a met and we were trying to figure out where it came from. And so we ended up getting a CT of their chest, abdomen, and pelvis and we found that they had a renal cell carcinoma. So it's a very common source of bleeding, uh, mets in the brain. So that's another one I get scared of. But yeah, this is definitely a renal cell carcinoma. Given the size, given that it hasn't metastasized, this is resectable. We can actually treat this pretty well. I was going to ask, would you do a partial or would you get rid of the kidney? So we go size. So usually if it's, if it's like greater than seven centimeters, we'll cut the whole dang thing out. Okay. And so you'll tie off, you'll tie off the vessels, remove the actual kidney itself. So that'd be like a radical nephrectomy. I did have the tumor was like a gargantuan. It was like greater than seven centimeters where it was also taking up a large location too. So if it's like a little bit more centrally kind of seated, it's also hard to get those out with caught without sparing a lot of the nephrons. That's why it's a little bit more challenging. So our patient was 5.8 centimeters. Yeah. That would qualify for a partial. Yeah. And it's cortical, which is good. So that means it's a little bit more peripheral. So you could cut that out and hopefully spare a lot of the remaining nephrons so they could at least have some decent renal function after that. So yeah, you could cure this. If it hasn't spread and it hasn't seated anywhere, it's always good to just cut that out. Partial nephrectomy, follow up and just keep monitoring them afterwards on their renal function to make sure it hasn't declined. You should probably even see an improvement in like their hematuria. You should see an improvement in their hemoglobin. It should start coming down. Their blood pressure will probably improve. The hypercalcemia will probably improve. So a lot of the perineoplastic stuff would also kind of go away with some time as well. So our patient's prognosis is relatively favorable. Yeah. So it's, well, one, it's a kind of peripheral location and then it didn't metastasize. No. Yeah. So once you get metastasis, it's a different story. It's hard. You can still try nephrectomies. The thing is, is they always do this on the exam and they'll try to trip people up and so they'll say like, okay, here you have a patient who you have a renal mass and you have a high suspicion that it's renal cell carcinoma and they'll give you an option. What would you do first? An nephrectomy or a biopsy? And you should never pick a biopsy. And the reason why you never pick a biopsy is because if you stick a needle in there, you risk, in the risk of hemorrhage, but also you can see the actual tumor and you can actually micrometastasis. It's always better to do just go and cut it out. But when it's a lot of metastasis, so if I, let's say that the CT chest did show that there was METs to the lungs or they had a bone METs because their alfos was elevated or we had bone pain and we got the bone scan or we got a brain and Miriam. We found that they have METs in the brain or whatever it may be. We find that they have metastasis. Then it's a little bit more challenging and then cutting out the kidney itself may not only, it can actually help. So you could potentially remove the source, but the most important thing now is trying to just limit metastasis. And so that's when we kind of reach on to immunotherapies. And so there's newer therapies that we use now if they have metastatic renal cell carcinoma and they're called checkpoint inhibitors, immune checkpoint inhibitors. We, oftentimes we'll abbreviate them as MABs just because it's as easy as like Ipollima MAB, Nivolimab, Pembrolyza MAB and so we just call MABs. And these are pretty good. They actually have become, I'd say like the standard nowadays of what we use in patients of metastatic renal cell carcinoma is giving usually a combination. Two immune checkpoint inhibitors, one that hits a PD1 protein and the other one that hits the CTLA4 protein and it helps to basically tell the T cells, hey, get revved up baby, get revved up, start ripping these tumor cells up. So that's what we would do if they have, I'd say metastatic renal cell carcinoma is immune checkpoint inhibitors. That's the preferred method nowadays. Now remember before the, his underlying finding, his blood pressure was hard to control. Can we kind of now after doing an nephrectomy and it's almost like it's curative, can we expect that these would like resolve? Yeah, I would say that you still may need, depending upon it, you may need a little bit of a, usually an ARB or an ACE inhibitor because you'd be targeting that pathway. I'd say oftentimes, usually if it's because they're having an amplified retina, they have no other co-morbidities that's causing their blood pressure. Yeah, you should be okay then because you're getting rid of that source. Again, this person's a smoker. They're 58, they're getting older. So there could all there be secondary reasons for why they get a high blood pressure, but I think if it's hard to control, which is meaning they're probably on multiple agents, it's probably because of the renal cell carcinoma. And we could probably get that down where they could maybe need less of their anti hypertension. Sure. Yeah. No, that'd be, that'd be great for him. Yeah. All right. Well, hey, let's move on the case too then. Okay. We have our second patient. It's a 70 year old woman. She has a 40 pack your history, a long term, a cyclophosphamide for vasculitis. Now notes bright red, painless hematuria with clots. Her creatinine crept from 0.9 to 2.1 over the past six months. Shoot. So we have another patient, smoker, painless hematuria, clots. And we're noticing a creep in her creatinine. What's your mind thinking here? Smoking, big one, cyclophosphamide. What's she on that one for again? Vasculitis. Vasculitis. So that's two things there. Well, cyclophosphamide is a pretty big one too. That's kind of a carcinogen. Also vasculitis potentially can cause hematuria too. So we always got to think about that, especially things like Wagner's, potentially church straws, any kind of like vasculitis, even polyardritis, and those that can do that too. So I would definitely be even considering vasculitis as a part of the workup as well. That's definitely something to consider. But right off the get go, I'm definitely thinking bladder cancer, given that this is a significant smoking history, cyclophosphamide use, and they have hematuria with clots in it. That's always another way of like a buzz term or somewhat like pathodermontic for bladder cancer. So that's definitely at the top of my list is a bladder cancer, which is a usually most often more than not. There's two types, squamous cell and transitional cell. Squamous cell, significantly less common. That one we see in people who live over in like Egypt or like Sub-Saharan Africa, who get like exposed to like schistosome, which is like this nasty like worm, and that can penetrate through the skin. It can go up into your actual, what actually gets into your bloodstream. Then it goes to your liver, to your lungs, and then it spreads to your bladder and it literally gets stuck into the bladder wall. So that's one schistosome as a nasty one or chronic like catheter use. That can cause squamous cell. We don't see that one too often. That one's just, it's not very common. The more common one is transitional cell. And transitional cells usually seen with smoking. As I said, cyclophosphamide or any person who's working in an industry that is exposed to like rubber dyes of sorts. Those are the biggest, biggest, biggest risk factors. So that's what I'm thinking about. Could it be renal cell carcinoma? It could. Doesn't, they don't, they're not presenting with flank pain and palpable mass, but that doesn't mean that they can't still have it. That's still possible. A stone, they haven't presented with any flank pain. Again, I think it's possible, but I think it's less likely. So those are the things I'm thinking about. That's what I would start off with first, is I would say it could be still a renal pathology of sort. I'd say it's less likely. I'm going to say it's going to be more likely lower urinary tract pathology. And then what about the rising creatinine? Does that tell you anything? Yeah. Yeah. That's a big one from point nine to 2.1 pretty quickly. That's an acute kidney injury. That's, that's definitely like scary. It says over six months. And again, I don't know how quickly that did rise, but that's definitely a concerning feature. So theoretically, this could be an AKI. It could be CKD. It kind of just depends. All I know is that from six months ago, their creatinine shot up. Yep. So that's how quickly it went from point nine to 2.1 in that six months span. I don't know, but I definitely would be concerned about that. So there's all a couple of things that you would want to be concerned about with the rising creatinine. Could it be pre-renal? I don't see any risk factors here for like dehydration or any kind of medications or anything that would make me think about that. Intra-renal, cyclophosamide, it does have that vascularitis can also cause an intra-renal AKI as well. But with the hematuria, I definitely would want to be considering, it could it be, and it's rare that bladder cancer is near the trigone, right at the bladder outlet obstructing that actual, like the trigone obstructing the actual outlet, leading to a buildup of fluid in the bladder backing up through the ureters and then causing hydronephrosis. And then that can potentially be a cause. So that's something I'm thinking about, but I would definitely have to do a workup on this one. And one of the beauties of this is that if I did one study, at least two studies, maybe a CT urogram, which is, it's kind of like an abdominal CT with IV contrast, except what you do is, is you look at a phase where there's no contrast going into the kidney, then you look at another phase where there is contrast running through the kidney, then you look at a phase where it's running down the ureter and into the bladder. And so it just kind of just evaluates that and looks to see if anything kind of shows up as abnormal. Um, and the kidney, the ureter and the bladder. So it's a great study for that. It also tell me if it's a stone, it would tell me if it's a tumor in the kidney. It would tell me if it's a tumor in the bladder for the most part. And on top of that, it would show me any kind of complications. Like you're saying, like, what's the cause for the, is there hydronephrosis? If I saw a gargantua's kidney and I saw that there was a potentially an obstruction at the bladder side, then I say, okay, that could have been really reason why. So that's something I would think about, but right away I'm going to say, let's get a CT urogram and let's combine that with scheduling them a cystoscopy. A cystoscopy is great because CT urogram is better for upper tract imaging. So it's going to get a better look at the kidney and a better look at the ureters. It can find decent sized tumors in the bladder, but if it's a smaller or flat like tumor, it may miss it. So that's when a cystoscopy is, it's a flexible thing. It's, it's a scope. It goes right up through the urethra and goes up into the bladder and you can literally visualize the inside of the bladder and see if you can find a tumor in there. And so that's what I would do for that. And if I do see a tumor, I would take like a little piece of the biopsy there. So that's first thing I would do for this case, because they have smoking as a risk factor, cyclophosphamide. They have painless hematuria. And on top of that, they're older. Um, definitely concerned that this is definitely a bladder cancer. That's my high concern. But I want to rule out anything else. That's what I'd start off with first is doing those. Perfect. So CT urogram, we have a polypoid bladder dome mass. And then you note bilateral hydrogen nephrosis, kind of like you were expecting. So that's the cause for their acute, their, their kidney. They're, I'd say acute kidney injury in my case. Yeah. All right. And then for our cystoscopy with biopsy, we have a friable ureotheliolation. And then with the transurethral resection of the bladder or the tumor is performed for staging. And I'm kind of curious to know about the staging. Yeah. And then for pathology, it's a high grade, non muscle invasive bladder cancer. That's not bad. And it's not great, but it's not bad. So that's a good thing. So, well, that's, so when we do a CT urogram, we found the mass. That's good. Cause sometimes you miss them. Then we did the cystoscopy, confirmed that there was a lesion there, took the biopsy. And usually they can do a small superficial one. Oftentimes you have to do a turbid, which is like the transurethral resection of the bladder tumor. And you literally cut out a good chunk. You actually get into the muscle. Okay. So you have to get pretty deep. You got to go through mucosa and then get into the actual muscular layer and take that out. Cause what you want to see is, is how deep has the tumor penetrated. And if it's in the mucosa and it hasn't invaded the detrusor muscle yet, that's a good sign. That's called non muscular invasive bladder cancer, which is what this patient has. If they got into the muscle or beyond the muscle, then it's muscular invasive bladder cancer. That's not a good one. Okay. Oftentimes we got to cut the bladder out in that case. So, so what does this tell us then overall? I'd say from this one, we definitely have bladder cancer and I'd say that this is going to be, so it says high grade. All right. So, but it is non muscle. So it means it did not invade the muscle. So it's called non muscular invasive bladder cancer and it's high grade. Okay. So that's how they, they stage it. Yeah. Okay. Exactly. Well, throughout all of oncology, all the staging we've done, you do the T and M stuff. Yeah. It's, it's kind of confusing. Yeah. It's a lot. Yeah. So every topic we've done though, there's some sort of variation. Yeah. Exactly. And this is the easiest way to make it simple for determining prognosis or treatment for these patients. So you just want to know if it invaded the muscle or not. If it did invade the muscle, then you take it a little step forward for further and you try to determine if it metastasized to any nodes or to any other organs. So if it did, you oftentimes you don't, you don't do a lot. You usually just do like chemotherapy, aggressive chemotherapy. So we're not going to talk about that one. Usually the two things that you usually get tested on is if it's non muscular invasive or muscular invasive, and then what do you, what do you do with those usually? Okay. All right. So overall, then if you had to say a treatment, how would you treat this patient then? Um, so we already started off with the turbid. All right. So we already cut out a good chunk of it. And that's pretty much, it's kind of nice because that test is diagnostic and therapeutic. So if you do the turbid during like whenever you actually done the scistoscopy look, you visualize it, maybe take a little lesion. Sometimes if you're in the urologist present, they will actually go in and they'll actually do the turpt for you. Um, once you've done that, you can stage it. And then also you removed a good chunk of the tumor. But if there is any kind of residual tumor left, what you do is right after the procedure, if they're low risk, which this patient isn't, if they were low risk, I would actually fill their bladder with what's called chemotherapy. It's called intra vesicular or intra vesicle chemotherapy. And we give them something called mitomycin C. Usually it's done like a couple hours after you get the turpt. And you actually fill that bladder and that's going to help to kind of kill off some of the remaining or residual tumor cells and prevent recurrence. If they're high grade, you can't do it right away. You got to give it a little bit of time. Cause then you're going to give them something called BCG. And so whenever you give BCG, it's a little bit, it's rare. It's rare, but it can potentially theoretically cause sepsis. And so that's why you don't want to give it right away. You want to allow for the kind of bladder to heal a little bit. And then you're going to give them BCG. I would only give them BCG if they were high risk or they had a high grade. So as a tumor was like decent size, pretty big, but more particularly when you look at it under pathology and they mentioned the term high grade, you can't give them mitomycin C. You want to give them BCG. And it's going to help to really activate and amplify their immune system to kill off these actual tumor cells. So that's what I would do. I would start off with, we've done the turpt. I then wait a little bit and maybe after a couple of weeks, fill their bladder with the BCG and then, oh, they have, they got a tumor there. It should help to improve their flow afterwards. But if they have that bad of an acute kidney injury and it continues to continues to rise, even after trying to decompress by removing the tumor, even if we try to put a fully catheter in, I'd probably do like nephrostomy tubes. Just to kind of get them by if they have a significant acute kidney injury. If they started getting like, I'd say if they started to get like pilote too, that's a pretty scary one. So sometimes we'll do bilateral perc nefs and help to drain the actual urine there, help to allow for the creatinine to improve. And then you can just pop those out. So that's something to consider. But that's only something I would do if like they didn't improve after I actually tried to remove that tumor. And also if I needed to put in like a fully catheter. Now, if this patient did have muscle invasion, that's different. We don't, the turpt is not going to be the answer anymore. And neither will any intravestical chemotherapy. We actually have to give them systemic chemotherapy, like through their venous circulation, usually it's like cisplatin and gym side of being, and then we got to cut the whole bladder out and then even nearby organs. So not only do you cut the bladder out, like if they're a female, you remove the vagina, you remove, you know, the actual entire fallopian tubes, everything. And so you remove a lot of the nearby structure, the uterus, et cetera. If it's the male, you remove a lot of the associated structures there as well, such as the prostate, the seminal vesicles. So it's a pretty drastic type of procedure that you would have to do. And if you think about it, you removed a source of how you've empty urine into the urethra. So now you have to have another way to pee. And so what they do is they divert the urine. So they take the ureters and they, they take a stump of your ilium, usually is the conduit, and they'll externalize that ilium into a stoma, like a bag. And it's going to be like a urosthymia bag now. And so they'll take your ureters and the ureters will go and empty their urine into the ilium, this little piece of the ilium, and that'll come out into this bag that, you know, via the stoma. So sometimes that way, it's what we would have to do if they had muscle invasive. So in other words, you did the turp, you found, oh, shit, the tumor's all the way deep down into the muscle. Okay, that sucks. All right, what do we do? All right, now we're going to go ahead and we're going to give them chemo. And then we're going to get them set up to do a radical systemic to me, cut the bladder out and divert the urine another way. And so that's unfortunately the way that we usually go with these, but how do you monitor these patients? Let's just say our current patient, how would you monitor that for hopefully resolving him and getting better? If we didn't do it. So if you did the radical systemic to me, you can't do another scistoscopy anymore, because you don't have a bladder anymore. But if I did just go the route of the turp and the right, like our patient. Yeah. Okay. If I had that one, I do a scistoscopy again. I would do it probably like maybe like six to 12 months, make sure that the lesions actually not there anymore and make sure that there's not any kind of problems. That's what I would probably do. I'd probably do that. Usually I do six to 12 months. That's probably the best way of starting off with it. And then from there, you can kind of adjust based upon the results of that. And how about the any more CT urographies at all? Or is it just the scistoscopy? I'd say I would do the CT urography if I had upper uroothelial tract carcinoma. I'd say I probably wouldn't do any kind of like CT urography. You can sometimes, but I don't think that that's usually going to be necessary. Okay. Well, that's all I had for case two. Hopefully if you're not, if you're up for it, we can do a quick rapid recap. Yeah, sure. But, you know, keep it high heel. I don't want to hear you keep laboring on. Okay. Okay. Okay. Quick rapid recap. So if I had to give some big things for each one, like renal cell carcinoma first, I would say the big thing is to remember with these patients, you got to think about a patient who presents with hematuria, flank pain and a palpable mass. If they have that, definitely in the clinical world, it's not as common, but in the exams, it's the classic triad. Other things that you want to think about for this patient is the perineoplastic syndrome. You want to think about polysathemia. You want to think about hypercalcemia. You want to think about potentially any kind of resistant hypertension that you could see in this condition. Usually with these patients, the only way that you can truly find this is an abdominal CT, usually to with the IV contrast showing a mass. If you see the mask, don't buy opposite it to call on a surgeon to for your logical kind of surgery evaluation to see if they can do a nephrectomy. If it's less than seven centimeters, you can do partial. If it's greater than seven, then you're going to do a full radical nephrectomy. The other thing is that sometimes if it's like an old patient, it's a smaller tumor and they got a lot of comorbidities, you can just watch them and you can just do CT scans every six months or three months or whatever. However, aggressive you want to be in surveying it, but oftentimes we prefer to just cut that tumor out if we can. Um, if it's metastatic, you don't really do that. You do immunotherapy, dual combination of that bladder cancer, two types, transitional, yourothelial, yourothelial, much more common squamous. That's less common. You're going to see that more in the Cisoma and the Egypt, Sub-Saharan Africa to population transitional, more common here in our neck of the woods. And you're going to see the more smoking, you know, drugs like cyclophosphamide or any kind of like rubber dye factories where they have exposure. That's painless hematuria. Usually that's the most common presentation, maybe some visible clots. They don't usually have any other symptoms from here. If you see that a CT urogram is good to see if you rule out anything in the upper tract and then scistoscopy falls for the lower urinary tract to see, Hey, is there any kind of renal, I'm sorry, any bladder lesion present that I saw in the CT urogram or I didn't see. Oftentimes we prefer to do a turbid because that's going to tell you if it's muscular invasive or non muscular invasive. It's non muscular invasive. That's great. You're going to go ahead and you've done the turp at this point. Is it low grade dysplasia? High grade low grade. You fill the bladder with mitomycin C high grade. You wait a little bit, couple of weeks and you fill it with the BCG. If it's muscular invasive, ultimately they're going to have to get chemo and you're going to have to remove the bladder and a lot of other structures and then divert the urators to empty into the ileum, into the stoma and a bag. And so that's usually the way that we would end up with that one. A lot of the times with these patients, you got to be careful when you take a kidney out full like nephrectomy, renal function monitoring is really, really important, but you should see a lot of their perineoplastic stuff improve. Bladder cancer, you probably just got to keep following up with this testosterone piece, following up with the UA's, even your encyclologies or something that we would even do as well. Just making sure that you're not missing any lesion that resurfaces or recurs, especially if you haven't removed the bladder in that case. So that's what I would hit everybody with. And I hope that that made sense. Did you like this one? I sure did. I sure did. And hey, common theme here. Don't ignore painless hematuria. Don't ignore it, man. Yeah. So I really hope that you guys enjoyed this podcast. I'll be learned a lot. I'll be had fun. And I hope that you now can appreciate if a patient comes in with hematuria, how to be able to work them up, how to be able to kind of like see that there is a common thread between renal cell carcinoma and bladder cell cancer, but trying to be able to differentiate which one it is. I hope that now you have an understanding of that. Well, I love you guys. And thank you guys. And as always, until next time.

=== FILE: Vasculitis ｜ Clinical Medicine [xHRwhK835QE].txt ===

 vascularitis, inflammation of the blood vessels. So, when we talk about vascularitis, let's first discuss the pathophysiology, and the best way to do this is to cover the three types of vascularitis. The first one is large vessel vascularitis. It's actually not too hard to understand. It's primarily going to affect the aorta and the main aortic branches. So, if you look here, we'll see that they're going to have inflammation of the aorta, inflammation of the branches such as the subclavian, and even the carotids. Now, this inflammation is going to narrow the blood vessels, increase the risk of thrombosis, and sometimes the inflammation can even cause angiosus to form, and we'll talk about that. Now, when we talk about the reason why these large vessels are inflamed, oftentimes we don't have a great reason. The concept that we believe to be associated with this from potentially biopsies is that this is a cell-mediated inflammation. So the concept behind this is that let's say that a patient has lots of monocytes and neutrophils and lymphocytes, and what these guys are doing is they're infiltrating into the actual blood vessel wall and inducing injury. Now, you probably bring up the question, why in the heck are these monocytes, neutrophils, and lymphocytes going into the blood vessel to injure it? Let's say that a patient's been exposed to an infection of some sort, so a virus. When they become exposed to that virus, they produce an immune response to that virus. What if a protein on that virus resembles a protein on the vessel? That is called molecular mimicry, and the immune system will kind of attack that protein similar to how they would to a virus. The problem is that when you injure your blood vessel, you end up with a bunch of complications. One, is now your endothelial cells that are supposed to have a natural antithorombotic function via releasing things like PGI2, which is prostacycline, and nitric oxide. These are supposed to prevent platelets from sticking to the blood vessel wall. If you can't make these because you've injured the blood vessel, guess what happens? The platelets will stick to the injured blood vessel wall and form a platelet plug. These platelet plugs will now narrow the lumen of this actual injured blood vessel, and now oxygen that's supposed to be running through this vessel is going to be a decrease in its delivery to the tissues. Now as a response to that, the tissue can become ischemic, and over time, if not corrected, can lead to necrosis. That's one complication of vessel inflammation or injury. A second one is fibrosis. As you have repeated injury to the blood vessel, fibroblasts will come down here and they'll lay down this yellow tissue here called fibrous tissue. This fibrous tissue now will start to narrow the lumen here of this actual vessel. The diameter is decreased and the amount of oxygen that we can deliver via this blood vessel is decreased. This is going to lead to ischemia that this artery is going to be supplying. The last complication is when you have weakness of your blood vessel wall due to constant inflammation, the metalloproteinases are going to start breaking down the elastic lamina and you're going to end up with these little bubbles off of the blood vessel. These are called aneurysms. The complications that can occur with aneurysms is that if they rupture, this can lead to bleeding. That is a pretty concerning thing because this can lead to end organ damage. This is an overarching theme here that in all of these large vessels, this whole mechanism could be occurring. It's usually due to these cells interpreting the vessel as being similar to some type of prior exposure. That's the theory behind it. When we talk about these, let's say that the actual inflammation is occurring primarily of the carotid and some of its branches that come off near the face. If it is, we oftentimes will associate this with what's called giant cell arthritis, sometimes often referred to as temporal arthritis. Another one is let's say that the inflammation that's occurring within the vessel is primarily staying within the aorta and the arch and then just off the initial points here like the subclavians and maybe the initial part of the carotids. If that's the case, we're talking about another type of large vessel vasculitis called takayasu. We can differentiate these two types of large vessel vasculitis based upon the more predominant arteries and branches that they're going to be affecting, even though the mechanism of inflammation may be relatively the same. Medium vessel vasculitis is going to be affecting arteries that run through an organ. In other words, what would this artery be called going into the kidney? It's called the renal artery. These would be the mesenteric arteries because they're going to be going and supplying parts of the small and large intestine. If there's inflammation of these blood vessels, again, you're going to cause ischemia via thrombosis or stenosis of the actual blood vessels going to these organs and even potentially aneurysms that can form and you can cause bleeding. Now, when we talk about these, the mechanism is exactly the same as what we talked about for large vessel vasculitis. There's some type of cell mediated process. This could be due to a virus or an exposure of some sort that causes our immune system to go haywire and attack those proteins on the vessel that may resemble an exposure that we had at some point. Now, when this happens, again, the same thing occurs is that these vessels, renal, mesenteric, and so many more can have thrombosis of them, which can lead to ischemia to these organs, stenosis, which can lead to ischemia to these organs, and aneurysms that can bleed leading to bleeding that can occur along these areas. Now, with that being said, the way that we differentiate the two different types of medium vessel vasculitis is if it involves so many different systemic arteries and it only spares one organ, and that is the pulmonary system. If that is the case, we oftentimes refer to this as polyarteritis nodosa. If it confines itself primarily to the coronary arteries and not much else, we kind of refer to that as Kawasaki's disease. These are going to be, again, your medium vessel vasculitis, which has a similarity in the mechanism, but differences in the arteries that are oftentimes most significantly inflamed. Now, the last type of vasculitis is small vessel vasculitis. Small vessel vasculitis is interesting because this is going to affect our microvascular. If you guys remember this from your anatomy and physiology, this is your arterial that can become inflamed. This is going to be what we refer to as your capillary bed here that can also become inflamed. And then lastly, you have your post-capillary venial. These all can become inflamed, and again, within multiple different organs or tissues. When these become inflamed, that is what we refer to as our small vessel vasculitis. Now, the mechanism, the pathophysiological concept is different. It's no longer cell mediated as it was for large and medium. It's now in two distinct areas. One is it could be anka mediator, anka associated. What is this anka? This is an anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies, and there's two types. One is your C-ankas, which are the cytoplasmic anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies, relatively redundant. They're attacking a specific protein that's present on neutrophils. This one here is very interesting. It's called proteinase 3. Whenever the C-ankas attach to that, they trigger these neutrophils to become agitated, and they start releasing reactive oxygen species and proteases and extracellular traps that bind up and propagate more inflammation in the area. The other one is called P-ankas, and these are your perinuclear anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies. These are going to be going after a protein called MPO, myeloperoxidase. If it's going after the myeloperoxidase enzyme, it's the P-ankas, and if it's going after the proteinase 3, it's the C-ankas. Either way, what happens is when these ankas are formed, again, they're formed because maybe you're exposed to some type of environmental agent of sorts. The protein on that environmental agent resembles the proteins on the neutrophils. They bind to them and trigger these neutrophils to induce vessel injury. When those vessels become injured, you increase the risk of, you got it, thrombosis, stenosis, and aneurysm formation within these particular areas of your microvascular. Now there is a couple different concepts here because the causes are very, very dependent upon the organs that they affect and the anka that's causing this. The first one is called granulomatosis with polyangiotis, also referred to as Wagner's. This one is primarily mediated by C-anka, whereas eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiotis, also known as Church-Strauss syndrome, is going to be P-anka mediated and microscopic polyangiotis is also P-anka mediated. All of these are mediated via this anka antibodies that trigger the same mechanism as the cell mediated does in large and medium vessel. The last one is immune complex deposition. This can also injure these smaller vessels here. This is going to be via these different antibodies that are binding and precipitating with one another and then depositing into an actual vessel wall in a particular organ or tissue which precipitates inflammation. These immune complexes can be IgA complexes. Let's say that you have a bunch of IgA antibodies that bind together and they precipitate and then basically what they do is they go and bind into a tissue. Maybe it's a glomeruli that they bind onto. When they bind to the glomeruli, they can utilize the complement system and are macrophages who will come in and precipitate lots of inflammation. The big thing to remember here is just diagnostically important is IgA antibodies don't usually precipitate a heavy amount of complement protein utilization especially C4 complement proteins. There's less of that one. Why am I mentioning that? Because there's another type of vasculitis which utilizes heavy amounts of IgG and IgM antibodies that complex and bind with one another, deposit into the tissue and utilize a heavy amount of C4 complement proteins which precipitates massive inflammation. Either way, the concept that I need you to understand is when these immune complexes bind into the actual vessel wall of the tissue, it will cause these little maroon guys here which are your complement proteins to become activated which will precipitate a lot of inflammation. It can do that by pulling in macrophages to enhance opsonization. It can release C3A, C5A, a bunch of different inflammatory molecules or chemokines that attract in more white blood cells. Either way, this is going to precipitate pretty massive injury. Vessel damage that's going to lead to, you guessed it, thrombosis, stenosis, and increased risk of aneurysm. All right, my friends. Now we move on to the next one which is immune complex deposition. This is when you have a bunch of different antibodies. Maybe they're IgA antibodies that utilize complement proteins because whenever IgA antibodies bind onto a particular protein, they can have complement proteins come and stick onto it, lead to mac formation or they can cause macrophages to come by enhancing opsonization or they can release chemokines. The whole concept is that IgA antibodies when they utilize complement system propagates inflammation especially of the tissue that it's depositing which is a blood vessel. In IgA vasculitis, you see lots of IgA complexes but here's the big thing diagnostically. They don't use a lot of the C4 complement protein. Use more of the C3. For the other one which is your cryoglobulinemic vasculitis, they use lots of IgG and IgM antibodies that will precipitate fine with one another and deposit into the tissues and utilize complement proteins but they use a heavy amount of C4 complement proteins. When you check the C4 levels, in between these two, it's going to be very low in cryoglobulinemic and normal in IgA vasculitis. All right. Either way, when these complement proteins are activated, these little antibodies bind onto the actual vessel wall, cause these complement proteins to stick to it, form mac formations which will damage the actual cell and then cause lots of immune system cells to become enhanced into the area and cause more damage, we're going to damage these vessels. This is all propagated again, IgA complexes, IgA vasculitis, IgG and IgM with heavy C4 protein utilization, cryoglobulinemic vasculitis. Either way, guess what the same result is if you damage the vessel? Humbosis, stenosis and increase risk of aneurysm formation within these small capillaries and a particular organ or tissue. We've now talked about the pathophysiology of large, medium and small vessel vasculitis. What about the complications going through of large, medium and small vessel vasculitis pertaining to the particular disease? So the first one was giant cell arthritis, if you guys remember. This one is going to particularly hit a very specific artery and whenever these immune system cells infiltrate the branches of the carotid it tends to hit this artery first, the superficial temporal artery. When you cause this to become inflamed you narrow the lumen and reduce blood flow to the tissue here, especially to the skin and the muscles. This can cause a headache, especially near this temporal area and tenderness of the skin over this particular area. It also can inflame this little branch right here called the ophthalmic artery, which can narrow the blood flow going to the actual retina, which can lead to amaurosis, fugax which is a temporary blindness, but then over time it can lead to complete and permanent vision loss. This is the most feared complication of giant cell arthritis. And the last one is it affects the maxillary artery. This goes to a lot of the muscles of mastication and so you can develop what's called jaw claudication, which is a lot of pain, soreness, tenderness of the actual muscles like the masseter, the bucinator, etc. during the chewing action. These are things to think about if you see this on the clinical exam in a patient with giant cell arthritis, this is what you really need to be thinking about. Another high yield fact for giant cell arthritis, which goes along with the epidemiology, this is most common in females, particularly greater than 50 years of age. There is one disorder that if you see this in the vignette will often times cue you up to think about giant cell arthritis. It's a patient who comes in presenting with proximal hip and shoulder joint pain, tenderness, and stiffness within the morning. This is called polymyalgia rheumatica, and that's often times very common and heavily associated with giant cell arthritis. We now move to the other large vessel of acolytis, which is tachiosus. Now remember, think about the artery that involves and follow the flow of that. I told you the carotid branches refer to the giant cell. For tachiosus, if you remember it was like the aorta, it was the subclavian and the carotids and the proximal parts of them. So if I hit particularly a lot of inflammation hitting that aorta, especially the aortic arch, if I inflame the aortic arch and I narrow this, one really prominent complication is if you inflame the vessel wall, you increase the risk of tearing through the intima and creating a dissection or weakening the vessel and causing it to balloon, causing an aneurysm. So aortic aneurysms and dissections are relatively common in patients with tachiosus. But really high yield for tachiosus is when it hits the subclavians and narrows this. You're reducing the blood flow to the upper extremities. So often times in these patients, if you narrow their subclavians, they'll have very decreased pulses bilaterally. Sometimes we call this a pulseless disease. On top of that, they may have unequal blood pressures, potentially between both arms, but the blood pressures in their upper extremities may be significantly lower than the blood pressure in their lower extremities. And so having unequal blood pressure and pulses in the extremities, particularly upper, in comparison to lower, is pretty consistent with tachiosus. Lastly is if you hit these carotids. If you get the carotids and you narrow these, you're narrowing the blood flow up to the brain. This can definitely lead to transient loss of consciousness, which is called syncope. But often times if you auscultate over this area, you may hear some turbulence of blood flow like a carotid bruit. So these are potential things to think about with tachiosus. Here's a really high yield fact though, to differentiate tachiosus from giant cell. Because tachiosus can potentially extend out to the carotid, they may get some similar presentation at giant cell, but you will never see tachiosus in a patient greater than 50. They're almost always less than 50 years of age. Usually you have Asian descent. Alright. So that's a good comparison between these two. Let's now move to medium vessel. For medium vessel vasculitis, the big one, the heavy hitter, the mac daddy of this one, is polyarteritis nadoza. And it's within the name. This son of a gun does almost every artery possible, except for those going to the lungs. And so when you think about this, one of the big ones that it likes to hit is the vessels that supply the nerves, the peripheral nerves. And so there's a disease that's called mononuritis multiplexum. So let's say here we have this vessel. It's called the vasinervorum. And the vasinervorum becomes inflamed and it gets narrowed and it doesn't supply oxygen to these nerves. Well then the nerves start to become less functional and become ischemic. Because of that, you're going to get damage to these nerves. And this oftentimes, here's the key thing, happens to two or more of these peripheral nerves. That what happens is you get what's called mononuritis multiplex. I like to also say it's multiple mononuropathies, meaning, for example, let's say I injure here because of vasinervorum narrowing, I injure the radial nerve. I'm going to get wrist drop. If I injure over here, the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve, I'm going to get lack of sensation over this kind of particular area here. And if I hit down here towards the peroneal nerve, I may get foot drop. So you're seeing a patient who has multiple mononuropathies. And that's usually pretty key. Another one is it loves the renal system. So it loves to hit this by causing a lot of narrowing of the actual lumen of the renal artery. Kind of like a renal artery stenosis almost. And if you reduce the perfusion going into the actual kidney, the juxtaglomerulus cells will sense that and they'll pump up a renin production. Renin will lead to angiotensin formation and aldosterone formation. And this combined effect of angiotensin 2 causing vasoconstriction, aldosterone reabsorbing sodium and water, you end up with an increase in BP. Oftentimes, these patients have not very good controlled blood pressure, hypertension. The other thing is if you have chronic repeated poor renal perfusion, guess what makes up your kidneys? Your nephrons. And you got 1.2 million of those in each kidney. These things will start dying off if they're not getting enough oxygen because of poor perfusion. If that happens, you can start to develop kidney injury, especially chronic kidney disease. These are really, really common features we see in polyadiritis and lidoza, especially if you see the monodiritis multiplex. They also love to hit the skin, especially the kind of vessels in the dermis and cause the blood to extravasate here and cause things like levido reticularis, which is this lacy appearance, as well as preparic lesions that are palpable that appear on the skin. Again, big thing for both of these is they do not blanch. It also hits the GI and this is a really, really important one, I think, for diagnostic purposes. When you hit the mesenteric vessels by causing this inflammation, it can cause this beaded appearance like it does here in the renal vessels. But what happens is you get so much beating and stenosis and thrombosis that you reduce perfusion to the small bowel that this can cause abdominal pain via mesenteric ischemia. And also, sometimes, if the mesenteric ischemia is relatively acute, your lactate levels might be elevated. But here's another big thing. These little aneurysms that form these little beaded aneurysms can rupture into the lumen of the GIT and can precipitate GI bleeds. This is important to be able to realize that they often have the little micro-aneurysm, or rosary bead appearances on the splenchnic vessels, as well as the renal vessels, which is diagnostically helpful. Here's one last thing to take away from polyadiritis in adosas. A big hyaluron factor is that 10% of cases are associated with hepatitis B virus infection. It used to be higher. It used to be 30%. But now with the oncoming of vaccines, this is now reduced. But if you have a patient who has polyadiritis in adosa and the question comes up, what should you test for to reduce the risk of recurrence, it's going to be hepatitis B virus serology. All right. All right. Kawasaki's disease. This is a medium vessel vascularitis that actually affects child, our children, I should say. The arteries that are most commonly affected, the coronary arteries. Now, what happens here is that this inflammation occurs and causes these coronary artery aneurysms to occur. The problem with these aneurysms is when they form, they can increase the risk of a clot forming here causing thrombosis, which can reduce blood flow and lead to NMI. Or these things can rupture it, which can actually cause a patient to develop sudden cardiac death. Sudden cardiac death via some type of terrible ventricular arrhythmia or myocardial infarction causing sudden cardiac death, these are two big things that you have to be concerned about with Kawasaki's. Now, you never want to find Kawasaki's via this involvement. How do I find it and make sure I monitor for these potential complications and make sure I try to prevent this since this has a higher mortality rate in these children? Look for what's called crash and burn. This is indicative of the common manifestations for this. C is for conjunctivitis, R is for a rash, A is for adenopathy, which is your lymph adenopathy, S is the strawberry tongue, H is for hand and feet edema and erythema, and burn is they have a fever for greater than five days. These features oftentimes should cue you up to think about Kawasaki's and you should then look for this and a patient who is of one to five years of age. We now move into small vessel vasculitis. What are the big complications that we need to be considerate of in small vessel vasculitis? The first one is going to be granulomatosis of polyangiotis. Granulomatosis of polyangiotis can affect a lot of different organs, but it's important to remember one big difference that helps you to separate and remember GPA from EGPA and MPA. How do I do that? The first one is it loves to involve the vessels of the nasopharynx or the upper respiratory tract. You'll oftentimes see that they have lots of C anchors and these C anchors will cause those neutrophils to lead to a lot of reactive oxygen species and proteases that cause inflammation of these vessels and the sinuses. And the ears. And so oftentimes these patients will present with chronic sinusitis, maybe even otitis media and on top of that it can cause such inflammation of the nasal septum that it can perforate and indent and cause something called a saddle nose deformity. If you see this, definitely be thinking about GPA. Now the other thing that happens with GPA is it loves to hit the lungs. It likes to hit the bronchial blood vessels and cause bleeding which can present with diffuse alveolar hemorrhage which can cause massive pulmonary infiltrates bilaterally and can cause aards and it can even cause homoptysis. It can also cause inflammation to occur within the interstitial spaces here and cause interstitial lung disease and it can cause, here's the biggest thing, when the patient has infiltrates on their chest x-ray and sometimes these patients with GPA have fevers and a lot of other symptoms that are concerning for pneumonia, they'll oftentimes get antibiotics. They'll get a repeat chest x-ray and they'll still have that. And so the common theme to look for on the exam is a patient with recurrent pneumonia who's been treated with antibiotics. It's not necessarily pneumonia, it's just they have multiple infiltrates and they keep getting treated with antibiotics and it's not getting any better. The other thing is it loves to hit the kidneys, so homoptysis and hematuria. It likes to cause anchors to cause inflammation of the glomerulus which leads to loss of the glomerular filtration barrier and then they lose protein and blood. And so you'll see hematuria in the form of red blood cell cast which we'll talk about in glomerular nephritis. You also are going to lose lots of protein which is going to be in the form of proteinuria and the other thing that can happen in this particular patient is they can cause massive injury here which can lead to loss of proper GFR and clearance of creatinine and so these patients can have an increase in their creatinine, their BUN indicating and acute kidney injury. So rapid rise in their creatinine over a couple of days. That is a big thing to think about here. So hematuria, homoptysis via the diffuse alveolar hemorrhage, think about that especially if they have sinus involvement and lastly they like the skin and it's going to cause extravasation of blood into the skin tissue which can lead to palpable perpura. The big thing that you're going to notice is a recurrent theme here is that these three systems consistently become involved in GPA, EGPA and MPA. They differ really only in minute things. Let's talk about that. EGPA is eosinophilic granulomatomastopoligaeitis. So here's the big thing. These P-ankas which is the big thing that they're triggering, they like to cause these kind of again changes in neutrophils which lead to injury to the vessels supplying the nerves. What's this going to lead to? Vasin or form narrowing, two or more nerve damage and mononuritis multiplex. This is a big thing to think about. We see it in this one and we also see it in polyurethane dosa. But here's the heavy hitter. Here's the high yield stuff. These also tend to increase the production of IgE antibodies and increase the development of eosinophils in the airway which can precipitate allergic asthma via intense bronchospasm. So in patients who come in and have mononuritis multiplex, allergic asthma, eosinophilia and elevated IgE levels plus, what did we just talk about guys, pulmonary renal and skin involvement, think about EGPA. So this is going to be the same thing that you saw in GPA. They only differ in this particular area as well as P-ankas here, C-ankas for GPA. Okay, now we move on to MPA. Now MPA is even easier. You want to know why? Because if we look here, guess what? This one has elevated P-ankas, similar to EGPA. Okay, cool. What helps to differentiate it from EGPA and GPA? Well, no sinus involvement. Oh, that's GPA is the only one with the sinus involvement, the upper respiratory tract involvement. Okay. There's no allergic asthma involvement or eosinophilia or IgE antibodies that are elevated. Okay, it's unlikely EGPA. And there's no granulomas if you took a biopsy which we'll talk about later. That means really the only big thing for MPA is they have pulmonary renal and skin involvement. So they all can have diffuse alveolar hemorrhage via homoptysis. They can have infiltrates that require repeated antibiotics and they don't get better, interstitial lung disease, glomaline arthritis, and palpable perpura. They differ only by small little minute things. Now we move into the other type of small vessel vasculitis, which is your immune complexes. We have IgA. IgA vasculitis is the most common childhood vasculitis. Very important to remember. Usually a kid has been exposed to some type of upper respiratory tract infection. Usually it's a group A streptococcus bacteria or a viral infection. What happens is this triggers the immune system to generate antibodies against the group A strept or the virus. But guess what these things unfortunately do? They find proteins in our blood vessels that look similar to this protein on these bacteria or viruses and they attack it. Where? They love to attack the GIT, especially near the ilium. Inflaming these vessels, inflaming the ilium can increase the risk of causing this lead point where parts of the ilium slide right into the cecum. Casing the risk of antiseption and a small bowel obstruction here. You want to look for patients who have intense abdominal pain and IgA vasculitis. Guess what else it loves to hit? The renal vessels, the glomeruli, it can cause inflammation of the glomerulus. If it inflames the glomerulus, what's it going to do? It's going to cause hematuria, proteinuria. It doesn't necessarily cause as much of an acute kidney injury, but it is possible. It also loves to affect what else? It loves to affect the skin and cause extravization of blood into the actual skin tissue causing palpable perpura, especially oftentimes we see this over the actual legs and the buttocks. The joints, it loves to cause inflammation of the blood vessels near the synovial joints and causes inflammation of those joints causing joint pain. Oftentimes there is a triad that we will see as a similarity between IgA vasculitis and cryoglobulinemic, which is glomerulonophritis, palpable perpura, and joint pain. They differ really only between mesentery and GI bleed and the epidemiology that differentiates them as well. That then takes us into the cryoglobulinemic vasculitis. In this one, what we know is that this is most common. There is three types, type 1, type 2, type 3. Type 2 and type 3 oftentimes cause vasculitis. Type 1 causes hyperviscocity syndrome. We won't go too much into that. What I want you to remember, which is pertinent for your boards, is that cryoglobulinemic vasculitis is heavily associated with hepatitis C virus infections. They're exposed to some type of infection. Their body generates these antibodies against this hepatitis C virus such as IgM and IgG, and these IgM tend to be rheumatoid factor positive. If you check a rheumatoid factor.  for cryoglobulinemic patients, they're oftentimes positive. Either way, they generate these antibodies, and these antibodies will precipitate and complex together at temperatures less than 37 degrees. That's what we call cryoglobulins, proteins that precipitate and complex at low temperatures, less than 37 degrees. Once they do that, they go and deposit into the blood vessels of the affected organs, right, and we'll talk about those. Before we do that, I want to briefly pay homage to the types. Type 1, we see where there's primarily increased monoclonal IgM antibodies. We can see this in patients with multiple myeloma and Waldenstrung's macroglobulinemia. Type 2, we see that they have what's called monoclonal IgM antibodies and polyclonal IgG antibodies. This is the most common one that is associated with hepatitis C. Type 3 is you have polyclonal IgG and IgM antibodies that are complexing, and this is most commonly associated with autoimmune diseases. The big thing to remember, hepatitis C virus is associated. IgM and IgG antibodies are the primary antibodies that are precipitating the vasculitis, and it occurs oftentimes at lower temperatures. Now, the artery and organ that's involved is exactly the same as IgA vasculitis. It's the renal so they can precipitate glomerular nephritis, the skin so they can precipitate palpable perpura, and the joint involvement so they can precipitate joint pain. This is the big thing, but look for hepatitis C virus infection as the potential trigger here. My friends, we've talked a lot about vasculitis and differentiating them based upon pathophysiology. Now, if we're presented with a patient who comes in and says, hey, I'm having some fever, some fatigue, I'm having some joint pain, some anorexia, and maybe they're having other organ-specific symptoms, and you have a suspicion for vasculitis. You have to have a very strong degree of suspicion. The best thing to do is, is if they have some systemic and organ-specific symptoms, get an ESR and a CRP. All right, so now if we were to obtain an ESR and a CRP and it comes back that it's really elevated and they also have that fever, the fatigue, the anorexia, the weight loss, that's definitely suggesting systemic inflammation, right? So here's where a history and physical examination becomes extremely crucial to nail down a diagnosis of vasculitis. If I have constitutional symptoms, elevated ESR, CRP, and I have organ-specific symptoms, what in the heck does that even mean? For example, I have a patient who's greater than 50, they're coming in with a temporal headache and tenderness, they're having jaw claudication and maybe even some vision changes, that's their organ-specific symptoms, plus constitutional elevated ESR, CRP, I'm very suspicious of GCA. How do I really nail down the diagnosis? I could honestly make a clinical one and give them steroids and see if they get better, but if we really need to, we can do a temporary biopsy and look for giant cells with a lot of granulomidus inflammation that would be diagnostic of GCA, all right? If I do a good history and I see that the patient's less than 50, they have unequal or weak blood pressure impulses in the upper extremities and compared to the lower extremities, and I notice they have carotid bruise, maybe a history of syncope, I'm suspecting tachyacids, but I'm not going to go cutting into the carotid, cutting into their subclavian, cutting into the aorta, what am I going to do? I'm going to look for imaging evidence that suggests narrowing inflammation stenosis of those vessels. That's when I would go to a CTA or MRA. Look at this. You can see here some of the branches of the aorta carotid are very, very inflamed and very narrow. That's a pretty indicative one. I'll look here on the sagittal view. You can see here there's a lot of narrowing of the actual aorta and a lot of thickening and inflammation of the vessel wall. Those would be very, very suggestive and almost pretty much diagnostic for a patient having tachyacids. If we go the other route to now polyaduritis, if I have a patient who has hepatitis B virus infection, 10% of cases, they have mononuritis multiplex, they have hypertension, they have CKD, they have levidoreticularis or preparatory lesions, they have mesenteric ischemia or GI bleeding, I suspect polyaduritis and doza. How do I look for the primary problem? I told you the renal vessels, mesenteric vessels tend to bead and look like little aneurysms. And so if you get a visceral angiogram, it'll show these particular vessels. Look here, here's a mesenteric involvement. You see all these like little beaded appearances. These are all the aneurysms. That's diagnostic. If I get it in the renal vessels, boom, diagnostic. I have then made a pretty good diagnostic, a suspicion of polyaduritis and doza. This would be enough. If the patient has skin involvement though and nerve involvement, it would go a long way at this point to say, I'm gonna do a skin or nerve biopsy. And if I do that, I will find fibroenoid necrosis of that tissue that would be completely diagnostic of polyaduritis and doza. But oftentimes you don't have to if you have that visceral angiogram that makes the diagnosis. If I have purpuric lesions, pulmonary infiltrates, in other words, a patient with the infiltrates on the chest x-ray not getting better with antibiotics or glomeruline arthritis, I should be concerned about an ancovascularitis. Whereas if I have purpuric lesions, I have arthralgias or joint pain, anglomeruline arthritis, I should think about the triad present for immune complex vasculitis. How do I differentiate these two? Well, if I really wanted to, I should just get labs for all of these. I should get an ANCA level, an IGA level, a cryoglobulin level and a C4 level. Now, here's why. If I get the ANCAs, I'll tell if it's C-ANCA or P-ANCA. If it's C-ANCA, it's GPA. If it's P-ANCA, it's EGPA or MPA. And I have to look at their clinical features. If it comes back, IGA levels are elevated. It's IGA vasculitis. And if the cryoglobulin's come back positive and the C4 levels, remember, I told you the difference between the two. If C4 is low, that suggests cryoglobulinemic vasculitis. This oftentimes may be enough, but add in your history and physical exam. For GPA, they're going to have sinus involvement. That's the big difference. So nasopharynx involvement, so sinusitis, the deformity, the saddle nose deformity would also be suggestive of that otitis media. That would oftentimes be good enough. If you really wanted to, you could obtain a biopsy to really add to the utility here. If I had a patient with elevated eosinophils and IgE antibodies and asthma, I would think about EGPA. And if I have a patient who has no nasopharynx, no eosinophilia, IgE or asthma involvement, I'm thinking, MPA. But again, I can get a biopsy to really help me out here. IGA vasculitis, look for a recent upper respiratory tract infection and a young child. And cryoglobulinemic, what's the main infection? Hepatitis C virus infection. So these are cues to think about. Now, if I get a biopsy, this would oftentimes nail down some of the differences between these two and these two if I really wanted to. So if I got a biopsy from the skin or from the, I did a renal biopsy, if I did any of these, I would potentially find granulomas in some of these. Now, granulomas just fibrous tissue, lymphocytes and macrophages in the center. Oftentimes, if we see granulomas that are present and they're necrotizing in the center, it suggests GPA and EGPA, right? Thus the name granulomatosis, granulomatosis. So that's the way we'd see it there. If it's giant cells, which means that all of these macrophages have kind of coalesced together and formed a multi-nucleated giant cell, that suggests giant cell arthritis and dochaosis arthritis. If you don't see any granulomas here, then you want to start thinking about potentially MPA. That's another way to differentiate these. Another way to differentiate these two is that this has granulomas, this does not have granulomas. And lastly, if I did a biopsy for these two, I would see IGA deposition heavy on immunofluorescence and IG vasculitis. And then for this one, I would see IgG, IgM and C4 proteins that would be deposited into the actual vessel wall there. This is an easy way of really being able to systematically approach vasculitis in a very, very helpful way. All right, let's now move into treatment. All right, my friends, let's now talk about the treatment of large vessel vasculitis. So we talked about the two types, giant cell arthritis and takayasu. The nice thing is that we treat both of these relatively the same. So steroids is going to be the upfront treatment. Now what are the reasons why we would initiate steroids in these patients? Oftentimes, it's first-line in both of these diseases. Now there is an extra drug that we can add on if the patient is refractory to corticosteroids or we can't wean them off of the steroids because they're still having symptoms. That would be where we would utilize tosilizumab or methotrexate. So this is an interleukin 6 blocker and this has the ability to shut down a lot of inflammation as well. So again, that would be a potential indication. The last thing that we could also consider as a treatment in large vessel vasculitis is angioplasty and stenting. We really only would utilize this in severe organ ischemia in patients with takayasu. So if they were having like really bad limb ischemia, I would then say, hey, we should go in there, balloon open that vessel, place the stent so that we can maintain good perfusion and then we can go put them on steroids if we need to. I think this is a lot, right? But I think the biggest thing to remember is an algorithmic approach. It might make it easier for you. So let's say that a patient has giant solid right. They're having vision changes. If they are having vision changes, right away you have to put them on steroids no matter what. If the vision loss is really bad, then okay, guess what I'm going to do? I'm going to start them on IV methylprednisolone. I need to get high dose steroids in there and get the inflammation down now so that they don't lose their vision. If there is no vision changes, I don't want them to eventually do lose their vision. So I'm going to put them on steroids, but it doesn't have to be IV and it doesn't have to be these crazy high doses right away. That's when I would use something like oral prednisone. All right? So that's the way I would review this. Now let's say that I use one of those two agents. I don't get them under control or they're refractory. They're still having symptoms. That's when I would go to Tosalizumab or I would go to methotrexate. Same thing. If I have a patient with tachyosis, are they having limb ischemia? So are they having severe claudication? They're having discoloration, pallor, decreased pulses. They're having pain out of proportion on their extremities, on the upper extremities. Oh, they are. Okay. Well then I should probably go ahead and balloon and stent open that vessel, the subclavian. If they're not, put them on some steroids, reduce some of the inflammation down with some oral prednisone. Then again, if they're not able to get off the steroids and not getting any better, that's when I would go to Tosalizumab or methotrexate. That's the way that we would approach these large vessel vascularities. Thankfully, it's the way that we'll approach a lot of our vascularities. I think the reason why we're doing this should be straightforward. It's to reduce inflammation. Yes, that's 100% the case. You want to use things like steroids, methotrexate, Tosalizumab because you're shutting down all of these inflammatory pathways, which is inducing vessel injury. Yes, there'll be less vessel wall inflammation. What's the benefit of this? What are you trying to prevent? You're trying to reduce thrombosis. You're trying to reduce repeated injury leading to stenosis. You're trying to reduce the risk of aneurysm rupture and causing bleeding. That is the goal that you're trying to go after. Let's talk about the treatment of medium vessel vasculitis. Now, when we talk about these, the treatment oftentimes is corticosteroids plus cyclophosphamide. The reason you would give this is in a patient with polyarteritis nadoza with very bad organ involvement. This is the first line treatment. You want to reduce the risk of acute kidney injury. You want to reduce the risk of a patient developing a nasty GI bleed. You want to reduce the risk of irreversible nerve injury, et cetera. In these patients, oftentimes you have to go big or go home. For IVIG plus aspirin, you're giving the IVIG to a patient with calisoccus to reduce the risk of coronary artery aneurysms and aspirin to reduce inflammation, but more specifically, you're giving it to reduce the risk of thrombosis within those aneurysms. This is the first line in calisoccus disease. Now, you're probably like, okay, so I give corticosteroids plus cyclophosphamide for PAN and IVIG plus aspirin for calisoccus. Cool. Is there another way I should look at this? I like to say, okay, there is another way that you could look at this. When a patient has polyarteritis nadoza, ask yourself the question, do they have really bad renal involvement? Do they have really bad GI involvement or neuro involvement? If they don't, you could probably get away with steroids only. But if they start to develop any renal GI or neuro involvement that is not getting any better, you then need to go big and go to steroids and cyclophosphamide to really shut down the inflammation. Here's the big thing though, and they're going to try to ask this on the exam. If you treat these patients and you don't get rid of their underlying cause or reason why they're developing vasculitis, they'll keep coming back. In this patient, we know a potential reversible cause. Do they have hepatitis B virus infection? If they do, you need to treat that because it will reduce the risk of recurrence. What about Kawasaki's? It's pretty straightforward. You give them IVIG and aspirin, and then what you do is you look to see, are they getting any improvement in their coronary artery aneurysms? Are they remaining stable in size? Get an echocardiogram to keep checking on those coronary artery aneurysms to make sure they're not getting any bigger. Again, why are you doing all of these things? You're giving all of these agents to reduce inflammation, reduce thrombosis, stenosis, and aneurysm rupture. That's the whole goal. The last thing is small vessel vasculitis. With treating these, it all comes down to the same concept. For these, we can use supportive care in certain types. Oftentimes, IGA vasculitis and very mild cryoglobulinemic vasculitis, if they just have joint pain, they don't have any glomerular arthritis or anything like that, or they only have skin lesions, you can avoid going any too crazy. In terms of IGA vasculitis and very mild cryoglobulinemic vasculitis, we can just do supportive care and not doing anything else. It's when the patient who has cryoglobulinemic vasculitis or a patient has any Anka vasculitis, do you need to go to corticosteroids plus cyclofossilumine? You're seeing this one for PAN. Guess what else you see it for? I'd say moderate to severe cryoglobulinemia and any type of Anka vasculitis. The last treatment option for small vessel vasculitis is PLEX. The only time we would do PLEX is if a patient has Anka vasculitis and they're developing diffuse alveolar hemorrhage and rapidly progressive glomerular arthritis. The only other time is if we think that we don't know, does the patient have Anka vasculitis or what's called anti-GBM disease, often known as Good Pasture Syndrome. If I am unsure if the patient has Good Pasture Syndrome or Anka vasculitis that's causing their hemoptysis and glomerular arthritis, then I need to start them on PLEX. The whole concept behind PLEX, which is really cool, is you're taking a large catheter and you're removing the blood that has these antibodies or these kind of Ankas, cleaning it out via this kind of like filter, and then sending in a substitution fluid back into the patient's bloodstream and basically just removing the constant inflammation via these anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies or anti-GBM antibodies, which will reduce the risk of rapidly progressive glomerular arthritis and diffuse alveolar hemorrhage. That's the concept you want to remember. Now to recap a lot of this, if a patient has Anka vasculitis, you have to ask the question, do they have RPGN, rapidly progressing acute kidney injury? Do they have diffuse alveolar hemorrhage, so they're in R, so they're having massive hemoptysis, or do they have anti-GBM? If they don't, it's steroids and cyclophosphamide. If they do, you go to PLEX. That's the way that you make that decision. For cryoglobulinemic, you just want to know, do they have glomerular arthritis, because that's the bad one, because this can cause acute kidney injury. If they do not, it's just supportive care. If they do, then you want to start them on steroids plus cyclophosphamide or an alternative agent for this one is Ratoxamab. Next thing, this patient has a high association with hepatitis C virus infection, like there is HBV and polyurethanose. Ask them or check for hepatitis C virus infection. If they do, treat it, because you reduce the risk of recurrence. Again, why are we doing all of these things here? To reduce vessel inflammation and all of these complications. All right, my friends, that covers vasculitis. I hope it made sense. I hope that you guys enjoyed it. I love you. Thank you and as always, until next time.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.560985Z ===
