All right, engine nerds. In this video, we're going to go over the regulation of glycolysis. So, we already went into a lot of detail on basically all the glycolytic pathway, right? We went over every single substrate, every single enzyme, and we went over a couple just, you know, correlations, uh, clinical correlations, as well as we did a little kind of tally here of all the actual end results of glycolysis. And we talked about all the different types of glut transporters. In this video, we're just going to hone in on three special enzymes. What are those special enzymes? I mentioned them here in the black steps, right? These black arrows. This one here, hexokinise. This one here, phosphoprutokinace one. And this last one down here, pyuvatekin. These are the enzymes that we're going to be focusing on in this video. And the reason why we have to focus on these is because they are highly regulated. In other words, there are certain types of substrates or hormones that are influencing these enzymes to control this glycolytic pathway. Okay, so let's get into it. Okay, so we got each enzyme here, the the three enzymes. This one right here, the first one, it was the one that was converting glucose. So what was this molecule again? Our starting substrate, glucose. So here's our glucose. And what did we do? What did this enzyme do? This hexokinase or glucokinase. It converted glucose into glucose 6 phosphate. So again, what is this molecule here called? It's called glucose 6 phosphate. Then there was this next one which we had was fructose 6 phosphate. Then after what happened? It went into fructose 16 bisphosphate. Then into dihydroxy acetone phosphate, glyceraldahhide three phosphate 13 bisphosphoglycerate three phosphoglycerate two phosphoglycerate pep and then pyuvate and the same reaction is occurring over here but I told you DHAP can't get converted into 13 BPG. He has to first be converted into glyceride 3 phosphate then 13 BPG then three phosphoglycerate two phosphoglycerate pep and then eventually pyuvate. Okay and if you guys remember there was a very important step where we were producing ATP and that step was going to be right here. We were producing two. We were actually producing an ATP in this step if we technically consider it. And we were producing ATP in this step right here. We were also producing an ATP in this step here. And we were producing an ATP in this step here. And if you guys also remember, we were generating in this step right here to actually if we think about it, if we keep it consistent, an NAD+ to an NADH right here. H this marker stinks. And then over here in a different color. Same thing though, NAD positive to NADH. But oh, shouldn't be there. It should be at glyceride 3 phosphate. So we should have that NAD positive being converted into NADH here at the glyceride 3 phosphate step. So NAD+ to NADH. And to keep it consistent here, all nice colors. NAD positive to NADL. NADH sorry and this stuff here. Okay. So out of this if you guys remember we generated one two three four ATPs but that was gross. We generated two NADHs and we put two ATP into the system. An ATP here and an ATP here. Okay. So we get that point now. Right now we're going to focus on these enzymes. Look at him. He's scared because he doesn't know what's going to happen. What's going to happen to this guy? What is the name of this enzyme? There's two different enzymes. Let's say that this is the one that it's in almost all body cells. So, in other words, this is hexo kynise. And if you guys want to be particular, you could say hexokinise type two if you want to. Okay, we could put that if you want and put type two. It's kind of a little bit more special for the muscles, but in general, you just call it hexocinise. The other one that's only found in the liver is somewhere else. This enzyme is freely in the cytoplasm. This other enzyme has to be housed somewhere in the nucleus. And again, what is this enzyme called? It's called gluco kynise. Now this glucoinase is always in the liver until it's actually brought out by some type of stimulus and we'll talk about that. And then hexocinus is just kind of freely circulating. Okay. So what's the stimulus for hexocinus? Now, I got to talk about a term which cuz we're going to I'm talking about regulation, but I can't just go in there and say, "Oh, this is what this guy is doing. This is what this guy's doing." There's two types of regulation, alsteric and hormonal. So, what do I mean by that? Okay, we talk about an enzyme, an enzyme has an overall three-dimensional shape. So, when it functions, it has to have a special type of active site. In other words, right? So, let's say here's my enzyme, little Pac-Man style. Okay, that's his active site. But let's say that on the back of him, he has a little pocket. Okay, that's his alossteric site. So that's his active site. That's where he's dealing with the substrate. So let's say I put in here a substrate. Okay, there's the substrate that he's going to react with. On the other side, maybe there's a little pocket where certain things, we'll call it factor X, can bind onto. What is that going to do to him? It's going to contort his overall three-dimensional structure. when it contorts its overall three-dimensional structure, it might change the activity of the active site. It either enhance it or it might inhibit it. So the whole purpose is that these molecules alosteric regulators are binding on to the aloststeric site other than the active site and controlling its overall three-dimensional shape which could either activate it or deactivate it. Hormonal is going to be more with the terms of phosphorilation and defosphorilation and we'll talk about that with insulin and glucagon in this video. Okay, so hexocinise, it's easy to think about this when you guys think about glycolysis. Okay, if I want this enzyme to work, what is he doing? He's converting glucose into glucose 6 phosphate. So if I have a lot of glucose, I'm going to want to convert it into him. That would be a stimulator. It's pretty easy. Look, glucose is right here. What is he going to do? He's going to stimulate this enzyme. Not bad. Okay. Well, what happens? How do I know when this enzyme can say, "Okay, I need to stop. I can't convert any more glucose to glucose 6 phosphate." Well, you're forming a lot of glucose 6 phosphate, huh? Why don't I just have this guy come in and inhibit him? That's it. It's so easy, right? It's not that bad because all we have is glucose is stimulating this enzyme and glucose 6 phosphate is inhibiting it. Okay. Now, next step in the liver, it's a little bit different, but the stimulus is still the same because glucinus is in the nucleus until look what happens. Glucose is just like, "Yeah, buddy. Let me let me get you out of there." So glucose comes in here and what does he do? He stimulates this enzyme. If he stimulates this enzyme, where's this enzyme going to go? It's going to come out here. And when it comes out here, what is it going to do? It's going to stimulate this step, converting glucose into glucose 6 phosphate. But whenever he's done, he's like, I don't want to do this anymore. I want to go back to my home. There has to be someone that can actually inhibit him and put him back into the nucleus. Who's going to do that? Fructose 6 phosphate. So fructose 6 phosphate does the opposite. So glucose brings glucinise out of the nucleus and works in this step, this first step. Fructose 6 phosphate inhibits this enzyme and shoves him back in the nucleus. So here's our fructose 6 phosphate. It's going to inhibit this enzyme, put him back in the nucleus. Okay, now that's the alossteric regulation. Not so bad. What about the hormonal regulation? Little bit different. Okay, there's two hormones that I want to talk about. One is going to be insulin and the other one is going to be glucagon. Okay, let's talk about insulin first. insulin is really special. insulin actually is going to be released when when do you release insulin? You release insulin when your blood glucose levels are high, okay, from your pancreatic beta cells. So, whenever you have high blood glucose levels, usually greater than about 130 milligrams per deal, it usually kicks in. insulin is going to try to do what? break that glucose down, make ATP, do something with it. So, what's going to happen is insulin does a special thing. It actually goes into the nucleus over there and it can stimulate the synthesis of more glucoinise and more hexocinise. Isn't that awesome? So, when you need more of these enzymes to have more glycolysis, insulin's like, I got you, bro. What does he do? He goes into the actual nucleus, activates genes to make more glucinise and more hexocinase. So their actual amount increases not just necessarily their activity because that can increase also but their amount is increasing. Okay, their abundancy is increasing. Okay. So now what about the what about the contrast of that? What about someone who's actually going to inhibit these enzymes? That would be the job of glucagon. So glucagon is released I like to think about it like this. One of my professors told me whenever glucose is gone. Okay? So glucagon is whenever you have low blood glucose levels or I like to think about it whenever glucose is gone. In other words, it's low. Now the whole point is don't keep breaking down glucose. Put the glucose into the bloodstream. So inhibit these enzymes from working so that I can get glucose into the blood. So what is this guy going to do? This guy is going to inhibit these enzymes. So, he's going to come over and he's going to do what? He's going to inhibit this enzyme and then he's going to inhibit this enzyme. Okay, so let's go ahead and recap that real quick. Hexocchinise and gluccoinise are both stimulated by glucose. Hexocinase is inhibited by fructo I'm sorry, glucose 6 phosphate. So, again, hexokinase is inhibited by glucose 6 phosphate and this is alossteric. Glucoinase is stimulated by glucose to come out of the nucleus and work in this first step. Fructose 6 phosphate inhibits the glucinise and puts him back into the nucleus to not control glycolysis. And then hormonally insulin is stimulating the synthesis of more hexocinise and more glucinise for more glycolysis because there's high glucose levels. Break that crap down so you don't you don't have it in the blood anymore. Glucagon is released whenever your glucose levels are low. We don't want glycolysis to occur. We want the opposite reaction to occur. gluconneogenesis and we'll talk about that so that we can make glucose and contribute to the blood glucose levels. So, usually whenever the blood glucose levels gets below about 70 milligrams per DL, he might kick in. Okay, that's our first enzyme. Not so bad. Here's where um your death awaits you. Okay, now this enzyme is a little these two enzymes are a little crazy and this one's also a little bit tough, but we're going to do the best we can here. Ready? This first enzyme, you guys remember we talked about them. It's called phospho fructo kynise one. And you guys are like, "Oh, why one?" Because there's a phosphorructoinase 2 that we'll have to talk about. Okay, so now what is this enzyme doing? Okay, this enzyme is actually remember he's adding ATP in this step. So if you guys think about it, if we were to really be specific, what's actually coming out of this first step that we talked about? ADP, right? But we already knew that from the original video that we talked about it. And then in this step to make it even a little bit more clear ATP is coming in and ADP is coming out. So phosphorrukinase is phosphorolating fructose 6 phosphate to convert them into fructose 16 bis phosphate. This is probably one of the most highly regulated steps within throughout glycolysis. Okay. So it's a very important one that we have to get a little complex but we can do it. Okay. First thing, one thing to think about I like to think about is as a result if that pyuvate if you guys remember we said pyuvate will eventually get converted into acetto coa it'll then go into the actual KB cycle it'll go to the electron transport chain and make ATP whenever you're making too much ATP that's going to tell these enzymes hey I'm already producing a lot of energy there's a large amount of energy supply within the body don't keep doing glycolysis because our cells can only store so much cellular ATP so what is that going to do then well ATP can come over here and he can alossterically inhibit this enzyme. So what can ATP do? It can inhibit this enzyme. What else can actually inhibit it? There's a KB cycle intermediate. A crab cycle intermediate is one of the first ones. It's the starting substrate for the actual KB cycle and it's called citrate. Citrate basically tells you, okay, there's a lot of KB cycle activity going on. If there's a lot of KB cycle activity going on, oh, this shouldn't be stimulate. This should be inhibit. Citrate is an inhibitor because it's a it's actually showing that there's a lot of energy production to be occurring. There's a lot of KB cycle activity occurring. If there's a lot of KB cycle activity occurring, I'm going to make a lot of NADHs, a lot of FADH2s. And if I make too much of those, I'm going to make a lot of ATP. So, these two are kind of intertwined or interconnected in concept, right? So, too much cellular ATP means that there's a lot of uh ATP formation occurring. We don't need to make anymore. A lot of citrate means that there's a lot of KB cycle activity which will actually lead to the actual formation of a lot of ATP. So these two are kind of working conjunction. Those are inhibiting this enzyme alossterically. Then what would actually be the opposite? You know ATP whenever we're utilizing it for pumps or for met metabolic issues or for transport mechanisms whatever it may be you know ATP is actually getting broken down by hydraysis into ADP and an inorganic phosphate right so whenever you have a lot of ATP breakdown what happens to the concentration of your ATP it goes down and if you break a lot of this down you're going to form a lot of ADP well when the body we don't really say low ATP we say high ADP because that's an indicator that there's not a lot of ATP in the cell and we need to make more. So, what do you think that would be? Would that be a stimulus or an inhibitor? That would be a stimulus. All right. So, high amounts of ADP would actually do what to this enzyme. It would stimulate him because then it's letting this enzyme know, hey, there's not a lot of ATP being made. You need to stimulate this process so that I can make more ATP because again, this enzyme is stimulating this step. But if you inhibit him, he will not stimulate this step. If you stimulate him, he will stimulate this step. It's pretty simple, right? All right. Now comes the complicated part. This where I need you guys to kind of bear with me here. I'm going to erase this and get this out of the way, though, because we're going to need this room. Okay, here we go. Hang in there with me, guys. Okay, this fructose 6 phosphate, I'm going to bring them over here for a second. So, let's bring fructose 6 phosphate over here. But again, I'm just going to denote it. You guys are going to see it as F6P. Okay. What happens is a small amount of fructose 6 phosphate goes through this other pathway. So I'm going to show it coming over here. Look, I'm going to bring this fructose 6 phosphate coming right there. Okay. Now generally the fructose 6 phosphate can go through this pathway. A good good large amount of it goes through this pathway converting fructose 6 phosphate into fructose 16 bis phosphate. But a tiny amount, a very small amount here, we'll even put that small amount can divert into this other pathway where it'll react with this enzyme complex. This is a heteronuclear or bi-uclear complex. Basically, it's two enzymes kind of joined together to comp act as one whole enzyme. So look at this. I have two components of it. Two components of this enzyme. One is a phosphofructokinace 2 component of this enzyme for the bilear enzyme. The other one is fructose 16 bisphosphatase 26 fructose 26 bisphosphotase. Okay. Again this whole buclear complex is actually consisting of phosphoprutokinise 2 and fructose 26 bis phosphates. an entire enzyme in itself with two different types of domains. What's going to happen is is I can take this fructose 6 phosphate and in the presence of phosphopructokyase 2 I can convert it into fructose 26 bis phosphate fructose 26 bis phosphate. Okay, when I'm making this fructose 26 bis phosphate, this is one of Let's actually highlight how because this is an important one. This is the most powerful regulator of phosphogructo kynise one because guess what this guy can do? He can come over here and look what he can do. He can bind on to the alistericite of this enzyme and do what to it? Stimulate this enzyme. If you stimulate this enzyme, what's going to happen? It's going to become active. If it becomes active, what happens? It's going to convert more fructose 6 phosphate into fructose 16 bis phosphate to be able to make more ATP. So, this is a very very let's actually put it under it most uh powerful regulator. Okay. Now like always though there has to be a portion that can convert him back into fructose 6 phosphate. So there's another component of this enzyme which converts him back into fructose 6 phosphate. And who does that? Fructose 26 bisphosphase. Now these enzymes are also highly regulated but primarily by hormones. You know insulin and glucagon. Let's bring those guys back in. So here's our insulin. Here's our glucagon. Whenever our glucose levels are high, we are going to want to do glycolysis. Okay? Well, if I want to do glycolysis, that means I'd want to stimulate this enzyme because this enzyme converts fructose 6 phosphate into fructose 26bis phosphate, which stimulates this enzyme, which stimulates this conversion, and that'll eventually lead to breaking down the glucose to make ATP. Okay? But I would want to do what to this enzyme? Inhibit this enzyme. Before we do that, we need to see what glucagon does. Glucagon does the exact opposite. Glucagon will inhibit this enzyme because then what? If this enzyme, if glucagon inhibits this enzyme, it can't convert fructose 6 phosphate into fructose 26bis phosphate. That will no longer be present to stimulate this enzyme. Also, if you guys watch the gluconneogenesis video, fructose 26 bis phosphate when his concentration decreases, he actually stimulates the fructose 16 bis phosphotase which eventually converts that into glucose. Now, this enzyme, this I'm sorry, glucagon. What should he be doing to these two? Well, like I already told you, he's going to want to inhibit this part. How is he going to inhibit it? What glucagon does is he phosphorolates both of these guys. So he comes over here and puts a phosphate on this guy and comes over here and puts a phosphate on this guy's perm. Look, he's got a perm. Okay, he's got his Jerry curls. Now what's going to happen is glucagon is going to phosphorolate these two buclear complexes. When he phosphorolates this guy, it inhibits him. Okay. When he phosphorolates this guy, what does it do? It stimulates him. Okay? Because why? Because then we would break down this fructose 26 bis phosphate into fructose 6 phosphate. His concentration decreases. He gets inhibited. And the opposite reaction with fructose 16 bis phosphatase becomes stimulated. Holy goodness, that was a lot. Right now, insulin, all he's going to do is he's like, "Oh man, I want this guy to be stimulated and I want him to be inhibited." Well, phosphates stimulate him. Phosphates inhibit him. Okay, guess what I'm going to do? insulin's pretty smart. smart. You know what he does? He comes over here and rips off that phosphate there. And guess what else he does? He rips the phosphates off over here. So look, he comes over here also and rips those phosphates off. So now these phosphates are going to be lost if you lose the phosphates off of this one. So now the phosphates are all gone. Let's say that you get rid of this phosphate, get rid of this phosphate, get rid of this phosphate. This is no longer going to be under inhibition. It's going to be stimulated. Oh, nice. Then if I remove the phosphates off of this guy, well, phosphates normally stimulate him, but I'm getting rid of them. So, all of these phosphates are going to be gone. What is this going to do to him? It's going to inhibit this enzyme. How is that going to help? Because if I stimulate this enzyme, he'll convert fructose 6 phosphate into fructose 26bis phosphate, which will stimulate this enzyme and drive this reaction. Holy goodness. I hope all of that made sense, guys. Okay, let's keep plugging along. So, if that made sense, we're going to move on to the last and final step here. Pyuvate kynise. So, this last one is a pretty cool one. And this is called pyuvate kynise. Now, this one's pretty regulated. It's also very, very important enzyme. So, pyuvate kindness, if you guys remember, was doing what? He was generating ATP. was plucking off the phosphate off of the pep and and adding it onto ADP to make ATP. Well, he's also a very very important enzyme because he's going to he's not going to be reversible. So, how do we reverse this? Okay, what can we do to inhibit this guy? So, let's say that these are the inhibitor portion. Okay, whatever. Let's say that we actually are making too much ATP. Same thing. You usually can always remember that if there's too much ATP that's generally going to inhibit this enzyme. So if I have too much ATP, what is that going to do to this enzyme? It's going to inhibit it. So if ATP is actually high, what does that mean? That means that we're having a lot of cellular activity, a lot of energy production, too much energy production, we want to shut that down. Say, hey, we can make we can do something with it later. Now, another thing, if there's too much ATP, that will inhibit it. But you know what else will actually inhibit it? a lot of longchain fatty accoas. What is that indicating? This is indicating that there's a lot of beta oxidation. Okay. So now these longchain fatty accoas again what are they coming from? You're guys going to you'll see whenever we go over the uh fatty acid metabolism, but it's going to undergo a process called beta oxidation. The overall point of this is that you're going to make a lot of acetal coas. When you make a lot of acetal coas, what's going to happen is is you're going to have a lot of KB cycle activity, a lot of NADHs, a lot of FADH2s, and a lot of ATP. So, it's basically indicating that there's a lot of energy supply within the body. Okay? And now, the same thing if you're producing a lot of if you're oxidizing a lot of longchain fatty acids, what I say you're going to develop a lot of acetal coa. So, if you make a lot of acetal coa, there's too much acetal coa, you're going to want to inhibit this step because then you're just going to have more and eventually that'll go to forming ketone bodies or it'll go to form cholesterol. So it all depends and it could be you know sometimes it could be disaster sometimes it's you know helpful but it all depends I guess on the body's needs. So again too much ATP too much longchain fatty acal coas from beta oxidation can inhibit this step and too much acetal coa can also inhibit this step and that should make sense because these are all indicators of too much energy production. Now another thing these are the aloseric inhibitors. What would be a hormonal inhibitor? Well think about it. Glucagon doesn't want the glucose to continue to get broken down because there's not much glucose in the blood. So glucagon would want to oppose this action, right? So he would want to he would want to inhibit this enzyme. So glucagon is going to do what? It's going to inhibit this enzyme. But you guys already know how. What is it going to do? It's going to phosphorolate the enzyme. And you know when it phosphorolates this enzyme, it inhibits it. Okay, next thing. What is going to stimulate this enzyme? So let's think about this logically. The first one that you should automatically should just go to your brain is think about what happens whenever you're going to have the hormone. Think about the hormone. What is that hormone that we mentioned up there that would actually stimulate the step? Because the blood glucose levels are too high. We want to break some of that glucose down. insulin. insulin's going to do that. And you know how insulin's going to do this? I mentioned it before. insulin was gonna we talked about this with hexocchinise and glucokinase. Remember was increasing the expression of those guys. He can also increase the synthesis a little bit of the pyuvate kynise. That's pretty cool, right? So he can also help the synthesis of phosphopructokinace one. So if you think about it all the glycolytic enzymes insulin can help to synthesize the primary ones which are synthesized in the largest amount is hexocinise and glucinates. But you can he can also synthesize PFK1. He can also synthesize pyuvate kynise. But if you also want to think about what else he can do, what else could he do guys? If glucagon is phosphorilating this puppy, what would he do? He's going to defosphorolate it, right? By activating phosphoproin phosphatases, which are going to remove the phosphates off of it. And this will stimulate this enzyme. The last thing, this is the probably the one that you guys wouldn't expect. I'm going to write it down so that you guys can be like, "What the freak? I don't understand why. Fructose 16 bis phosphate. This is going to be a stimulator." Now, this is an example. I'm going to write it down of what's called a feed forward forward. Couldn't spell that for a second, guys. Sorry. feed forward reaction. So what does a feed forward reaction mean? Okay, well this enzyme is all the way down here. Where's fructose 16 bis phosphate? It's all the way up here. This guy is going to be producing maybe large amounts. What he's going to do is he's going to come down here and tell pyrovate kynise, hey buddy, get ready because you're getting a shipment of a whole bunch of all of us. So you better be ready and your activity better be increased because we need you to be able to catalyze the conversion of PEP into pyuvate so that we can go into making ATP. Okay? So just remember that fructose 16 bis phosphate is an example of a feed forward reaction. He's coming before the reaction, but he's telling this enzyme to get ready because you're going to need to increase your activity to convert me and eventually into pyuvate. All right, last but not least, I wanted to provide a little clinical correlation. Nothing crazy. But I told you a little bit about this enzyme. I I didn't mention a significant amount about him, but it was called glyceraldahhide 3 phosphate dehydrogenase, right? And I told you that not only was he helping to generate NADH's, right, in this step and this step, same enzyme, but also he was adding a phosphate into this reaction. Here's the problem. The glyceride i3 phosphate dehydrogenase and the pyuvate kynise are susceptible to a similar type of molecule that can actually bind in the place of phosphate on this enzyme. That dangerous molecule is called arsenate. So arsonate arsonate can actually bind into that pocket that pocket where the phosphate's held and in bind into it and inhibit the phosphate from being added. If you inhibit the phosphate from being added, can this reaction continue to occur? No. So eventually you don't form pyuvate. That's the the deadly part of arsenic within this part here. Okay. And then the same thing arsonate can also aloststerically inhibit this enzyme also. And this can cause disastrous effects because there's nothing like these types of effects. This is going to be a very very type of dangerous type of inh inhibition where these enzymes won't be able to properly operate. All right engineers, we did a lot in this video. We covered the regulation of all of the actual significant enzymes throughout this process, hormonal and alossteric. We did a quick recap of the glycolysis pathway. We understand what we made from it. And I hope that you guys really did enjoy it. I hope it all made sense. I hope it came together. If it did, please hit that like button, subscribe, put a comment down in the comment section. We look forward to being able to hear from you guys and we want to really help you guys out.