 packageddashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdash Let's say that you take, for example, in the red bone marrow, which is the site of hematopoiesis, right? You have a hematopoietic stem cell. Sometimes if that hematopoietic stem cell develops mutations for some reason, and it becomes abnormal, let's say it becomes dysplastic, that dysplastic stem cell is nasty in the sense that it can release cytokines. These cytokines have the ability to suppress the hematopoietic stem cell from continuing to divide and differentiate into further myeloid stem cells or lymphoid stem cells, right? The issue with that is that now if that hematopoietic stem cell undergoes apoptosis, that thing was supposed to go and make red cells and white cells and platelets. But if you kill it off, now you lose the ability to make red cells, white cells and platelets, and I mean normal ones. So because of that, you can get a decrease in red blood cells, you can get a decrease in platelets, and you can get a decrease in white cells. This collectively, the reduction in all cell lines is called pancytopenia. It's usually an ominous sign that something's going on with the bone marrow potentially. Now, the other sucky thing with MDS is that these dysplastic stem cells, they try to take over as a normal hematopoietic stem cell. It says, ah, I can do it. And what it tries to do is it tries to make red blood cells, but it's not very good. And it has an ineffective, is the terminology we say of making good red blood cells. So you get these like abnormal red blood cells that are usually very large, and you don't make enough of them. And so you get what's called a macrosidic anemia, which is a very common presentation of MDS. Another one is you may have a reduction in effective platelets, which are supposed to help you at a clot. And so these patients can get a thrombocytopenia. And lastly, they may have ineffective leukopoiesis. And so they may have a low number of white blood cells, especially neutrophils, which can lead to neutropenia. And again, this contributes to that underlying pancytopenia. So one of the big things with MDS is it may present with pancytopenia, but oftentimes don't ever discount a patient coming in with just macrosidic anemia that it's not due to B12 or folate deficiency. So that's really, really important to remember. Another thing about these dysplastic stem cells is not only can they kill normal stem cells, not only do they make less effective red cells, white cells and platelets, but they also can further mutate. And if they mutate enough, they can develop the conversion into what's called myeloblasts. And then these things get locked into a myeloblast stage where they just, they keep developing, proliferating, proliferating without further differentiating. The problem is when you get enough of these myeloblasts, where the amount of it in the bone marrow exceeds 20% or more, you increase the risk of this patient developing acute myeloid leukemia. And so two of the biggest problems with MDS is reduction in cell lines or conversion over time to acute myeloid leukemia. So what are the reasons that these things happen? Sometimes we don't have a good reason. It just happens. It's idiopathic. We say that there is a potential deletion on the number five chromosome, that there's a specific locus on the long arm that could have a deletion and that could be causing that. Believe it or not, if that is the case, this carries more of a decent prognosis. For another one is it could be damaged. So if you have persistent chemo radiation that's causing damage to the DNA that can lead to mutations over time that increases this risk. And believe it or not, benzene exposures, which can happen to like glue factors or different types of chemicals, that can also lead to this as well. Now when we talk about MDS, pansytopenia is definitely a complication that we can see. Oftentimes more than not potentially. You want to watch out for macrosidic anemia. Sometimes it's sole presentation. But with pansytopenia, we know again, your bone marrow is supposed to make platelets, but it's not either because you're suppressing or killing the hematopoietic stem cells, the normal ones, or you're ineffectively making platelets and red cells. And so that can lead to bleeding and bruising when it comes to thrombocytopenia. So when a patient comes in with patechial beating and papera and gingival bleeding and epistaxis and minna-rasia, you want to think about a platelet-related bleeding and you'll get a CBC and you'll see that all cell lines are low. It could lead you eventually down the line of saying, could this be due to MDS. Because they have also concomitant low-rev blood cells and those rev blood cells, they're large. That really brings about the concern and usually these patients will present with fatigue, pallor, sometimes dyspnea if it's severe enough. One of the other things is that they can have a reduction in the white blood cells and especially the effect of white blood cells. And that brings about the increased risk of infections and recurrent fevers. And we really got to watch out for that in another patient as well. Now one of the things about pancytopenia is we say that this can happen but oftentimes again just to stress this, anemia can sometimes be the most common and sometimes sole cytopenia. And so when you see a patient who comes in with anemia, the first thing you do is okay, they're hemoglobin hematocritz low, check their MCV. If the MCV is high, you have a macrosidic anemia potentially. So what you do is you check their B12, you check their folate and you do a peripheral blood smear to look to see if there's hypersegmented or no hypersegmented neutrophils. If I see hypersegmented neutrophils, that tells me that this is a problem with DNA synthesis and maturation and I'm missing B12 and folate. So that's called megaloblastic anemia. From there, I should check a B12. And if that's deficient, well B12 deficiency, I should check a folate. If the folate's low, it could be folate deficiency. If they're equivocal or borderline low normal, I check an MMA level and a homocysteine level to look to see which one that leads me to, right? And that's really, really important to consider. Now if you have no hypersegmented neutrophils, then that leads me to the non-megaloblastic types. This could be due to so many different types of medications. It could be due to liver disease. It could be due to thyroid disease. It could be due to MDS. It could be due to alcoholism. There are so many things. Oftentimes what leads us to consider MDS is when you check their peripheral blood smear. And what you see is you see these things called a pseudo-pelgar hewitt neutrophil. They're really weird looking neutrophils and it brings about the possibility of MDS, which then may prompt you to say, let me get a bone marrow biopsy to confirm, all right? Another complication is AML. So you may have a patient who comes in with MDS. And then this brings about the question, okay, if a patient has AML, that's a serious type of leukemia. MDS, funny enough, it's not funny, but interesting enough, a patient has MDS, 30% of those patients due to MDS can convert over time into AML. It is more likely that patients with MDS will die before developing AML from MDS-related complications such as anemia or bleeding or infections due to neutropenia, believe it or not. So that's really important to remember. But again, there is that possibility. And so that's why when a patient has MDS, we should continue to keep monitoring these patients because AML is very aggressive. You'll notice an acute change because what happens is those MDS cells mutate and they develop myoblasts. And if you get enough of these that really crowd out the marrow, you'll get a very severe pancytopenia and that's really where it changes. Oftentimes MDS has a mild kind of anemia. When you go full-on pancytopenia, that's when we really get scared about AML. Another thing with AML is that they may present with an oncologic emergency. They may develop a blast crisis where enough of these myoblasts crowd up the blood and they can get potentially leukostasis or they can develop tumor lyso syndrome. And so if you have enough of these hyperleucocytosis and the cells blast open, what do you release? Well, you release things like phosphate, which binds up calcium, leads to tetany. You get higher acid, which can lead to acute kidney injury. You can get potassium bumping up, which can lead to EKG changes and arrhythmias. And so these are really important things to remember. Also, if you get enough of these white blood cells or myoblasts, clogging up the small vessels, they can get stuck in the brain vessels, the lung vessels, and you can get leukostasis because they clog it up. And now imagine clogging up these pipes. You can't get oxygen to the tissues. They can develop ischemia, especially the brain. You can develop strokes, TIAs, strokes, or you can even develop pulmonary emboli-like symptoms. And that's pretty scary that we really got to consider that in these patients. Another one, I'd say it's not as common. You can see this. It's usually more common in the APL variant. The DIC is another complication of AML where you have the increased production of tissue factor and you consume a lot of the clotting proteins and the playlist to make clots and so much of it that whenever you have a break in the vessel, you don't have the playlets and the clotting proteins to stop that clot from continuing to, I mean stopping that break in the vessel from bleeding. And so these patients can bleed, but they also paradoxically have lots of widespread thrombi. So they have a combination of tons of clots and they also bleed and they have a lot of coagulation abnormalities. These are really important things to remember for MDS. Oftentimes, MDS is relatively clinically silent and more times than not, they won't develop AML. They'll probably develop death before they convert an AML from things usually related to cell line reductions. What would a patient look like if they had myelodysplastic syndrome? And oftentimes it really is just going to be a patient who you may find incidentally. So you get a CBC with a peripheral blood smear and you find that they have like anemia or maybe they have other cell lines affected like pancytopenia. Sometimes you may have a patient coming in with symptoms of anemia. They may have fatigue, they may have pallor, they may have some type of dyspnea and then you get a CBC or another workup and you happen to meander upon a patient having myelodysplastic syndrome. But really what we have to start off with is finding those affected cell lines and a CBC with a peripheral smear is going to be great because the CBC will tell me what the white cell line, the red cell line, the platelets are doing and the peripheral smear will show me, is there any other reasons why they could be anemic? Is there any other reasons why they could have other cell lines affected? Is there a chance that there's those weird pseudo-pelgar hewitt anomaly like neutrophils? These are all things that we can put together. So first thing is, do we see macrosidic anemia? That's oftentimes probably one of the most common presentations of developing myelodysplastic syndrome. Whenever we see that they have that macrosidic anemia, so in other words we see a low hemoglobin and hematocrit and we also see a combined increased MCV, that would suggest again macrosidic anemia. Usually sometimes what we would do is we would go a little bit further and we would investigate why do they have a macrosidic anemia. So we would check their B12, we'd check their folate, see if they don't have a B12 folate deficiency and we'd also look for hypersegmented neutrophils. And this patient, they don't have hypersegmented neutrophils, they don't have a B12 and folate deficiency. What they do have is they have these pseudo-pelgar hewitt neutrophils. This suggests a non-megaloblastic type of macrosidic anemia of which MDS is a part of that differential. So when I see this, I already have a strong possibility of suspecting that they could have MDS. They may have other cell lines affected, they may have thrombocytopenia and they may have leukopenia. But oftentimes the most common presentation is macrosidic anemia with this somewhat of a pathodendemonic term seeing the pseudo-pelgar hewitt neutrophils or anomaly. That would really, really highly suggest that. You can see those right here. Look at this. Looks at these, these are staring into your soul. That's a neutrophil with a bio-lobed nucleus and a lot of dense chromatin in the center. So that right there would really signal that concern. Now in order to really determine if this is due to a dysplastic hematopoietic stem cell in the bone marrow that's suppressing normal hematopoietic stem cells or triggering ineffective erythropoiesis or killing those normal hematopoietic stem cells, I need to get a bone marrow biopsy to find those dysplastic appearing cells and see if there's also a lot of myeloblasts. Because remember, what happens is these dysplastic cells, not only do they suppress normal hematopoietic stem cells, not only do they trigger ineffective erythropoiesis, leukopoiesis, thrombopoiesis, but they also get converted into myeloblasts running the risk that MDS can convert into AML. So what do I want to see? When I take a bone marrow biopsy, I'm really trying to target into that bone marrow where a lot of the hematopoietic stem cells are at. I'm going to take that sample and I'm going to examine it. What I want to examine this for is what is the marrow look like? I want to know if it's hypercellular. Hypercellular marrow can tell me that it could be leukemia or it could be MDS. But how do I know if it's leukemia, like AML, or how do I know if it's MDS? I look at the number of myeloblasts and I look for dysplastic cell lines. In other words, is there abnormal red cells, white cells and platelets? And on top of that, is there less than 20% myeloblasts? If there is highly, highly suggestive of MDS. Whereas if we went the other route where it was hypercellular and it was greater than 20% myeloblasts, that could suggest something like AML. Now, once I've determined that a patient has myelodysplastic syndrome, I want to get cytogenetics. And the reason why is it determines my treatment. I want to know if they have that five-q deletion because that determines if it's a good or poor prognosis and determines what kind of drug I'm going to give them, linolytomide, So I'm going to get the cytogenetics and look to see if they have the five-q deletion. If they do, that's low risk. These are patients I could probably treat them with a very specific drug that we'll talk about. If they don't have the five-q deletion, they're more of a high-risk MDS patient. I'm probably going to have to be a little bit more aggressive with them and give them a specific drug. This one's usually linolytomide, this one's usually azocytody. We will get into that. Now, again, what if I say that I have a hypercellular marrow? I have greater than equal to 20% myeloblasts. Oh, shoot. Well, that's AML. That means that this patient maybe could have had MDS and converted into AML. That is a very possible scenario. Again, I told you that 30% of patients who have myeloblastics syndrome can convert to AML where 70% of them usually die. Maybe it's related to disease. Maybe it's due to other non-disease-related causes. There could be a lot of different things that they passed away from, not necessarily from MDS. Let's move into the treatment of myeloblastics syndrome. A lot of the times, you're really just treating some of the associated cytopenias with the ultimate goal of curative intent, which is a stem cell transplant. How do we treat the cytopenias? Well, it just depends on which one's low. Usually the most common one is anemia. If a patient's anemic to the point where their hemoglobin is less than seven, they're bleeding and they're hypotensive, or their hemoglobin is less than eight, and they're symptomatic or they have preexisting coronary artery disease, things like that, we transfuse them. Most patients will get this. They'll usually just get this. They'll get transfusions. If it's like their EPO levels are on the low end, you could theoretically say, I can find a benefit to giving EPO agents. But most of the times, most patients' EPO levels are appropriate, and we just transfuse to get their hemoglobin to appropriate normal levels or treat their symptoms. Same thing. If a patient has MDS and they're actually bleeding because their platelets are low, then we just give a platelet transfusion, but we do that based upon thresholds. If it's less than 10,000 and they're asymptomatic, we give them a platelet transfusion. If they're less than 50,000 and they're bleeding or they're getting ready for a surgery, platelet transfusion. If it's less than 100,000 and they're bleeding in the brain, they're getting ready for a neurosurgery, platelet transfusion. Oftentimes other than that, we don't really transfuse unless it's needed. The other one with leukopenias or neutropenias, these aren't super common. I haven't really seen them often used, but sometimes we'll talk about it in literature that granulocytic colony-stimulating factors can be given. It's something that you give to really just give a jumpstart to the bone marrow to say, hey, can you make more white blood cells, especially neutrophils? So that they can be better at fighting off infections and preventing fevers and things like that. Now, something I often see, I do say that the most common thing is going to be pack, route, cell and transfusions for these patients. Now, with that being said, sometimes we obviously would love to avoid getting transfusions to a patient because you run the risk of mismatched blood transfusions. You run the risk of transfusion reactions. You run the risk of volume overload, iron overload. There's so many things that can happen with a transfusion and we obviously want to avoid any of those things. So sometimes if a patient fits the criteria where the EPO levels are on the lower end, we can consider giving them erythropoietin. It's an erythropoid stimulating agent. Basically, it binds on to an EPO receptor on that stem cell and says, hey, can you go ahead and if I signal these things internally, can you go ahead and proliferate and make more red blood cells? That's theoretically what it'll do. Another scenario is especially if a patient's getting transfusions or their EPO levels or they're getting erythropoietin and they're still not getting any better, we may escalate. Especially if they have the 5Q deletion, we may go to suppress any dysplastic cells that are either inhibiting our normal hematopoietic stem cells or suppressing those dysplastic cells from undergoing ineffective erythropoiesis. And that's the drug called linalidomide. It has a dual function. One is it does cell signaling that leads to inhibition of apoptosis. It basically triggers apoptosis of these dysplastic cells. So it kills them so that they stop signaling normal hematopoietic stem cells and they stop making less effective red blood cells. Another one is it kind of puts the cell cycle in an arrest phase. And it does that by inhibiting specific enzymes. And so the cells don't undergo their kind of like proliferative response. And so those are ways that we can do that. Another drug that's given and it's really only given if this is like a high risk MDAs patient who doesn't have a 5Q deletion, they got really bad cytopenias. They have a really, really high risk kind of like IPSS score. We may go with a drug called azacytidine and it's a hypomethalating agent that's a DNA methyl transferase. Basically is working via that enzyme and that stops the cell cycle again from undergoing that proliferative response. The last thing I'd say that we use for patients is really a bone marrow transplant. And so we're trying to basically get rid of the abnormal stem cells that is plastic stem cells and replace it with normal stem cells. We'll find a recipient, we'll take their stem cells and we'll kind of transfuse it into the recipient in hopes that those stem cells will take over, make normal red blood cells, normal platelets, normal white blood cells. So that's the curative intent. All right, let's move on to how we can really take into consideration all of these pieces, all of these different drugs, all of these different therapies. How do I know which one do they get? When do they get it? I need an organized way. Ninja nerd's here to help. So let me drop some knowledge on you with the first thing is you need to determine their risk. Are they low risk? Are they high risk? How do we really determine that? Well, we talked a little bit about it with the cytogenetics. Those who have the 5Q deletion, they're at a more of a lower standard risk and we can actually give them specific therapies. The other thing is if you don't have a lot of cytopenia, so if a patient just has anemia, that's a better prognosis. If they have pancytopenia, that's a very poor prognosis. And the other thing going with that pancytopenia is the number of blasts that are in the bone marrow that's crowding it out. If they have tons and tons of blasts on their bone marrow biopsy, that portends a poor prognosis. So if I said that I have less blasts on their bone marrow biopsies, less than 20%, I'd only let's say anemia. There's not a lot of cytopenias that are involved and they have that 5Q deletion. This is a patient who has low risk. I can likely just do supportive care initially. So the way that we look at this is we can give transfusions because oftentimes the most common cytopenia is anemia. So one way that we look at this to make sure that their rithropoietin isn't low because if it's on the lower end, we can give them a rithropoietic stimulating agents because that can help to stimulate the bone marrow to make more red blood cells. But if the epolevels are high and that's not the cause, it's not a low epolevel, oftentimes we just transfuse them with PAC red blood cells. So again, if epolevels on the low end, you'll give them epo. If the epolevel is normal on the high end, you're not going to be giving them epo, you're just going to transfuse them. Most patients will be just getting these frequent transfusions. Now if a patient keeps getting PAC red blood cell transfusions because they keep having a hemoglobin left than seven or less than eight with particular risk factors, then you have to start asking yourself the question, especially if they're getting frequent transfusions where they're developing iron overload or other kinds of transfusion associated complications. And that's an area we then have to say, okay, they're still refractory to this and we're still having to give them this transfusion. That's where linalidomide comes into play. So what I want you to remember is on a patient has low risk, the first thing you should do is say, okay, are they low in epo? That's not telling their bone marrow to make red blood cells. Oh, they are giving epo. Their epo is fine. So it's not that we just need to unfortunately replace what they don't have or what they're losing. All right, give them PAC red cells. They're continuously needing transfusions and they have that 5q deletion. They would be a good candidate for linalidomide to really help to suppress that hematopoietic stem cell that's dysplastic from continuing to develop and occur. All right. Now, let's say we go to the high risk scenario. Patient does have a lot of blasts. They have more than one cell line affected and they don't have the 5q deletion. That's a high risk patient. The first thing that you need to tell this patient is that we can probably get you a transplant. Linalidic stem cell transplant would be the theoretical cure. It's just harder to get that for patients that usually have this disease. They're older, but that would be the goal. So if they are eligible, get them a transplant. It's the patient that's not eligible for a transplant that we medically manage. And so what do I mean? Well, again, the most common sight opinion is usually going to be anemia and they can develop severe anemias. But since they do not have the 5q deletion, we can't give them linalidomide. So what we do is we give them as a sighted. And again, that's going to help to suppress those hematopoietic stem cells that are dysplastic from proliferating, developing and making more of these dysplastic appearing cells. And that causes this ineffective erythropoiesis and suppresses normal erythropoiesis, etc. So that's what I want you to remember. Low risk with 5q transfuse, linalidomide, if they become dependent. High risk, can you get the transplant? Yes, cool. If you can't and they don't have the 5q as a sighted. That's the way that I want you to think about it. That's the way you can be tested on MDS. All right my friends, that covers MDS. I really hope it made sense. I hope that you guys enjoyed it and learned a lot. Love you. Thank you.