What's up ninja nerds? We got a cool topic to talk about today. It is milo proliferative neoplasia. Like what the heck could that be? There's a lot of different things that we'll discuss in this and again it's going to be more clinical medicine oriented. We'll talk about things like polyythemeia vera essential thrombocythemia. We'll talk a lot about primary myo fibrosis and then a little one on CML but we'll talk about that more chronic leukemas. But again, you may ask, "Hey, Zach, thank you so much for these videos. How can we, you know, support you?" And there is a couple different ways. You could do it by hitting the like button, commenting on the comment section of subscribing. It really goes a long way for us to keep putting these free videos out for you guys' enjoyment. So, please do that. Also, if you get a chance, go in the description box below, click on our link, go to our website. We have lots of cool things that we can offer that's more premium resources. Become a member. Things like notes and illustrations and quiz questions, all those things that helps with space repetition and to know the topic. All right, let's talk a lot about myop proliferative neoplasia. All right, my friends, let's talk about the pathophysiology of myop proliferative neoplasia. So it's basically a concept that we have to understand that when we talk about you know hematopoesis is the production of blood cells, right? And it usually occurs in the bone marrow. So if you take a chunk of the bone marrow and you look there's these stem cells and all that they do is they kind of start off and then they proliferate and they differentiate into specific cell lines. So, for example, in the bone marrow, we could use that stem cell to make a white blood cell. We could use it to make a red cell. We could use it to make a platelet. It's just important to remember that that stem cell is a very specific type. So, we all start off with a basic stem cell. So, if we were to kind of take and zoom in on the bone marrow here, this is called a heo cyto blast. It's basically a pur potent stem cell. And what happens is what it'll do is it will proliferate and differentiate into specific types of blast cells um or stem cells I should actually say. So one of them can turn into what's called a myoid stem cell and that's the one that we're really going to focus on via the name myo proliferative. It's the proliferation of that myoid stem cell and one will actually develop a myoid stem cell. So we'll call this one, this is our myoid stem cell. And this one over here is going to be the lympoid stem cell. We won't really talk about this too much now. It's good to get introduced to this because we're going to talk about this in our leukemia lecture, but lymphoid stem cells will eventually differentiate into lymphocytes. And we have these specific types of lymphocytes. one we actually called B cells or belymphosytes and the other one we call T- cells or Tlymphosytes. These go take up residence in your lymph nodes and other kinds of extra nodal tissue right or lymphatic tissues and then T- cells go to the thymus gland where they mature and then they eventually go on and move into these different types of lymphatic tissues as well. Now myoid stem cells are really important right these these puppies will differentiate into specific types of cells. So one of them is red blood cells and so let's say that this myoid stem cell right you know there's uh receptors on it we'll talk about these but one of them is called an epoceptor it's an ariththropoetin receptor so in patients who have something called ariththropoetin or epo eo will bind onto receptor on the myoid stem cell and it'll stimulate this cell to proliferate and differentiate into a red blood cell. So if you have EPO, lots of it, or you have the receptor being autoactivated, it'll increase the production of red blood cells. And so in these patients who, let's say that they have lots of myo stem cells making lots of red blood cells. When you have lots of red blood cells, we give that a very specific type of name. So there's a disease, it's called polyythemeia vera. I'm going to just abbreviate them. Actually, we'll write them out. So polyythemeia vera is a very specific type of milo proliferative neoplasia and this is categorized as when the myoid stem cell actively proliferates and becomes lots and lots and lots of red blood cells and so this one is characterized by which myoid cell line is being increased an increase in the red blood cells. All right. Now, the next thing is these myoid stem cells could also proliferate and differentiate and eventually what they could actually do is they actually have a little intermediate step where they become something called meggaariotes. Let's actually put that one in there. It becomes a meggaarioite. But this megaarioite has the option where it can actually secrete things like transforming growth factor beta and it can secrete things like platelet derived growth factor. Right? So it has the capability this megaarasytes to release these things right but also it has the capability to differentiate into platelets. Now in order for these myoid stem cells to say hey how do I know to become a red cell? Well you need epo either lots of it to bind to the receptor or the receptor to autoactivate itself. How do I know thoseite stem cell to become platelets right? So these are becoming your platelets. How do I know that this guy can say I'm going to turn into him? Well, it depends upon the presence of a hormone called TPO, thrombopoetin. And thrombopoetin helps to stimulate the receptors on the myoid stem cell to proliferate and differentiate into meggaariotes. And these meggaariotes will release these types of cytoines in certain scenarios or they can differentiate into platelets. And so what happens is in patients who have essential thrombocythemia. So that's the next one. Essential thrombboythemeia. Some will even say essential thrombocytosis. This is categorized by the myoid cell line proliferating and differentiating into tons of platelets. So if you have lots of platelets, you really want to think about this type of myo proliferative neoplasia. In other scenarios, this megaarioite so we'll actually abbreviate this. This is called a megaario site. Meggaario site. This megaarioite can release lots of these growth factors. And funny enough, sometimes there can be these cells that are present inside of the bone marrow. And these cells are called fibrolasts. And fibrolasts can respond to these specific types of cytoines. And these fibroblasts will start making fibrous tissue. All right? They make lots of fibrous tissue. And this fibrous tissue can start actually causing the fibrosis of the bone marrow which can start to deplete specific cell lines. And so that's another important thing to remember is if we start stimulating these fiber blasts and they increase the fibrous tissue, this can actually cause bone marrow fibrosis. And that bone marrow fibrosis, oh boy, that could be problematic and it can actually start causing the replacement of normal hematopetic stem cells with fibrous tissue and then these patients can start developing drops in certain cell lines. We'll talk about which one later. All right. So, when we talk about this one, this one's a weird one. It doesn't really involve a specific cell line. It kind of hits the intermediate, which causes the sideway reaction that leads to a lot of bone marrow fibrosis. This one is called primary milo fibrosis. Nice name, right? And basically what happens with this one is there is a bone marrow fibrosis. That's all it is. It's bone marrow fibrosis. And this bone marrow fibrosis is due to lots of these myoy stem cells becoming meggaariotes, gaining the capacity to release lots of these cytoines that cause fibrous tissue formation. And that starts to kind of really get rid of or replace a lot of your normal cells within the bone marrow with fibrous tissue and you start losing that function. Now, the next thing here, and this is the the last one that I want to talk about, and funny enough, it's it's one of those that we talk about more in chronic leukemia, but this myoid stem cell does have the capability, and we're going to kind of jump over this a little bit. So, a little bit here. This guy, this myoid stem cell in certain scenarios can proliferate and differentiate into specific types of white blood cells. And these white blood cells, this is your neutrfil, this is your eosinaphils, and this is your basophils. But these are called your granulosytes. And then for you guys to also know, again, we'll talk about this more uh whenever we get to the leukemas, but also this myo stem cell can turn into monocytes. But in this patient, they're making lots of these granulosytes, which are a type of white blood cell. All right? And so this scenario, we actually don't have a great reason. It could be due to these things like these receptors, and we'll talk about it later. There's a receptor called the tyrrosine receptor that it responds in certain diseases and becomes hyperactive and causes you to take a lot of these myoy stem cells and proliferate and differentiate into granular sites. All right. So, this is the last one that we'll talk about and this is called chronic myoid leukemia. And this one is categorized by a increase in your white blood cells. So, if I were to kind of just say let's say I go through this um and I ask you just as a quick like little recap and this is again this is your granulitic ones. If I say which myop proliferative neoplasia is categorized primarily by an increase in red cells you would say polythemia vari. If I said which one is most commonly indicated or predominantly an increase in platelets you would say essential thrombocythemia. If I said which one is most commonly an increased and predominantly white blood cells granularytes specifically you would say chronic myo leukemia. If I said there's a weird one where it causes lots of meggaarioes to cause lots of fibrosis of the bone marrow depleting cell lines you would say primary milo fibrosis. All right that's the intro into this topic. The bone marrow has stem cells that make cell lines. If we think about this guy turning into a myoid stem cell, we have to think why would he make lots of him? EPO. Why would he make lots of him? Tpo. Why would he go to lots of these? We'll talk later. It's called a tyrrosine kinase receptor that's activated. The question that we need to start asking ourel the question of what's causing high EPO or in rare states what's causing the EPO receptor to be activated undesiraably what's causing increased TPO or what's causing the TPO receptor to become undesirabably activated let's do that now so it really takes us into the next step here which is the causes when we think about this hemocytoblast right this is our hemocyblast and it's going to become this myoid stem cell which we're going to abbreviate as MSC. On the myoid stem cell there's receptors and these are called your EPO receptors. All right, this is an EPO a EO receptor. What it does is is it responds to EPO. So if patients have lots of ariththropoetin, what's uh what's ariththropoin produced by? I know you guys know this. Come on, tell me. Tell me. It's produced by the kidney. And so in patients who have ariththropoetin, that's a nice green color there. Whenever this kidney is in a specific state, it produces a hormone called arythropoetin. And that ariththropoetin will then go and act on this ariththropoetin receptor and it'll stimulate this receptor and cause it to drive the production to make an increase in the number of red blood cells. Right? So that's one thing that we have to think about is it's either the kidney that's producing lots of EPO that's stimulating the receptor. What causes a increase in ariththropetin production by the kidney? Let's think about this. So this is actually when we talk about polyythemia vera there is two types. One is we call this secondary polyythemeia. So secondary polyythemeia uh and we're not going to call it vera because that's primary. So secondary polyythemeia some even say secondary ariththroytosis. What's the reason for the increased? So this is due to it's due to increased ariththropoetin. And so now we have to ask ourselves the question what causes this increased orthopedum. Well then you have to understand the basic physiology. What's the primary stimulus for the kidney to make EPO? Do you guys remember hypoxia? So whenever a patient has a low O2 saturation in the bloodstream that is the primary stimulus to tell the kidney, hey can you go ahead and make arythropetin to tell the actual bone marrow to make more red blood cells to deliver more oxygen. So I want you to think about conditions that cause hypoxia. So hypoxic disease. What could be uh causes of hypoxia? Do you guys know? This could be things like COPD, OSA. Uh you know another one we like to think about high altitude. So if patients are at very high altitudes. So these are really important things to remember. So high altitudes um COPD, obstructive sleep apnnea, all of these things cause hypoxia. That hypoxia stimulates the actual kidney to make EPO tells the my stem cells to make red blood cells. So these are really important things to remember. So how would you determine if a patient's cause of polyythemia is due to hypoxia? Look at maybe an AG, look at their oxygen saturation, look at their history. If it's not due to hypoxia, then it's due to the source of where the EPO is produced. So could it be a renal cell carcinoma? In that scenario, it could be a tumor here of the kidney that's pumping out ariththropoetin. That's the other thing that you have to think about here. Now here's where it gets really interesting. So if it's like whenever you think about this patient comes in polyythemia vera, they present with a very high hemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cells. What should you think about? Is it due to high EPO or not? What would you think about? Maybe get an AG. Consider them having underlying hypoxic diseases. If that EPO is potentially not due to hypoxia, then what's the other thing to think about? Is it a renal cell carcinoma? In this scenario though, let's say that it's not due to EPO. And in this case, it's true. It's polythemia vera. So this is the primary disorder. This one it's not due to EPO and in fact the EPO levels are low. Think about this with me. Let's say that EPO has nothing to do with this. The receptor is autoactivating itself. If it autoactivates itself and drives this process just the same as if EPO is present, you make lots of red blood cells, you get more oxygen delivery. What will happen to the kidney? It'll shut down the EPO production. So it's important to remember that in polyythemia vera it's not due to EPO not due to increased EPO and funny enough EPO is actually low. We'll just put low. All right. So again it is really important to remember that is not due to increased EPO. And funny enough the EPO is actually low in these diseases in this disease. So in this situation it's due to auto activivation of the EPO receptor. So this is the cause. The cause is activation of EPO receptor. And then that begs the question, what the heck is leading to the autoactivation of the EPO receptor? It's a mutation. And this mutation that we're going to discuss here is due to a Jack mutation. Let me let me explain what I'm talking about. So again, here I'm going to actually erase this part here. So again, it's not due to increased EPO. And funny enough, these patients will actually have low EPO. All right? They'll actually have low EPO. And so what really is due to is the autoactivation of the EPO receptor due to a jackact mutation. So let me explain something. This receptor is coupled with a enzyme inside of the cell called the Jack 2 enzyme, the Jonis kynise. If you have a mutation in the gene that codes for that intracellular enzyme, it causes the receptor to become autoactivated, sends signals and drives this process. So again, if a patient has another reason here is if they have a Jack 2 mutation. if they have a jack 2 mutation that's going to cause the increased production of red blood cells by just autoactivating the receptor without even the presence of EPO. So remember high EPO secondary cause hypoxia kidney tumor not due to high EPO and actually the EPO is low it's due to auto activivation of that EPO receptor due to a Jack 2 mutation. Funny enough this accounts for 98% of the causes of polyythemia vera. All right. All right. A central thrombocythemmeium. We said that it's taking the hemocyblast and making a myoid stem cell. And then this myoid stem cell turns into a mega karioite and then turns into platelets, right? But it has a receptor here called the TPO receptor. You probably are seeing, oh, okay, I see Zach's going somewhere with this. This is a TPO receptor. Now the tpo receptor responds to a hormone called tpo. Who makes tpo? The liver. So the liver is responsible for producing tpo. Now tpo is a hormone when made by the liver it acts on the tpo receptor and when it acts on the tpo receptor it drives this process. So it's going to come over here, hit this receptor and it's going to stimulate this process to drive this process and to help convert this myoid stem cell into a megaarasite and eventually into making an increase in the number of platelets right question that you have to ask yourself is what's causing the high tpo and so this is again another scenario here is it secondary so is it secondary thrombocytosis Is this is there an increase in the platelet due to increased TPO? So this is due to increased TPO and then you have to ask yourself the question what are these things that are causing a increase in TPO and there's not that many. It's usually things like infection, inflammation and iron deficiency anemia which I'm going to abbreviate IDA. So if you have a patient who has an increase in their platelet count, it is always important to consider could it be due to iron deficiency anemia? Could it be due to an infection? Could it be due to inflammation? All of these things can trigger the liver to increase TPO and drive this process. So you may have to check for evidence of infection. You may have to check a CRP and ESR. You may have to check a iron study panel to make sure that they don't have iron deficiency anemia. There's another one. Um it c it could be related to increased TPO but patients who are postplctomy what does the spleen do it removes old defective red blood cells and platelets if you get rid of the spleen can you remove those platelets no and so your platelets can actually build up as well so think about postplctomy as well in their history but if it's not due to increased tpo then it's actually due to uh in this scenario here so we'll bring this guy down then it is actually what I'm going to put essential thrombocythemia Yeah. Ah, we'll write it out. We'll be effective here. Essential. So, essential thrombbo sytheia. Am I going to make it? I made it barely. So, if a patient has essential thrombosythemeia, then the question is, okay, Zach, I'm getting kind of an idea here that you're going to tell me uh that it's not due to TPO. And you're right. It is not due to increased TPO. So then the question is is what is it due to? It's the same thing. It's something that's causing the autoactivation of a EPO receptor, but in this case it's the TPO receptor. And what the heck does that? So what's causing the autoactivation of the TPO receptor? So something that's causing stimulation of the tpo receptor and guess what it could be my friends it could be a jack 2 mutation so it could be either one of these so you see how the jack 2 enzyme is incorporated into the EPO receptor the jack 2 enzyme is also coupled with the tpo receptor so here let's do this so we can make room so it could be a jack 2 mutation that is causing the auto activivation of the the EPO receptor intracellularly. So again could be a Jack mutation and also on this one it could be due to a Jack 2 mutation. Now in this scenario in patients who have polyythemia vera this accounts for 98% 98 so 98% of the time if a patient has polythemia vera is due to this mutation it's only about 50% in essential thrombocythemia. So you're like, "Okay, what's all the other mutations then?" If it has nothing to do with TPO, it's something that's causing the auto activation of it. What could that be? Well, if you look at the TPO receptor, like if you actually look at it, let's say here, I kind of take a second here. Here's the receptor. Let's say here's the receptor, right? And then here is the cell membrane, right? And then inside is where this like little enzyme is here. That's these little two little blue balls. Not trying to be weird, but the two little structures there, that's the Jack 2 enzyme. And so whenever TPO hits this receptor, it activates the enzyme. If you just activate the enzyme, you don't need TPO. On the TPO receptor, there's other structures here. And there's a protein called MPL and CLR. And cal is kind of like this like little protein here. Like let's say it's on this red part. If I cause mutations in the MPL or the CLR protein, it can autoactivate that receptor the same way. And so if I cause changes in like the MPL or the CALR proteins, if I put mutations here and any of these that could do it, it's all a part of the TPO receptor. Same thing over here. If I were to actually look at the the actual EPO receptor, it's the same concept. If I put here the membrane, we have the Jack 2, right? That's these little blue. Not trying to be weird. Little the little blue balls. And then what color did I make this one? I made it this blue color here, which is your kind of like your receptor here. We'll put it like this. So this is the same thing on that. You can have the calar. You can have the MPL. But the most important component here is this jack 2. On the TPO receptor, you have the calar, the MPL. So in this one, it's primarily Jack 2. For the EPO receptor, right? for the TPO receptor it's calrpl and jack 2. So if I have now a MPL or cal mutation that could account for potentially the other 50%. So for example, if a patient comes in, you think that they have essential thrombocythemia, they come in with increasing platelets, you don't find any other secondary causes, you check a jack 2 mutation analysis and it's negative, doesn't mean it can't still be this. What could you also test for the MPL and the cal? All right. And just not to overload this, let's bring the platelets over here to this side. All righty. All right. So I think we got a pretty good idea now. of this concept which is what's causing the increase in red cells for polyythemia vera. What's causing the increase in platelets in essential thrombocythemia? The next one's a little funky and this is that primary myo fibrosis. So we said there's something that's causing this sideways pathway. So in primary myo fibrosis there is these meggaarioites tons and tons and tons of them and what happens is they become in some way they have an undesirable kind of like response where they release lots of transforming growth factor beta and platelet derived the growth factor they release lots of this and so every single time this myo stem cell becomes meggaariotes you get lots of these and lots of these these stimulate fibroblasts as we said Four, when you stimulate these fibroblasts, these puppies start laying down fibrous tissue. When you lay down a lot of this fibrous tissue, that fibrous tissue starts doing what? Starts infiltrating the bone marrow. And now I'm going to represent it. Let's do it in like this orange color here. I'm going to start replacing a lot of this regular bone marrow, which has all those stem cells with fibrous tissue. As I replace a lot of the bone marrow and I get rid of a lot of those hematopoitic stem cells and I replace with fibrous tissue, hematopoitic stem cells start decreasing. As the amatopoitic stem cells start decreasing, I make less space and less cells to differentiate into other cell lines. Remember I told you that it can affect all like different types of cell lines. The most affected is the red cells. this becomes affected and so you end up having a inhibition in this pathway and what this leads is this leads to a decreased number of red blood cells right and so this decreased number of red blood cells will present as anemia now you're probably like okay Zach I don't understand I thought we're making increasing cell lines of myop proliferative neoplasia you are it's just you're making a lot of this meggaarioite and with a lot of this megaarioite you may end up getting lots of platelets but is going to definitely trigger this sideways pathway which is going to lead to fibrosis and that fibrosis is going to start decreasing cell lines. This is the most common. So most common to be affected. In other scenarios, yes, as the fibrosis does start to progress, you may start dropping some of the other cell lines. And so you may drop your white cell lines. You may also Where's my maroon marker? You may also start dropping some of the platelets. But this is the problem with this disease. It's variable. So it's variable. So you may start seeing this later in the stages, right? So you may start seeing a decrease in white blood cells, but let's remember this is not always the case. Not always. And you may start seeing a drop in the platelets, but this is not always the case. All right. So that's the big thing to remember is you may start seeing a drop in other cell lines but the most common one to be affected is the red cell line. So if I said increased red cells polythemia vera. If I say increased platelets essential thrombocythemia. If I say could have increased or decreased white blood cells and platelets but the main cell line that is affected is red cells you would say primary myo fibrosis. The other thing that's really interesting is when you start squeezing these red cells like out via that fibroic bone marrow, they get a really weird shape. And so what happens is when you squeeze these puppies out, they as they squeeze through the bone marrow, they kind of start looking like tears. And so you can get these teardropshaped red blood cells. So tear drop red blood cells. And this is like a very very common sign of primary milo fibrosis. So if I see lots and lots of teardrop red blood cells in a patient who has anemia, oo you better start thinking about primary myo fibrosis. Now last thing is important here in this disease this process could be the same. So if it's a primary primary myo fibrosis that's usually due to a mutation in the tpo receptor it's the same thing. So it's usually due to a jack 2 mutation or it could be due to an MPL or it could be due to a cal mutation. It's really important to remember that. So if you have these mutations, it'll cause this pathway to definitely go here, but instead of it all going from the meggaarite to the platelets, it may go from here and then go this sideways pathway. All right, that is the really important thing to remember here for primary myo fibrosis. Now you probably are like, okay, primary that means it could be secondary. Yes, it could be. Funny enough, polyythemia and essential thrombocythemia from the constant proliferation constantly, it can progress. These two can progress to primary myoof fibrosis. All right. So it is important to remember that in some scenarios this is primary but in secondary cases polythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia from constant replication can eventually go into a spent phase or a burnout where they do convert into primary myofi or they convert into secondary myo fibrosis. All right? So it's always important to rule that out. So in a patient who comes in with anemia teardropshaped red blood cells they have a positive mutation you have to say is there any possibility that they have polyythemia era central thrombocycemia that is converted into this really important last one now we're going to talk about this more in the chronic leukemia lecture so I'm not going to talk too much about this one but in this thing you have a hemocyblast that's becoming a myoid stem cell now this my stem cell again has different types of receptors But this one is called a tyrrosine kynise receptor. And this receptor is really important for the proliferation of these cells. All right, really important. So what if I have some type of disease or I have a mutation that causes an increased activity of the tyrrosin kchinus receptor. Yeah, that's what will happen in chronic myo leukemia. What will happen is you'll have a what's called a 922 chromosomeal transllocation and what that will do is it'll cause a transllocation where you lead to what's called a lots of what this this fusion gene called BCR able one fusion gene and what happens here is when you have this fusion this will lead to a increase in the tyrrosine kynise enzymes and the receptor. So this will increase your tyrrosine kynise receptors. And if you autoactivate this receptor, you're going to make lots of white blood cells, lots of neutrfils, lots of eosinaphils, lots of basophils. And that's really important. These like white cell counts can get like scary high, sometimes above a 100,000. So you may be asking yourself the question, okay, Zach, I if I have a patient who comes in and they have a really high white cell count, how do I know that it's not like luccoytosis from something else like an infection or inflammation or stress or surgery or they had a seizure? How do I know? One of the big things is that whenever you have these types of chronic myo leukemia, they have usually lots of increased cell lines of all of these basils, neutrfils, and eosinaphils. usually in infection, inflammation, stress, neutrfils are the most predominantly the one that are elevated. So if I see an increase in all of these cells on my differential, definitely think about CML. Here's the other thing. An infection and inflammation, your white cells, especially the neutrfils, is really something called luccoy alkaline phosphotase. And this disease CML, they don't make that luccoy alkaline phosphatase. So lap levels tend to be low. So that's really important to remember. So not only do you have an increase in all these cell lines, but the enzyme that's really important in helping this process is LAP. It's usually made by these cells and responses of infection and inflammation and stress. In this scenario, it's going to be low. So if a patient comes in with increase in all cell lines and a low lap score, think about CML. All right. All right. That was a lot. So now that we've talked about the pathofizz, let's now talk about okay, I have a patient come in. How do I know that this is a myo proliferative neoplasia? One of these things. Is it something that's a dead giveaway? This is not a common disease. These are rare disorders. And so there's specific things that you want to be thinking about or looking for to be able to diagnose these. And oftent times, guess what? They may not present clinically at all. And this may be a laboratory diagnosis as an incidental finding. So let's discuss that now. All right. So complication wise, it's not one of those disorders that is like super easy to diagnose as I told you. So sometimes what will happen is a patient will come in, we'll have some kind of like just random findings. So for example, let's say we talked about what we just did and a patient who comes in with polythemia vera, right? First thing that you'll do is you'll get a history. One of the big historical findings that we see in these patients is they come in with what's called aquagenic puritis. And that's a really important thing to remember. And so aquagenic puritis is what we see is is we'll see for example you'll have lots of white blood cells because remember in patients of polymeia vera they can have that activation of the EPO receptor and they make lots of red cells. But guess what? Polyythemia vera can also make lots of platelets. They can also make lots of white blood cells. And so what happens is in patients with polyythemia vera they can have increased white cells especially basophils. And what happens is when they get exposed to hot water, the basophils degranulate and release histamines. And the histamines are what cause the itching after a hot shower. So again in patients with polyymia vera, definitely consider that in a patient who comes in with aquagenic puritis, itching after a hot shower. Another thing with polycytomia vera is they present with facial plethora. All this means is a red face. And think about it. If you got lots of red cells, that means you're going to have lots of reddish hue and especially in the face. And that can look a little bit like this. Again, polythemia vera. The patients can come in with potentially facial plethora. They could also come in with aquagenic paritis, but they could also present with other things, which is kind of the tough reason why this may be tough to diagnose. So for example, there's a couple different complications that all of these myop proliferative neoplas share and you want to think about it in these diseases. First one is thrombosis. Concept behind this is again thrombosis can see in so this is an all so all MPNs which is myoprolative neoplas have this. However, when it comes to the most common presentation, usually polyythemia vera will have the most incidences of thrombosis. All right, I do want you to remember that. Now, with this, here's what's really important. If a patient has an increase in the number of red blood cells, an increase in the number of platelets and an increase in the number of white blood cells. All of these things can lead to thrombosis. So, this can help to stimulate thrombosis. And you're probably like, okay, I I kind of see the platelet aspect here. I don't know if I see the white blood cells. And maybe I get a little bit of the red blood cell concept. Okay, the red blood cells can precipitate thrombosis primarily through something called hyper viscosity. All right, so all that means is when you have lots of red blood cells, they increase the viscosity of the blood. They make it more sludgy, right? Very slow flow. And so if you have increased viscosity that can definitely contribute to this possibility of thrombosis because you know what actually happens is whenever there's high viscosity um it actually causes platelets to get towards the edge to where the endothelium is and if there's more towards the edge it can increase the risk of sticking to the endothelium and causing a thrombus. With that being said, if a patient has an increase in platelets, you know, whenever there's lots of platelets, they release lots of this chemical called thromboxin A2. And thromboxin A2 triggers platelet aggregation. It tells other pllet to hey, come here. Stick to me and cause this thrombus. And so that's another reason why that starts to happen. White blood cells, we don't really know the reason. But funny enough in patients who have polyythemia vera essential thrombocythemia and primary myo fibrosis we the literature has shown that the higher the white cell count is the higher the incidence of thrombosis that's really important so if I have a patient who has polythemia era increase white counts essential thrombocythemiac increase white count primary myop fibrosis increase white count it is really really important to remember that they have a high incidence of thrombosis so again in this increased white blood cells They may suspect that it can release these things called neutrfilic extracellular traps and these nets if you will can work through different mechanisms and precipitate thrombosis but it is really important. This is the most common predictor. This is the highest predictor of thrombosis. You would think it'd be platelets, right? Which is weird. It is the highest predictor of thrombosis. Higher the white count, higher the risk of thrombosis. Now, if patients get this thrombosis factor, how could they present? Well, they could present with arterial thrombosis or venus thrombosis, but I'd say this is going to be the more common presentation. For arterial thrombosis, they could get clots and potentially parts of the cerebrovasculare. If they get clots and parts of the cerebrovasculare, how may they present? Well, depending upon the intensity or the size of the clot, they may present with a TIA. They may present with a full-on stroke, CVA, where they actually develop infarks. And so, it's important to remember that they could present in these clinical ways. Sometimes, sometimes the clots are so small and they're super microvascular that they can cause other symptoms like headache and blurred vision. So, that's also important to remember. The other thing is it can cause clots that occur in the coronary circulation and these patients could develop infarks such as a patient developing coronary artery disease if it's like plaques but often times more than not the biggest arterial thrombosis is that they develop a myioardial infarction. All right, so these are less common but definitely think about this in patients who present with neurological symptoms TIA, stroke, maybe headache, maybe dizziness and MI. Here's the really important one though. With all of these platelets, and that's the biggest one here in this case, they can cause lots of clumping and clots in the microvasculare, especially in the hands and in the feet. And what happens is if this occurs, it blocks off oxygen delivery to the hands and to the feet. And on top of that, it can also claw off the venus supply. And so that can cause a lot of blood to stay into that area. And so what happens is these patients can develop swelling and a lot of pain and just burning pain of their hands and feet. And this is called arythro malgia. Ariththroalgia is essentially going to be pain, burning pain and swelling of the hands and feet. It is again due to microvascular thrombosis. But here's a really important thing to remember. You can see this in polyythemia vera. You can see it in essential thrombocythemia. But it is going to be more common much more common in essential thrombocythemia. So when again when I see this one I want you to remember it can be seen in essential thrombocythemia more often than seen in polyythemia vera. So for example if a patient comes in and they say oh I got burning red swelling burning pains of my hands and feet and it looks actually a little bit like this. You should definitely be thinking about which one more likely essential thrombocythemia but consider posymia vera. How would you really look at these? Look at the red cell count higher here. Look at the platelet count predominantly higher here. Look for other neurological or cardiac infar as a response of the microvascular throi. But here's the big one. The venus thrombosis is the most common presentation. So actually what will happen is you'll have a patient come in, they get a DVT or they get a PE. These are the most common things, right, that we see is you get a DVT or you get that DVT breaks off and it gets stuck in the pulmonary artery. And so if you get a DVT or you get a PE, what are the most common reasons that these patients develop that? Well, the most common is thinking about verose triad, right? So you about stasis of blood flow were there prolonged travel, paralysis, immobilization. Was there some type of post-operative period where they're healing? Is it due to endothelial injury? Did they get a recent surgery? Are they heavy smokers? Um, also hypercoagulability and could this be inherited? So, we talked about inherited thrombophilas, right? Particularly the hypercoagulable states and we talked about acquired ones. And acquired thrombophilia was really when we talked about things like antifphos lipid syndrome and pregnancy and oral contraceptives. But what was one other one? Milo proliferative neoplas. And so these can also cause DVTs and pees and these are the usual kind of presentation but it's actually it's actually more common to see this in unusual locations. And so funny enough this is the more common one that you want to think about it in. So in a patient who comes in and they have clots in the apatic veins. What is this called? Clots in the apatic veins. This is called bud kiari syndrome. This is a very high yield presentation of polyythemeia vera or essential thrombocythemia. All right. So bud kiari syndrome is going to be clots in the apatic veins. If they have clots in the portal vein all right or in the um messenteric veins. So messentic veins. This also should be making you think about polythemia vera or central thrombocythemia. So portal vein thrombosis or u messenteric vein thrombosis. Now now the question you may be asking is how how do these patients present? Again, we talked about it in the GI section, but um if a patient has budari syndrome, they usually present with right upper quadrant abdominal pain, maybe some hpatomalites, whereas portal vein thrombosis, they can also present with some ascites. Um and then meantic vein thrombosis, especially if it's acute, they can present with acute messenteric eskemia, so pain out of proportion and necrosis of the bowel and elevated lactate levels. So, it's really important to identify these things. So again, if a patient comes in and they have these weird clots in the abdomen or the messenteric portal or apatic veins, definitely think about MPNs. Another one is clots in the cerebral veins. So in the superior sagittal sinus or the inferior sagittal sinus or the occipital sinus, the transverse sinus, anything like that, you definitely want to think about that. So cerebral venus sinus thrombosis is another potential presentation. So clots in unusual occasions, think about MPNs. If they have DVTs, PES without any other kind of true risk factors, you can think about MPNs. Again, you're not going to see a lot of these arterial thrombi such as MI. You may see some of these in neurological kind of defects if they develop strokes or TAS, but not as common. The real important one is the ariththroalgia. So a patient comes in with the burning, swelling, pain of their hands and legs. think about these especially if they have a history of recurrent venus thrombosis and these unusual locations or usual locations. Now last but not least for this is there's something called hyper viscosity syndrome and this is really only seen um in polyythemia vera only in polyythemia vera but it contributes to thrombosis. What happens is in these patients they get lots of red blood cells. They get lots of an increase in viscosity and that increase in viscosity leads to potential poor cerebral blood flow and stagnant blood flow out of the retina. And so this can lead to things like headache and dizziness. And also it can cause the retinal veins they can't get blood out and so these things get like super dilated and engorged and and if you actually look at their fondoscopy they'll have a lot of different things. So they can have retinal vein enlargement, they can have hemorrhaging, they can have papa edema and all of these things may present with a very significant blurred vision. So anytime you have a patient with a very very high red cell count and they come in and presenting with headaches, dizziness and blurred vision, think about hyper viscosity syndrome because of that heavy heavy heavy amounts of red cells. You won't see this in plates because they're so small. They won't account for that much surface area and that much of a change in viscosity. All right. Patient comes in headaches, dizziness, blurred vision, aquagenic paritis and facial plethora with an increased hemoglobin hematite. You think polyythemia vera patient comes in with an increased platelets, arythroalgia and clots in unusual locations. You think what? Essential thrombocythemia. All right. Again, thrombosis is common in all MPNS. So you can see all of these things in any one of them. You're probably going to see it more in polyythemia and a central thrombocythemia. Hyper viscosity syndrome only in polyythemia vera. Bleeding can occur in all MPNS but it is most common most common in um a central thrombocythemia. So again patients can develop bleeding technically in all types of MPNs but it is most common in essential thrombocythemia. Now what happens here is in essential thrombocythemia you have very high platelets. All right but if that platelet count gets to greater than 1.5 million if you get greater than 1.5 million platelets then we start to see incidences of bleeding. You really see this primarily with the central thrombocycemia? You don't see this as much in polyythemia vera. When plants get this high, you know, and what's truly thrombocytosis? It's anything greater than 450,000, right? If it's less than 150,000, that's thrombocytoenia. Above 450,000 is thrombocytosis. If I see platelet counts greater than 1.5 million, oh boy, definitely been thinking about essential thrombocymia, especially for real infection, inflammation, iron deficiency, etc. But here's the problem. Platelets love to bind to vonwilderon factor. So here's our von wilderon factor. When you have lots of platelets, what they do is they start to sequester. Right? So now we have all that sequestered von wilderbron factor sequestered von wilderbrron factor. So now all these platelets are bound to the von wilderbron factor. What happens now to all the von Wilderbrun factor that's free and available? Huh? What is it? It's less. There's significantly less. So now as a result here, I'm going to have less free von Wilderbron factor. If there is less free vonwilder factor, if I have a break in the blood vessel wall, so there's an injury to the blood vessel wall, the platelets are supposed to come here and stick to what? Von Wilderbrron factor. But I don't have enough of the von Welder factor. So if I don't have enough of the von Wilderbrron factor, I'm not going to be able to go and have these guys stick there. So this is going to be inhibited. And if I don't have the von wildrun factor here, are platelets going to be able to stick to the von wilderron factor and form the platelet plug? No, because they have that GP-1B receptor that's to bind with the von wilderbron factor. And so what happens the platelets will not come and stick to the von wilderon factor because we don't have enough of it. What happens as a result? You don't form a platelet plug. So you inhibit the primary hemostatic plug, primary hemostasis and this leads to bleeding. And what are the different ways that these patients will bleed? Well, remember anytime you have a platelet disorder. So this is technically technically this is a quantitative platelet disorder. You know what this actually is? When you have sequestering of vonold factor and there's less free von factor. It has nothing to do with a mutation. Most of the time, von Wilderbrron's disease is a mutation. And this scenario has nothing to do with the mutation. This, my friends, is called acquired von Wilderbrron disease. And so, the only way that you can truly tell if someone has von Wilderbrron disease is to do what's called a risk co-actor assay. You would check their von Wilderbron factor antigen and it would probably be low. But the risk of seeking co-actor assay, which determines the activity, that would be low. Now in these patients they'll bleed but the most common is platelet related bleeding. So if you guys remember that can present with epistaxis which is nose bleeding. They can present with minorasia which is heavy vaginal bleeding and they can also present with peticia which is those pinpoint bleeding spots that you'll see on the skin. So, picier, pipera, minoria, epistaxis are the most common ways that these patients will present with bleeding. All right. So, the next one we're going to talk about is gout. Now, this one's a weird presentation. It may not be super obvious, but if patients having repeated attacks of gout or they're having gout in combination with some of these other types of presentations, it can be valuable to think about. So, it's really due to increased cell turnover. So, you're having this myoid stem cell. If a patient has polymeia vera, the predominant cell line that it is making is red cells, but it can make platelets and essential thrombocythemia, they're going to get lots of platelets. And in um patients who have things like CML or any of the other kinds of conditions, they can make tons and tons and tons of all these cell lines. So whenever there's this rapid cell turnover, all right, these guys can make they basically release a lot of this as a response of that massive cell turnover. they can make something called uric acid. And that increase in uric acid into the bloodstream called hyperurasemia can get into those joints, right? Especially the first metatarsal. This is your your first MTP joint, right? And they're going to get into that joint and they're going to inflame the son of a gun out of that thing. And as that starts to happen, you're going to get inflammation, redness, and swelling of that first MTP joint. And that's going to cause a lot of pain. And again, this gout attacks Hyperasemia is a really common thing, but again, it's just due to rapid cell turnover. So again, it's due to increased cell turnover. All right? And so you could actually check the uric acid levels in these patients. And another thing that you can actually check, funny enough, cell turnover can be determined based upon not just hyper urmia or increased uric acid, you can even check their LDH levels. And so LDH levels would also be potentially elevated in these patients. All right. So that's gout. So if a patient comes in, they end up having evidence of thrombosis. Usually it's recurrent thrombosis and again could be usual DVTP or unusual locations. Those are the big ones though. Bud Kiari, portal vein, meoteric vein thrombosis. On top of that microvascular thrombosis of the hands and feet, ariththramalgia and then potentially hypervcosity syndrome. That's when you really want to be thinking about a patient having an MPN. If they have repeated gout attacks, again, that helps. And again, you can see this in all MPNs. Splenome maggali is an interesting one. So, we've kind of hit arythmalgia, you see heavily in central thrombocythemia. Bleeding, you see it more heavily in essential thrombocythemia. Thrombosis and hyper viscosity syndrome, more so in polyythemia. What about PMF? Does it get no love? Well, the spleen don't love them. And that's the big problem here is that in these patients all MPN's can develop spenomegaly. All right MPNs however it is most severe in primary myo fibrosis. So in patients who have severe severe spenomegaly it is most common you will see this in patients who have primary myo fibrosis. Now the mechanism behind this is kind of a two-fold thing. All right. So for example, in patients who have an increasing number of red blood cells or an increasing number of platelets, right? So you can see this in any of those. If you have polyythemia, you can have a lot of red cells. If you have a central thrombocythemia, you're going to have predominantly an increase in platelets. What's the um organ that is the graveyard per se or red cells and platelets as they get older and defective and they start reaching the end of their lifetime? The spleen. And so what happens is the spleen will start to sequester these guys. So if you have a lots of these red cells and lots of this platelets, the spleen naturally will remove them. But if you have more than a normal human being, then you're going to get more splenic sequestration as a result because these things are going to the spleen to die and to be destroyed by macrofasages. But as you have more splenic splenic sequestration, it starts to get bigger. And as it gets bigger, you get spenomegaly. Now spenomegali is an enlargement of the spleen. Could you palpate this? You could potentially palpate this. So it could be a palpable spleen on the on the left side. But oftentimes what happens is the spleen's so big that it actually starts to compress on a structure right next to it and that's the stomach. And so what actually happens is as it compresses the stomach, so it starts to compress the stomach, you get full quickly. And so these patients often times their complaint is that they feel like they're really they have a lot of fullness in their abdomen, but they get full really quickly. So early satiety. I wish I knew what that felt like. All right, bad joke. Tough crowd. Sorry guys. So splenomegali. Again, early satiety tends to be one of the biggest features, but they may have a palpable spleen. So it also could be a palpable spleen. Sometimes you may get a CT and be like, "Oh my gosh, what is that thing?" And they can have a pretty large spleen. Again, I would look for a palpable spleen as one feature of splenomegaly and I would look for early satiety as a historical feature of um splenomegaly. And if you happen to get a CT actually look a little bit like this. That's one reason. And so again we see patients who have polyythemia vera. This is the most predominant cell line that's affected. In essential thrombocythemia this is the most predominant cell line that's affected. And that's why you'll get splenomegaly this way. In primary myo fibrosis it can also do this because they can get an increase in pllets and white cells and things like that. But in primary myo fibrosis, if you guys remember, where's my orange marker? Here it is. What happened to them? They get fibrosis of their bone marrow, right? They get fibrosis of the bone marrow. And so this is supposed to make white cells and red cells and platelets. That's where hematopolesis occurs. But as these patients who have primary myo fibrosis, what we know is is they get bone marrow fibrosis. as they get bone marrow fibrosis that starts to what most common cell line gets affected first the red cells and so these start to drop and then as the fibrosis progresses you lose platelets as the fibrosis progresses you lose white cells so now what happens is this bone marrow is no longer working to reach out to another organ who has the capability to produce these blood cells and so what happens is the bone marrow stops working. So this is going to be basically the bone marrow fails and then the spleen has to take over. So then the spleen goes through a process called extra medularary hematopoesis. And all this is is the spleen says, "Don't worry, bone marrow. I'll help you. I'll help you get through this." And so what I'll do is I'll start taking over your job and I'll start making red cells and platelets and white cells. I won't be able to do it as good as you can, but I'll do the best that I can. And so it'll start producing red cells and platelets and white blood cells, but it's not going to be enough. not enough to compensate and it'll work really and really really hard and what happens is eventually it works super hard that because of it having to gain the capacity to make all of these cells it has to get bigger and as it gets bigger it leads to spinomegaly. So again the extra medularary hematopoesis is most predominant in primary myo fibrosis which is why it contributes so much to spinomegali whereas in polyymia vera central throycemia you're making a lot of these cells and they're getting sequestered by the spleen. These are the two primary mechanisms. So again you can see it in all of them but it is the most severe and most common in primary myop fibrosis due to extra medulararyis. we come to the last component here which is our AML. Let's discuss that. All right. So the last thing is that there is a risk and so we'll talk about this when we get to acute leukemas but any type of myo proliferative neoplasia you have to think about it dude you're taking a myoid stem cell and it is proliferating and differentiating into other different types of cells right maybe red cells maybe platelets maybe white cells etc. there is always a chance that this myoid stem cell as it continues and continues to proliferate right so during that proliferation so every cycle of proliferation increases the risk of more mutations so think about this every single time so as we get older right as we get older you have just hundreds of years maybe if you make it to 100. As you get older, every time you're constantly replicating, replicating your DNA to allow for cells to divide and grow so that we can continue to survive because you know cells make up tissues. Tissues make up organs. Organs make up our body. So it is really important that that cell proliferation occurs. But as every single time you undergo this proliferation, you increase the risk of a mutation, a point mutation, a missence mutation, a deletion, anything. And so those are always possibilities. So if you have a myoid stem cell that's constantly proliferating, you can't deny the fact that if they develop a sematic mutation, especially one like the p-53 gene or something like that, it could be catastrophic. So once you have this step where let's say now you have this myoid stem cell and it has more mutations than it did prior. All right? So now you got this myate stem cell with tons and tons and tons of mutations. Now it can get to the point where this puppy can just continue to proliferate without truly differentiating. And so then what ends up happening is is you end up with this myoid stem cell proliferating and turning into myoblasts. And so then you get tons and tons of myoblasts, right? And these myoblasts, oh, son of a gun, you can get enough of them to where these things start crowding out the bone marrow. So, they're going to crowd out that bone marrow. As they crowd out the bone marrow, they take up all the space that you need for your myoid stem cells that are maybe they're present to make red cells or to make platelets or to make white blood cells. And so as a result due to the let's say decreasing the bone marrow space. So you're going to decrease that bone marrow space here. Now what's going to happen is you're not going to have enough space for those hematopetic stem cells to make neutrfils or eosinaphils etc to make red cells and to make platelets. And so this process will become inhibited. And so what will happen is you can start having a patient have a drop in their white cells, a drop in their red cells, a drop in their platelets. What the heck is this called? This is called pansytoenia. Pan cytoenia. So when a patient has underlying myop proliferative neoplasia and all of a sudden they develop pansyenia and on top of that you look at their bone marrow and they have myoblast at least greater than 20% of their bone marrow contains myoblast and they have pansyenia bro you done turned into AML so that's the big thing here and again we can see this present in all it can be present in all myop proliferative neoplas however highest risk the highest risk exists with primary myo fibrosis primary myo fibrosis so that's really important to remember so again to take away from this patient comes in they state that they have a recurrent history of DVTs pees or maybe they've had some thrombi in some really weird venus locations bud kiari portal vein meantic vein definitely something to think about for an mpm They come in and they have uh ariththramalgia which is that microvascular thrombosis of the hands and feet definitely think about an MPN. If they come in they have features of headache, dizziness, blurred vision, think about hyper viscosity syndrome. If they come in with bleeding right and they have these really really high platelet counts, think about potentially a central thrombocythemia. If they come in with spenomegaly, think about any of these but more specifically primary myo fibrosis. If they come in with repeated gout attacks, think about all these MPNs. if they come in and they had one of these MPN especially primary myo fibrosis and it converts into AML that is another reason to think about these. All right. So, myop proliferative neoplasia is oftentimes a disorder that can present with thrombosis, bleeding, splenomegaly, gout, and increased risk of converting into AML. You're going to see more commonly the thrombosis with polyythemeia era due to the combination of hyper viscosity syndrome. You're going to see the ariththramalgia component more common in essential thrombocythemia. You're going to see bleeding more common in essential thrombocythemia. You can see gout in all of them. You can see a high risk of spenomegaly with primary myo fibrosis and conversion of AML and primary myo fibrosis. If I said the patient has aquaggenic paritis and facial plethora though you should really think about polyythemia vera. All right my friends that's a lot of things to talk about and I know it may seem stressful but I think we have a good diagram that we can help to utilize this to understand a lot of these topics that we've discussed. So let's check out the diagnostic approach. A lot of the times this stuff might be incidentally found during getting blood work. You get a CBC with a differential and you find that they have an elevated hemoglobin hematic. You find that they have an increased platelet count. You find that they have a really high white blood cell count or you have they have this random anemia. Sometimes you may find physical exam findings. Maybe they have lots of thrombosis. Maybe they have spenomegaly. Maybe they're bleeding, right? Maybe they have something else like a hyperasemia. There's lots of things that could be triggering this. What I want you to think about is really think about some big complications. Recurrent thrombosis. So they keep getting DVTs or pees. Do they have clots in really weird locations? Really think about an MPN as a part of your workup. If they have mucosal bleeding, gingerville bleeding, uh prolonged vaginal bleeding, peticial bleeding, really think about potentially a platelet disorder. All right. If they have spenome maggali, a big honk in spleen, you really want to be thinking about potentially a primary myo fibrosis. But again, a lot of the times this might not come up. Gout can be considered again a part of the differential because if you have hyperasemia, you got to think about things like is there lots of cell turnover. So is there some type of myo proliferative neoplasia? Is this tumor licis syndrome? is this their common like dietary changes or diabetes uh you know metabolic syndrome things like that it's a part of your workup but oftent times these patients won't present with a lot of these things and so re really ends up happening is you end up finding it incidentally so usually what happens is patients will get blood work they get a CBC with a blood smear part of their workup but if they present with any of these things you can always consider getting an LDH and uric acid the reason why is let's say that we get a CBC with a blood smear and these things what could it really tell me so you'll be looking at the vignette and you'll start getting some pieces that will kind of come together. LDH and uric acid tells me there's lots of cell turnover. So if I see lots of LDH, lots of uric acid, okay, lots of cell turnover, lots of cell turnover. All right, that would make sense with a myo proliferative neoplasia. If I see that the hemoglobin and the hematocrit is high, so greater than 16 in females, greater than 16.5 in males, I'm thinking polyythemia except I don't know if it's vera or secondary. Well, how do I really tell? check the EPO level and then from there we can even do a Jack 2 mutation analysis. If I check this all right equal levels high okay then that's secondary question is is why right especially if they don't have a jack 2 mutation that's that's secondary okay O2 saturation is low do they have a hypoxic lung disease or some kind like COPD interstitial lung disease something like that okay if they do that could be the reason if their O2 saturation is completely normal oh do they have like hematia hypertension do they have a flank mass should I check them for renal cell carcinoma Right? That's something to think about. If their EPO level is low and then they have a jack 2 mutation, you got primary, you know, polyythemia or polythemia of vera. But we got to confirm it because we got to make sure that the bone marrow is showing me that I have the myo proliferative neoplasia. In other words, that myoid stem cell is proliferating and it's giving me lots of red cells. And what else could I get? What did I tell you? I said that word like three times. Trilinear hyperscellularity. I could have all three cell lines be increased. So if I do a bone marrow biopsy and I find that all my cell lines are increased, I got polyythemia vera, it's done. All right. Next is if I now have a really high LDH, high uric acid, lots and lots of cell turnover, and then the platelet counts really high. Greater than 450,000 is kind of like the upper limit, right? If it's greater than a million, we definitely start thinking more about essential thrombocythemia, but we're just looking at least the plates are high. So let me start there. I'm thinking there's a thrombocytosis. I got to know if it's essential thrombocyothermia or if it's secondary. So I got to rule out infection, inflammation. I got to rule out autoimmune diseases, right? I got to rule out um any kind of like iron deficiency anemia. Did they have a splinctomy or like sometime recently? So I'm going to do all that and I'm even going to get some mutational analysis. I'll check a jack 2 which accounts for 50% of the mutations and then the other parts is my MPL, my calrar. So I'll check that stuff. So say that I do that. CRP, ESR iron studies come back abnormal. Okay. Could there be infection, inflammation? Could there be autoimmune diseases? Could there be iron deficiency in he? Yeah, it could be. Jack tube mutation, cal ml. All right, that's that's normal. That's okay. Then there's no mutation there. That's really ruling out a primary cause. And then if I check the the playlist, this is kind of lower on the thought process, but if you look at the the actual the peripheral blood smear and you look in the playlist of completely normal size, uh that really suggests that this is probably a secondary thrombocytosis. You just got to further investigate it to figure out which one it is. So if I looked and I said okay the C CRP and the ESR is really really high that could be infection it could be inflammation that's driving this and I got to start searching into that. If the iron studies came back abnormal, it's probably iron deficiency anemia that's driving this, right? So, it's just a careful thought process. If I do all these studies and I got normal studies here, they do have one of these mutations and their platelets are large and they don't got a lot of granules in them. You really want to be thinking about potentially essential thrombocythemia. So, you look here, look how big this platelet is, dude. Because seriously, you see this is a red blood cell. These platelets are not supposed to be that size. They're supposed to be super small. This is a gargantuous platelet. All right. So definitely something to think about. And that really starts bringing in the possibility of a central thrombocythemia. How do I prove it? I got to get a bone marrow biopsy. When I do that and I get the biopsy, what would I see? Well, I'd see lots of meggaariotes that are super super hyperlastic. Lots and lots of proliferation of those meggaariotes. And that would really tell me that this is this is a central thrombocythemmeia. Now we go the route. Lots of cell turnover. White cell count through the roof. All right. Super high. Greater than 11,000 is like what we kind of consider. Some will even consider 12. But I'm talking that this will probably be 50 close to 100,000. That's when you start thinking, okay, this is a luccoytosis, but is it a luccoid or is it a CML problem? All right. Let's say that I do my differential of the white blood cell. So I look at the all the different types, miloytes, blasts. I look for uh band cells. I look for metamioytes.tes.tes.tes.tes.tes.tes.t all those things. I really go through and I try to analyze that. I look at the lap level and maybe I even get that BCRable one mutation to look to see if there's CML potentially present. So if you do that and you get no basophilia, all right, I know CML is almost always associated with a pretty significant basophilia. All right, that's already kind of ruling out the CML. I got a high lap level. I know CML usually has low lap levels. All right, and I don't have a mutation. That's probably a secondary luccoytosis. You got to start figuring out the reason why. Is it infection? Is it inflammation? Is it a stress response? Are they on steroids? Those are what you have to go through. If I see a basophilia, all right. Oh, that suggests more of a CML picture. Do they have a low lap level? And do they have the mutation? That suggests more of the CML. You'll have to go the route of getting a bone marrow biopsy to really confirm that I have what? Well, I got lots and lots of these uh my I'd say u granular sites at various different kinds of stages and I even have some milo blasts that are present. That's really what would tell me if I have CML. All right. Now, the last thing is I have lots of cell turnover. All right, but here's the weird one. It's not a great one, but I got a patient with like some anemia. All right, lots of cell turnover and then I got anemia. If that happens, could it be milo fibrosis? This is a tough tough tough diagnosis to make because a patient who has anemia, we don't always go the route of thinking about that they have myo fibrosis, right? So that's really important to remember. This is usually more of like a normocitic type of anemia. And so when you have that, you can have anemia. Other cell lines may be affected. So you it's not always affected. So you don't always jump to the bone marrow. usually pansy you always think bone marrow. This is one of these scenarios where it's a little bit more difficult. If you happen to meander upon this, you'll have a patient with splenomegali and you'll have a patient with anemia and usually what they'll say is when you analyze them further, you'll find that they'll have a mutation present. Usually they have a jack 2, a calar or an MPL mutation that's usually present and that's usually going to start pinging you off to think about the essential throbo, I'm sorry, the primary myo fibrosis. But the big term here that you really want to look for is anytime you have a patient who has a high amounts of cell turnover with a low hemoglobin and teardrop red blood cells on blood smear, that patient you want to start thinking about primary myo fibrosis, right? But the only way that you can truly guarantee this is to get the bone marrow biopsy. And when you do the bone marrow biopsy, you'll see a significant amount of bone marrow fibrosis. And that's what really kind of screams potentially a primary myo fibrosis. All right. Wow, that's a lot. We hit a lot here with this approach. The question now becomes, I figured out what the cause is. I figured out the disease. How do I manage when a patient's hemoglobin hematocrites high? How do I manage the thrombocytosis? How do I manage the luccoytosis? How do I manage the bone marrow fibrosis? And even more than that, how do I manage the complications of these diseases? Let's do that now. So when a patient has myop proliferative neoplasia, oftentimes what will happen is you'll see most of these patients probably will present with some degree of a thrombosis. That's a pretty common manifestation. And so oftent times acutely you're going to have to think about the underlying problem. So usually when a patient has a thrombosis you'll probably anti-coagulate them obviously in the meantime but treating the underlying reason of why they're throwing clots is important. So for polyythemeia vera we want to remove the hemoglobin remove the hematocrit uh and get it lower and so we'll phobotize them. We'll actually remove their blood to get their hemoglobin and hematocrit within a normal limit so they stop having this significant amount of viscosity. Uh the other thing is with um these is aspirin. Aspirin is pretty much good I'd say for any milo proliferative neoplasia um especially essential thrombocythemium because the concept behind aspirin is it's suppressing thromboxane A2 release. So we know that this inhibits platelets from releasing thromboxy A2 and that inhibits other platelets from aggregating and sticking and forming that thrombosis right and so that's going to reduce the risk of complications and so oftent times for patients with posmia vera we will phabbotomize them and also put them on aspirin. We just have to be careful with certain patient populations like essential thrombocythemia. If their platelet counts getting really really high, greater than 1.5 million, they do have a risk of bleeding and then aspirin can exacerbate that. All right. Another thing is hydroxyurora. So you can use hydroxyurora theoretically in in any of these that are causing thrombosis like polyythemia vera and you can even use this in essential thrombocythemia. The concept behind this is that you're trying to cyto reduce. So you're trying to reduce the number of these myoid stem cells converting into red cells. You're trying to reduce the number of myoid stem cells converting into platelets. And so that's one of the benefits here is it's kind of reducing the conversion of these myoid stem cells into their end result red blood cells and platelets. And so that you're not forming thrombosis. All right? That's the concept is you're trying to really really shut down the proliferation to making less white blood cells, less platelets and less red blood cells. and that may be a very very significant helpful factor in these thrombosis factors. Another thing with thrombosis is roxalitib but I'd say that this has actually been more studied and shown to be more beneficial um and splenomegaly funny enough but we'll get there. One of the concepts about Roxalinib is it's a jack 2 inhibitor. And so if you give a Jack 2 inhibitor, think about this. If you have polymia vera and you have a central throymia, those have jack 2 mutations and so they drive that pathway. If I give a drug that suppresses the Jack 2 enzyme, can it signal the proliferation response? No. And if I stop that proliferation response, I stop the proliferation into making white blood cells and to making the platelets and I suppress the uh fibrosis factor and I also suppress the red blood cells. And so this can sometimes be given to reduce the risk of complications like thrombosis. But what I've really seen that this is more effective in is reducing the risk of spenomegaly and pi primary myo fibrosis. All right, that's really important. All right, let's put all of this together in a nice systematic approach because I know I know this is a lot, right? Because we we understand the mechanisms of of all of these, but putting them together in a way of how do I know which one to give first, which one to give second, how do I know if I give this one or this one? It's tough, right? So, let's say that you have a patient who comes in, they're less than 60, they don't really have any DVTs, pees, they don't have any like unusual clots in the cerebral veins or the apatic veins, things like that. Well, that is a patient who I probably don't want to be super super aggressive with with like things like hydroxyora and roxalidnib. I probably would hold off on those, right? Um, I'd probably go more go to aspirin for prevention. Another reason to even add on to that is that if the platelets especially especially in essential thrombocythemia when they get to like one 1.5 million, you do run the risk of bleeding and so aspirin becomes a little bit more tricky. Uh, I would still give it, but you know, I just would be careful right now. Again, I'm I'm definitely going to lean more to aspirin. Now, splenomegaly really involves roxalitanib. It that's a heavy heavy utilization of roxalitib is when a patient has severe splenomegaly. So, again, if I don't have any splenomegaly, then if this is the case, I'm probably going straight to aspirin. The only time I'll consider phbotomy in addition to aspirin is if they have polyythemeia vera. Now, if they're greater than 60, they got a clot, they have platelets that are greater than a million and they have spinomegaly at this point. Now, they're a little bit more aggressive. Right now, if they have a clot, I'll probably anti-coagulate them, right? But after I kind of dissipate that clot, I now need to focus on kind of preventing this from happening again. So, the most important thing is I can still consider initiating aspirin. I just got to be really really careful. Especially if that platelet count gets greater than 1.5 million. I run the risk of them bleeding. So really at this point I may forego the aspirin and go straight to cyto reduction and try to drop their red cell count, drop their platelet count, drop their white blood cell count so that they stop clotting up these vessels. So what's my cyto reduction agents? Hydroxyora. That's the first line. I didn't talk about this other one because we don't use it that often. You may see these in your your MBME questions and stuff, but another second line agent is interferon alpha. We really only use this in young pregnant patients. Hydroxyorhea is really going to be the one to remember. So if they're old, they got clots and they got a platelet count that's really high, they got splitomegaly, I'd probably go cyto reduction, consider aspirin and do the cyto reduction with hydroxyura. If they don't respond to the cyto reduction or their splenomegaly is due to primary myo fibrosis that's when I would go to roxalitib. So if they're not responding to the cyto reduction that's when you go to roxalnib or if they have severe splenomegal primary myo fibrosis go straight to roxalnib. All right. Again, the reason why I say plus or minus aspirin here is just you have to be careful. If the plates are greater than one, some textbooks will even say 1.5 million. You sequester a lot of that vonibbrron factor and so you increase the risk of acquired von will disease. You give them aspirin, you potentially increase the risk of bleeding. And so it's kind of one of those shared decision-making things that you have to consider when you're treating these patients. So next up is gout, right? I told you gout is a potential complication that we come across with these diseases. Really, it's just about treating these patients uh with alipuranol. Alipuranol is really going to help to decrease the uric acid. That's really the primary thing to think about with puritis. It's pretty simple for this one. We're just doing antihistamines and all you're trying to do is just block the antihistamines because those are the ones that are causing that aquagenic puritis that we see. My friends, this is a lot to talk about with myop proliferative neoplasia. I really hope it made sense. I truly hope that at the end of this you guys enjoyed it and you stuck around to the end and that you feel better about this topic. That's our goal here at Ninja is to make things make sense for you. And just thanks so much for being great supporters and just we love you guys. I'm serious. We thank you guys for being so awesome. And my friends, as always, until next time.