All right, Ninja Nerds. In this video, we're going to talk about the abdusen's nerve or cranial nerve six. All right, so in this video, we're going to discuss exactly where you can find the actual abducins nerve within the brain stem. Then we're going to talk about its course, where it's going, what structure it's moving around. Then we're going to talk about the structure that it's supplying, the function of that structure, and then we'll just have a brief little tidbit on clinical correlations. All right, ready? Here we go. So, where would you find that nerve or the sixth cranial nerve? Well, best way to look at it is like this. We're going to take a look at the lateral view now because the lateral view makes it a little bit easier. All right, so let's go ahead and write this one here. So, six cranial nerve nucleus is actually located within the pawns. Okay. So the sixth cranial nerve nucleus is actually located within the pawns. Now there's another nucleus. It's actually called the uh facial nerve. You know the facial nerve, the seventh cranial nerve. There's actually what's called the facial nerve proper which are the motor fibers. The motor fibers actually move behind the six cranial nerve nucleus. They move behind the six cranial nerve and then they come outwards and out a little bit more laterally. Okay, the six cranial nerve is actually going to be running right. So, you know, whenever it moves back here, the facial the axons here, they produce a little depression here. So, they produce a tiny little depression here. This tiny little depression in the fourth ventricle because you see this cavity right here in the back of the pawns and the medulla. This is actually a fluid fil cavity filled with cerebral spinal fluid. This is actually called the fourth ventricle. It's actually connected with the cerebra aqueduct. And then with the uh framani and the framan and lluchka what happens is the seventh cranial nerve wraps around the sixth nerve nucleus and produces a little depression in the back there. That little depression is called the facial caliculus. The sixth nerve is located at the level of that little depression within the uh fourth ventricle called the facial caliculus. And then what happens is it moves downwards and then out at that pawns medulla junction. But to see it a little bit better with relationship to the seventh nerve and even another nerve called the eighth nerve stibular cclear nerve I want to look at it from the anterior view. So now let's say here coming out here. So let's say here's your midline. Here's the midline. Okay. Right here the six cranial nerve is going to come out like this. So that's the six cranial nerve there. That's the six cranial nerve there. Okay. So this would be six cranial nerve here. And this would be six cranial nerve right there. On the sides of it, what nerve do you think is going to be coming out right here? This is going to be the seventh cranial nerve. And it's made up of the facial nerve proper and the nervous intermediates, which is a whole bunch of other different types of fibers, right? But it's going to move like this. And then on the sides of that, if we do this one in green, you're actually going to have another nerve here, which is called the vestibular cclear nerve. And the vestibular cclear nerve is cranial nerve 8. So you're going to see these right along the pond medulla junction. But how would you say that the six nerve nucleus is coming out? Okay, so we know it's at the level of the facial caliculus, which is that little depression in the fourth ventricle caused by the facial nerve. And we know it comes out at the pawns medulla junction medial to the what? Facial nerve and outward more than that is going to be the vestibular cclear nerve. All right. Sweet deal. So we know it comes out at the ponds medulla junction. All right. So it's coming out here at the ponds medulla junction. So let's get rid of this facial nerve because we don't want to confuse it with another structure that we're going to talk about. Now, running right near this is going to be a important blood vessel. So, there's actually going to be an important blood vessel right here, running right near this area here. And this blood vessel is called the anterior inferior cerebellar artery. Okay. So, it's the anterior inferior cerebellar arteries. Now, a little bit above it, there's actually going to be some pontene branches here, which are branches of the basillar artery. So, here, let me show you what I'm talking about here. Let's come down here for just a second here. And let me show you what I mean here. Let me draw another cross-section real quick. So, if I draw another cross-section, here is the midbrain. Let's come back there and then like this pawns medulla and then spinal cord right okay little bit of a tilt there but nonetheless what happens is the vertebral arteries come up through the transverse cereamina right of the cervical vertebrae come together make the basillar artery then as they move up they give off a posterior cerebral artery then they go up off a superior cerebellar artery down here you're going to have another one which is called the anterior inferior cerebellar artery and then over here there's actually going to be some pontene branches right here that six cranial nerve is actually running in between these guys. So it's running kind of right below these pontene branches and just above the anterior inferior cerebellar arteries. Okay, that's relevant because if there's some type of situation in which those actual vessels could be having an aneurysm or having some type of uh situation that could be compressing this nerve for whatever reason, some type of mal foration that could cause some type of six nerve pausy. All right, cool. So now these fibers here, oh that was cool. These fibers move out and when they move out they move up this actual part of this actual bone here you know from this is the posterior cranial fossa as they move up this posterior cranial fossa there's actually a little part here called the clus actually called the clus so if you imagine here let's say I'm posterior cranial fossa then I go into the middle cranial fossa and then anterior cranial fossa as I'm moving up this way this is called the clus and then it goes over to the petrus part of the temporal bone. So once it goes over here, it's at the petrus part of the temporal bone. This nerve is climbing up the clus. Then it goes over to the petrus part of the temporal bone and it moves and pierces in between a tiny little canal. There's actually a tiny canal here that it moves in between. And another structure actually runs right with it. There's actually a a vein that actually runs with this in this sinus here. There's a vein here that also runs within that area. So it pierces through this little area here and that little hole that it actually moves through into this canal. It moves into a little canal called Durello's canal. So right now these two structures are in a canal and that canal is called Derella's canal. So what canal are they in right now? They're in a canal called Dello's canal. And there's two things in there. One is going to be what's called the inferior petroal sinus which is basically a dural sinus and the other one is going to be cranial nerve six. All right the abdusen's nerve. Now what happens is runs up the clus pierces that little actual meninjial layer and goes into the durellus canal. Then from there it's going to run with the inferior petroal sinus. It's going to come out and it's going to move into what is this structure here? So what is this structure here called that it moves into? It moves into this and this structure here is called the cavernous cavernous sinus. So it's called the cavernous sinus. Now the cavernous sinus is actually a dural sinus. Why is that important? Because if you remember here there's actually this brown tissue like the duraater here. You see this brown part here? This is actually called the perryostial layer of the duraater. All right, perryostial layer. Then this maroon layer here is the meningial layer. So this maroon one is called the meningial layer of the dura mater. When these break away, right in there is that dural sinus, right? And this is going to be the cavernous sinus. Another way to kind of look at this is like this. Let's say I draw here the celotica of the sppheninoid bone. And here's where the pituitary gland sits. And then right here on the sides, you're going to have this little dural sinus, right? And this little dural sinus here is going to be called the cavernous sinus. Now, what do we say actually runs right up through this area? If you guys remember from the ocular motor nerve and the trolear nerve video, we said it was the internal corateed artery. It was running in through the cavity of the cavernous sinus running through the cavity. And then if you guys remember we said that on the wall over here there was a tiny little wall on the lateral sides over here and there was some actual nerves running through there. Just to be consistent here we said that it would have going to be third cranial nerve fourth cranial nerve opthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve and the maxillary division of the uh trigeminal nerve. Same thing over here three four v1 v2 the six cranial nerve is running within the cavity. So the six cran nerve is running within the cavity of the cavernous sinus just so that we're clear. Okay. So it runs through the cavity and then as it's running through the cavity again what structure would actually be right here. If I put a little hole here in the skull this would be the fammen lurum here. And then there was another one over here which is called the corateed canal. You know there's going to be the internal corateed artery running through the corateed canal. Then it's going to come upwards through the frame and lacerum and run through the cavernous sinus right here. Right? And this is called the internal corateed artery. Okay. The six cranial nerve is running right next to it. Right? So right on this right next to it. And then it's going to come where? It's going to come out of the cavity and it's going to go into a hole here in the skull called the superior orbital fissure. So it moves through this hole here called the superior orbital fissure. Okay. Now what happens from here? It it's going to come from the superior orbital fissure. It's going to go into the orbital cavity. And from the orbital cavity, it's going to supply one main muscle. If you guys remember that little acronym we said, LR6, lateral rectus, sixth cranial nerve. And if you guys just want a little reminder, SO4 superior big fourth cranial nerve and then all the rest or all the freaking rest is going to be three, right? So all the rest are going to be supplied by third cranial nerve, ocular motor nerve. So this gu is going to come out of the superiorbital fissure into the orbital cavity and supply this muscle right here. So again, if you imagine, we're looking at this from the lateral side. So if you're looking at it, imagine I took the the actual temporal or zygomatic part of the orbital cavity off and all we're seeing is the nasal part. Okay? So this right here is the lateral rectus, that muscle. When this guy intervates the lateral rectus, the lateral rectus contracts and what does he do? You know, the lateral rectus actually causes abduction of the eye. So what's the function of this lateral rectus then? Well, it's actually going to pull the eyeball outwards. So the lateral rectus does what's called lateral rotation. So it does what's called lateral rotation. Sometimes uh you might even see it written as what's called abduction of eye. Maybe another reason why they call the nerve that supplies it the abduins nerve because it's going to cause the eye to abduct. In other words, pull the eyeball what? Like this. It's going to come outward. Okay. So that abduction is my right eye. Look for the right eye. I'm pulling the eyeball outward. That's the job of the abducence nerve. And the muscle that's doing that is going to be the lateral rectus. I'm doing that right there. Okay, that's the lateral rectus. Now, again, seeing it from this lateral view doesn't do justice to how the nerve is actually coming into the orbital cavity. So, let's look at it from the anterior view. So, remember, I'm taking my eye and I'm looking at this in the back of the orbital cavity. And this is what we see. If you guys remember, it's always good to recap. That's the way that we remember things is going to be what's called the annulus of Zen or remember you can call it the common tendonous ring and remember that's the origin for all of these different types of extraocular muscles which are going to be inferior rectus lateral rectus and again this would be temporal or your zygomatic side over here and then over here is actually going to be the nasal and then again this is the roof this would be the floor and this would be the posterior wall annulus of an origin of the lateral rectus, inferior rectus, medial rectus, and superior. And if you guys want to remember, we had the levator palpibbra superioris, which basically was going to elevate the palpibra. We talked about the ocular motor nerve, and if it's damaged, it can actually cause the eye to droop. That could be tossis of the eye, right? And then this one over here, which is the superior oblique. Okay? So, what happens is is this six cranial nerve, I'm going to change his color for just a second. He's going to move inside of the common tendonous ring. If you guys remember what we're actually coming right here, we had the superior branch of the ocular motor nerve. We had the inferior branch of the ocular motor nerve. And then what was smack dab there in the center? The naso siliary nerve. And then over here was the lacrimal nerve, frontal nerve and tlear nerve or cranial nerve four. The sixth nerve is running inside of the common tendonous ring that part of the superiorbital fissure and then it comes out here and supplies the lateral rectus. That simple and it causes lateral rotation or you can also say abduction of the eye. Okay. So that covers that part. Now what I want to do is so what have we talked about so far guys? We have hit origin of the nerve. We talked about course of the nerve. We talked about the structures it supplies. Now let's do a tidbit on clinical correlations. All right. One thing is same thing if there is any type of there could be so many things. You could have some type of tumor that develops in here. So maybe a tumor that's actually compressing the six cranial nerve. Maybe the blood vessels that are supplying the six cranial nerve become oluded or infarcted. So some type of infarction of this area. Maybe an abscess. Okay. So due to some type of infection maybe an abscess develops in this area and the person has uh this compressing that that area there or maybe uh multiple scerosis which deminates the axons of the CNS right so whatever the situation might be maybe they have multiple scerosis or an abscess or an infarction or a tumor whatever it might be it could be affecting the nucleus of the six cranial nerve also what if it comes out of this area and there is some type of situation maybe vascular itis like inflammation of the anterior inferior cerebellar arteries and it's actually compressing this cranial nerve. If it's compressing the crainal nerve that could also cause a problem. So some type of vasculitic lesions of this anterior inferior cerebellar artery or maybe even less commonly maybe an aneurysm that's compressing it also. Okay. Another thing you see where it runs into it runs up the clus right? So really I could actually even kind of show it like this to make it even more perfect is to it kind of comes here and then comes upwards right what happens is let's say that for whatever reason you get conked in the head and you develop a hematoma within some part of the meninges and you develop high intercraanial pressure. What happens is when you have high incraanial pressure what it tries to do is it tries to herniate the brain stem out of the frame and magnum. tries to squish this part of the brain stem outwards. As it does that, it can pull on the six cranial nerve. So, imagine me trying to pull this sucker out of the frame and magnum. I'm pulling on the nerve and it can just keep bashing that bad boy against this bony part of the petrus part of the temporal bone. If it keeps banging it against that, you could actually develop some type of six nerve pausy. So maybe some type of high incraanial pressure could also cause the uh abducence nerve to be banged up against that bony part of the petrus component of the temporal bone. Same thing we talked about this within the third nerve and in the fourth nerve if there's some type of aneurysm and this would be definitely super super affected here. If there's some type of aneurysm this could affect the abdus nerve or if there's some type of uh infection that develops within the cavernous sinus that thromboses the internal corate artery or if there's a fistula. Sometimes you can develop fistulas in this area and that could also compress the six cranial nerve. And the last thing is maybe some type of situation in which there's actually trauma. Maybe there was some type of trauma to the individual and because of that it damaged or fractured some of the bones here and actually maybe they compressed the nerve or sever the nerve in some type of way. Right now if that happens how will the person present? Okay. Well the lateral rectus can't contract. What's the main function of lateral rectus? He pulls the eyeball outward. If that's not working, where's the eyeball going to want to go? Whoop! Right to the middle. And now he's going to be looking like this. If it's real bad, right? One of the eyes. So what's going to happen now? This eyeball, let's say that the right abdus nerve is damaged. If the right abdusence nerve is damaged, now this eye is going to be like this. Okay? So it's going to be inward now. And you know what they call this when the one then I is actually inwards. This is called unilateral. Okay. So this would be the right right side or unilateral internal strabismas. Now the reason why I say this is because if you have this person like this that's at rest that's at their normal straight staring gaze. Let's say you're like I'm going to freck them up a little bit. I'm going to have them turn their eyes to the right. So now I'm going to have them turn both of their gaze. I'm going to have them turn their gaze to the right. If I try to have this guy turn his gaze to the right and this guy turn his gaze to the right, what's going to happen? This lateral rectus is not going to contract. That sucker isn't moving. It's going to stay there. This guy's media rectus, everything is functioning over here. So, it's medial rectus over here is going to contract and it's going to pull the eye inwards like this. Now, what's going to happen if there because of at rest just even their straight gaze, this eye is going to be kind of leaning this way, right? And this eye could be standing straight. So because of that their visual fields are all thrown out of whack. So they can develop what's called dipoplia. Dipopia dipopia. Okay. And this is basically double vision. Okay. So they can develop double vision. And again you could make it even worse if you want to be, you know, crude and and rude and you have them turn their actual gaze to the paralytic side. So the right eye is paralytic. You have them turn it to the right side. This eye will move that way. Okay, the medial rectus will contract. This lateral rectus will not contract. So it'll stay there and they'll have bilateral internal strisism and and it'll be even worse. The depopia will be even worse. Okay. All right. So in this video we covered a decent amount of information about the abducence nerve. We talked about the origin of the nerve, the course of the nerve, the structures that it supplies and just a little tidbits on the clinical correlations of it. Guys, I hope all of this made sense. I hope you guys did enjoy it. If you guys did, please hit the like button, comment down in the comment section, and please subscribe. As always, ninja nerds. Till next time.