All right, ninjers. In this video, we are going to talk about the neuroanatomy of the pond. So, let's go ahead and get started. All right, engineers. So, what we're going to do is we're going to look at the kind of internal structures of the ponds and then we'll go into their function in more detail as we kind of move towards the right of the whiteboard. First thing we need to know is we have to look at two sections or cross-sections or transverse sections of the pawns. Okay, one is going to be here on the left is going to be at the trigeminal nerve level. Okay, particularly at the level of the trigeminal motor nucleus. The one on the right is going to be at the level of the facial nerve or the abdusins nerve. Okay, let me give you guys a little orientation on that. So if I draw like a little mini diagram here, here's my cerebrum, right? midbrain pawns medulla and then I have my spinal cord here is going to be the cerebellum right the pawns you have a particular level here right at this level we're going to have right here is going to be at the level of the trigeminal motor nucleus okay so out out from this you'll have the trigeminal nerve the motor nerve and again you'll have a sensory nucleus there as well at the lower level just a little bit lower closer to that pawns medulla junction. So again, if I were to kind of draw like a line there, that's kind of right around the area between the pawns and the medulla just below it. Right around that level, we're going to have the level of the facial nerve, and we're going to have this at the level of the abduins nerve. Okay? So, we're going to take two sections. One is going to be here, and that's going to be on the left. That's the level of the trigeminal. and we're going to take another section and that's going to be at the level on the right which is gonna be at the level of the facial and abducence nerve. Okay, so let's go ahead and focus here at the level of the trigeminal nerve. All right, so let's go ahead and take a look here at this cross-section at the level of that trigeminal nucleus motor and sensory nucleus here. Okay, now what I want you to remember is that there's a vententral portion here. So when we're looking at this, giving you guys some orientation, this side here is the vententral. This side here is the dorsal. Okay? Or another way that we can say it is anterior and posterior. Okay. Now another thing is sometimes questions might come up where they might say okay what is the vententral portion of the pawns called? In other words here's your trapezoid body right? We'll get into all these structures in a second but this blue kind of like uh diamond thing here is going to be the trapezoid body. Anything that is anterior to the trapezoid body. So from here all the way till here this is the base or the basil part of the pawns. Okay. Anything from this part of the trapezoid body all the way back here to the back part most dorsal point is the tegmentum of the pawns. Okay. So again this part basler part of the pawns. This part all here tegmentum of the pawns. Okay. So let's talk about stuff in the vententral or basil part of the ponds first. Then we'll get into all the structures in this dorsal or tegmental part of the ponds next. Okay, first things first. We have all these little orange dots within the basil part of the ponds. What are these little uh these little orange dots? These little orange dots here that we're going to talk about. We're going to have like a key so that this diagram doesn't get too crazy here. These little orange dots are called your pontene nuclei. Okay, so these are called your pontene nuclei. And again, we'll talk about their function in a little bit, but one of the big things I want you guys to remember for this in kind of that one-word sentence is that the pontine nuclei, what happens is you have descending motor fibers coming from the cerebral cortex that some of them will synapse on these pontene nuclei. Then when they synapse on these cell bodies or these pontine nuclei, some of the fibers from the pontine nuclei on the left side of the pawns will cross over to the opposite or contraateral cerebellum. The ones on the right side will cross over and send their axons from the right side of this pawns to the contrlateral or left cerebellum. How do they do that? You see these black fibers here? If I were to kind of imagine here, here's going to be the syninnapse at this point. And from here, this guy is going to go this way. He's going to make his way across these. These are your panto cerebellar fibers, right? So, what are these fibers here called? These are your panto cereabellar fibers. And again they are going from one side of these pontine nuclei to the contrlateral cerebellum. When they go towards the contrlateral cerebellum, how do they communicate with the contrlateral cerebellum? Do you guys remember? They're going to make their way. So for example, it would come down here to this guy. He would cross over this way, continue to keep crossing, continue, and then move into this little black structure here. What is this called? These are called your middle cerebellar podunks. Okay, so you have middle cerebellar pedunals. And again, we already talked about these when we talked about the midbrain. Those are the superior cerebellar podunkles. If we're at the pond, it's the middle cerebellar podunks. And if we're at the level of the medulla, it's the inferior cerebellar pedunless. So again what I want you to remember in the basler part pontene nuclei receive their information coming from descending motor pathways from the cortex to the pontine nuclei. When they synapse on the pontine nuclei these pontine nuclei will send their axons to the contrlateral cerebellum via the pontto cereabellar fibers. These panto cerebellar fibers will then move into the middle cerebral podunks which will connect them to the contrlateral cerebellum. That's it. That should make perfect sense now. Okay. All right. We covered the basler part. We're almost home. Let's move on to the next part. If we covered the basler part, let's go into this tegmental part. What did we say the tegmental part has right here at this portion? What do we say that was before? That's the trapezoid body. Okay. So this is the trapezoid body and we'll talk about what that is in more detail later. What I want you to know and that one kind of line sentence is the trapezoid body is where the hearing the cclear fibers. Okay? So the fibers that are coming from the cclear nuclei they cross and they move up into what's called the lateral liiniscus. We talked about that in the midbrain. Okay. So the trapezoid body is going to be these kind of like crossing of the cclear fibers or we call them the acoustic stria. We'll get into more detail on that. I just want you to know that this is basically where the crossing of the auditory pathway is. Okay. Now let's go a little bit farther back. We go a little bit more dorsal into the tegmentum and we have these purple structures and we're going to cover them on one side but we're going to move from medial all the way out to lateral. Okay. So what are these structures as we go from medial all the way out to lateral. So this would be the most medial portion here and this will be the most lateral portion. The most medial is the medial lemoniscus. As you go a little bit more out, then you have the trigeminal liiniscus. As you move a little bit more out, you have the spinal lemonus. And as you move all the way out to the lateral part, you have the lateral Okay, we talked about these in great detail in the midbrain video. Super quick little thing. Medial liminiscus carries sensory information from the dorsal column. Propriate reception, fine discriminative touch, vibrations. The trigeminal liiniscus is carrying touch, pain, temperature, propriary reception, pressure sensations from the face. The spinal liiscus is carrying pain, temperature, pressure, crude touch from the upper the uh from the neck all the way down. Okay. And then the last one is the lateral li meniscus. And again, what do we say would happen from here? Just to kind of put this in perspective, there's a little bit of these fibers here. Remember the trapezoid body? Some of these fibers will cross over and move into the lateral laminiscus. And we'll talk about where they come from. This will make more sense, but they'll come here into the lateral laminiscus. that son of a gun that's carrying hearing, okay? Sensory information from the inner ear, okay? Particularly from the cookia. All right, so let's move a little bit more back, but again, let's hit these kind of blue structures here. Then we'll work our way back to the midline. Okay, so we already hit medial liiniscus, we hit the trigeminal, we hit spinal, we hit lateral miniscus. What's these blue structures here on the outer parts? This blue kind of like structures here are actually ascending fibers. And these ascending fibers are a part of your vententral spino cereabellar spino cereabellar tract and that is an ascending tract. Okay? So it's carrying kind of these proprioceptive information which is position sense from your muscles, your tendons, your joints, right? It's going to be sending that information to the cerebellum and it actually will ascend up. It actually comes up through the medulla. It comes up through the ponds and it comes up all the way up to the midbrain and moves in via the superior cerebellar podunks into the cerebellum. Okay, so that's the next one. Let's move now into the middle here. We have these kind of these red tracks. These red tracks here are actually is a descending tract. This is actually the rubspinal tract. Okay, this is the rubro spinal tract. Remember this is a descending motor pathway to what? Flexor muscles. Okay, particularly of the upper extremities. Next one, the blue guy here. This blue guy here is actually the tetospinal tract. You guys remember that one? The teto spinal tract. That's going to be sending descending information, motor information from the tectum, which is primarily the superior caliculus and inferior caliculus down to the motor neurons that are going to play a role within movements of the head, the neck, and even the eyes in response to either a visual stimulus from the superior caliculus or an auditory stimulus from the inferior caliculus. Okay. All right. All right, let's move a little bit dorsal in the tegmental part of the ponds, right? So, we hit rub spinal, we hit teacto spinal. What's this bad son of a gun? This guy right here is your medial longitudinal faciculus, right? So, what is this guy here? If we come down here, just use our key here. This is the medial longitudinal faciculus. You guys remember what that son of a gun connects? Remember this is basically coming from the sixth nerve the abdusen's nerve crossing over and connecting the third and fourth nerve ocular motor and tlear nerve right so it's basically an kind of an ascending tract that connects what three cranial nerves third fourth six cranial nerves and it helps with basically conjugating our eye movements making sure that they're coordinated okay So that's the medial longitudinal faciculus. Okay, this actually very common important thing to remember because this can get damaged in patients with multiple sclerosis. We'll talk about that when we talk about multiple sclerosis, but it can lead to what's called inter nuclear abdomlasia whenever this can be damaged. Okay, last thing here that we're going to talk about then we'll kind of talk about these couple last structures here. Okay, you got this this red nucleus here and this green nucleus. Again, what do we say? We're at the level of the trigeminal nucleus, right? The trigeminal motor nucleus and the trigeminal sensory nucleus. Okay. So again, this red structure here is the trigeminal motor nucleus. The green one there is the trigeminal sensory nucleus. So let's come down here right that get rid of our key here. Right? So the red one is the motor nucleus of the trigeminal nerve of cranial nerve five. If you guys watched our videos on each individual cranial nerve, we go into a lot more detail on the trigeminal nerve and how this is basically supplying the structures of the first frenial arch. Does that sound familiar? These are part of your special visceral eerant fibers, right? And that's supplying those muscles of mastication. We'll talk about those in more detail later. The medial terragoids, lateral tragoids, massitor, temporales, all those bad boys. So again, that's what his responsibility is for. Okay. The green guy is actually going to be the sensory nucleus. Now, we're at the level of the pawns, right? So because we're at the level of the pawns, this sensory nucleus is actually referred to as the central or principal pontene nucleus of the trigeminal nerve. So again technically the sensory nucleus since we're at the level of the pawns particularly right at the level of the trigeminal motor nucleus this is called the central or principal pontene nucleus of cranial nerve five or the trigeminal nerve. Okay. So again, sensory nucleus, what is it picking up information from? It's picking up information, and we'll talk about this in more detail later. Basically, sensations from the face. Okay? And we'll get into more detail on that. And if you guys want to know all about all these different fibers and nerves related to the trigeminal nerve, go watch our video. We have a specific video on the trigeminal nerve. Okay? All right. So, that covers all the internal structures at this point of the tegmentum. Let's go a little bit farther back. Okay. What do we have next? All right. You see this guy here? Big fluid fil cavity. You know what this big fluid fil cavity is called? This big fluid fil cavity here is called the fourth ventricle. And the fourth ventricle is a fluid fil cavity filled with cerebral spinal fluid. And it's basically going to receive this fluid from the above cerebral aqueduct. So in the midbrain you have the cerebra aqueduct fluid drains down into the fourth ventricle. Then from the fourth ventricle we'll talk a little bit later it can actually move out through the median or lateral apertures or the fammen lushka or the fammeni or it can go down through the central canal into the spinal cord. Okay. Now in the back part here in the back part of the fourth ventricle in the back part of the pawns you have this kind of like structure here and this is called the superior medularary vellum. Okay. So they call this the superior medularary vellum. Okay. So again we have the superior medularary vellum and then just anterior to that you have this fourth ventricle. Last thing is you have a tiny piece a tiny little piece of the superior cerebellar podunks and the dorsal part of the pawns. A tiny little piece of that. So again remember what do we have back here in this most dorsal part? A cerebellar podunks. Okay, you'll see this a lot in books where they'll have this. Again, I want you to remember that the main connection between the superior cerebellar podunks is between the cerebellum and the midbrain. Middle is between the cerebellum and the ponds and inferior is between the cerebellum and the medulla. But again for a sense of anatomy there is superior cerebellar podungals a tiny little piece of them and this dorsal part of the pawns tegmentum. Okay. All right. That covers the cross-section at the level of the trigeminal motor and sensory nucleus. Let's now move on to the level of the facial and abducins. All right. So now we're going to take a look at the cross-section of the pawns. Right. But this is going to be at the level of the abducins and facial nerve. Okay. Sometimes people will just even say this is the level of the facial caliculus and I'll explain what that means in just a second. Okay. So again giving you guys some anatomical orientation. This is the vententral. This is the p posterior or dorsal portion. So again vententral anterior posterior dorsal portion. Again giving you guys those terms. This part here anterior to the trapezoid body all the way to the most vententral portion. This is the base or the basil part of the pawns. Anything from the trapezoid body all the way back here. This is the tegmentum of the pawns. Okay, a lot of this should be review. Okay, so we'll annotate. We won't write everything down. What is these guys going to be here in the the actual basler part? This is your pontine nuclei. I'm just going to put PN here, right? So PN pontine nuclei. What are these guys that are going to move in the contraateral direction? So again if if descending fibers are coming down from the cortex to the pontine nuclei these pontine nuclei are going to send fibers in the contrlateral direction. What are these called? Panto cereabellar fibers. These panto cereabellar fibers will move in towards the direction of the contrlateral cerebellum via the middle cerebellar podunks. And again, same thing. If I had descending fibers coming to this ponte nuclei, it's going to send its information via these panto cereabellar fibers to the contraateral cerebellum via what structure? We already hit it. It's the middle cerebellar podunks. Okay. Pontine nuclei pontine cere ponto cerebellar fibers. Middle cerebellar podunks pretty much make up the basler part. Work our way backwards into the tegmentum. We already hit this before. So this is your trapezoid body. All right. Some of these structures here after we go from the trapezoid body, we work our way back. Some of these structures would be the same here, right? So this purple guy in the medial portion is the medial lemoniscus. Work our way out. You would think, oh, that's the trigeminal liniscus because that was the one before. Not really. We'll talk about why in a second. What's the next one as you go a little bit more laterally? That is the spinal lemonus. And you guys might be wondering, well, isn't there supposed to be a lateral liin miniscus? Not yet. Remember, we're at a lower level. We're at the facial caliculus level. The lateral luminiscus hasn't formed. But if you guys remember what forms the lateral liniscus, remember fibers from the cclear nuclei will cross via the trapezoid body and come up as the lateral liiniscus. Klear nuclei from this side will cross over and become the lateral liiniscus. Okay, so we haven't formed the lateral liiniscus yet, but we have the medial liin miniscus and the spinal laminiscus. Okay, work our way out a little bit more. What was after the lateral liiniscus? Do you guys remember that was your vententral spino cereabellar tract? Again, that was carrying that proprioceptive information from, you know, again, your muscle tendons, your joints, uh your your your capsule within the ligaments, right? All of those different things. And then these are going to be coming up to the superior cerebellar podunks. All right, let's now work our way a little bit more back. Okay, let's hit these guys. And we'll come back to these in just a second. So, we're going to come here to this kind of maroon colored guys here. These maroon color guys, there's two parts of it, right? The ones that looks like the nuclei. This is going to be the spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve. Let's write that down. So this nucleus part. Okay, this guy here, this is your spinal nucleus of cranial nerve five or the trigeminal nerve. And we'll explain this in a little bit. The spinal nucleus extends from the lower part of the pawns all the way down into the medulla even a little bit into the portion of the spinal cord. Okay. The other one is going to be the trigeminal phalamic tract or part of the trigeminal liiniscus. So we're going to put here part of the trigeminal liiniscus. It just it we're having some fibers coming off from this spinal nucleus that will move as the trigeminal tract or the trigeminal liniscus that will move up into the upper level of the ponzo which we had in the previous section. Okay. All right. We covered that bad boy. Now we're going to talk about what else this thing does in just a second because you'll see that this is connected to something else. There's this long axon coming off. I'll explain in a second. Let's now move into this next component here. Okay, I want to circle something here. Okay, I'm going to circle all of this. I'm going to put like kind of a dotted line here. All of these nuclei that are surrounded by this dotted line are a part of the facial nerve. Okay? They're all connected through multiple different sensory and motor systems. If you guys want more detail on this, go watch it in our video on the facial nerve. What I'm going to do for right now is give you a little bit explanation on this. So, what I'm going to explain here is you have the facial nerve. It has multiple different sensory and motor fibers. We're going to go from the purple one and work our way and again talk about this uh maroon colored one last. Okay. So, the first thing that we have to talk about here, we have this purple guy. This purple nucleus, this purple nucleus with its axons that are going to be coming around, this is a part of the facial nerve. But this is going to be the motor nucleus of cranial nerve 7 or the facial nerve. Give you guys a little bit information about that. Remember the facial nerve, the motor nucleus, it supplies the muscles of facial expression. And again, if you guys remember had all those branches, right? So you have the uh temporal branch, you have the zygomatic branch, you have the buckle branch, you have the marginal mandibular branch, you have the cervical branch. It's supplying all those muscles of facial expression and even a little bit of the platisma. So if you guys want more detail on that, you guys go watch that. But again, this is the muscles that are going to be supplied by the facial nerve. Okay. Now because these muscles are actually a part of your fingial arch, these are actually going to be muscles that are coming from the second fingial arch. So these fibers we actually call special visceral eerant fibers just like those motor fibers coming from the trigeminal nerve. Those are supplying the first fangial arch. So those are going to be special visceral eerant fibers. Okay, the green one. Okay, the green nucleus is actually going to be a very special nucleus. This guy here is called the superior salvatory nucleus and this is going to be connected to the facial nerve as well. Now the superior salivatory nucleus this is going to have its axons its fibers and these are going to be parasympathetic fibers. parasympathetic fibers going to the lacrial glands, going to your paline glands, going to your salivary glands. So they play a role in lacrimmation, nasal secretions, and salivation. So these are parasympathetic nervous system fibers, but they're actually called general visceral eerant fibers of that facial nerve. Okay, go. Next one. The black nucleus here with its axons here. This is actually going to be a very special nucleus called the of tractus solitarius. Right? Is it cool to say that one? The nucleus of tractus solitarius. This guy here is actually going to be picking up sensory information from the anterior twothirds of the tongue. Taste. So that is actually a special kind of sensory system. Right? So these fibers are coming from the tongue anterior two-thirds of the tongue and they're picking up taste or gustation and they're coming back to the ponds. So these are special visceral aerant fibers. Okay. So so far we have muscles, we have salivation, lacrimmation and nasal secretions. We have taste of the anterior twothirds of the tongue. Guess what else we have? One more. Remember I showed you that the spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve was connected. There was a connection to the facial nerve. I'll show it again in just a second. The reason why is do you guys remember what I told you? What pretty much the nuclei of the trigeminal nerve are responsible for? They're receiving information, sensory information from the face. What kind of sensations? Pain, temperature, touch sensations. Well, you know, another area that's actually really important that the facial nerve supplies, it supplies the middle and external ear and even the tempanic membrane. So, some of those sensations that you have within the tempanic membrane, the external ear and the uh uh the middle ear are actually picked up on sensory fibers of the facial nerve. Okay? And sent to the the spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve. Okay? So again this kind of maroon colored fibers I want you to remember that these are general sematic aerant fibers but these are fibers that are basically taking sensations okay they're going to be taking sensations from the uh external ear the middle ear and the tempanic membrane but these are going to be I just want you to remember these are sensory fibers and these sensory fibers are going to be sending this information to who to that spinal final nucleus of cranial nerve 5. Let me give you just a tiny explanation of that. So if you look here, let's just say that we take this part of the diagram. Let's say here is going to be picking up the sensations from the external ear, your tempanic membrane. These sensations will be picked up via the sensory fibers of the facial nerve. What kind of fibers? General sematic aerant fibers. They'll be traveling down this nerve. And as they travel towards what portion where are they going to that spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve okay so again that's what I want you to remember they're picking up the spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve is receiving sensations obviously pain temperature uh touch pressure even a teensy bit appropriate reception from the face but also from that external ear tyanic membrane and a little bit of the middle ear. All right, sweet deal. Let's move on to the next part part. Okay, so we covered the facial nerve. Okay, what's this guy here that it's wrapping around and we'll talk about what that little wrap around is called here because it produces a little depression in the back of the fourth ventricle. But let's talk about this nerve first. So, we already covered the facial nerve and how it wraps around this nerve. What is that guy called? That's called your abducins nerve. So, again, what is this son of a gun called here? This baby blue guy here that we talked about. This is your abdusen's nerve and thank the Lord the abdusen's nerve only has one fiber. Okay, so again this is your cranial nerve six and it only contains motor fibers. Okay, or those general sematic eerant fibers. So if you guys really want to remember that's your general sematic eerant fibers and these go to your lateral rectus. How do you remember that? LR6 lateral rectus is supplied by the six nerve. So it plays a role with abduction of the eyes. Beautiful. We're done with that one. Thank goodness. Let's move on to the next structure. So we covered the abducins. We covered all the facial nuclei and their fibers. Okay. If we move out a little bit more, we got this guy here. Okay. You see these red structures here? What are these? Okay. This red structure here is actually a part of your vestibular nuclear complex. So again, what is it called? It's called your vestibular nuclear complex. So again, this is your vestibular nuclear complex. And this vestibular nuclear complex has a couple different portions. It has a superior nucleus, a medial comp portion, a lateral portion, and an inferior portion. What I want you to remember is that the superior, middle, medial, and lateral portion are situated at this level of the pawns. The inferior is situated in the upper part of the medulla. Okay? So, you won't be able to see it. Okay? So, again, superior, medial, and lateral at the level of this portion of the ponds. Inferior won't be able to see it. We'll talk about more detail what this guy does. He plays so many roles. If you guys want to know more about this in more detail, watch our video on the vestibular cclear nerve. Okay, sweet deal. Let's go into the next one. You see these green guys here? These green nuclei here and then in the center of it is another big structure. Okay, we're going to talk about those now. These guy guys are your coclear nuclei. Okay, so you have your coclear nuclei and if you guys want more detail on this, watch our video on the coclear pathway, the vstibular cclear nerve. But again, the cclear nuclei which are situated posterior to this brown structure or dorsal to this brown structure is called your dorsal cclear nuclei. So what are these called? Your dorsal cclear nuclei. Sweet. The structure, this green structure that's located anterior to this kind of brown structure is called your anterior or vententral cclear nuclei. So these are called your vententral cclear nuclei. Sweet. The next thing you have to answer is okay what the heck is this dud brown structure that's between these clear nuclei? This duty brown structure is actually the inferior cerebellar podunks. There's a tiny little piece of the inferior cerebellar preduns at this level of the pawns. Okay. So again, what is this tiny little structure here? It's called the inferior cereabellar podunks. We're just going to put podunks. Okay. So the inferior cerebellar podunkcle is separating posteriorly the dorsal cclear nuclei ventrally the vententralar nuclei. Now what I want you guys to know about this is the coclear nuclei are receiving information from the cclear branch of the vestibular cclear nerve. We'll get into more detail on that. But again if you have to remember these I want you to remember that these guys are receiving information from the vestibular branch of the vestibular cclear nerve. And guess what they do? They send their information down into the trapezoid body which will come out via the contrlateral lateral eminiscus. So again you'll have fibers coming in through this guy. The ventricle nuclei will send these fibers down through the trapezoid body. These that's basically what makes the trapezoid body is the crossing of the axons coming from the vententralar nuclei or what we call the vententral acoustic stri. Okay. It'll cross over and go to the opposite side and make the contrlateral li later lateral lin meniscus. Beautiful, right? Okay. Sweet. Next thing I want to talk about here, we have these green structures here. These green structures here are also very important. Again, we'll talk about them in a little bit more detail when we go over this kind of trapezoid body and the colear nuclei more detail. But what happens is some of these fibers from the trapezoid body that vententral acoustic stria basically will ascend upwards right and some of those fibers as they go upwards will synapse on these structures and they play a role with being able to play determine the intensity as well as kind of the relative velocity of auditory sensations. What are these guys called? These green guys here which we're going to kind of annotate here. These are called your superior olivary complex or nucleus. So this is called the superior olivo nucleus. Okay. So they play a role with the relative intensity, timing, velocity of auditory sensations and they're a very important component of that auditory pathway. We'll get into more detail on that a little bit. What else do we have? We have these guys. Remember these rubro spinal tract descending motor pathway to the flexors. Tetospinal tract helps with reflexive movements of the head and the eyes. And the medial longitudinal faciculus which is the connection between the sixth, the third and the fourth cranial nerves. Move a little bit back. Remember I told you that there was a thing called the facial caliculus. And basically what that is is whenever the facial nerve where we have it here, it kind of rolls around the six nerve. It puts a little depression into this portion of the fourth ventricle. So what is this structure here? Again, we still have the fourth ventricle, but there's a little depression on both sides here. What are those little those little divots called? This is called your facial caliculus. Let me let me give you guys a little bit better review of this to so you completely understand. Here I'm going to draw a sagittal section here. Okay. So here's your midbrain, here's your pawns, here's your medulla, and here's your spinal cord, right? And then here's your cerebellum. And then what we'll do here is we'll draw a little thing there for the fourth ventricle. Again, to explain it like this, here's your sixth nerve, your abducins. We'll put here in black here. This is your facial nerve nucleus. And again, all of those fibers that are coming from the multiple nuclei, they wrap around. And when they wrap around, they put a little divot into this little fourth ventricle, that little divot, which is formed by the turning of those facial nerve fibers, is called the facial caliculus. Okay? So that covers all the components within this section of the pawns. All right, guys. So now that we've covered pretty much the cross-sections, covered pretty much all the internal structures, things that are coming in and out of the ponds at the trigeminal level and at the facial nerve abdusins level. I kind of want to give just a general overview with different kind of like sections and uh so that we completely understand all of these structures. Just a general overview of what these structures are that are moving up, that are moving down, that are moving all over the place in these levels of the ponds. Okay, they're going to be very general. They're not going to be super detailed. I just want us to get the overall concept. First thing I want us to understand is that C the level FD corticopontto cerebellar fibers. Okay. So again, if you guys remember, we have these descending motor fibers. So here's your upper motor neurons, right? They're coming from the cerebral cortex. They're coming down. And as they come down, remember what happens? They move through the crust cerebri. And some of the fibers will scatter around the pontine nuclei and some will actually syninnapse on these pontene nuclei. When again some of these come together they move down to the level of the medulla at the pyramids cross over right. So some of these will reccome together cross at the level of the pyramids and come over here. Okay. What I want you to remember is that some of these fibers that are coming down here that stop at the pontine nuclei, they'll synapse on these pontene nuclei, right? These pontene nuclei, what did I say? They'll send their fibers, their pantoereabbellar fibers to the contraateral cerebellum via the middle cerebellar podunkcle. So the middle cerebellar podunks are basically these structures here that are connecting the cerebellum to the ponds. Right? So again cortex coming down to the pontine nuclei syninnapse on some of those pontine nuclei. The pontine nuclei will send their fibers via the panto cerebellar fibers via the middle cerebellar podunks to the contraateral cerebellum. What is the purpose of this? What will happen is you have a motor plan. Motor plan's coming down to go to the muscles. You perform a movement. Your cerebellum is also going to be receiving sensory information from a bunch of different propritors from those muscles that are firing. Your cerebellum receives that information from all these sensory pathways. It also receives the previous motor plan that came down from the cortex. It takes all that information, sifts through it, and then guess what it'll do? It'll send that information back up to the cerebral cortex and say, "Hey, I took into consideration the movement that you had planned. I received all the sensory information from the muscles, the tendons, the joint capsules. I put it all together. Put came up with the next perfect motor plan. Here's what you need to do." Isn't that cool? So again, that's the thing I want you guys to understand with those pontine nuclei, the pontto cerebellar fibers, and again the middle cerebellar podunks. Okay. Next thing, again, we've talked about these fibers in so many videos. We're going to make this very general. We're going to go over some of those susciniscus and we'll kind of work our way outward. So, we'll do medial liniscus here in purple here. Right. So, medial luminiscus, what does it do? It receives sensory information from proprio receptors for frying and discriminative touch for vibrations. And what does it do? It sends that information inwards, comes into the dorsal grey horn and moves into the dorsal grey horn and ascends upwards on the epips epsilateral side comes to the medulla where it has nuclei like the nucleus cuniatus and the nucleus graasilus right synapses on these nuclei in the medulla and then what happens these guys will form those that aruate fibers the internal arcuate fibers which will cross and ascend upwards and as it ascends upwards it eventually goes goes to the phalamus. Where is these medial luminiscous fibers? Remember they were at the ponds at both levels. So that's again picking up sensory information from propriception, touch and vibrations. What else do we have? Let's do the maroon as the trigeminal. Again the trigeminal nerve remember you have the spinal nucleus here. You have the central uh principal ponte nucleus and the misen syphalic nucleus, right? And these guys are receiving information from the the trigeminal nerve, all those sensory fibers. And from these nuclei, they basically send up their axons as the trigeminal liiniscus. So again, you're going to have the what is this here? The misinphalic nucleus. the central or principal ponte nucleus and the spinal nucleus. They're going to be receiving information, pain, temperature, touch, uh, vibration, all of those things from the face and sending it to these individual nuclei. And these individual nuclei will send up their axons as the trigeminal luminiscus. Okay? So again, purple here is medialiniscus. The maroon here is the trigeminal liiniscus. What else do we have? Let's do the next one in uh this kind of like duda green color. This is your spinal liniscus. Do you guys remember what happens with a spinal liniscus? Spinal laminiscus. You're picking up pain, temperature, crude touch, and even some pressure. That sensory information is coming in. It's synapsing on that dorsal gray horn. If it's pain and temperature, where is that going? Lateral. If it's going to be crude touch and pressure, where will those fibers go? Vententral. Either way, they'll eventually ascend upwards and come together. And when those fibers come together from the vententral spinal tract and the lateral spinal tract, they'll ascend upwards as the spinal lemonus. Okay. So again medial liin miniscus is carrying that propriception fine discriminative touch and uh some of the vibrations. Trigeminal liiniscus carrying all those sensations from the face spinal liniscus carrying pain temperature crew touch pressure from the basically from the neck down. Okay that covers those. And if you guys really want to remember here remember we said that there was also another ascending pathway that vententral spinal cerebellar tract. If you guys really want to remember that one, it's also kind of doing the same thing here as this pathway here. It's picking up sensations. What kind of sensations? It's picking up sensations from proprice from muscle, tendons, joints from L2, L3 level down to the coxix. Okay? And it sends that information into the dorsal grey horn, crosses over to the lateral white column, and ascends upwards. And what do we say it does? it goes into the superior cerebellar podunks to the contrlateral cerebellum. Okay. Okay, that covers that one. And again, if you guys really want to remember what happens here, once it goes through the superior cerebellar podunks, it actually will go into this part of the cerebellum and actually move behind and go to the opposite cerebellum. So again, just a little tiny piece of information there. Technically the vententral spinal cerebellar tract will take propriception from the same side to the same cerebellum. It just goes up through the superior cerebell cerebellopunals of the contrlateral cerebellum and then moves around the midbrain to the other cerebellum. Pretty crazy. But again this covers a lot of those tracks that we talked about and puts a name and a kind of an idea behind all of those structures. Okay, now that we covered some of those sensory pathways, let's cover another one which is basically that vestibular nuclear complex. Okay, so if you guys remember we have your vestibular cclear nerve. Remember the vestibular cclear nerve is going to be receiving information from your your ears, right? Particularly from the inner ear. So it's going to be coming from that christ ampularis and the vestibule, right? And what happens is that information will come in and when it comes in, it'll actually move over here and synapse on these vestibular nuclear complex. So again, this is coming from your inner ear. Okay? Picking up your dynamic and kind of static equilibrium. Okay? So movements of your head, up and down movements, all that stuff from the ears, it'll send it to your vestibular nuclear complex. Do you guys remember what your vestibular nuclear complex does? It actually can send information downwards and go down to your muscles. Okay? So, it actually will go down to your muscles and it'll actually cause stimulation of the muscles that are going to be going to extensor. So, it's going to actually stimulate your extensor muscles. Okay? And that's called your vestibular spinal tract. And I just want you to remember that's going to your extensor muscles. Okay, your anti-gravity muscles. That's one thing. So it helps you to kind of keep your balance and your posture whenever there is this movement. Okay. The other thing it does, it sends information from the vestibular nuclear complex via the inferior cerebellar podunks to your cerebellum. Do you guys remember that nucleus in the cerebellum? This was called that vestigial nucleus, right? or that juxar rest form body that you have the connection between. This helps us to maintain again a dynamic equilibrium. Again cerebellum wants to receive all kinds of sensations because it is important for posture, for balance, for coordination. Vestibular nuclear complex also does what else? It sends a stimulus to the contrlateral six nerve. Then that contraateral six nerve, guess what he does? He'll Let's do this in a different color. Let's do it in green. This sixth nerve will send information upwards to the contraateral third nerve and fourth nerve. So again, you're going to have 346. You're going to have vestibular nuclear complex stimulates the contrlateral sixth nerve. The contrlateral six nerve will then move over and stimulate the contrlateral third and fourth nerve nucleus. Guess what this structure is called? the medial longitudinal faciculus and we saw that at both sections. Okay, so we've already covered the vestibular nucleus, we covered the medial longitudinal faciculus and we already talked about the abdusen's nerve. Okay, that covers some of that structure. Now let's move on to the next thing here which is coming down here to talk about the cclear pathway. All right, so we talked about the vestibular nuclear complex. We reviewed the medial longitudinal faciculus. Let's now talk about these cclear nuclei. Okay. And the superior olivary nucleus which we said we talked about remember coming from the cookia again the vestibular cclear uh complex is connecting between the vestibule right the cristampularis so your inner ear playing a role with dynamic and static equilibrium. The cookia on the other hand is taking information for auditory sensation hearing. Okay nothing to do with equilibrium. These cclear fibers that are part of the vestibular cclear nerve will actually syninnapse okay on these cclear nuclei which we already talked about right and again you have the cclear nuclei which is the dorsal cclear nuclei here in the back and the ventrical cclear nuclei here in the front and again what separates those is the inferior cerebellar podunks right these cclear nuclei what did we say happens some of these guys will actually go upwards and form formed like that dorsal acoustic and intermediate acoustic stria. But a lot of them from the vententral cclear nucleus will cross over and when it crosses over it'll synapse on that superior olives right that superior olivary nucleus. So again some of these fibers will just cross right over won't go to the olives and then some of the vententral acoustic stria fibers will cross over and then stop at those superior olives. Either way, all of that crossing that you have here, all of this is that trapezoid body. That's where all those fibers from the cclear nuclei which are moving to the contrlateral side whenever they're crossing. That's what's forming that trapezoid body. Then some of these fibers will syninnapse on the superior olivary nucleus and the superior olivary nucleus will also give off some fibers that'll move with some of these other fibers coming from the clear nuclei that didn't synapse. These guys will come up and whenever they come up this structure here that we formed after the trapezoid body this right here is your lateral lemoniscus. Okay? And again, if you guys remember, the lateral li meniscus will come up. It's taking auditory information. So, it'll actually go all the way to this structure here called the inferior caliculus. And from the inferior caliculus, the brachium of the inferior caliculus will connect to the phalamus. And then from the phalamus this will send that information to the primary auditory cortex or the remember the superior temporal gyus or the transverse gyrus of hessel that's that auditory information but again I wanted to kind of give you an idea what is the trapezoid body it's the crossing of the fibers coming from the cclear nuclei and the lateral lmeniscus is basically taking up it's the ascending fibers of that auditory pathway moving up through the pawns through the midbrain terminating at the inferior caliculus. And again, some of these fibers that are crossing after the trapezoid body, some of them do synapse on those superior olives to give a roll with relative intensity, relative timing, and velocity of sound. Sweet deal. Next thing I want you guys to remember here is going back to that tetospinal and that rubro spinal. Again, we're not going to go into crazy detail because we've already talked about this, but I just want to give you guys an understanding. Remember what the tectum is? The tectum is going to be the superior caliculus and the inferior caliculus, right? That dorsal part of the midbrain. That tetospinal tract is going to be descending motor fibers that are giving off connections to your cranial nerve nuclei that play a role within movement of the eyes. So third, fourth, six and down to the lower motor neurons in your spinal cord that'll go to the muscles of the head and the neck to move the eyes. Right? So again tetospinal tract is the motor fibers going to muscles of the eye and muscles of the head and the neck for movement. If the stimulus is coming from the superior caliculus that's visual stimulus. If it's going to be inferior caliculus that's auditory stimulus. Okay simple example again you're seeing somebody that's walking you're moving your head and your eyes towards that direction. You hear someone yell your name over here. When you hear them yell your name, you look towards that direction. You fix your eyes, your neck, and your gaze towards that area. If you're tracking, superior caliculus, if you're moving in response to an auditory stimulus, inferior caliculus. Simple as that. The other one, this red guy in the level of the midbrain. Here we have the red nucleus. And the red nucleus is sending down these descending motor fibers that are going to be going to muscles that play a role with flexion primarily the upper extremity distal flexors. Okay, this tract is the rubropppinal tract. So again putting an idea or concept behind the tetospinal and the rubospinal tract. What are their functions? We already know. Okay, sweet. Let's move on to the next thing. The next thing that we have to talk about here is going to be looking at that ventricular system. Again, I just wanted to give a different view. Okay? So, if you look at a sagittal view here, we have this kind of like horn structure here. This is our lateral ventricle. So, we're just going to kind of like abbreviate this lateral ventricle. Then, connecting the lateral ventricle to this third ventricle. Okay? So, this is the third ventricle is this little connection here called the interventricular fammen or the fammen of Monroe. Then the third ventricle drains down via the cerebral aqueduct. And then from the cerebral aqueduct at the level of the pawns and the medulla we get the fourth ventricle. And then the fourth ventricle can continue downwards as the central canal. Okay? Or it can come out and go into the subraacttoid space via the median and lateral apertures. to give another view. This is going to be looking at that ventricular system from the posterior portion. Okay? All right. So again, here you're going to have midbrain. Here you're going to have pawns. Here you're going to have the medulla. If we look here, this obviously is the cerebra aqueduct. And then this whole thing here is the fourth ventricle. Sometimes they might ask questions in regards to the external structure. So really quickly, what is this line here? Right down the middle. This is called the median sulcus. We're not going to write down. Just want you to remember it. Okay, that purple, that pink line is the median sulcus. The next thing sometimes they'll ask what is this structure here? These kind of like black kind of structure here on the sides of that median sulcus. And that black structure there on the side of the median sulcus is called the median eminence. Okay. At the bottom of the median eminence, there's a little divot here. Let's do this one in green. This little divot here in the on the bottom of the median eminence is actually called your facial caliculus. Okay, that's that little depression in the back of the pawns formed by when the facial nerve turns around. Okay, so again, pink line, median sulcus, black structure on the side of it is the median eminence. The bottom of the median eminence is going to be the facial caliculus. The last thing is on the outer parts here. Let's do this in red. On just outside of the median eminence is called your sulcus limits. Okay. So sometimes they might ask you this. What is the median line structure? It is called the median sulcus. On the sides the median eminence at the bottom is the facial caliculus and all the way lateral is the sulcus limitance. Last thing I need to tell you is there's a kind of a horizontal line here coming from this portion here to this portion here. This here this brown structure is called the stria medularis. The stryularis is important because above the striularis that portion of the fourth ventricle is actually going to be formed by the back of the pawns. below the stria medularis that portion of the fourth ventricle is actually going to be formed by the back of the medulla. So sometimes they might ask you that question as well. Okay, last things that we got to talk about here. We got to talk about the abducins nerve. Okay, and again this is very general. We're not going to go into tons of detail here. We already talked about these in great detail in these individual videos. But if you guys remember the abdusen's nerve, what extra ocular muscle does this bad boy supply? It supplies the lateral rectus. And again, what does the lateral rectus do? He plays a role in abduction of the eyes. Okay, done. Facial nerve. Again, we'll go into more. You can go and watch our video. We go over this in way more detail, but I want you guys to get the basic concept here. What does it do? If you have those fibers that special visceral eer fibers the second fingial arch is supplying all the muscles of facial expression. So it supplies muscles of facial expression. Okay sweet salvatory nucleus. What does that guy do? He's taking the actual sensations from where? He's actually sending visceral eerant information to where? to the lacrial glands to the nasal glands and to your salivary glands. Okay, so it's also going to play a role in lacrimmation and salivation. Okay, sweet. What else? We're also going to have that nucleus of tractus solitarius. What is that guy doing? It's taking sensory information of taste from the anterior twothirds of the tongue. So, it's also going to play a role in gustation. What is gustation? Gustation is taste. Okay. And again, we'll put here 2/3 anterior two/irds of the tongue. The last thing is it's also going to be taking up from that uh spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve. You guys remember what that picks up? The general sematic eerance, which is the pain, the touch, the temperature sensations coming from the external ear and the tempanic membrane and a little bit of the middle ear. So, it's also going to pick up uh sensations from ear. Okay. And again, just remember external ear, middle ear, and tempanic membrane. Okay. The last sucker that we got to talk about here is the trigeminal nerve. And again, we already covered this in great detail in the trigeminal nerve video. Just to do a very basic overview, trigeminal nerve, we have those special visceral eerant fibers supplying the first fingial arch. That's going to be the muscles of mastication. Okay? So, it's supplying the muscles of mastication. And again, what nucleus is that going to be coming from? That's going to be coming from that motor nucleus of the trigeminal nerve. What was the other nucleus of the trigeminal nerve? I'm glad you guys asked because we got a bunch of those right at this level at the midbrain. Right. So, we have the midbrain here. We'll have like a kind of line here to separate each portion. We have this portion here midbrain is above that. Here we have the pawns and then here we have the medulla. Okay. At the midbrain level what is this nucleus here called? The misen syphalic nucleus. Okay. What is this one called? That principal or central pontene nucleus. And this one here which is actually a little bit in the lower part of the pawns and the medulla is the spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve. What are all of these guys receiving? This one's primarily receiving propriioceptive information from the muscles of the jaw. The principal is primarily receiving fine and discriminative touch from the face. A little bit of propriception. And the spinal nucleus is receiving pain, temperature, touch, pressure, and a teensy bit of propriio reception from the face. Easier way to say that is all the sensations of the face. Okay, so sensations of face. And again, if you guys want more detail on all of those different areas of the face, go watch our video on the trigeminal nerve. Okay, but that covers all these different parts here. All right, engineers. So, in this video, we talked a lot about the pawns. I hope it made sense. I hope you guys did enjoy it. If you guys did, please smash that like button, comment down the comment section, and please subscribe. Guys, thank you if you guys stuck in throughout this entire video. I appreciate it. I hope this helped you guys. Also, if you guys want to get in contact with a little bit more, we have down in the description box links to our Facebook, our Instagram, our Patreon, our GoFundMe, all of that stuff. If you guys want to contact us, we love to hear from you guys. We love you. We thank you for everything you do, ninja ners. And as always, until next time.