 img. Welcome back to the Ninja Nerd Podcast. Today, we're talking all about oncologic emergencies. There's a lot of emergencies for us to go over, so we should not waste any time. No, I think the goal is to try to, I mean, for the most part, you'll be able to figure it out, but figure out which type of oncologic emergency it is based upon the HPI labs, imaging if present, and then how would you kind of go about treating it? Alright, let's do it. So first up, Zach, we have a 42-year-old woman with AML. Nine days post-induction chemo. Presents with fever, fatigue, and mild abdominal tenderness. Her vitals are TEMP38.4 Celsius, heart rate is 110, BP is 102 over 65. Alright, well, I mean, when I think about oncologic emergencies here, when you have a patient who has usually hematologic malignancy like AML, maybe even lymphoma, but usually any kind of hematologic malignancy where they already have alterations in their bone marrow production of white blood cells. So this person probably has some less functional neutrophils that's going to make it already kind of difficult. So whenever they've got chemo, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy can hit the bone marrow, and it can kind of shut down the bone marrow and put it into like a myelosuppressive state. So it can drop the number of neutrophils that are being produced in this patient. So if they have less functional neutrophils, and then on top of that, they have, let's say in this scenario, chemotherapy that knocks down their normal production, this can put them at a high risk of neutropenia. Neutropenia is pretty dangerous because one of the things is you lose the ability to clear pathogens, bacteria. It's one of the first kinds of lines of defense for your innate immunity. So now they have fever, abdominal tenderness. That's the thing. Chemotherapy likes to cause mucositis. It likes to hit the GIT. So it likes to cause colitis. If you cause colitis, now you lose the mucosal barrier. Bacteria, gram negative rods, boom, right across into the bloodstream. Usually you have neutrophils that will help to kill those bacteria and fight them off, but this patient now has probably neutropenia bacteria we're able to thrive across the GIT. I'm guessing that now this is putting them in a pretty, you know, tough scenario that they have a fever, anything greater than 38 degrees Celsius. The heart rate's a little high, so they have a little bit of attack of cardiac and their BP isn't technically low, but it's on the low-ish end. So I'm kind of wondering if they're starting to develop some signs of sepsis. So that would be my initial concern. The only way I can prove this though is I keep training their temperatures, make sure that it continues to support a fever, a greater than 38 degrees centigrade. And then on top of that, I get a CBC. CBC with the differential to help to tell me is there any kind of neutropenia present? Because if I see that there's a low white blood cell count, that's fine, but I want to know the absolute neutrophil count. I want to see if that's less than like usually 500 cells per microliter is the way that we go about that. The other thing is that given this patient has a fever, they have history of chemotherapy and hematologic malignancy, I better make sure that with neutropenia fever it can really progress quickly. And so I want to get blood cultures that's the first thing, and then sometimes pneumonia is a common presentation, so I probably get a chest x-ray. So that's what I would start off with first. I would only get additional tests like a urine analysis or urine cultures, wound cultures, you know, CSF, stool cultures, only if they have particular symptoms. Like if they had like just complete severe abdominal pain and diarrhea, maybe I get a stool study. If they had dysuria, frequency, urgency, white blood cell cast, leukocyte esterase, nitrites, maybe I get a urine analysis of the urine culture. If they had a surgical site that looks really wounded, I'm sorry, I'm not wounded, it looks indurated red, it's sore, it's painful. I maybe do a wound culture. So I would do those things based upon localizing signs and symptoms, but right off the get go, CBC, blood cultures, probably chest x-ray. Okay, well let me go over those results for you. The CBC shows an absolute neutrophil count of 120, so very low. Yeah, bad. Chest x-rays are unremarkable, and our blood cultures are still pending. So what's next? All right, so we definitely have a neutropenia fever. When we have the diagnosis of neutropenia fever, which is the absolute neutrophil count less than 500, and then a temp of greater than 38 degrees centigrade, we have neutropenia fever. With this, you don't play around. The blood cultures at law, as long as you got them, progress, I've made this mistake when I started in the ICU, where I'd have a patient come in, they're septic, they definitely seem septic, they're hypotensive, multiple pressures, and one of the common mistakes that happens, and this is unfortunate, is that the ER or whoever the person is who's starting the history and physical exam on the patient, they put in orders, they commonly, oh, they look septic, what do they do? They order empiric antibiotics, and they start them on empiric antibiotics, but they didn't get the cultures taken. You might be okay if you got like a dose, or even maybe two of antibiotics, but are you really playing with fire and taking a chance at not identifying the true type of bacteria that you need? So it's always best get the blood cultures as soon as you possibly can, and after those blood cultures are drawn, just nuke them with the bug juice, which is the antibiotics. So that's probably what I'm going to start them on, given the fact that I have a patient with neutropenic fever, I'm going to treat them with gram negative rod coverage and gram positive coverage. So I like vancomycin to cover my scary one, MRSA, and I like, I prefer Pipericillin-Tasobactin, which is also an azosin or Cephapy, one of those two, and that's going to cover any kind of my gram negative rods, but the scary one is pseudomonas. So that's what I would do first, I wait for my blood cultures to come back, and then I would kind of change my antibiotics based upon what that culture comes back with. Now depending on the patient and complications, are there any we should keep in mind while we're still treating the patient, and even if the blood culture still hasn't come back yet, what would you do in that scenario? Yeah, so I think we're going to keep them in antibiotics and we'll obviously trend their CBC, keep an eye on that, keep an eye on their temperatures, make sure that we're not losing any other source. Again, if we had a normal chest X-ray, blood cultures are pending, you know, you probably had it coming from my guess is the colitis, so I'm guessing that's probably where the source is, but if I had other concerns about another area, I may have to do some further imaging, but for me, it's about treating the potential of them progressing to Cephys or Ceptic shock. So from them, you know, if they end up having a Neutropenia, a fever, they already have tachycardia, if they start getting hypotensive, I'm worried about Ceptic shock. They already have a lot of the credibility here to say that they're Ceptic, but Ceptic shock would be the scary thing that I would watch out for, so I would obviously do like a 30 cc per kilo bolus of IV fluids, particularly lactate ringers, and then from there, I would also put them on any kind of like vasopressors to support their mean arterial pressure during that time frame. So that's what I'm going to do right there, and then I'm definitely going to put an ICU console, have them closely monitor for those vitals. This patient's meeting service criteria, right? Yeah, definitely meeting service criteria. So you're concerned then about Ceptic shock? Yeah, already I'm pretty concerned. There's obviously a lot of different kind of like scores and different kinds of like ways that we can determine if a patient's Ceptic. You know, I think there's the SOFA score, there's the CERS, there's so many different things, but I think this patient right here, it's just based upon the Neutropenia, based upon the fever, based upon the tachycardia, I'm going to go and then obviously we're waiting on blood cultures, but this patient definitely fits the definition of Cepsis for me, and so my concern is them next progressing the shock. That would be the scary. And then being that you said you probably would cover them with something like Bactrum, that would really give you the best possible chance. I would do something like Vancomycin and Pipericillin-Tazobactyl. Those are going to be the better ones to start off with. Gotcha, so that's not quite good enough then. No, now Bactrum is good for Mercer, but you know, usually for these ones, you know, Bactrum it's oral. You could definitely do that. I think it's always better to start with Vancomycin. It's usually better for hospital acquired Mercer as compared to more community acquired Mercer. Okay, so definitely IV. Yeah. You're going with the big boys. Yeah, IV Vancomycin, IV, Saphipymar, Zosin, which is Pipericillin-Tazobactyl. Those are probably the ones I go with and then based upon the results of the culture, I'd narrow my antibiotics down. Okay, perfect. And then I'm guessing obviously if they continue to deteriorate, it's probably let's get them transferred to ICU. Exactly. I think that this patient is going to get an ICU bed no matter what. Okay, gotcha. Given the kind of like the, you know, we use things like MuScore, but right here, this definitely is the person that I would want to keep a close eye on. Yeah, you're not messing around with this one. Yeah, I'd say that they're probably going to go to the ICU just to be monitored. Even if it's for a 24 hour period, I might send them, you know, talk to my ICU colleagues and say, Hey, can you watch out? I just have a concern that they're going to kind of deteriorate a little bit because that's usually what can happen with these. Okay. All right. Well, that was case one. Let's move on. All right. We have an 18 year old male with newly diagnosed Burkitt lymphoma. One day after chemo, he has flank pain, vomiting, and weakness. What is that telling you right there, Zach? I mean, Burkitt lymphoma is a pretty hefty tumor burden. This one's in a pretty aggressive non-Hodgkins. So they can have a pretty nasty tumor burden. And if you get chemo and all of a sudden you have flank pain, something going on with the kidneys, could they have, I don't know, I mean, it's unlikely for them, they could get stones. It's possible, but I don't think that's the likely thing. Vomiting and weakness. This is something I'd be concerned about with potentially tumor Lyceus syndrome. I don't have a strong enough history to kind of tell me that, but I'd say what I'd have to really kind of look for here is, is let me get a CMP. I think the CMP will be good because it'll give me the renal function, because tumor Lyceus syndrome definitely likes to hit the kidneys, especially with the eric acid. It'll also tell me their potassium. It'll give me kind of their total calcium. I'd probably add on a FOS. I'd add on a uric acid. And then depending upon the results of the CMP, I may get an EKG if their potassium is pretty high, just watch out for any EKG changes. So that's what I would get to start off with is, I would do a CMP. They'd give me my calcium. They'd give me my creatinine. And I think that would be kind of in the potassium. And then from there, I'd add on a FOS, a uric acid, and then from there, EKG based upon potentially the, the results of the potassium. Well, let's say we go forward with the EKG. Okay. Let me give you all of them. All right. So the labs show a potassium level of 6.4. All right. Elevated. Phosphorus 7.0. Elevated. Calcium 7.2. A little low. Uric acid 11.8. Oh, shit. That's high. Creatinine 2.1. And their baseline was one. Okay. And then we see on the ECG peak to T waves. Yeah. So this is tumor Lyceus syndrome. How do you know that this is tumor Lyceus syndrome? Yeah, because with tumor Lyceus syndrome, you can, I mean, this is what was, it was one of the textbooks. I think it's like first aid. It's a mnemonic puke. Okay. And you can remember puke for P, UK is all upper case. And then the E, in this case, it's lower case. So you have P is going to be a phosphorus that's elevated. Yep. U is uric acid that's going to be elevated. Potassium is going to be elevated. The only one that's going to be low is calcium. So they are using a mnemonic puke calcium. So P, UK, E, phosphorus, uric acid, potassium is elevated. And then calcium, which actually that's the part that's in lower case, calcium is low. Gotcha. So that's what I would see here is I have a high phosphorus. I have a high uric acid. I have a high potassium. And I have a low calcium. Now the creatinine being elevated is probably evidence of them having an acute kidney injury, which is unfortunate, but that's what happens with elevated uric acid. And then the peak T waves is likely going to be due to the elevated potassium. So that's something I'm already seeing. This makes this patient a little bit more high risk, pretty scary. They definitely have active or acute tumor likes a syndrome. So we got to be pretty aggressive with these patients. So you're worried about acute renal failure. How are you going to treat this? So the first thing you want to do is with these patients and you got to play this by ear. I'm never a fan. And if you guys have listened to me and these these these talks, I don't hit people with just massive amounts of fluids just because that's what natural dogma and teaching tells us to do. You have to look at the patient's volume status. If they look like they're volume depleted, if they have some evidence of volume depletion, give them some fluids. In this case, I would definitely give them some fluids. That's going to help a little bit to maintain uvelemia. But it may help a little bit with kind of like flushing out some of those kinds of molecules. I just don't think that that concept is as widely understood and accepted as we think it is. But IV fluids is going to be helpful because you are busting open cells. You're releasing out a lot of the interest of other contents. So they definitely can get volume depleted. Also, when you have an acute kidney injury, your kidney becomes very injured, it becomes susceptible. And so it depends upon good volume and perfusion. So having normal like blood volume helps to prevent kidneys from getting further injured. That's why I like to aim for uvelemia. The next thing is people would say, okay, which one do you pick? Allopyrinol or raspberry case in the scenario. And we've talked about this. I actually think we talked about it in the acute leukemia lecture. But this right here with tumor lyso syndrome, you always go raspberry case. Raspberry case actually helps to convert uric acid into like a, it's kind of like a non-toxic breakdown of uric acid called allantoin. And that can go to the kidney and excrete it out. And so that's going to lower that uric acid because what keeps happening is the uric acid crystals form. So that's the thought is when you give fluids, you're helping to prevent uric acid nephropathy. So the precipitation of those crystals, that's why you give them some fluids to kind of prevent that precipitation. But my goal is to give them a raspberry case because that's going to attack these cells and say, okay, hey, we're generating a lot of uric acid because these cells are popping open. All I can do is help to convert that toxic uric acid into a less nephrotoxic chemical. Using alpyrinol, that doesn't convert uric acid into less toxic forms. All it does is it decreases the production of uric acid. But if you're already busting open cells and releasing uric acid, there's not much else that you can do with that. So that's not what I would go for. First, I would do pretty good fluid resuscitation, aim for uvelemia, maybe a small maintenance fluid kind of like infusion, and then I give them raspberry case. And I would keep a very, very close eye on their potassium because potassium is the one that can actually get them, especially having peak T waves. I'd probably start to go the round of treating these patients. So you guys remember when we treat hyperkalemia? So usually initially, we all, especially we have EKG changes, always calcium gluconate. So that's going to stabilize the cardiac membranes. And then after that, we can do things to shift the potassium. So I do things like insulin. I may even give them a little bit of glucose if their glucose was kind of on the lower or normal end. And then I would also do like an albuterol treatment. And then from there, we have to try to excrete it. So that's when I would either reach for Lasix, which we're trying to resuscitate these patients with fluids. Probably wouldn't give them that. I'd probably go to something like hyaxylate if I had to. So that's the way that I would go to kind of treat the hyperkalemia and keep a very, very close eye on that. And if it got really, really bad, where the renal failure really progressed, we might have to reach for dialysis in this patient. So we had a few red flags in the CMP. How often are you monitoring those levels? For these, probably every six. I'd probably go pretty quick. Like six hours. Okay. Yeah. I think like if you go like a lot of the times when you have these kinds of changes and you're trying to, especially with something, for example, I always think like, for example, like when I was in the neuro ICU, we would trend sodiums because you're treating a patient, right? And so for example, if you're using a sodium target, which is not the best guideline for a lot of treatment, things in neuro critical care, but you have a patient with cerebral edema or an ICP crisis, you give them a hypertonic saline, bolus or infusion, you're trying to see, hey, what's that thing doing for me? So what happened to the sodium? Okay, it was 140. We've been giving them hypertonic saline at 50 ccs per hour for the past four hours. All right, well, that's once we get a six hour timeframe, we should actually check and see what happened to the sodium. It's the same thing here. If I'm treating these patients aggressively, giving them things like respiratory case, giving them things like fluids, and they have an active acute kidney injury, that's really bad. I'm going to keep a close eye on their urine output. I'm going to keep a close eye on all of these types of electrolytes in their EKG and then make sure that if I'm treating their potassium, if I'm treating their volume status, if I'm actually keeping a close eye on their uric acid and their kidney function, I should be treating that more frequently every six hours. If you don't, if you need to, you can go to eight, but I'd say every six hours, don't do it twice a day or once a day. You definitely need to do more frequently. Case three, we have a 67 year old man with known prostate cancer presents with new onset, lower back pain, and bilateral leg weakness. He has urinary retention and decreased rectal tone on exam. So I definitely, I mean, you know this too. Sounds like spinal cord, compression, right? Maybe of some sort, could it be like a caudal quina kind of thing? Yeah, decreased rectal tone is never normal. That's not good. Yeah, they always talk about in school, like, you know, you lose your anal wink reflex. Yeah. But I think this one right here, it's definitely concerning, especially prostate cancer, loves bone, loves it. Loves it. Yeah. This is Sebastian Manascago reference, if you don't know. But anyway, prostate cancer, one of the nasty ones about this is it likes to cause, instead of osteolytic lesions, it causes osteoblastic lesions. And so, definitely loves the vertebrae, can actually cause like vertebral body metastasis, and they can kind of erode and they can cause an epidural mast to kind of pop in there. And that can start pressing on the spinal cord. So if you have that, you obviously get a little back pain, if it's in that vicinity near the prostate, bilateral leg weakness means it's probably encroaching in on those lateral white columns where the corticospinal tracts are running through. And then urinary retention, decreased rectal tone, they're kind of losing that, probably the autonomic, but also just the descending pathways from the autonomic systems, from upper levels, down to those portions of the sacrochord where it goes to the rectum, and where it goes to the bladder. So this definitely sounds like spinal cord compression. Right away with these ones, if you have any inclination, you start dexamethasone right away. Yeah. And then, you know, you can't, you know, I can't like call a surgeon and be like, hey, I think this guy's got spinal cord compression. No, I got to confirm it too. So I would say I'd get an MRI, I'd get an MRI, the spine, get a close look there. And if I have any inclination there, I'd probably start them on dexamethasone IV, probably like 10 milligrams right off the bat. Usually you might want to wait for the spine MRI to come back. If I see that, I see lots of vasogenic edema. I'd probably give the dexamethasone right after that. All right, I have the MRI results for you. It confirms thoracic vertebral metastasis with spinal cord compression, just as you suspected. So what do you do next? Well, I mean, definitely was a little higher than I thought. But hey, that's definitely kind of sucky in this scenario. But yeah, I'd say, all right, seroids first. I'd give them pretty good bowls of dexamethasone, probably 10 milligrams IV, put them on a, you know, a scheduled dosing after that. I'd probably consult two people. One is I'd reach out to neurosurgery, see if there's any kind of possible like debulking surgery that they could do to remove the tumor, and any kind of like stabilization. And I'd also reach out to radonk. And I'd see if there's anything that they can do radiation therapy wise, they could help to, you know, preserve neurological function. But the steroids are going to be the first thing up front to kind of reduce the vasogenic edema, help to kind of preserve what you have. And kind of just worsen that further venous congestion, arterial compromise. And then from there, I got to get neurosurgery or radonk on board. But probably neurosurgery acutely radonk, probably not as much in that scenario. I'm sure you can probably imagine, but what complications are you most concerned about with this patient? I mean, if you don't, if you don't, if you continue to let venous congestion occur, more swelling, more compression of arteries, you can end up with ischemia. And eventually you can have like complete loss of neurological function. So paralysis would be the big concern, you know, along with that, you know, loss of permanently potentially bladder and pals. So that would be the scary thing in this potential scenario. Okay. All right, well, let's move on to case four. We have a 45 year old man with suspected AML presents with dyspnea, blurry vision and confusion. Chest X-ray shows bilateral infiltrates. So what's going on here? This is the one, like, if you watch our videos on acute leukemia, leukocytes is a pretty common AML. And so that's what I'm thinking about with this one, because with AML, if you hear dyspnea, blurry vision and confusion, that right there, if you guys didn't see that, you guys got a wreck and rewind it back. I bumped this thing in his eyes. I gotta make sure that, you know, if you're using headphones, all the drugs are gone. Yeah, you got a hole in the panic membrane. I'm just looking out. Yeah. Sorry about that. But what were you saying? Yeah. So with with AML, when I hear dyspnea, lungs, blurry vision, I think about the retina, confusion, brain, leukostasis is a condition in which AML, they have hyperlucocytosis, the white cells that are greater than like 100,000, enough of those blasts, the myeloblasts, they're too big. They're not very flexible and they get stuck in microvessels. And so they can cause like, you know, a microvascular occlusion, especially to to the brain where they can cause things like headaches, confusion, neurological deficits. They can clog up the retinal veins where they can cause visual changes due to like papillodema. They can literally cause like cotton wool or the actual small like micro-hemorrhages as well. And then the last thing is dyspnea, they can clog off the pulmonary system. And so they can have things like, you know, similar to like a pulmonary embolism. So they may have dyspnea, they may have tachypnea, they may have hypoxic respiratory distress, sometimes they can even get bilateral infiltrates and stuff. So that's probably what I'm thinking. But I got to get the CVC to see if that actually is even the case, get the peripheral smear, see if they have tons of these myeloblasts. And that's probably what I would start off with first. Yeah, well, you're spot on. Oh, am I? Our white count is 140,000. Oh my gosh. Smear shows our rods and guess how many of those white cells are blasts? How many? 75%. That's a lot, dude. Yeah, that's a lot. That's a pretty significant left shift there. So that right there tells me it's definitely leukostasis. I mean, with this kind of scenario here, I actually am kind of scared for this patient. So they have significant symptoms, especially neurological and pulmonary. When you have things like that, especially if it was like focal deficits too, I would call and find a facility that does something called leukophoresis. So leukophoresis is a process by which you actually remove these blasts from the circulation so that you're trying to, you know, not continue to clog up those vessels. So that's what I would do. Emergingly, I would try to find any hospital nearby that could transport this patient that would have that facility, the abilities to do that process. But then in the meantime, I'm going to put them on hydroxyurea because that helps. It's not as quick, but it does have more of a longer lasting effect. It kind of causing what's called cytoreduction, reducing the number of like these white blood cells that are being produced by the bone marrow. So that's what I would go for in this particular scenario for sure skis. For sure skis. What's the what's the pucker factor here? What's the thing that gets you most concerned? I'd say like hypoxic respiratory failure. That would probably be a scary one because, you know, again, unless you get them on leukophoresis, there's probably not much else that you're going to do. And then stroke, I think, you know, if you have enough microvascular occlusion, they could have a permanent neurological deficit. So when these patients start to go downhill, they go downhill? Oh, yeah, it's pretty scary. Yeah. I've never seen it. I thought I thought once we had a patient who might have had it, but no, they actually had like a cardio-embolic stroke for me if it, but they also had a condition where they didn't have an acute leukemia. They had CML and we thought they had like a blast crisis. And they came in and they had neurological deficits. We got an MRI. We saw a bunch of like small areas of strokes. Their white count was around like, I'm not kidding. I think it was close to like 170,000 or something like that. So we thought, oh man, this could be a blast crisis that put them in leukostasis, but it wasn't. So interesting in these kinds of scenarios. Wow. That's tough. Yeah. That's tough. I had this guy. That's his that's his filler word. You know, mine's actually, his is his is that's tough. Yeah, I did that on purpose. It took him a little while to catch on. Yeah, I know. I'm not that smart. All right. Well, we're on case five, Zach. All right. We have A-50 year old woman with metastatic breast cancer presents to the clinic with fatigue, hypotension, and dyspnea. Okay. Exam reveals JVD, distant heart sounds, and pulses paradoxes. Yeah, dude, that's that's tamponade, baby. This is not good. No, remind me again with pulses paradoxes. So you'll always love this one, don't you? I'm just curious. So it's whenever you have, you know, in these kinds of scenarios, you have a pretty decent drop in your systolic blood pressure during inspiration. And so it's kind of paradoxical. Thus the name. So usually during inspiration, you should take a deep breath in your thoracic cavity volume increases, the pressure decreases, and blood from your vena cava superior should suck down into the right heart, get more blood into that right heart. You should also get that over to the left heart. So you should have good stroke volume, cardiac output, and the blood pressure should go up. But in these patients of cardiac tamponade, or like a really bad tension, pneumo, it's squeezing on the heart and it's reducing the filling, especially during inspiration. And so they get a drop in their venous return. Okay. They don't fill that ventricle during inspiration. And then whenever they push that blood out, they get less volume or cardiac output getting pushed out into those vessels. And so that's why their blood pressure drops during that inspiration. So this is a pretty dead giveaway for you. Yeah, I mean, pulses paradoxes can occur in other conditions, but breast cancer, lung cancer, lymphoma, loves the pericardium. Okay. JVD, there's not many things that cause, well, actually, that's not true. A lot of things can cause JVD. Sure. But with other findings here, it starts to say, wait a minute, this is all pointing to cardiac tamponade. The distant heart sounds, the JVD, the pulses paradoxes, the hypotension. And funny enough, you know what actually the most common symptom I've ever seen when I had cardiac tamponade patient? Disnia. Oh yeah? Yeah. And a patient who had renal failure, really bad renal failure. And so we were worried that they were having like uremia. And they ended up did, they had pericarditis from their uremia. And then it had been accumulating and accumulating and accumulating and they were complaining of worsening disney, worsening disney. And then finally, they ended up developing a cardiac tamponade. It was pretty, pretty nasty. That's hard to suss out, though. I mean, just, you know, some shortness of breath. It could be a million things. Yeah. I mean, they didn't have many other things that were going on. Obviously, we were checking, we were doing things like chest x-ray. Right. We decided to throw the point of care ultrasound right over the chest and we're like, holy crap. You know, it was one of those where cardiac tamponade is kind of scary just because you have a large, you know, pericardial effusion doesn't mean that you have tamponade. You actually have to see that compression or collapsing of the right atrium and the right ventricle during diastole. But this patient had it. They also had a pretty good amount of like thickening of the pericardium so we could see that they had uremic pericarditis and it had been accumulating and unfortunately they had, you know, cardiac tamponade. So for our patient here, we're definitely doing an echo. Yeah. Yeah. I'd get an echo. Yeah. Do a stat one if you can. Obviously, point of care is the best way to go if you have, you know, some skills in that area, but getting, you know, your subsiphoid, your paraceternal, long axis, short axis views, taking a good look at that. And the key thing is just really looking to see if does the right atrium, the right ventricle collapse during diastole? And do they have less velocity of blood flow coming into the ventricles during the diastole? All right. Well, for the purposes of this exercise for this case, let's just say that we have the large pericardial effusion. We have right ventricular diastolic collapse. What do you do? I mean, so right then you say like, you know, and a lot of cardiologists will, a lot of cardiologists will fight you tooth and nail on these kinds of things. But you got to drain that thing. Yeah. That's the best way. Like, you know, a lot of them, you know, cardiologists and, you know, people who work in that ICU, a lot of them have, you know, the ability and a lot of the tools and stuff at their disposal to say, well, the best way to determine if this is causing their hemodynamic collapses to stick a needle into the pericardial cavity, pull off some volume and see does that improve their hemodynamics. And so that's what I would say. I've always been a believer. There's a guy on the internet, Book of Critical Care podcast, Josh Farkas. He's amazing, super smart guy. Go check out that podcast if you guys are interested in ICU level care. But he always says that one of the best ways of really diagnosing this and also providing therapy for is doing a pericardial synthesis is there's no better way of determining if the patient is in cardiac tamponade, other than tapping it in, pulling off that volume and saying, oh, they improved hemodynamically, there's no other logic that can explain this likely. So I think that'd be the way to go. If it kept coming back, like they recur in a fusion, so this patient likely has those risks, pericardial window would probably be the long term thing that I would say. Okay. How about if this is left untreated? Death. Very bad thing. Yeah. I had one. It was actually, I think, I've only had two cardiac tamponade patients, but the one we found and they just went into PEA rest. So oftentimes these patients, if you don't treat them properly, they develop severe hypotension, they can develop obstructive shock, and then they can have pretty much no cardiac output to the point where you're not supplying their coronaries. They end up going into like VTAC, V-Fib, ASYST-LA, PEA, things like that. So that's the scary thing that you can see with these. Similar to leukostasis where you just go downhill quickly. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. Let's keep moving here. Case six. Here's a classic board style case. We have a 68 year old man with known squamous cell carcinoma of the lung. He's like, I already know it. He presents with confusion, generalized weakness, poor appetite, constipation, and polyurea. On exam, he's mildly hypotensive. He's dry mucus membranes and sluggish reflexes. Well, come on. Spill it.  seems like hypercalcemia malignancy. So since we're talking about oncologic emergencies, when you hear squamous cell and then you hear like confuso, stones, bones, groans, throwing psychiatric overtones, right? So I think with a lot of this, we see some concerning features of hypercalcemia malignancy, especially with squamous cell carcinoma. So I never want to assume, but I'd probably start off with just doing a basic like CMP. If I get a total calcium, just because a calcium is elevated doesn't mean that it's always the case, it's more likely. But I'd probably check an ionized calcium, I always like to do that, I think it's a little bit more accurate or correct it for the abumin. If that's elevated, I would get a, I start with PTH, then I would consider, okay, if the PTH is low, I would rule out other causes, so the malignancy causes. I would get a PTHRP, I would get the vitamin D levels, so the calcitriol, I would get both calcitriol, calcitriol, and I would even consider getting an alkyphos level, because that can tell me about heavy bone turnover, which we can see in like, elliptic lesions or kind of like, usually due to cancers that have kind of incorporated itself into the bone. Breast cancers is a big one, multiple lomas, a nasty one as well. So that's probably what I would start with first is to get those things and see what comes back with that. So our total calcium is 15.7, albumin is 3.6, ionized calcium, 1.7, creatinine, 2.1, with their baseline being 1.0, their ECG, we note a shortened QT interval, PTH is low, PTHRP is elevated, and then our vitamin D, normal, ALP, normal. All right, so based on this, I'd say, okay, we have hypercalcemia, we confirm that with, you can correct it with the calcium and the albumin. Ionized calcium is an easy one for me, so I don't have to do any math though, so 1.7 that's definitely elevated. Creatinine, they have an acute kidney injury of sorts, probably in the setting of hypercalcemia is due to nephrogenic DI, so they probably lost way too much volume. So they're probably a little dehydrated. Shortened QT interval, that's usually kind of consistent, it's inversely proportional relationship with calcium, so the QT interval, if it's shortened, it means that the calcium is high, if the QT interval is prolonged, it means that the calcium is usually low. So that could be likely explaining that. PTH is low, tells me that it's PTH independent, so it's not hyperparathyroidism. PTHRP is elevated though, that's squamous cell. So usually in squamous cell carcinoma, that's elevated PTHRP, and that could be head, neck, lung, lung's probably the most common one though. 25-hydroxy and 1,25-hydroxy vitamin D, we see this particularly in lymphoma, but that's normal, so that's unlikely there. And outfoss is normal, so there's not a lot of bone turnover that makes me think that I would need to do like a skeletal survey to look to see if there's any lytic lesion. So that's kind of what it tells me in this potential scenario of what I have going on here is that it's likely squamous cell carcinoma. Okay, well how do we manage him? So first thing is treat them acutely with volume or suscitation. So these are the few patients where I think that they actually do need a good amount of fluid. Probably one of the few patients that I'm gonna hit with a good amount of fluid. I was gonna say, you hate giving fluid. God forbid you wanna give fluid. Yeah, I think this is the one I would be, I'd probably give a good amount of fluid. Probably start off one, two liters, see how they do and then aim for uvelemia there. I don't know if it helps as much with the calcium eresis, but I think it's, you know, at least aiming for uvelemia is the goal. From there, calcitonin is actually, I think, what we would say is the better fit for short-term acute needs, because it's really gonna help to kind of shut down the osteoclasts and stop them from helping to turn over the bone. So that's gonna reduce a lot of the bone resorption, which is what PTHRP is doing in this scenario. And then after I got that, it doesn't, calcitonin works quickly, so it's rapid onset, but I need something that's gonna bridge me long-term and give me more control. So that's when I reach for two agents, one to two, bisphosphonates, you know, all your dronates, allan dronates, allan dronate, palmadronate, all those good ones. And then if they have pretty bad kidneys, you can consider dinosomab, but I think that this patient's okay. I would still try bisphosphonates, see how their kidney function does, and if it really starts to veer off, I have options of dinosomab or doing dialysis, if it's really bad. But I would only do loop diuretics, because they say throw a loop diuretic in there. If I did fluids in a loop diuretic, the nurses would massacre me. They would be like, make up your mind, which one do you want? You want them to pee, or do you want them to have the fluid resuscitation? Because it doesn't make any sense, but this does happen sometimes. It used to be more believed that you give them fluid to pump them up, and then give them loop diuretics to induce calcium uresis, because that actually does do calcium uresis, but we prefer not to give diuretics unless they're truly volume overloaded. So fluids, calcitonin, bisphosphonates, or dinosomab, if this was lymphoma, I would add on a dose or a couple of dose of steroids too. But that's kind of how I would do this one in treating these patients. So our patient has an AKI, all right, the creatinine was bumped. ECG we noted short and QT intervals. So these are some concerning complications. How are you gonna manage those? The AKI is the big one, so that's gonna get better with volume. So if you give them some volume, they'll improve with that one. Nephrogenic DI improves as you start to improve. So the likely reason for their dehydration, which caused their AKI is Nephrogenic DI. So hypercalciumia actually tends to block ADH at the collecting duct, and so if you improve their calcium, then you should have less blockage of ADH at that collecting duct, and you'll have less of this inhibition of watery absorption. So that'll also fix a lot of the volume status and also prevent the Nephrogenic DI. And you're not worried about the short and QT? No, probably not. I'd be more worried if it was long. Okay. If I had a long QT, that'd probably make me poo my pants or you know, crap my Luggies. Cause that one I get scared about like, you know, torsods, especially if you have hypocalcemia and like hypokalemia, those are the ones that combine two. I get a little nervous for torsod. With calcium correction, this shouldn't just resolve? It should. Yeah, as you start to improve that one, you'll be okay, but short and QT, not something I get super concerned about, probably a little bit more concerned about the long QT though. All right, well there we go. That was case six. All right. Let's move on to case seven. All right. This one we have a 59 year old man with chronic cough and new facial swelling, SVC syndrome. Ha ha ha ha. Done. All right. Hey guys, this has been good. I hope you enjoyed the podcast. Ha ha ha. I know that one cause you've talked about it a million times. Yeah. I mean, I just hear facial swelling. And then you see the pictures that we throw up all the time. And you're just like, I'll never forget it now. They're scary. Yeah. Sorry, I just a spoiler alert there, but. No, it's good. It's good. That's an easy one. You just ruined it for everybody. Ha ha ha. No, you see this picture come up. You know it immediately. Yeah, it's true. The exam does show distended neck veins and facial plethora. Yeah. I mean, that's a pretty common term. So whenever they use that stuff, yeah, you definitely should think about it. But what do you do? I mean, chest X-ray you can always start with, with people who come in with, you know, chronic cough and stuff like that. But I mean, if you're really looking for, like you said, SVC syndrome, I'd probably do like a CT vinaigrahy or like a contrast enhanced CT scan of the chest where I'm looking at the venous blood moving into the, like along its course from the IJ brachiosophallic, or in this case subclavian, moving its way down through the brachiosophallic superior vena cava and looking at it going into the right heart. So if I start seeing that there's a restricted area where there's kind of like a small luminal diameter, that would tell me if there's less blood going there. Because SVC syndrome is not always just due to tumors. Believe it or not, I used to see it all the time. It's especially with catheters. So in the ICU, you're constantly putting in central lines. And so, you know, IJs is a common one, subclavians a common one. In the ICU I worked out, we did a lot of subclavian lines. There's lower risk of thrombosis, but IJ there's just a slightly higher one, but we would put in these lines. And then when these lines come in and they sit in the superior vena cava, it's an opportunity for clots to form. So you can definitely get thrombi that form there along the actual catheter and then sometimes right onto that vein. So I used to see a lot of SVC syndromes particularly, and they were very mild, very, very mild. But you could see them in pretty significant, like occlusive clots. And these kinds of scenario, we're talking about tumors though. All right, we're not talking about clots. We're talking about tumors. We're talking about tumors. This is not a game. No, not a game. We're talking about tumors. We're talking about tumors. So in patients who have lung cancer or lymphoma, anything that's like near that area, it's near that central portion, like you have your hyaluronic nodes, those things get big, boom. Or you have your central lung portion near the mediastinum. When it gets big, boom, compresses on the superior vena cava. So lung cancer, maybe if you have a pretty good thymic mass, and I would say the other one would probably be like, again, any kind of like really nasty lymphoma. Usually non-Hodgkin's lymphoma would be another one, lung cancer, sometimes like teratomas and things like that. But definitely lymphoma and lung cancer, those are the big ones that I get scared about compressing on that area. So I would probably start off, look to see if I can see SVC compression, look to see if I see less blood moving through it, and look to see do I have a source. That's why I like the CT scan. Cause you're gonna be able to see if I have hyalurilum, venenopathy, if I'm gonna be able to see if I have lung cancer, a big old mass compressing on it. Well, let's get to the money shot here. We got our contrast enhanced CT. It shows a large right mediastyle mass, and that mediastyle mass is compressing on the superior vena cava. Yeah, so you got SVC syndrome. I mean, from here, I think if, you know, I don't think they have, no, I don't think that they're emergent. So if, so maybe urgent. Yeah, exactly, I call it an urgency. So get to it, you know, call. Get on it, you know. I'd get the oncology, probably like your radiation oncology team, maybe the hemong team on board, and talk about like, you know, chemo radiation, something to kind of shrink the tumor size so that you're not compressing on this SVC as much. If they came in and they were having like, strider, difficulty breathing, they were having hypoxia, then I would be concerned, okay, are they having enough backflow from the IJ that it's kind of squeezing? What happens is sometimes you get blood that backflows into the vessels around the larynx and the trachea and things like that, sometimes even to the lungs, but mainly the larynx and it can cause a deem of the larynx. And so they get strider, they get disney, and they have significant difficulty breathing. And so, it's very scary. And those I'd probably say, okay, that's an emergency. And another one, and this is why, so, so, Cleveland, you know, central lines are the lines of champions, but you know, obviously you don't want to drop along, but the big thing here is when you have neurological catastrophes, where brains are already a little bit injured, they're swollen, you want them to not have anything else that increases their ICP. So, when you put in a central line in the subclavian vein, you kind of allow the jugular vein to have proper drainage, nothing is impeding it. So, imagine you have a catheter, or imagine you have a tumor that's compressing on the SVC, and it's causing blood to backflow, backflow into the IJ. Well, there's veins called the cerebral veins, the superior sagittal sinus, inferior sagittal sinus, the transverse sinus, the sigmoid sinus, all of those, they come down, and they eventually drain into the internal jugular vein. So, if you have a compression of the SVC, it's already causing backflow from the internal jugular vein. It's gonna be harder for blood to drain out of the head. And that's gonna increase their intracranial pressure. And so, I think that you would see that more so in patients who have neurological injury, or something that's already with a little bit of an increased ICP, you do that, you increase it even more. And so, that puts them at high risk. So, very concerning airway obstruction, and then an increased ICP. Yeah, if that happens, then I'd say you should call like your vascular team to see if they can go in and stint the vessel open. So, that'd be the only time that I would say it'd be worthy to kind of push to do something truly intravascular to keep that vessel patent so that blood can actually restore blood flow back down to the right atrium, right ventricle. All right, well, hey, we just covered seven high yield oncologic emergencies. And I would say we did it pretty efficiently, pretty quickly. Yeah, that was pretty good, man. I think that that was awesome. And I think when you think about oncologic emergencies, you know, there's a lot of them, and it may seem like it's hard to be able to wrap your mind around them. And I get that. I think a lot of the times with these, you have to try and think about what's the most classic clinical presentation. And I think based upon that, the big thing I want you to know is, think classical clinical presentation, but also think about what kind of conditions is this associated with. That may start to spark your interest and understanding of the concept. The pathophys will help you to understand the clinical kind of like manifestations per se. But I think it's important to know when we have a suspicion of what this is, how do I diagnose it? And then the most important thing is, since they are emergencies, what is the first line treatment? What do I do right away when I have this diagnosis? So I had a good time talking to you guys about oncologic emergencies. I hope you had a good time listening. I hope you learned a lot. I hope you had fun. I hope that while you're cooking dinner, doing dishes, driving, working out, whatever it is that you may be doing in this moment while listening to us, I hope that you enjoyed this. And I really thank you guys so much for being so awesome, so supportive. And I wish you guys the absolute best of luck. I love you. I thank you guys. And as always, until next time. Thank you.