 alfalfa, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, naryin, n is neutropenia, so it decreases the number of neutrophils and we'll give the exact number or definition of that. And then fever, a fever is an elevated body temperature, which again, we'll give a number to that as well. And based upon this, what this does, this puts the patient at risk of very, very severe infections, especially back to Remy, which can lend to itself the risk of sepsis. So we talk about neutropenic fever. We have to remember that the bone marrow, right? So this is our bone marrow and we have the red bone marrow, that's the really, really important one. I'll write that up here above. The red bone marrow is the site of blood cell production, but the really important one that we actually care about here is going to be our neutrophils. These are the cells that play a very significant role in phagocytosis and how do we recognize neutrophils? Just a little test of your knowledge. You have the red eosin acid there and the blue methylene blue base. So they have kind of a mixture of that. And then they have a polymorphone nucleus. They have multiple different lobes, usually a couple, three to five lobes. So the bone marrow is the site of white blood cell production, red blood cell production, right? That's where you're supposed to produce these puppies. So here we're gonna have some neutrophils. And neutrophils, what we know about these is that these are very, very critical. What's critical about neutrophils is that they help with our first line of like, I'd say you're innate immunity. So in other words, innate immunity is whenever we have no need for our T cells to get involved, there's really no antibody involvement that's kind of triggering this process. It's not a lot of your cytotoxic T cells, T helper cells. It's really just things like your natural killer cells, your neutrophils in this case. And so what I wanna talk to you about is what happens with neutrophils is, let's make this look really nice here. When these neutrophils get out of the bloodstream and they get into the tissue space, is what neutrophils are supposed to do is be a very important line of defense against different types of pathogens. And so we got a bunch of different pathogens here that I'm just using as an example. And these can get into the bloodstream, unfortunately a couple different ways. So then get into the tissue space is a couple different ways. But you can have a bunch of these, right? So you can have your gram negative bacteria, right? So these are usually gonna be, I'm sorry, we can talk about gram positive actually, we'll put gram positive. And you can have things like streptococcus, right? Let's actually do it like this. Let's put gram positive here, bacteria, and then here we can have staphylococcus aureus, that's a very common gram positive bacteria. And then you can have things like pseudomonas, E. coli, clebsiella, all of those. And these are gonna be your gram negative bacteria. But what neutrophils are supposed to do is they're supposed to help us by doing what? Well, what they do is they'll take some of these bacteria and they'll undergo a process where they take it inside, they take it inside of their cell and they put it into this thing called a phagosome, right? And they break that bacteria down. So they're supposed to help with a process called phagocytosis. That's really what their job is, is to help with the process of phagocytosis. And this is critical to your innate immune system. And that's what's really, really important here. So let's pretend for a scenario here that we got a problem where there's a drop in the neutrophils, because that's where we get the term neutropenic fever, there's neutropenia, right? So let's say for some reason, a patient experiences some chemo radiation therapy. So let's say that a patient gets chemo radiation. When that happens, and maybe they're getting it because they have an underlying malignancy, right? Very, very common. So if you have chemo radiation, you're hitting the bone. What that's gonna do is, is that's going to injure the red bone marrow. Now the red bone marrow starts crying. And you get a decrease in the function of the red bone marrow. What's the red bone marrow supposed to produce? Neutrophils. And if I destroy the bone marrow and I decrease this production of neutrophils, and a patient who already has maybe a little bit of neutropenia. So this is why it's really, really important. Patients who have underlying neutropenias like leukemias, they're at super high risk. So if you have a condition where you already have neutropenia or less functional neutrophils, and you hit them with chemo radiation, you then decrease the number of neutrophils that are being produced. Then we get a decrease in the neutrophils. So usually what you need to have here is chemo radiation plus an underlying neutropenia at baseline, or at least a decreasing number of neutrophils. Then what happens is if you have decreased neutrophils, guess what? This dude ain't gonna be able to undergo phagocytosis. So you're gonna lead to a decrease in phagocytosis. And your innate immunity is no longer gonna be beneficial. So all the bacteria that are on our skin surface, that are part of our gut flora, our urinary tract flora, our respiratory flora, all of those potentially, if there's a break in the barrier, they can get into the bloodstream and they can wreak havoc. Now, when these do that, guess what they do? They cause damage to tissue. This could be through endotoxins or exotoxins, but there's some type of toxin damage. And then what happens is when the tissues get damaged, what do they do? Well, they alert the immune system. And then they start to try and alert the immune system by secreting specific chemicals into the bloodstream. And these chemicals, yeah, they're supposed to help to alert the immune system, but what are these chemicals and what happens as a result? These are gonna be things like interleukin-1, things like interleukin-6, things like tumor necrotic factor alpha. Their job is to try and go and really, really ramp up your immune response, right? And that's where we start seeing a bump in these. The problem with these is that these have a lot of effects on our circulatory system and on our hypothalamus. And that's where it's really, really important. So when a patient has a decrease in neutrophils, and we should actually define what that consists of to have neutropenia, neutropenia is defined as having a absolute neutrophil count less than 500 cells per microliter. That is the true definition of neutropenias. We have to absolute neutrophil count less than 500 cells per microliter. So patient who has maybe some baseline, decreased neutrophils. But if not less than this, gets chemo-radiation, damages the bone marrow, drops the neutrophils even more, they lose their ability to allow for basic phagocytosis, innate immunity. And again, another thing with these is that they're supposed to also not just kill, not only eat the bacteria, but they're also supposed to release things like reactive oxygen species. And so it's not just phagocytosis, but we'll talk about this later. It's a decrease in other things. Cause they release things like reactive oxygen species and proteases and these, and even things like nets, neutrophilic extracellular traps. All of this leads to here, it's actually add this, all of this leads to a plummet in the innate immunity. And that's when these patients become susceptible to infections. So the bacteria, if they're not getting killed because of being eaten or broken down, they can start causing tissue damage, alerting the immune system and causing an inflammatory reaction, really ramping up your cytokines. Here's another thing. When we think about this, the bacteria, they're normally coming, usually they're on like our skin, they have it a part of your mucosal linings. What happens if you have something like, for example, you have a severe, let's say cellulitis, or you have a surgical site, a surgical wound, that is maybe a little bit open, maybe it's a little de-hist, maybe it looks a little rough. And these types of scenarios, when a patient has things like cellulitis or a surgical wound, you can have little bacteria here will represent in these green dots. They're normally a part of our skin flora. And if you have an immune system, guess what? These bacteria, as they try to jump in, who's gonna come and eat these suckers? The neutrophils. Do you got the neutrophils? No. What happens is they start to work their way through here and they get into the bloodstream. Same thing here. When working in the ICU or patients who have cancer, guess what else they have? So in ICU's, you see a lot of patients who have like central venous catheters, usually in the internal jugular vein, the subclavine vein, the femoral vein, that's all part of the skin. And there's usually a little tunnel when you dilate the skin, it can create like a little space where bacteria can kind of tunnel through there. Another thing is when you have indwelling catheters that sit in for a long period of time, that's a potential source. So sometimes if there's a little bit of space, maybe there's some bacteria that's on one of the caps, maybe there's some skin here that the bacteria kind of like tunnels and gets its way through. Either way, these things can get into your bloodstream. And if you had like a normal immune system for the most part, you'd probably be able to clear some of these. Either way, this is a risk. So having indwelling catheters, it's a terrifying thing, especially on a patient who has neutropenia or some malignancy and just got hit with some chemo radiation. So, and dwelling catheters is another big one. So either way, let's say that a patient has an underlying malignancy such as, let's just say for example, they had AML, they get chemo radiation, but then on top of that, they have an indwelling catheter. They may get the chemo, drop their neutrophils, lose the ability to fight off infections. They have an indwelling catheter, the skin floor gets into the circulation, boom, you have an opportunity for bacteria and not enough neutrophils capable of clearing that. That's when you're gonna start seeing these issues. Either way, what I want you to remember is, and these scenarios, these bacteria are critical to know. So usually skin and indwelling catheters, these are really important to know that these are usually gonna be your gram positive bacteria. So these are gonna be your gram positive bacteria. So which one are those? That's your streptococcus, that's your staphylococcus aureus, which is the one that we get really, really terrified with, though, the scary one. It can really wreak havoc. This is the scary one that I think we think about in patients because we don't wanna miss is MRSA, methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus. So we got bacteremia this way. What's another way that you can get bacteremia? Another one is, you know what, it's interesting. Whenever people get chemo radiation, especially chemotherapy, it can cause colitis. So it can cause that, it can even hit some of the small bowel a little bit too. But whenever you cause mucositis, so there's a mucositis from chemo radiation therapy, and then on top of that, you create little holes now. So now you have breakdowns. If you have mucositis, you could potentially create a little breakdown in the mucosa. So any kind of bacteria that's present in your GI flora, guess what, they're gonna move right through there, and they're gonna get right into your bloodstream, right? So having situations where a patient has colitis, usually this is after, so it's secondary to, that's what the two by two is, secondary to, chemo therapy. We see this a lot, sometimes even radiation therapy. This is important because then it just causes a mucositis. You get a breakdown in this barrier, and guess who can just come flying right out into the bloodstream, your bacteria. It's important to know what kind of bacteria are part of your GI flora, primarily gram-negative rods. So this is gonna be your gram-negative, bacteria, these are the scary ones, right there. They can be really, really nasty. So gram-negative bacteria. What are some examples of these? E. coli, C. lepsiella, right? You could have so many more chagella. You could go down the line, but there's really one scary one that we don't wanna miss because there's specific antibiotics, and it can be a really nasty one. And that's called pseudomonas. Particularly pseudomonas originosa. So we can have a colitis, which is very common. So if you get chemotherapy, not only does it knock down your neutrophils, it causes a mucositis. And this is not just in the GIT. This could be colitis. When I say GIT, I mean the actual small intestine, large intestine. Sometimes it can even be lesions in the oral cavity as well. So watch out for that too. I would even watch out, and when I say these, let's just actually be more general for the GIT. Let's say mucositis. Let's actually say mucositis. And so that can include anything from the oropharynx, the esophagus, the stomach, the small intestine, and the large intestine. It just happens to be the colon is a pretty common one. All right, there's that one. Another thing is the urinary tract. This could be a couple different things. Anytime you have foreign material that's present, what could this be? A foley catheter. So foley catheters, introduced opportunities because they can travel along the actual tissue, whether it's along the areas of the urethra, for the male or the female, it can travel its way up sometimes and get into that actual urine stream, right here into the bladder. What's another one? Let's say I got a stone or some type of obstruction here. The bacteria will back up and it'll build up here and then what will happen? It'll then move into your circulation. So in patients who have a foley catheter, which is introducing foreign material or an obstruction. So let's say a urinary tract obstruction. And you know what, it's funny, when I worked in the ICU, one of the primary problems I never thought that foley catheters truly cause as much of what we see of the catheter, associated urinary tract infections as long as they were patent and they were being switched out after a certain amount of time, I found that we're never gonna have a kinked foley. That was actually more problematic because then you can't drain it and then it backs up and then it moves its way backwards and then that gets into the kidney, that kidney then spills that into the bloodstream and then that's how you get the actual bacteria into the bloodstream. So I found that usually kinked foley catheters and urinary tract obstruction create an opportunity for bacteria to get in. And again, usually you should have an immune system to kind of clear this, but if you have neutropenia, it's gonna be very, very fast and accelerated. The last one is usually some type of breakdown in your lung tissue. So these are patients who are definitely a little bit more predisposed than risk. You have normal bacteria, part of your flora here, part of your respiratory flora. But if you have that drop down in the neutrophils, then it's gonna be an easier opportunity for some of these bacteria to kind of seed into the bloodstream. So these are the things I really want you guys to remember is when we talk about patients who have the bacterial source, a lot of the times really look at the skin, look at surgical site wounds, think about indwelling catheters. If they got chemo radiation therapy, think about mucocytus, look for sores or lesions in the mouth and the pharynx, and think about do they have any abdominal pain diarrhea? It could be that they have some colitis as well. Do they have any history of dysuria, flank pain? That could be something, consider your analyses, and do they have any potential symptoms of respiratory distress? Oftentimes a neutropenic fear, they don't produce a lot of localizing signs and symptoms. That's what makes it challenging because generally neutrophils are, guess what they're supposed to do? Amp up your immune response. So you don't see a lot of those localizing signs and symptoms. Usually what happens is they get very, very sick and they become septic. So now that we've talked about this, we got a patient who got chemo radiation, they have probably some underlying hematologic malignancy that puts them at risk of neutropenia. Chemo radiation shut it down more. They don't have the immune response to clear the bacteria if they're present instead. Because of the bacteria, they're really creating a cytokine storm, but it's not creating the best localizing signs and symptoms. It's usually more systemic infection symptoms or SERS and septic-like symptoms. Sources, skin, and dwelling catheters for gram-positive bacteria. The mucocytus is the really important one for the gram-negative bacteria, especially from some part of the colon, the small intestine, or some oral cavity for angiol areas. Now that we've gotten that, and we've gotten the two big scary bacteria that can have a lot of mortality on these patients, what would be a way that they would present? Well, we kind of talked about it. If you have these bacteria, so here I'm gonna represent this as your gram-negative bacteria. I'm gonna represent this as your streptococcus, which is your gram-positive bacteria. I'll represent this as kind of like your cluster, so this is gonna be another, your staphylococcus aureus, your gram-positive bacteria. You don't have that immune system to really help you, right? So what are they doing? They're producing that unfortunate toxin-mediated destruction of tissue cells. And I told you that these tissue cells respond by alerting other areas, maybe telling macrophages, other immune system cells, hey, bro, I need some help. And so they secrete these different types of cytokines, even the endothelial cells do this a lot too. This is usually interleukin one, interleukin six, two-monochronic factor alpha. These are really pumped up. And the problem with these is that they have a lot of different targets. And I find this as the interleukin six plays a pretty big role in this. But what happens is that these love your hypothalamus. And they're gonna go to the hypothalamus and they're gonna stimulate the hypothalamus. And they're gonna type the hypothalamus, hey, bro, there's a lot of inflammation go on. Can you rev up the body's kind of like internal body temperature and make it a little bit harder for some of these bacteria to survive? When it does that, it increases your body temperature. All right, it does that in multiple different ways, which we're not gonna go into, but obviously V-through changes in vasoconstriction is one of the big ones. And so it's gonna definitely increase the body temperature. And it's gonna do it to a point where the patient starts to exhibit a fever. Now, how do we define a fever? Well, a fever in these patients is usually greater than 38 degrees Celsius. Whether that is a, usually in this potential scenario, is if they have a fever, as we look for this to be kind of consistent. So they've had a fever for maybe at least two days. But another thing is, is that we can have a one time. So like, let's say that you have a one time temperature where it's like 101 degrees Fahrenheit. And that scenario, we actually could say that that's considered also a fever. Even if it's one reading, that's something, especially if the patient has neutropenia. So fever is a really scary one. So when you have a patient who has a fever, greater than 38 degrees Celsius, plus neutropenia, absolutely neutral for a count less than 500 cells per microliter, you got neutropenic fever, right? The scary thing that we truly get worried about with this disease is that sometimes it can be kind of silent. And what will happen is, is that they'll act on the vessels. So they have little receptors on different capillaries, I'm sorry, arterials. And so let's say here I have an arterial and I got some receptors for it. When these chemicals hit these receptors, it can trigger two things. One is vasodilation, right? So it makes the vessels bigger, more larger diameter within the lumen. And the other thing is it makes the capillaries super leaky. So it's easier for things to leak out. And the whole point of that is that if you have an inflammatory response, like let's say in this area, you want this vessel to be leaky so that white blood cells can get into the area and fight off whatever it is that's going on. So it's gonna have a increased vasodilation, an increased capillary permeability in these vessels. And the problem with that is, is that what this will do is, is this will cause like a drop in your systemic vascular resistance and it'll drop your blood volume, your effective arterial blood volume. So your systemic vascular resistance will go down and your blood volume will go down. Because now you have less resistance because the larger the diameter, the less resistance to flow. The combination of these, we know blood volume and blood pressure are very, I'd say directly proportional. And so if there's a drop in blood volume, there is a drop in blood pressure. And whenever systemic vascular resistance goes down, so does your blood pressure. And so what we start to see is that patients can start to experience a drop in blood pressure. And so this may kind of rear its ugly head in the form of hypotension, right? And so that's where we kind of get a little scared. Could this be a patient who's starting to exhibit signs of shock? And then this is a very specific type of shock, right? So whenever I have a patient who we have, we could define something, which we can say is sepsis. There's a lot of different criteria out there, but I'd say this criteria is really kind of concerning. If I have a fever, if I have a decreased number of my neutrophils, which is gonna kind of overall, it's gonna drop my number of white blood cells, right? And if I have a fever, and if I have bacteremia, if I have bacteremia, I have positive blood cultures. So I test, I actually test their blood and I test it for bacteria. If it comes back with bacteremia, then we technically have sepsis, my friends. It's when we get into the combination of hypotension, that is when we start getting concerned of, has it progressed to shock? And so sometimes patients may come in with a fever, a neutropenia, and a bacteremia, but then they can get sicker and sicker and sicker, and then eventually progress to shock. And this is where we get worried. Let me actually kind of redefine this one. Let's redefine this as a septic, septic shock. So that's what I want you guys to take away from neutropenic fever. So taking away from neutropenic fever is a patient who usually has an underlying hematologic malignancy, where they already have a slightly lower neutrophil count, get hit with chemo-radiation, shut down the bone marrow, more suppression in neutrophil production, that drops, can't clear infections as well, because of an innate immunity, it decreases. Because of that bacteria that are getting their way into the bloodstream, to be at this different ways, can then thrive and cause tissue damage. This tissue damage sometimes doesn't cause a lot of localizing signs and symptoms. It may cause a fever, but sometimes it can get progressive enough that this patient can go to develop sepsis, and then sometimes precipitously, and I mean quickly develop septic shock. So really important to identify that. When neutropenia fever, we talked a lot about this. We see this primarily in a patient who has some underlying malignancy. Usually it's a leukemia of some sort. That's really the big one. And what happens is, is usually they have some type of malignancy and they're getting hit with chemotherapy as well. And when you get hit with chemotherapy, what happens as a result of that is that you cause myelosuppression, especially even radiation therapy. So you suppress their bone marrow from producing neutrophils. And if they have some type of like hematologic malignancy like leukemia that already is producing less functional white blood cells, that's gonna create an opportunity where they just don't have the immune system to fight off infections. And plus, when you get chemo radiation therapy, it breaks down that mucosal lining and it allows bacteria to translocate. They get into the bloodstream, you get bacteremia, you run the risk of infection, because you just don't got the immune system to fight it off. And so, I see this a lot in patients with sepsis. So patients who come in with septic and we start working them up and we end up finding that they have neutropenia, and they also have an underlying malignancy. They just got chemotherapy recently. That's a potential source of that sepsis. But again, I really want you to think about this more in the vignettes as a patient who comes in with a new onset fever who has a history of malignancy. More likely kind of a hematologic one and they've gotten chemotherapy. So they're suppressing their immune system, destroying the bone marrow that's causing myelosuppression. They may already have a reduced functional white blood cells in the first place. Now creates an opportunity, bacteria translocate, they get into the bloodstream, and that's when they get the fever. What's a fever? Usually greater than 38 centigrade. So now I got a patient with a fever. You got a patient with sepsis. They have a history of malignancy. They have a way of having that mucocytus or breakdown and a barrier that allows for bacterial translocation. How do you prove that the white blood cells are low? You get a CBC with a diff. That's gonna tell you if the white blood cell counts low and the differential is gonna tell you which one of the white blood cells, the neutrophils. But what I really want is that absolute neutrophil count. That's less than 500 cells per microliter. We have a diagnosis of fever plus neutropenia. We got a neutropenia fever. The question here then becomes what do I do next? At this point, you really have diagnosis. You don't have to go further. I think if you're ever asked, well, what do you do once you've diagnosed the patient with neutropenia fever? Well, the most likely thing is you start them on broad spectrum antibiotics. But once you start them on broad spectrum antibiotics, you can't keep them on that forever. You can make keep them on it for like, maybe a week or two or something like that. Usually at some point though, we would like to narrow down antibiotics to be more specifically geared towards that pathogen. And that's where blood cultures are gonna come into play. So you're gonna start them on antibiotics once you diagnose it. After they get there, after they've, you know, you've done that, you order the antibiotics, they're getting ready to come, you quick get blood cultures. You do the blood cultures and you order cultures from other areas or sites depending upon their symptoms. But blood cultures is gonna be the first one. Another one I like to do is a chest x-ray, right off the get go. So I like to get a chest x-ray to see if they have any kind of diffuse pulmonary infiltrates because that's a very common area as well. So some kind of pneumonia bacteria can easily spread across. So I like to do blood cultures and I like to do a chest x-ray right off the get go. And if I see these things, I'm pretty concerned. Now, I think the really, really important thing here is you wanna try and figure out, do I order further tests? You only do that if they have specific signs and symptoms to point to that area. So for example, if they have cellulitis and abscess, a big surgical wound that looks gnarly wound culture it, if they have a urine analysis that's very abnormal with Paiuria, leukocytesterase and nitrates that are positive, they have dysuria, frequency, urgency, get a urine culture, right? If they've been a long-term chronic catheter patient, get a urine culture potentially. I think those are really, really important to consider. If they have abdominal pain, severe diarrhea, I would consider getting a stu culture. I would also get a sputum culture if they have any kinds of respiratory symptoms and their chest x-ray came back abnormal to. The whole purpose of this is that once I get my blood cultures, that'll tell me they're back to remia. But then I also can get other cultures to find out where is this potential source coming from? Cause maybe it's not in the blood yet. Maybe their blood cultures come back negative, but they have another source in their body. And so these are always kind of things to consider because it helps you to tailor your antibiotics towards the specific pathogen. Cause we'll start them on vancomycin to cover MRSA. We'll start them on the Pipericinotasobactam or Cephapim to cover your Pseudomonas and a lot of your other gram negative rods. But once we've done that, that's the broadest spectrum. At some point, we want to narrow it down to the specific pathogen. And that's what the cultures are going to help us with. Blood cultures are going to be the main one. These other ones you can do based if they have symptoms and signs. But either way, this is really the way of determining their sepsis and infection. How all of these patients will likely most often present, which is a fever or a septic patient with a nomenolignancy and they've gotten some kind of chemo radiation therapy that broke down a barrier that allowed for translocation. So you've gone through, you have a patient who has neutropenic fever, right? We talked about that, they probably have a hematologic malignancy, they got chemotherapy, they now have a fever, they got an absolute neutrophic count less than 500. What do you do? You ordered the blood cultures, you're waiting for those to come back. You maybe got other cultures depending upon localizing signs and symptoms. In the meantime, you have to put them on empiric antibiotics. This is going to be vancomycin, most often to cover MRSA, and then piparicilentaseobactym or cephapim to cover your pseudomonas and a lot of other gram negative rods. That's going to be what you're going to do until you get the cultures back, which says what kind of bacteria you have, and then you narrow down to what it's susceptible for. All right, so let's talk about tumor lyso syndrome. So tumor lyso syndrome is a really important way to get rid of the symptoms.  an oncologic emergency. What you really wouldn't be thinking about with this one is that there's obviously, it's pretty easy. I mean, it says within the name, there is lysis of tumor cells. And so I think that begs the question of, okay, we're obviously talking about oncology here. So what kind of tumor cells is popping is the question. And this is usually when we think about tumor lysis syndrome, we see this in patients who have what's called ALL. So acute lymphoblastic leukemia is a pretty common one. Another one is lymphoma. And there is different types of lymphoma. So if I were going to tell you which one, I would say things like non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, things like Birket, things like, you know, diffuse large B cell lymphoma, those are gonna be the more likely ones. So if a patient has ALL lymphoma, they have a pretty heavy, let's say tumor burden. So they have an increased tumor burden. They already got some heavy, heavy amounts of tumor cells that are constantly, you know, going through their replication cycles. So if you have a lot of tumor cells and you hit them with chemo, so then let's say that you give them a pretty good dose of chemotherapy. What's that chemotherapy gonna do to these cells? Well, we already know, I got to point it right at them. It's going to pop these dudes, right? And so now we bust open these cells. When you bust open these cells, you release their intracellular contents. One of the really important ones is going to be phosphate. All right, so phosphate's gonna be one of these that'll go up, all right? The next one is uric acid. So we'll write here uric acid. And this is just because of a lot of the DNA processes that are going on, right? A lot of the nucleotide metabolism from whenever you have a lot of cell replication, right? So a bump in the uric acid would be a pretty scary one. And then the last one is what is the most abundant extracellular cation that's, I'm sorry, what is the most abundant intracellular cation that we have? That's gonna be potassium. We're just bags of potassium, these cells of ours, right? So these are gonna be the primary things that leak out of these bust open cells. Once they get released, things like phosphate, you know, it's one of these that'll actually bind with calcium. So what it does is it binds the calcium. And when you bind up calcium, because that basically it kind of causes like a chelation mechanism, essentially, you're gonna do what to the free ionized calcium levels. You're gonna drop them because now it's bound to phosphate, right? So now you're gonna drop what you're calling your ionized or your true like free calcium. So we'll put this as your ionized calcium, right? So you can start to see patients having hyperphosphatemia with hypo-calcemia. The other thing is that uric acid, this is pretty nephrotoxic, it actually crystallizes. And so what happens is it'll actually kind of get into your nephrons. And when it gets into the nephrons, it causes a lot of nasty damage to your proximal tubular cells. And if you don't actually get enough of this filtered out, but you have a good amount of uric acid crystals, it causes uric acid nephropathy. And uric acid nephropathy usually presents in the form of an acute kidney injury. And the most common type is acute tubular necrosis, which is an intra-renal akii. And then the last thing is, in the potassium, we know that it is super critical to our cardiac activity. Obviously it plays a role in our deep, while repolarization mechanisms. And so what happens is it changes a lot of that. And so these patients become very, very high risk for cardiac arrhythmias. So arrhythmias is a big one, but I think when we talk about arrhythmias, obviously the scariest thing is that these patients can develop things like, well, VTAC, V-Fib, P-E-A arrest. So that's kind of our scary things that we actually get concerned about. Sometimes, obviously, acystole is another one. But another thing that we'll talk about with arrhythmias is that they can really be something that we can pick up on the exam with EKG changes. So we will talk about that. So big thing that I want you guys to remember here is when our patient has tumor lyso syndrome, they have to have a heavy tumor burden. And it's usually like a hematologic malignancy, such as ALL and FOMA. They get chemo, bust them open, release these things, and they start to cause a lot of different downstream consequences. So let's talk about that, because I think that will kind of like, really hammer down the point of what's gonna happen with the high phosphate. Well, we kind of know, right? These cells pop open. What was that first one that I told you about? It was the phosphate, right? So we had a lot of phosphate. Now, phosphate, one of the things about this is that we already talked about it. It's going to lower the ionized calcium. So it'll bind with the calcium. And whenever it binds with calcium, it lowers the true ionized version of calcium. So they got low calcium. The problem is when you have lower amounts of ionized calcium, calcium is very peculiar. And what happens is, is it kind of controls your voltage-gated sodium channels. So imagine calcium is, if calcium is really high, it can block some of the sodium, because it competes with it to a degree. And so it can block that sodium, because it can repel the sodium from actually moving into these channels. But if you have less calcium, are you gonna have as much of that repelling it and competing with the sodium there at that channel? No. So what happens to the activity of that sodium channel? It goes up. And so what happens is, you get more sodium, you get an increase in sodium influx. And these voltage-gated sodium channels. So more sodium is gonna be pumping into these neurons. This is a neuron, right? So you're gonna have a, we'll use a positive symbol here, positive symbol here, positive symbol here. These things are rushing. Not rushing, you know, like, you know, like rushing. Like, oh, look, look, look, look. No, this is rushing into the neuron, causing it to depolarize. When it depolarizes, it sends signals down and increases action potentials, bro. When we get more action potentials in these nerves, the problem with this is, is this leads to a lot of neuromuscular irritability. That's a heck of a word, right? So it's gonna lead to a lot of things called neuromuscular irritability. Let's write that down. Neuromuscular. Irritability. All right, so what are these people just like mad at life? No, no, no. There's specific clinical symptoms that can sometimes be seen. For example, one, and this is, I think, a classic one that you see on the exams because it's just easy to kind of like talk about, it's perioral peristhesia. So you get kind of like some numbness and some tingling around the oral area. The other one, as it can lead to what's called Shove Stex sign. Shove Stex sign. What the heck is Shove Stex sign? Shove Stex sign is basically when you have facial nerve irritation. You take, and you tap over where the facial nerve, because the facial nerve kind of runs right here through that parodic. You tap around that area and then they get kind of contraction of that facial muscles because the facial nerve is getting activated. And so it's changing the muscles of the facial expression. You're getting all yanked up right there. That's one sign. So a positive Shove Stex sign. Another one is a positive Trussoes sign. A positive Trussoes sign. And this is when you inflate the blood pressure cuff over the brachial artery, there's a nerve there, and you start to compress that nerve. And then guess what happens? Some of the nerves that run down, obviously we'll kind of get to like that median nerve. It starts to kind of get compressed. And then what happens is, is you start to have flexion at the wrist and then the flexion of the actual phalanges. So you get what's called a carpopetal spasm. And that's usually as you inflate the blood pressure cuff up high enough, it starts to compress in those nerves. You activate it and it's already kind of like a little sensitive. Boom! So it's like you get sensitive nerves and you're trying to mess with them. I think the biggest thing, and I would say it's not common, that's what I'd be scared of, is that in worst case scenarios, this can cause seizures. I haven't seen it, but it's something that I would say that would be considered the emergency aspect. All right, the next one is you are pumping out that uric acid. Now the uric acid is where I think a lot of the problems lie in tumor lyso syndrome. That and I think the potassium. But I think uric acid can contribute to that as well, interestingly enough. So the uric acid, what happens is that this is, it's pretty nasty, man. And basically what it happens is, is it can cause uric acid crystals. So let's actually just kind of represent these. Here, let's do like this. Let's say here we got like a little bit of, you know, uric acid crystals that you get here. So here's our uric acid crystals. This kind of moves across the glomerulus, gets into the proximal tubules, right? And then what it does is, it actually gets into these proximal tubular cells. And when it gets into the proximal tubular cells, here we'll do it like this, kind of like that. It gets into these cells and it causes damage. The cells aren't a great fan of it. It can actually cause nephrotoxicity. And then these cells start dying. As these cells start dying, they sloth off. So now let's imagine here's the damaged cells. Here's the damaged cells. These are all damaged. What are they gonna do? They start to sloth off. So now let's imagine I got a bunch of these cells that slothed off, cause I'm only showing you a couple, but there's obviously thousands upon thousands of cells here. They start kind of clumping. And as they clump, these cells, they form a kind of like, shape of the proximal tubular cell, proximal tubular lumen. So these start kind of dumping here in. And what happens is they make what we would call a cast. So they make something called muddy brown cast. And the problem with these cast is, is that they block the flow of urine moving down. And as they block that flow of urine over time, what that does is that drops the ability to filter things off from the glomerulus, right? So then you lose this ability. And as you lose this ability, what happens if you can't filter things across the glomerulus? That's called your GFR, right? So your GFR drops. If your GFR drops and you got these damaged cells, that's when you start seeing potential problems. Cause these cells are damaged and now you can't secrete things and the GFR is lost. And so now you're having a hard time filtering things. So there's decreased secretion because of these damaged cells. And there's a decrease in the GFR. Bruh, guess what this is gonna lead to. If I can't secrete things like creatinine, potassium, urea, water, all of these things, if I can't filter off potassium, urea, water, et cetera, this is where you're gonna start to see AKIs. So acute kidney injuries. And how do we truly define an acute kidney injury? How do we truly define it? If you had to define an AKI, how do you do it? It's an increase in the serum creatinine. Usually we say greater than 0.3 milligrams per DL within at least a 20, usually a 48 hour period, right? That's how we would be concerned about this. So if I started seeing a really, really sharp rise in the serum creatinine, I would be concerned about acute kidney injury. And if uric acid was elevated, that could be the potential cause. I got uric acid nephropathy. So that's where we get concerned is, these uric acid nephropathy. Here's the other thing, is with uric acid nephropathy, when you get an acute kidney injury, guess what else that happens? If you get a severe enough one, obviously we know the AEIOU, right? Acidosis, electrolyte abnormalities, which is the electrolyte? Potassium. So a patient who gets tumor license syndrome, they can cause AKIs, guess what AKI can do? Increase potassium. What do they already have spilling out of these busted open cells? Potassium. And so if I have potassium that's rising because of the busted open cells, and because of an acute kidney injury, I can't filter and secrete potassium as well. Primarily filter it though. What is gonna be the issue here? We get an exacerbated effect here. And that's gonna cause this hyperkalemia to worsen the cardiac arrhythmias. So that's what we get scared about as a Culean. This potassium rises enough, you can get cardiac arrhythmias. But if the AKI continues to progress and you still have this, you know, let's say concerning potassium, but it's not life threatening at the moment, this can worsen it. Problem with that is we already talked about it. It can cause cardiac arrhythmias. So obviously we get worried about things like V-Tac. We get worried about V-Fib. We get worried about PEA or acystole, right? But the problem is that oftentimes, yeah, most patients will present this way and you'll have to proceed with CPR. But oftentimes we get these kind of like EKG changes that are worth talking about. Because this is sometimes how they'll talk about this on the exam because they wanna figure out a way of how we can talk about this. So one of the first ways is that these patients will peak their T-waves. Then they'll prolong their PR interval. Then they'll lose their P-wave and then they'll widen out their QRS complex. Then they go into what's called a sine wave pattern and they can break down the V-Tac or V-Fib. They can go into a complete flat line. So these are the things that we worry about is do they have a peaked T-wave? That's the first one. Do they have a prolonged PR interval? Do they have a flat P-wave? Do they have a wide QRS complex? Are they presenting an a sine wave pattern? These are the things I want you guys to think about with this because this is what they'll try to test on. So they have a patient who comes in, has a history of ALL or non-Hodgkin's Lephoma, got chemotherapy. All of a sudden they have an EKG and it shows peak T-waves. What is potentially going on? They may have tumor-licer syndrome and that's because of the potassium leaking out of the cells. All right? And then they could also say they have an acute kidney injury or there's a uric acid nephropathy. How is that contributing to it? Because an acute kidney injury loses the ability to filter off and excrete potassium now. And that's accentuating the effect that they already have from the hyperkalemia. So that's what I want you to take you guys through here with tumor-licer syndrome. All right, tumor-licer syndrome, ALL, enphoma, big heavy tumor burden, you bust open the cells, release out which ones, phosphorus, uric acid, potassium, and which one drops as a result of high phosphorus, calcium. Neuromuscular ability, AKI, and lastly, cardiac arrhythmia. All right, tumor-licer syndrome. We think about this in a patient who, again, has an underlying malignancy. I'd say the most common ones are gonna be things like an acute leukemia of sorts, right? I'd say ALL is a really big one, lymphoma is a really big one, especially your diffuse large B cell, your Birkett lymphoma, anything like that where they've gotten chemotherapy, right? And in this case, they're not coming with a fever, they're coming with most often things like an acute kidney injury. So if you hear that, you hear things like cardiac arrhythmias or neuromuscular irritability. These may pique your thoughts to think about, ooh, could it be TLS? Well, how do I prove that? Well, the primary reason this happens is when you hit those cells, they bust open and they release things like phosphorus, uric acid, and potassium. The phosphorus keelates the calcium, and so they end up with hypocalceamy that cause the neuromuscular irritability. The uric acid causes the acute kidney injury and the hypotassium causes the arrhythmias. Either way, in these patients, you wanna think about that if they have a new malign, or they have a known malignancy, and especially if they've gotten some kind of recent chemo therapy. Now, I'm gonna get a CMP because that's gonna tell me my renal function, if they have an acute kidney injury, right? It's gonna tell me my potassium, it's gonna tell me my total calcium. I'm gonna get my phosphorus to see if that's high. I'm gonna get an ionized calcium if the total calcium comes back a little elevated, and I'm gonna get a uric acid. All of these things are gonna help me because what I need is I want to see PUK. I wanna see phosphorus high, uric acid high, potassium high, and I wanna see calcium low. That's what I wanna see. So phosphorus is high, uric acid is high, potassium is high, and calcium is low, I have tumor lyceus syndrome. And that's it, the diagnosis has been made. Again, this is more of a thing where you have to have a high degree of suspicion for this. Patient comes in, they got a nuance at AKI, that's not a quick thing that you're like, oh, it's TLS, no, you have to go through. Is it post-renal, is it pre-renal, is it intra-renal? Oftentimes, you'll start and you'll work them up. You wanna say, let me get a bladder and a renal ultrasound, make sure it's not post-renal. Let me look at their volume status to see if they're hypovolemic. Let me look at their medication history, and go through that to see if they have any kind of drugs, NSAIDs. If they're on some type of ACE inhibitor, if they're on an ARB, if they have some type of hypotension or shock, we go through all of these different things. We do phenols, we do urine sodiums, we do urine microscopy to look for any kind of cast, all of those things come up. But once you've gotten to the patient who has a intra-renal AKI, this should be something to think about. When you have a patient who comes with a rhythm, is you're thinking about potassium-related changes, peak T waves, flattening of the P wave, pro-long PR interval, YQRS, sine wave, cardiac arrest, et cetera. Neuromuscular ability, you're thinking about this in the patient who has Shov sex sign, trisosine, perioral peristhesias, maybe worst case scenario, a nuance at seizure. These are things I want you guys to be thinking about. So you have a patient who comes in, they have some type of malignancy, usually this is things like ALL, lymphoma, they got chemo, now all of a sudden they come in with an AKI, they have cardiac arrhythmias with T wave changes, and you diagnose this, what do you do? Well the big thing here is that the things that will kill them is going to be most likely the arrhythmias, as well as the acute kidney injuries. But when you think about these patients, the big problem here is that a lot of the times you have to try and do the best you can to treat the kidneys first. Because if you treat the kidneys, one of the benefits of that is that you reduce that risk of the further kidney injury, and the more kidney injury you get, the more risk you'll need for dialysis, the more risk that they'll have of hyperkalemia, and so you're really trying to go after that. So the first thing I like to do is I like to consider fluids. Fluids for the patient who's maybe getting ready to get chemotherapy and they're high risk, they're already a high risk of getting tumor license syndrome, I'll give them fluids. Usually things like lactator ringer is normal sailing one of those. The other situation of when I would give IV fluids, more likely, a little bit more volume, is when they have an acute tumor license syndrome. We're not, it's really, I think a misconception, when you give fluids to a patient with TLS, it's not because they're massively dehydrated, it's not because you're trying to flush these toxins or electrolytes out of their body. That's not really what you're doing, you're helping to maintain uvelemia, you're helping to improve renal perfusion to the kidneys. Because in that scenario, you already have the uric acid crystals destroying the kidney tubules. And what you're trying to also do is say, let me just give them enough volume where I don't further worsen their kidney injury. I wanna keep renal perfusion normal so I don't exacerbate their already present acute tubular necrosis and acute kidney injury. That's all you're trying to do. So you prevent a lot of this by keeping them volume resuscitated, just kind of normal uvelemia and acute tumor license syndrome, you're giving them again volume to just maintain uvelemia. It's not for this theoretical flushing out of toxins. That's really important to remember. The thing I like to talk about though in this scenario is whenever a patient has tumor license syndrome, you gotta think about it. They're busting open these cells. They got chemo, pop. There comes things like nucleotides. These nucleotides get broken down eventually into uric acid. Uric acid is the nephrotoxic devil. This is the one that's gonna cause those crystals. It's the one that's gonna cause the acute tubular necrosis. The next drug here is allopurinol. And allopurinol is kind of interesting because what it's gonna do is it's gonna act on this enzyme called xanthinoxidase. And xanthinoxidase is interesting because if you inhibit this enzyme, what you're gonna do is you're gonna inhibit the conversion of hypoxanthine and xanthine into uric acid. And so you're gonna get less uric acid, which means less nephrotoxicity. And so it's really good at decreasing uric acid before it's formed. And so that means it's not really good in the acute stages when uric acid is already formed in high amounts, right? You may reduce a little bit of it being formed, but once you have a massive amount of the spilling out of your cells, it's kind of too late. So this is more of a preventative drug. Those who are high risk, I'd probably give this more in the prevention of tumor license syndrome plus the fluids, I would do this drug. If the patient has acute tumor license syndrome, it's already too late. These things are spilling out uric acid, uric acid is already formed. Then what would I do? And that scenario, I'd use a drug called raspberry case. Raspberry case is kind of an enzyme where it's gonna convert uric acid into allantoin. Allantoin is not nephrotoxic. This is actually easy to urinate, doesn't cause any destruction or injury to the kidneys. So now by converting uric acid to allantoin, it happens to my uric acid levels, drops. What happens to my nephrotoxicity? Drops. And so that's the beauty of this drug is it's really good in the acute tumor license syndrome. So IV fluids in both conditions, allopurinol preventative, raspberry case more for the acute scenarios. All right. If the patient has things like hyperkalemia, we treat them the same way we treat hyperkalemia. What do you do? Well, first thing you gotta do is you gotta see, okay, let me give them some insulin to shuttle the potassium into the cells, give them dextrose if they have any hypoglycemia they're near the range of normal glycemia. On top of that, I would also consider things like albuterol and that's gonna help to shuttle the potassium into the cells. If they're acidotic, you can give them bicarb, but really the key thing that you'll be doing in those scenarios is giving them things like chiaxylate to help excrete it through the feces or you give them things like ferosimide to pee that potassium out. And in worst case scenarios, you do dialysis. So you're treating the patient who has hyperkalemia the same way if they have tumor license. Again, tumor license is just the reason for the hyperkalemia. And if they have instability of their cardiac membrane, so they have any kind of potassium related EKG changes, you give them calcium gluconate as well. All right, so let's not talk about leukostasis. So again, you probably noticed that we've talked about a lot of these oncologic emergencies in various different types of clinical lectures, right? So this should sound very familiar if you go back to our hematology lecture. We really talked about a lot of problems with neutropenic fever, especially with your acute leukemias. That's a really big one. We talked about tumor lysosin germolot and non-Hodgkins lymphoma. We talked about a lot in acute leukemias. And again, you'll appreciate leukostasis. Again, we talked about that in acute leukemias. So with that, what is the one that we see it most often associated with? Well, it's the one where you have just a massive, and I mean a massive amount of white blood cells, a tons of leukocytes. And that's usually, we tend to see this, we, you can see this in ALL. So any acute leukemia, yes. But for your exam, I want you to try and remember which one it's more associated with. And if you guys go back, we talked about one called AML, acute myeloid leukemia. And so this one has tons and tons of these blast cells. And we know that blast cells, what's different about these is if you kind of go back to them, if you really remember, what were these things that were kind of on the side? The auras, right? So your myeloblasts with a lot of the auras. So here, you're gonna have a patient who has tons and tons of myeloblasts. And it gets to the point where the number of myeloblasts causes the total white blood cell count to be extremely high. Now we actually define this as hyper leukocytosis. So that bone marrow be pumping these things out to the point that whenever these get into the bloodstream, and if we were to take account of the number of white blood cells that are in your entire circulation here, I'm just gonna draw a bunch of different cells. Here's a bunch of different cells. Do you take a sample of their blood? What you're gonna find is that their white blood cell count is going to be greater than 100,000. That's absolutely insane given that they should usually be somewhere from four to like 11 or 12, right? So usually four to 11. So we call this terminology wise, hyper leukocytosis. I mean, this is just a astronomically high white blood cell count. But again, the proportion of it is being made up by the myeloblasts. Now myeloblasts, they're not mature, they're bigger. They also don't have a lot of the ability to kind of stretch and move and twist and get through smaller capillaries. So because they're larger, because they're less, I'd say they're more fragile and they're not as bendy, these are gonna get stuck in a lot of your smaller vessels. So they may be floating through this arterial fine, but as they get to your smaller kind of like vessels, and they're the capillaries, they're gonna start occluding. And as they start occluding, because what happens is, when your white blood cell count goes up enough, you gotta think about this. I mean, think about this pretty straightforward wise. When you got a white blood cell count that is so high, there's only so much in your vessel. Now you're making less room for basic plasma. What happens to the viscosity of the blood? It goes up. So whenever you have white blood cell count as this high, you can expect the viscosity to be through the roof. So now this patient will have a crazy high blood viscosity. What's gonna happen now to their blood flow? Well, I'm telling you, it's gonna suck. So they're gonna have a reduced blood flow because of this increase in viscosity. And the problem with this is, when that viscosity is high enough, it's gonna start occluding the vessels. So then you start getting what's called micro vascular occlusion. Which is what we see here, right? So now these vessels are all kinds of occluded. If that happens, because it's by the way, blood cells, what's gonna happen to your oxygen delivery? To the brain. The ability to drain venous blood out of the retina. Or oxygen delivery to the alveoli. It's gonna suck. It's gonna suck real bad. So now because of that, these patients start to experience organ ischemia. And that organ ischemia will manifest in a couple different ways. Because it affects your central nervous system. It affects the retina. And it affects your lungs. And so that's what we get really, really concerned about in this disease process. Is that if there's enough of these white blood cells that they're really, really starting to cause this potential issue, we can see some scary, scary symptoms, dude. You can get patients, and we'll talk about this a little bit later, they can have stroke-like symptoms. Sometimes they may present mildly with a little bit of a headache, maybe a little bit of confusion. So like a slight change in their mental status. They may come with just a slight bit of blurred vision. Sometimes they can actually have complete vision loss, scatomas, they could have papillodema because of pressure being too high. They can maybe come in with a little bit of shortness of breath, but then they can come on full, blown respiratory distress, hypoxemia, chest x-ray with infiltrates, dude. It can be pretty bad. So that's why it's really important to remember that in patients who have AML, they're at risk for these lots of mild blasts, really, really high amounts of them that they really plug up the vessels because of high viscosity from total amounts of big blasts obstructing those microvessals, and then you get organ ischemia. So let's talk about what this would look like. So I told you it can block off vessels to the CNS. Let's imagine here, right? You take a second, and you imagine here's a central nervous system, right? You obviously have a bunch of parts of the circle, Wills. If I occlude off some of the MCA, and it's usually the smaller ones, you're not gonna occlude off a large vessel. You don't usually get that. You get more distally, maybe an ACA, maybe a little bit distal down that one, maybe kind of a more of a distal PCA, things like that. Because of that, you're gonna cause decreased oxygen delivery to the brain. So what that can look like is sometimes, yes, they can have things like a headache, right? You can have things like an alter mental status. But you can have, and I'm not kidding, you can develop stroke-like symptoms. I think that's where we get kind of concerned, and that's when we start getting to the point of where this is like severe symptoms. Because headache, yeah, it's not nice. It's not great. Alter mental status is not great, but if you start developing stroke-like symptoms, where you're developing weakness, you're developing sensory changes, that's when I would be concerned, because that could potentially, it's not as common, but potentially, you could cause a stroke if it goes along enough. Another thing you can also do is, is sometimes these can even cause small amounts of hemorrhage. I've seen this, where it can even cause small amounts of microhemorrhages. So this is where I'd be concerned about its effect on the central nervous system is clotting off these small vessels, where it starts off with headache, a little bit of a change in their mental status, but then it proceeds to stroke-like symptoms, and in worst case scenario, they can develop a stroke, they can develop microhemorrhages in the brain. Another one here, the lungs. I think about these guys clogging up the  pulmonary arterials. So now you have less blood flow here, going to get gas exchange. So now your gas exchange is impaired. As a result, where you're supposed to be allowing for, oxygen to move here, CO2 to move here, and to leave out of this with proper oxygenated red blood cells, now you lead to decreased oxygenated red blood cells. And this can precipitate in the form of hypoxemia. And that's what we get concerned about, is if you have a decrease in gas exchange here, because you're kind of blocking off this process, then you end up with less oxygenation, and you end up causing hypoxemia. Problem with hypoxemia is that, yes, it may present mildly. So you may start off with just a little bit of dyspnea. But the problem is that this can progress. You can get to the point where your respiratory rate goes up, or your breathing so fast and so deeply. So it can lead to things like tachypnea, right? So that's where I'd be a little bit concerned, is as the patient kind of gone into the point of where they're dead tachypnic. Or they're breathing so fast and so hard, that they're utilizing a lot of other muscles of, respiration, so they're causing nasal flaring. There's a lot of paradoxical movement of the chest. Their work of breathing, they're really, really struggling. It's visible. That's concerning, right? So that's what I'd be concerned about. Sometimes these can clog off enough of these vessels where it sometimes can cause infiltrates on the chest x-ray. So that's another thing to definitely consider is it can cause chest x-ray infiltrates, but it's not super common. A lot of the times this is really a clinical diagnosis where you have a patient who has hyperlucositosis, as defined here, and then other clinical symptoms. Usually it's neurological symptoms or pulmonary symptoms. And so this is what I'd be concerned about. Yes, I will write it down here. Sometimes you can get a chest x-ray with infiltrates. I'd say that that is not as common as you would have written in the textbooks. The bigger thing is that they may have some degree of respiratory distress. And this is the ones that I get really, really scary about is whenever their O2 saturation is really low. So if they have a really decreased SPO2, when you're reading that on their oxygen saturation, their respiratory rate is really high, their work or breathing is high, that's when I get concerned about things like respiratory distress. And it's important to kind of know the differences. And the reason why I tell you this is that in patients who kind of present with this, we need to escalate their therapy. If I got a patient who comes in with stroke-like symptoms and respiratory distress, I can start them on a drug called hydroxyurea, which will drop down their number of white blood cells, but it's gonna take a little bit longer. I need something very, very quick acting that's gonna rapidly drop their white blood cells and prevent this excessive neurological and pulmonary symptoms. That's what you use something called leukofarisa. So it is important to know the gambit of how they can present. All right, the last part coming down here is gonna be the eyeball. So when we talk about this one with the retina, the biggest thing here is that whenever you have these myeloblasts and they really can clawed off these vessels, we can see that it really can claw off the veins more so than the arteries. Cause we talked about arteries here, right? So we talked about the cerebral vessels. We talked about the pulmonary vessels and these are usually the arterial circulation. It's more often gonna block off the retinal veins. So usually you'll get retinal vein occlusion. And when you occlude off a retinal vein, what that does is it causes vein engorgement. And when the veins get engorged, the problem with that is is that it can increase the pressure inside of these veins. And then if you imagine, let's say that the pressure is really, really high cause blood isn't getting out here, it can cause like little micro hemorrhages. So that's some things that can actually start to happen is you can start to get micro hemorrhages that can occur. That's one thing that I would be concerned about is the patient developing micro hemorrhages. The other thing that we get concerned about is that obviously micro hemorrhages can cause things like visual changes, right? So they could experience things like visual changes as a result of that. Maybe some blurry vision, maybe some skatomas can start to pop up. But another thing here is when you engorge these, and especially if it's like, let's say that you have an occlusion a little bit more distal down here, then you're gonna get engorgement right here. And what that's gonna do is it's gonna cause a lot of swelling here at the papilla. And so sometimes they can even get something called papillodema. Then get something called papillodema. And again, this also can cause some visual changes, but it's also something that's very easily picked up on fundoscopy. So I watch out for that. It's can you see this on fundoscopy? Because oftentimes what will happen is when you have a patient who has these presentations, you can get a fundoscopy, like these maybe have a hyperleucosytosis, and you decide to do a fundoscopy on them. And with the fundoscopy, you end up picking up, oh, okay, they got a lot of these like enlarge and engorge retinal veins. And then they have some micro hemorrhages, and they have papillodema. This is the one that is easier to talk about on the exam, but do realize you can pick this up as well on fundoscopy. All right, so leukostasis is what I really want you to remember is white blood cell count greater than 100,000, high viscosity, clogs off the small vessels, which ones, brain, lungs, and retina. With that, you can have a gambit of presentation. Depending upon that presentation determines if you do therapy that's, I got time, or if I, ooh, leukophoresis, they need immediate rapid reduction in their white blood cell count. Leucostasis is really a clinical diagnosis. So this is when that white count is like super high, greater than 100,000, so I'll need a CBC to prove that. But how will I even think about this? It's a patient who has a nomalignancy. It's usually AML. That's gonna be a really, really common one that I would definitely want you guys to think about, AML. But it's a patient who comes in who probably has three systems that are being affected, at least one of those three. Neurological, because you get a lot of those white blood cells, they get stuck in the capillaries of the microvessels of the brain. Or pulmonary symptoms, because they get stuck in the pulmonary vessels. Or visual disturbances, because they get stuck in the retinal veins. And if that happens, you could have a patient come in with these neurological, pulmonary visual disturbances, plus they have no AML. All I need is to really say, is the white count greater than 100,000? So let me get a CBC, let me get a diff, and that's gonna be helpful. The peripheral blood smears are just a little extra step that you can add to see, is there a lot of these blasts present? Are there our rods, if you really wanna go that length, that prove that you may have an AML? So, if the white count is greater than 100,000, we got hyperleucocytosis. If we look at the differential, and we see that there's a lot of blasts, there's a significant left shift, that's helpful. And then lastly, if I get that peripheral blood smearing, it shows that the blasts are not lymphoblasts, instead they're myeloblasts, and you see our rods. So here's an example of some myeloblasts all here. And if you kinda zoom in a little bit, you can see there's an our rod right there. That's really suggestive of AML. And in this clinical scenario that I see right here, that's almost likely leukostasis. But we could go a little bit further, if we really wanted to have extra tests to prove that there's like these organs that are being damaged or injured, I could do a chest x-ray to see if there's any pulmonary infiltrates. I could do a fundoscopy to see if there's any kind of what? Retinal vein engorgement, if there's any micro hemorrhages, papillodema. A neurological exam would really be the best to see if there's any neuro deficits, there are alterations in their overall mental status. These are things that we could do, but you could even get a brain MRI and look to see if there's any small strokes or micro hemorrhages, but a lot of the times it's just clinical, plus the known hyperlucocytosis in the history that would bring about that suspicion. But if you find these things, all it does it really helps you. So again, you get that chest x-ray with the infiltrates, you get the fundoscopy, and you see something like a hyperviscosity retinopathy. Here's that dilator retinal vein that you can kinda appreciate right there. And you get some micro hemorrhages around the place. These are really kinda telling me that I got a hyperviscosity retinopathy. And again, a neurological exam that's kind of altered mental status when you did their mini mental exam, and then you have maybe some neurological deficits, like a focal deficit. This could suggest maybe some potential stroke-like symptoms as well. And again, you may go further and say, hey, let me get an MRI and see if I have any kind of large vessel occlusion. Let me make sure that I don't have any kind of, well, large hemispheric stroke, the CTA would be for the large vessel occlusion, but you're looking to see if there's any likely cause of that. So is there a stroke in that potential area? In this scenario, again, you have to have a high degree of suspicion, and that's why it's more of a clinical diagnosis in this scenario. We got that white count that's through the roof, man. Greater than 100,000, I gotta get that thing down. Well, there's two ways. One is it's really good, it just takes some time. And that's hydroxyurea. And so this is gonna be for the ones where we have the time. They're maybe asymptomatic, or they don't have severe symptoms. They're not full on presenting with stroke-like symptoms. They're not in hypoxia, respiratory distress. I got some time I can do hydroxyurea alone. And the patient who has severe hypoxia, respiratory distress, visual disturbances beyond belief, they're almost blind, and they have neurological deficits. They got stroke-like symptoms. I can't just only do hydroxyurea. I can get hydroxyurea started, but I need to reach out somewhere in the hospital or a facility that does leukophoresis. Leukophoresis is gonna be the go-to in severe symptomatic leukostasis, because we gotta drop the white count rapidly. This does it very rapidly and quickly. This one takes a little bit of time, but they're just about as effective as one another. It just is about which one in a rapidity is required. So, leukophoresis, what you do is you remove the blood from the patient. This is gonna contain their red cells, their white cells, their platelets, their everything. And what you're gonna do is you're gonna centrifuge that into their separate layers. Once you do that, you get your red cells, you get your BuffyCo, which has your platelets, your white cells, you get your plasma. At that point, now what I need to do is I need to start separating out what? Separating out my white blood cells. I'm gonna remove these white blood cells, and then send back the red cell layer, the BuffyCo with the platelets, the plasma, back into the patient. All I'm doing is I'm getting rid of some of the white blood cells. I'm decreasing their white blood count quickly, and that's gonna reduce some of the leukophoresis symptoms. So again, and the asymptomatic less severe hydroxyurea, and the severe still give hydroxyurea, but you also need to do leukophoresis to rapidly drop it, and then you'll continue hydroxyurea after. SVC syndrome. When we talk about this one, I think this is again something we talked about more in like the lymphoma lecture. We talked about this also in our oncology. And we talked about this particularly with, I'd say lung cancer. When we think about lung cancer, yeah, squamous cell carcinoma can, but I'd say the more rapid developing one, usually it's again more central. Two of the central ones is gonna be squamous and small cell, but you'll see it much more often, given the rapid development, the rapidity of small cell lung cancer. That's the one I'd be concerned about, because that's nearby. It's near that kind of like central portion where it can compress on the superior vena cava. So let's be concerned about that when we think about it, lung cancer. Yes, we can talk about that one, but the real big one, the concerning one, is small cell lung cancer, all right? So with this one, I think what we get concerned about with this one is that again, it can get pretty darn big. And with that, it can mush. What's this? Here's your internal drug of the vein. Here's your subclavian vein. And they're gonna join to make, eventually they make the brachiosophalix and the brachiosophalix combine. I'm just bringing it right here. I'm gonna say that this is the superior vena cava. Look at this. We're mushing it. We're mushing this thing right here. That's one area where we can mash on it, all right? The next thing is also lymph nodes. We can get some big lymph nodes, right? Especially within the mediastinum. Now, lymphoma, you have non-Hodgkins and Hodgkins lymphoma. And yes, Hodgkins lymphoma definitely causes mediastinal lymph adenopathy, right? With nodular sclerosis as these, usually the underlying subtype. But non-Hodgkins is very aggressive. It has tons of extra nodal involvement. But the concern with this one is when it hits those mediastinal lymph nodes, it grows rapidly. They're really, really enlarged. So I'd say that you would see this more commonly with non-Hodgkins lymphoma, especially things like diffuse large B cell lymphoma, verchids lymphoma. These are the ones that can definitely get pretty decent sized lymph nodes and compress. Again, yes, it's internal, regular subcleavage and that goes brachiosophallic. But imagine there's another brachiosophallic coming here and then making the supravena cava. So we're just kind of like going there. Look at this, look at this, dude. This is mashed to bits. So because it is super, super, like small lumen, it's really hard for blood to move down the supravena cava. And so what ends up happening is you get a restriction and flow. And so when there is a restriction and flow here and a restriction and flow here, that's where you get these potential issues. And so now I'm gonna have a harder time for blood filling in to the right atrium and filling in to the right ventricle. See, there's a significantly reduced flow coming down from the supravena cava into the right side of the heart. And again, it's all because of right here. Look, just look. I mean, I'm gonna write it down, but look, look at that. Look how small that is. So you're definitely gonna get a lot of, let's say extrinsic compression of the SVC. And this is going to decrease the lumen diameter. All right, that's gonna lead to an increase in the lumen or diameter. So you're gonna extrinsically compress the SVC and that is going to result in a decrease in lumen. That thing is tiny. And as a result, you'll get decreased flow into the right side of the heart. But because of this, you're gonna get increased backflow. And what we'll talk about a little bit later is you'll get increased backflow into two potential vessels. And it's pretty easy to think about this, guys. Come on. What, when we got the brachiosophallus, supravena cava, what is feeding into the brachiosophallus? Internal jugular, subclavian. So what you're gonna get is you're gonna get a lot of backflow. And the internal jugular, we'll put i, j, v, backflow. And then you're gonna get a lot of backflow into the subclavian veins. And so we're gonna put that as SCV backflow. You're probably like, okay, what's the big deal about this? Well, there is a big deal about this. And the reason why is it really comes down to this. The internal jugular being backflow. It's really, really problematic. And that's what I want you guys to really understand is what really constitutes an oncologic emergency because I'd say for the most part, SVC syndrome is more of an urgency unless you get the rare scenarios of where, we'll talk about this, you have emergent symptoms like increased ICP and respiratory distress. So extrinsic compression of the SVC, from what structures, medecinal lymph nodes, or central lung tumors, small cell lung cancer, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Okay, when we think about this, let's say again, all right, if we really wanted to be anatomically correct, let's be anatomically correct, because I don't want, please don't like end me. But yes, there's internal jugular vein, subclavian vein, brachiosophallic, and then brachiosophallic, technically, you have the right and left, and then you get this portion as a supravenic cable. So at this portion here, we have compression. So let's actually kind of show this here. Let's say at this portion, whoop, I have compression. And then what's really compressing it, we can use those two different tumors. One, I'll do half of it is the lung cancer, right? Here's the lung cancer that's compressing one. And the other one is the medial spinal lymph node, and we'll kind of do this as the other half. This is accounting for the other half, and this is mashing there. Okay, well, blood is having a hard time moving right through this thing, and then here, right? So as a result, this is gonna be reduced, reduction here, reduction here, reduction here. So what ends up happening is, is blood that is supposed to be flowing here ends up flowing backwards. Blood that's flowing here ends up flowing backwards. And that's where we get the backflow problems. So here, we'll start off with the subclavian one, because this one is actually pretty easy. So you have increased subclavian vein backflow. What was the subclavian vein? Get blood from, because this is all venous structures, right? So this is getting blood from your upper extremity and parts of your chest. And so what's happening is all of these veins, and I'm not gonna draw all of them, but all of these veins, they start to get kind of enlarged and then fluid starts to leak out of them. And as some of that fluid starts leaking out because of that increase in hydrostatic pressure, you start getting swelling and edema and distention of these veins. And so that's where you start having some problems. So you get upper extremity edema, and you get chest edema, and you get distended upper extremity veins. So that's one way from the subclavian vein backflow, right? All of these things are just gonna get plumper, hydrostatic pressure is gonna lead to these things kind of leaking fluid out into the interstitial spaces. You get some swelling of the upper extremity, the chest, and then you get some veins that might pop a little bit more. From the IJ, this is the one that's really terrifying, right? So internal jugular vein backflow. So now we got a problem with this bad boy. So this one is backflow. Well, with the internal jugular vein, when this one backflows, you gotta think back to it. Remember a little bit of your anatomy, right? We got all these different types of cerebral veins. So you have your cerebral, and technically their cerebral venous sinuses. Basically they drain the brain perencoma. And then what they do is, is they drain into eventually the internal jugular vein, right? These all are supposed to drain into the IJ. But if you have backflow, are you gonna have proper drainage? No, and so what ends up happening is that these cerebral veins, they don't drain. And as a result, there's a couple things that can happen. Obviously they're gonna get big. But anytime there's stasis of blood flow, you've run the risk of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis. But I think the biggest thing is, what's the term called whenever the skull is a fixed space? And you increase one of three things, brain, cerebral spinal fluid, or blood. Well, if I start increasing the amount of blood, then I'm gonna start causing and increase the intracranial pressure. So what ends up happening as a result of this, is you get a increased blood in the skull. And that violates the monorhokelly doctrine because we're not supposed to have more blood, more brain, or more cerebral spinal fluid. And as a result, what happens? The intracranial pressure can go up. Now, I have worked with a lot of neurological patients, a lot of neurocritically ill ones. And I think one of the things that we talk about a lot of the time, is that this would be relatively hard to do, in general, with a person who doesn't have already a brain substrate. They have a bleed, they have abstractive hydrocephalus, they have a mass, they have something else that's already increasing their ICP a little bit. What we always try to do, is, and this is something that is relatively, I think, controversial and try to teach about, is we obviously try to not impede jugular venous drainage. So that's why patients who have neurological injuries, we try to, if they have high ICP already, we avoid candlelighting the internal jugular vein for central venous catheters. And we prefer subclavian vein, because we won't thrombose or decrease the diameter of the internal jugular vein. So that's the concept there, is patients who have sub-pavienic cavus syndrome, you're kind of decreasing the diameter. If they already have high endocrineal pressure, and you knock off their drainage even more, ICP can go up. This can happen if you've got a really severe enough obstruction, though, you can cause an ICP crisis. That right there is what determines this to be a true emergency. Another thing is, when we think about this, is internal jugular vein. It has, so let's imagine here, we had the jugular vein, internal jugular vein. It gives off little branches that can supply the larynx. Now, if your jugular vein is distended, it's getting real, real large, because the blood is just not being able to drain through it, is little branches are gonna get enlarged as well. And so these branches that supply the larynx are gonna be problematic. So you're gonna get an increased laryngeal edema. All right, because you're gonna get a lot of fluid that's gonna sit here, and that's gonna start leading to a lot of edema, because it's gonna, again, hydrostatic pressure. Fluid's gonna start leaking out into the surrounding tissues. And so you're gonna get what's called laryngeal edema. And the problem with that is, is that's going to narrow, as you start causing swelling around the larynx, you're gonna narrow the laryngeal inlet. That can lead to respiratory distress. And obviously one of the ways that we would be concerned about this, is if a patient came in and they got stridor, that's one way, because it's inspiratory stridor, air coming in, there's a narrow lumen now. Or they have hypoxia, right? So these are the ways that we get kind of scared and concerned when it comes to SVC syndrome, is stridor, or respiratory distress, presenting with hypoxia, increased respiratory rate, work of breathing is going up, these are all concerning features. So again, backflow, think about cerebrovine drainage as impeded, think about backflow and increased hydrostatic pressure so fluid leaking out into the larynx, causing laryngeal edema. The last thing is, is most of these, you guys think about this, this internal jugular vein, right, is gonna run up. But another thing is that, you know, you're gonna have some other problems where you're gonna start causing some swelling of the neck. And you're also gonna get some branches here as well, which are gonna cause some swelling of the face. And so you're gonna start seeing some jugular venous distension. So you may see some jugular venous distension, but you may also see facial swelling, or the term edema. So that's something else I would watch out for as well. Now this wouldn't, I think, constitute per se, a emergency. And I think that's the really important thing to remember, is it wouldn't necessarily constitute an emergency. What I would consider to be an emergency of SvC syndrome is respiratory distress and ICB crisis. Theoretically, you can have hypotension, but the problem is, is that a lot of people think, oh, it's because you're reducing preload, right? Cause if you compress the SvC, you're getting less preload, less venous return, less stroke volume, critical output. There's been studies that actually show that's not really the case. They actually say it's more likely cardiac compression. And so I would say that you're probably not gonna see as much of the hypotension factor in a patient with SvC syndrome due to reduced venous return. It's more if it's a large enough kind of mass that it's actually causing the mass itself is compressing the heart, not due to the compression of the SvC. All right, that is SvC syndrome. So you have a extrinsic mass that's compressing on the SvC, lung cancer, lymphoma, decreased movement of blood flow through there, backflows through, IJ, backflows through, subclavian. If it goes subclavian, arm extremity, so you're gonna get edema and swelling of that arm, neck, and the veins are gonna distend. IJ, the vein of the jugular vein will distend, and then you're going to get some facial swelling. I just wiped away the L and the I, I mean, N, whoopsie. Yep, some swelling there, but the real things that constitute an emergency is respiratory distress due to laryngeal edema from backflow into laryngeal veins. Because again, this is the internal jugular vein, and these are some branches, so laryngeal branches here. So this one here is the internal jugular vein, and these are some branches that are supplying, what is the structure here? Let's write this out. This is your, up here, the larynx. All right, these are the big things that constitute an emergency. SvC syndrome is very interesting. In this patient, you're really thinking about this, and a patient who has likely a known history of lung cancer, that's a really, really common one, especially like central one, squamous cell, small cell are the big ones. I'd say lymphoma, but a rapidly growing one, so they have to have pretty significant lymphadenopathy. Hodgkin's not so much, probably more than non-Hodgkin's, like diffuse-arge B cell, Birkin lymphoma, you'll see things like that. Thymomas, usually if you get a pretty large thymic enlargement, like in T cell ALL maybe, but these are the things where you've got a mass that's compressing on SvC. We see this more likely in the ICU, in the thrombotic nature, where you got a clot in the SvC and that's reducing flow, not as much as of a tumor on the outside, extrinsically compressing the SvC. But nonetheless, let's say that you have these suspicions, what would make you think about that? You got a patient with a distended jugular vein, that's one thing. They have facial swelling, edema, they maybe have a little bit of a bluish, kind of like hue to it, usually worse in the morning, interestingly. And then again, arm and chest, upper chest and arm, that all you kind of have some distended vein, some edema, some discoloration there as well. That would be pretty concerning, but if I have a patient who comes in and they have symptoms of neurological depth, and when I say neurological depth, it's more specifically when you have elevated ICP, it's more of a decreasing level of consciousness, maybe some nausea, maybe some vomiting, maybe some visual changes, that's more likely to be the presentation. You don't think about SvC syndrome. And so elevated ICP can result because if you kind of compress the SvC, you reduce the drainage from the IJ, and the IJ drains your cerebral venous sinuses. And so if those are compressed, if those aren't draining properly, it increases the blood inside of the skull, monorhealodotrin says the ICP is gonna go up, and they can have some potential neurological symptoms. That's worst case scenario. And I think another one is the IJ is also supposed to pick up feeders from veins around the larynx and the trachea as well, specifically the larynx. And so if blood kind of backflows into those, you can actually get some hydrostatic pressure changes and fluid can actually exude into those spaces, into the interstitial spaces around the larynx, and you can get some laryngeal edema. They can get stridor, they can get Disneya full on respiratory distress. And so those are the things to think about. But again, there's not something that you come to right off the get go. You have to have a high degree suspicion and probably know that this patient has an underlying history of lung cancer or maybe lymphoma, et cetera. Chest X-ray is not the best test. I think it's just an initial test in patients who come in with things like Disneya. Or patients who come in with things like hypoxia, respiratory distress, and you're really just doing it to rule out other causes. But if you happen to see a mediasinal mass, which in this one, a patient you can kind of appreciate there's like an opacity here, that that could be right around the SVC. I just need to get a better look at it. And so what I would say is you have to then determine their symptom etiology. If they're emergent, we don't go and get a CT scan. We actually gotta go in and both diagnose it and probably stent it at the same time. So diagnostic and therapeutic intervention. But if they're stable, like they're not having any ICP changes, hypotension, respiratory distress, I can probably just send them to CT. And I get a CT of the chest and I'll look at the venous filling phase. And what I'm really looking for is if you kind of appreciate this here, here's the aorta, here's the left lung, here's the right lung. They definitely have a little bit more of a, kind of like a pleural effusion here. But if you look at this, here's the SVC. And you can already appreciate, there's like a mass here in the medial stynum. And as you continue to kind of go up, this mass gets bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and boom, this thing's compressing the SVC. And so you get almost a complete obliteration of the SVC. So that's pretty much diagnostic. I can't treat at this point, like with this modality, but I can say, okay, now I have a diagnosis. I can actually reach out to my colleagues and say, hey, should I stem this or should I just reach out to, you know, oncology and say, let's do some chemo radiation therapy and see if we can shrink it. So that's really what it comes down to. This is more of your diagnostic test. But if they're emergent, right, then that's a different story. But again, I like the CT chest with contrast, that vinaigrafe study, because it tells you, is there a reduced caliber of the SVC? Is there something compressing it? And what is that thing? Is it a lung mass, right? Is it a lymph adenopathy of really, really bad one? Is it a thymic mass or enlargement of the thymus? Those are all really helpful in that SVC syndrome patient. But in the emergent one, we're not gonna be doing an image in this kind of scenario. We need to be ready to diagnose. And then if it is proven, treat. And so that's where we do invasive vinaigrafe. We'll call out to our interventional radiology team. We'll say, hey, I think I got a patient with SVC syndrome. Can you kind of snake a catheter up there and take a look? They'll go intravascularly, they'll go up. They'll kind of like, shoot some dye. Say, oh, there it is. We see the reduced luminal caliber of the SVC. There's definitely a lot of restriction and flow there. And then what they'll do is they'll deploy a stent and they'll open up and kind of pack back open that SVC that we can restore flow and help to drain the IJ. So we've reduced the cerebral edema, drain the IJ. So we help to reduce some of the respiratory distress and then relieve.  compression on the heart, which can help to improve hypotension. So those are the ways that we would kind of go about that. And that's one of the beauties of this kind of dichotomy here. All right, I hope that makes sense. So a patient comes in, they have maybe ICPs high, maybe they have hypotension, maybe they have respiratory distress, you reach out to the IR team, they go up, they snag the cat, they say, oh, there it is, boom, deploy the stent. That's gonna be in those emergent, unstable patients where you're gonna have to deploy that stent to actually gain back the patency of that vessel due to the tumor compressing on it. If the patient is stable and you got time, then you can just reach out to your radiation oncology team and say, hey, let's do chemo radiation, shrink this tumor down so we can reduce some of the facial swelling and edema, arm swelling and edema, et cetera. So that's gonna be the definitive therapy and that's something I want you guys to think about. All right, so next thing is gonna be malignant spinal cord compression. So this one is actually a true, it's a scary emergency. We see this a lot in malignancies, especially in the neurocritical care. You have a lot of patients who come in, they have unfortunate neurological deficits, maybe bowel and bladder dysfunction. On top of that, they have potential motor and sensory deficits. You end up getting an MRI of the spinal cord and you find out, oh my gosh, there's an extra general tumor. They have some vertebra body erosion from a testis. And then what do you do? You hit them with decadron and you start calling radiation therapy, a radiation oncology, you call the neurosurgery team and say, hey, is there any potential options to kind of like treat this underlying malignancy that's causing spinal cord compression? So thinking about that, I think it's really important to understand which tumors are at highest risk. So first one is breast cancer. So breast cancer is definitely one, if you have a breast mass, this one can definitely spread easily. So let's remember breast cancer is a really, really important one that loves to spread to the bone. Another one is lung cancer. So lung cancer is another really, really important one. We see this one spreading through the bone to the brain a lot. So definitely think about this one as well. If you have a patient who has some type of a potentially vertebra body involvement. Another one, let's actually grab our structure here, our little orange. We see this one and it's interesting because it's not osteoclastic as all of the rest of these are. It's actually osteoblastic. And this is going to be a little hint for you to think about prostate cancer. So prostate cancer is another one that likes to spread to the bone. And the last one that I would want you guys to remember here is lymphoma. So lymphoma can definitely do this as well. All right. And again, when we think about lymphoma, there is different types. There's Hodgkins, there's non-Hodgkins. You're going to see this more in the non-Hodgkins type. Another one that I will talk about very, very briefly is multiple myeloma. Multiple myeloma, which is usually when you have those plasma cells, that's another one that you also want to think about is going here and causing these potential problems. So I'd say multiple myeloma, lymphoma, specifically which of those non-Hodgkins, prostate cancer, and the last one is going to be lung cancer. All of these have the potential of doing what? Well, when you have these primary cancers, unfortunately they can seed. So they can seed into the bloodstream and they'll seed some of these, let's call them tumor emboli, if you will. We're going to seed some of these, we're going to call this tumor emboli. They're going to get into the bloodstream and when they get into the bloodstream, they're going to spread and where are they going to go? Well, they're going to go to your vertebral bodies. Sometimes, sometimes these can even just invade directly into the dura. They can go right into the dura matter. And so what can happen is, is you can start off here, you can actually have an extra dural mass. You can have a mass, right here, this is called a, we'll call this one a extra dural mass. So that's one thing I would want you guys to think about is let's say here I have an extra dural mass and that is compressing on the spinal cord, right? Especially as it gets big enough, it's going to compress. Another thing that can happen here is let's actually show this in two ways. Let's say here we're going to go to this vertebral body. So we'll say it starts off, let's say this one, seeds to this one and it starts causing destruction. Leases some cortical destruction of the bone. So now we have some destruction of the bone. But then what happens is when you destroy the bone, you start eroding the bone, it can actually start to, let's say kind of erode and displace itself into that dural space, that extra dural space. And so that's where we start kind of getting these problems. It starts off as a little bit of vertebral body, metastasis with cortical destruction and then erosion leading to it kind of extruding into that extra dural space. So you can either cause a direct extra dural mass or you can kind of do it indirectly by eroding the bone and then moving its way and kind of collapsing the vertebrae and kind of retro pulsing its way into that space. All right? So that's what I want you guys to think about is an extra dural mass due to a primary cancer such as these seeding their tumor emboli, getting into the bone, getting into the dural, causing these masses to form. Now, when they form, they start to obviously get big enough that they compress on the spinal cord. So they start compressing on the spinal cord. And as we get kind of compression or mass effect, so mass effect due to extra dural mass, that's when we see the potential symptoms. So for example, when you think about these, we have neurons that go to a bunch of different places. You're gonna have motor neurons, right? So let's call these your motor neurons. These are your motor neurons. These are gonna go to your muscles. And so if you have compression, enough mass effect that you're compressing down on the actual spinal cord and affecting the motor supply to your muscles, then you're gonna have decreased motor supply. That decreased motor supply, we'll talk about in a little bit here, that decreased motor supply, that's where we kind of have a lot of issues. And that's where you'll start seeing things like weakness and potentially changes in reflexes and flucidity and spasticity of a muscle. So that's one thing. Another one is you have compression of the spinal cord and it's affecting sensory neurons. So now these are supposed to be sensory neurons picking up information from things like Golgi tendon organs, right? You can even have your muscle spindles or this could be, let's just kind of move this bone a little bit, or this could be of the skin. This could be your pain, your temperature, your crew touch, your pressure sensation. So here you could have a decrease in your sensory supply. And that's really important to remember at this point. If we have compression, enough compression, that it's causing a decrease in that sensory neurons, kind of action potentials. So here's your sensory neurons as such. The last thing here is we even have autonomic neurons. Now autonomic neurons usually go to a ganglia and that ganglia will go to places like, in this case, the two really, really important ones are the bladder and the bowel. And whenever you have some type of compression here, you have a decrease in the autonomic nervous system supply. And that will lead to a lot of bladder and bowel changes. Now here's the question that you prior starting to ask yourself a little bit. All right, I see the basic consensus here, Zach, of how mass effect leads to compression of the spinal cord which leads to these neurons that are all coming out of the spinal cord leading to this downstream effect. What you really need to understand is how does the mass effect really do that? Just because you're compressing on a nerve doesn't mean that it's actually gonna cause this effect. It can, but usually the mass effect, what happens is, is it compresses your veins. So it leads to venous congestion. So there's veins that run through the spinal cord. You're gonna cause venous congestion of them. That's gonna lead to spinal cord edema. Then the mass is also gonna cause arterial compression over time. And that is gonna lead to necrosis or ischemia to that portion of the spinal cord which will eventually lead to necrosis. So what you have to remember is that the mass effect can first, first, let's actually write this down, first will lead to venous congestion. That venous congestion is gonna lead to spinal cord edema. Then the mass causes arterial compression. This is later. All right, later down the line. Then over time, if this is not addressed, necrosis. If these two you never take care of, you will end up with permanent, irreversible neurological injury. That's why it's so critical when a patient comes in with these neurological symptoms. The first thing that we see is the edema. What can I give them, steroids to reduce the edema? Get them to surgery or radiation therapy to start really treating them before they start to experience arterial compression which can lead to necrosis and irreversible injury. That is why it's super important to remember this. All right, so we got an idea here. Tumors, seed, get into the bone or into the dura, cause the mass, compress the spinal cord, congestion, edema. Over time, necrosis due to ischemia. If the nerves are being affected, it's either motor supply, sensory supply, autonomic. You could have one, two, three, you could have all of them. What would that look like? Let's talk about that for a second. So this spinal cord compression is pretty scary. I don't wanna go down cause we're gonna talk about this more in neurology block. But for right now, when we think about this, we have our cortical spinal tracks. And the cortical spinal tracks, you guys know they move down through your lateral, white column primarily. And then they kind of come in here and they give off these little endings, the termination point, right? To the anterior gray horn. And then these kind of move out and these go out and they go to your muscle. Right, then they can continue down. So here I'm gonna do like a dotted line. And then we're gonna continue this one down. And then we're gonna do a dotted line here. And we're gonna continue this one down. And again, it can go here, it can go out, and it can go out. Either way, this is the primary one. This is your lateral cortical spinal tract, right? And then this is the anterior gray horn. And this one is gonna give you your motor neuron that goes to your muscle. Usually what happens is, is when you have a compression, you have a malignant tumor that is compressing on the spinal cord. If it compresses at this level, so let's say that it's usually compressing extrinsically. So usually what happens is at this level, you compress the lateral cortical spinal tract, is usually what happens. And then at this level, you lose this supply. So you end up with a lower motor neuron lesion at the level of compression. So you end up with a lower motor neuron lesion at the tumor site. And then you end up with a decreased signals going down because you're compressing here. So it's affecting at this level, you're having a lower motor neuron lesion, right? Then as we go down, it's acting as the upper motor neuron. And then you're decreasing the signals here. So you end up with an upper motor neuron lesion below the tumor site. And I think this is just basic. I don't wanna go too crazy, but I want you guys to have a basic understanding of this. And so yes, with these both, they'll present with weakness. But usually with a lower motor neuron lesion, you'll have maybe some decreased deep tendon reflexes. You'll have some flaccidity, right? Whereas with an upper motor neuron, you have hyperactive reflexes and spasticity. And I think that is somewhat beneficial, I think, to talk about in this potential scenario here. So when a patient comes in, they have a tumor, let's say that they have a history of some underlying primary tumor, let's say breast cancer, all of a sudden they come in with weakness of a lower extremity. And let's say it's just in this case, let's say it's of the left side. And they have, at one point, they have a hyperactive reflex and they have that muscle just really flaccid. But then in another area, they have some spasticity, they have some hyperreflexia or clonus. That could be, again, a very, very concerning sign that you have compression a little bit higher up. All right? And so you may see a little bit of a combination of these two. But again, I don't wanna go too crazy. It's the basic concept that you're gonna experience overall, overall there will be, no matter what, some degree of weakness. All right, some degree of weakness that is similar between these two. It's just the other associated kind of things that come along with this that determines where the tumor may be. All right, but that's going beyond, that's more getting into localizing. I don't wanna go too far with that. What I would now wanna talk about is the sensory supply. So again, when you think about these, you have different tracks. You have your dorsal column, right? And then you have, we'll pick here, we'll pick red. So here's gonna be your lateral white column. And then we'll pick here in like this blue, let's do black here. Let's say here's gonna be your kind of your anterior white column, right? So let's say that you have a mass that is compressing. So let's say that you have compression, let's say you have compression here, right? There's a mass that's compressing at this potential site. Or you have a mass pressing at this site. Or you have a mass pressing on this site. Well, these are the areas that we'll start to experience neurological injury. So what I want you to color coordinate these with is if it's the blue, that's responsible for things like proprioception, right? So proprioception, fine touch, you know, vibrate, we can go down the line here. I'll do it like this. I'll put fine touch. What else? Let's put this one, this one. Let's do vibration. We can keep going. Discriminative touch, I'm not gonna go too crazy, but either way, you're compressing on this, you will experience a decrease in these symptoms, or these sensations, less vibration sense, less proprioception, less fine and discriminative touch. If you compress on these, on the red, this is carrying more of your pain and temperature pathways. So it'll be a decrease in pain and temperature. All right, and then lastly, if it's the black one, if there's compression of this, this is more of your crude touch, your pressure sensation. There could be a decrease in crude touch and pressure. So that's what I really want you guys to kind of associate with these here, is that again, depending upon here's motor supply, here's your sensory supply, this is your ascending tracks, this is carrying all of your sensory information. If you compress here, this one. You compress here, this one. You compress here, this one. All right, and the next thing here, I know you guys don't know this, but behind the camera, Rob has severe OCD. He sees these black smudges, and I think it kind of like literally, it's like someone poking his brain. So I'm gonna erase that form right there. All right, we're gonna keep going here. So the next part here is, let's say that you have again, this tumor, we have a compressing on the lateral cord, of the lateral column, we get this weakness, and then these lesions here of upper lower motor. You compress here on the ascending tracks, you get these sensory changes. Same concept here, you have, let's do this in pink. So we don't have too many different color contrasts. Usually there's pathways that come down to your lateral greyhorns from the hypothalamus, and there's a couple different areas, like your reticular formation, a bunch of different areas, but they usually go to your lateral greyhorn, which controls more of your autonomic function. So here this is gonna come here, this is gonna go here, and this is gonna go here. All right, so what I want you to remember is, if you have a tumor that's here, and it's compressing on the spinal cord, it's affecting the autonomic supply downstream, usually coming from areas like the ponds, right? So any kind of tumor that's usually above like your sacral portion of the spinal cord, like S2, S4, as long as it's above that portion, when you have this, usually what you start to see is, is you see a decrease in autonomic supply to the bladder and to the bowels. For the most part, early on in the disease, you then lose contraction of the detrusor. The detrusor just doesn't contract. If the detrusor can't contract, what happens to the ability to urinate? It doesn't happen. And so unfortunately what happens to these patients is they experience what's called urine retention, but then what happens is that urine retention leads to overflow, and that overflow can eventually lead to some overflow and content. So you may see a little bit of both. It's usually the form of like dribbling, kind of as an effect here, but urine retention may be the way that these patients present, and then that can then play out in the form of overflow and content. Now, another thing here is you're knocking off. So if I'm compressing here, I'm compressing these downstream, these upper pathways, coming, these autonomic pathways coming down through the lateral cord, and then losing the autonomic supply here. I also lose autonomic supply here to the muscles that control the ability to poo. If my smooth muscle can't contract, just like the detrusor, the smooth muscle within the actual muscular and external can't contract, is am I gonna be able to empty a turd into the toilet bowl? No, it's gonna stay there unfortunately. And these patients experience constipation. Now sometimes it can lead to like some overflow defecation as a result, but usually this may result in patients experience things like constipation. And again, that constipation may lead to overtime, especially if it's getting severe, it may lead to some overflow kind of like leakage or unfortunately defecation. So that's the things I want you to remember. Later on, usually this is early, later on in the disease, it starts to become a little bit more where the patients can start to experience a little bit more of the incontinence and a little bit more of that overflow defecation. But usually this is something that we would see with the bladder and the bowel changes. So when a patient comes in, they say, or they present with lower extremity weakness, decreased sensation, and one of the classic ways that they like to present this is like decreased sensation, especially like, you know, of the lower extremities, maybe it's fine touch, proprioception, crew touch, pressure, pain, all of those things. And then they combine that with bladder and bowel dysfunction, you definitely have to think about spinal cord compression, especially if they have an underlying history of a primary tumor that loves to spread to this area. What would you do? Get the MRI. The same concept here is, because I didn't, you probably see, oh, I didn't finish this off. It's the same concept. I probably just didn't continue this down. This nerve will move down, go here. So again, it doesn't matter. The concept remains the same. That either way, you're blocking, you're compressing these nerve fibers. You're compressing these nerve fibers in the lateral column due to the extra dural tumor. And that is knocking out the supply. So either way, it's the same concept here. Probably they got back pain, that's more likely the big thing. But I think neurological deficits, nuance at neurological deficits, where they're presenting with like weakness or paralysis of lower extremities, decreased deep tendon reflexes, loss of sensations, oh, bladder and bowel kind of incompetence or incontinence in general, maybe you kind of peak your interest to think about it. And if they have a normal lignancy, things like breast cancer, multiple myeloma lung cancer, these are all tumors that like to spread to the bone, especially to the vertebrae. And so that's something to think about. Even prostate cancer can do that as well. So that's something I would definitely be thinking about. And I'd probably just get an MRI of the spinal cord right off the get go, because that's gonna be the most clear distinction of the spinal cord, is there compression or not. So take a look at this. You can kind of appreciate here, here's the CSF in white, here's the spinal cord in this darker color, here's the vertebral bodies, here's the spinous processes. And what do you notice as you're gonna go, whoa, there is significant spinal cord compression. There's the loss of that CSF, and there's almost complete obliteration of the spinal cord there. So you have massive compression. And if you kind of look here, you can appreciate a tumor. That's kind of an extra-dural mass, and that's really smashing on a spinal cord, dude. So this is a concerning feature, and I'd be pretty concerned. I'd probably hit this patient with dexamethasone, reach out to my neurosurgical colleagues or my radiation oncology at the same time, and say, hey, what do we do definitively here? But that's definitely gonna tell me right away that this patient has some pretty significant spinal cord compression. Now again, this is from a primary tumor that probably spread to the bone. It could have eaten away at the bone, and then that kind of caused it to extend into the epidural space, or it can just go right into the epidural space and extend there on its own. So either way, we got a primary tumor that has caused some problems in the spinal cord. You got a patient coming in. They have a known malignancy. Maybe this is breast cancer, multiple myeloma. They got lung cancer, they got prostate cancer. Now they're coming in. They have new onset weakness of the lower extremities. They have a decreased anal-wink reflex. They have decreased detentive reflexes. They have loss of sensation. They have bladder urinary and bowel incontinence. You get an MRI. You find that they have spinal cord compression. You see the mass extra-durly smashing on it. What do you do first? Dexamethasone. Right off the get-go to reduce the vasogenic edema. That's the first thing. What's the next thing? You're gonna pick up the phone. You're gonna call radiation oncology. You're gonna call neurosurgery. Have them take a look at the image. Have them examine the patient and say, which one of these therapies is best to decompress them and get that tumor to have less pressure on the spinal cord? And if you do that, you have a good chance of preserving some neurological long-term paralysis. So again, here's the image. We see it. Oh, let's get them started on dexamethasone. After we do that, reach out to radiation oncology or neurosurgery. What could the radiation therapy do? It's gonna help to target and shrink that tumor if we have some time. But oftentimes more than not, from what I've seen, we have to peel that muffin cap back blue and release that compression immediately with neurosurgical interventions. All right, so hypercalcine malignancy. This one's really interesting. And the reason why, again, I talked to you about it is it is kind of a perineoplastic thing. And we'll talk about that in that video. That's why it's so good. I think one of the things I think we hope to try to accomplish here at Ningenert is that you'll see things overlap a lot. And that's what you want. You try to want to, you really want to be able to make connections between multiple different disease states and pathophysiological processes because I think it helps you to stay in that memory center a little bit longer. We will talk about this again in perineoplastic syndrome, but it's really interesting because when we talk about hypercalcine malignancy, you wouldn't think of this as kind of like an emergency, but it really can be. I think one of the scariest things is the massive degree of dehydration that these patients can experience and the severe bone pain and fractures that can happen as well. So how does this really occur? Well, one potential problem, and it's probably gonna be clear as day to you once you kind of see it is lung cancer is a really common one. If you guys have watched the videos right now, you're probably screaming, oh, I know which one it is. Which lung cancer do we commonly see leading to hypercalcemia? Come on, scream it out. Ah, I know you guys said it. It is usually going to be, and we'll do it here in blacks, we have a good contrast. It is usually going to be squamous cell carcinoma, and that's usually more central. Heavy, heavy smokers. So squamous cell will put SCC, squamous cell carcinoma of the lung. It's kind of a nasty one. And the reason why is this can secrete, these tumors can secrete something called parathyroid hormone related peptide. Now, parathyroid hormone related peptide, and when it's made by this tumor, we consider that a perineoplastic syndrome. What happens here is that this hormone can act on your bone tissue. It can really act on your osteoclasts, and it can really help to activate osteoclasts. So here, here we got an osteoclast, let's stimulate this dude. If we activate osteoclasts, what do we know about these? Well, we know that they release things like hydrochloric acid and acid phosphatases, I mean hydrochloric acid and different types of collagenases, sorry. And what those do is, is they start to kind of break down the bone, right? And as a result, they increase what's called bone resorption, which is kind of like, you're basically eating the bone away, and what that's gonna do is that's gonna liberate calcium free from the bone. So osteoclasts will become activated, they'll chew away the bone, that bone resorption will then liberate calcium into the bloodstream, and there goes one way that calcium can go up. So PTHRP really what it does, it works on the bone by helping to chew up more of the bone. That's gonna liberate calcium into the bloodstream. PTHRP also can act on the distal tubular cells. And what they do is they help to increase the movement of calcium. So they basically play a role in increasing calcium reabsorption. So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna move more calcium. I'm gonna stimulate this process, let's amp this up, bro. We're gonna increase calcium reabsorption. So if I have more calcium, just cause I'm gonna run out of room, reabsorption, bro. More of that calcium is gonna move across the distal tubular into the blood. And that is going to lead to an increase in the calcium. So that's the ways that PTHRP works. Now there's another thing. Cancers, primary malignancies, breast cancer, big one. You know what another one is? You know, when you think about this one, I'd say this is a really, really scary one. It's usually multiple myeloma. Multiple myeloma is a really, really nasty one. Breast cancer, definitely think about it, but I really, really want you to think about this, especially with multiple myeloma. So multiple myeloma and breast cancer. Now with breast cancer, the bone really just, I mean the cancer itself, here's the tumor. It kind of seeds and it gets into the bone. It causes like this lytic lesion. And then eventually these start kind of like chewing away when you release this kind of like calcium. You have the bone resorption, right? Multiple myeloma can do this through other mechanisms as well. We're not going to go down that line. What I want you to know is that breast cancer, yet the tumor itself can cause the lytic lesion. Multiple myeloma secretes things like osteoclasts, activating factor and rank ligands and things like that. All of these things do the same kind of concept. They start chewing away the bone. So in patients who have multiple myeloma and breast cancer, they can invade the bone tissue. When they get into the bone tissue, they can start kind of activating osteoclasts, but they can also kind of deposit into there and start eroding the bone tissue. They lead to osteolytic lesions. So that's what I really want you to remember. So lytic lesions are a problem. All right, so we got tumors causing lytic lesions. We got tumors secreting PTHRP. What if, I got another one. I have a lymph node here. And this thing is as big as a Mac truck because a patient has a massive, massive, massive tumor here. They got a bunch of different types of lymphocytes that are accumulating and accumulating and accumulating inside that lymph node. Now the problem with this is you might be like, okay, how's this even relevant, Debra? Well, in patients who have lymphoma, they increase, especially lymphoma. So let's say here we have lymphoma and you probably ask, oh, which one is this? Is it Hodgkin's, non-Hodgkin's? Believe it or not, it's actually Hodgkin's lymphoma. Now with Hodgkin's lymphoma, what happens is there's an increase in what's called alpha one hydroxylase. Alpha one hydroxylase is an enzyme that basically what it does is, as it helps to convert 25 hydroxy, so it converts what's called 25 hydroxy vitamin D and converts it into one comma 25 dihydroxy vitamin D. This is the active form of vitamin D. What's the name of this? Calcine.  triol. This is the active form of vitamin D, so what happens is alpha-1 hydroxylase basically just puts an extra one on here. So it puts an extra hydroxy group on here. So what it does is it stimulates this step. And if you stimulate this step, you're going to get more of calcitriol. Why is calcitriol important? Well, calcitriol, believe it or not, it does actually work in these pathways, but more often than not for your exams. It talks about how it works in the GIT. And what it does, it creates like little channels. Creates like little channels, we'll do a couple of them here, creates like little channels for calcium. And it says, hey bro, we didn't have as many of these. I'm going to open up some channels here for you so that any kind of calcium that's in the GIT, boom, get it right into the bloodstream. So any calcium that's just kind of like moseying along here, boom, boom, boom, boom. And then what you get out of this is what? You get increased calcium absorption in the GIT. So increased calcium absorption. That increase in the calcium absorption is going to result in what? Boom, hypercalcemia. So now you got the hypercalcemia. So here's what I want you to be concerned about. And these kinds of scenario where patients have lytic lesions due to metastasis, they have some type of high PTHRP from isquamicel carcinoma or elevated calcitrile from like lymphoma. Either way, the calcium goes up. What we would consider to be severe hypercalcemia is to the point where it is high enough that we can define it in two ways. One is it's severe, meaning it's greater than 14 milligrams per DL or they're symptomatic. So you can still technically have severe hypercalcemia or emergency, I should say, even if the number isn't greater than 14, it's just oftentimes these go hand in hand. As the number gets higher, you become more symptomatic often. Well, the question that we then got to talk about is what makes these patients become symptomatic? How do we actually identify that? Well, sometimes, yeah, you may find this on a lab value, but hypercalcemia malignancy oftentimes this can present clinically because it's rapid and it's usually severe. What would happen here is let's say that a patient has a high calcium. So you have hypercalcemia, right? So increased calcium in the blood. Well what happens is that calcium can be freely filtered. So if you don't have a problem with like glutamate filtration, what's going to happen? Well, it's going to filter right out, right? So all this calcium that's hypercalcemia, that's going to lead to hypercalcyuria, all right? So let's actually write that down. Let's actually write that down. What is this called? Hypercalcyuria. So we'll write calcyuria. Hypercalcemia can lead to hypercalcyuria. Hypercalcyuria means you have more calcium present in the urine. If you also have things like oxalate present and phosphates present, guess what you lead to? You lead to stones. So calcium containing stones. I'm not going to write both of them, but it's usually oxalate. So containing stones. That's usually calcium oxalate stones, calcium phosphate stones. Either way, they accumulate enough that they start to obstruct your actual renal system. And so these patients can develop something called nephrolithiasis, all right? And so nephrolithiasis is the, is a one big concern that we can have nephrolithiasis. How will these patients present? Flank pain, right? So they may have flank pain. They may have associated nausea, vomiting, hematuria. Oftentimes what we think about when we think about the mnemonic of hypercalcemia is stones, bones, groans, thrones, psychiatric overtones. So with stones, we think about kidney stones, right? They can have an increased risk of nephrolithiasis. Lidic lesions, bones. So another thing here is because of PTHRP, because of lytic lesions from multiple myeloma, because of lytic lesions from things like breast cancer, or even sometimes elevated acastotrile and lymphoma. You're chewing through this bone, dude, right? You're ripping apart the bone. And these lytic lesions, what happens is, is you lead to some significant bone pain, right? You're going to have bone pain, but I think the most concerning is just think about this for a second, dude. I mean, just really, really think about it. You got these lytic lesions. Look how little of the bone you got left that you just eroded to. Tell me that's not an easy way to snap that bone in half. So not only can bone pain be a potential, but also you can lead to pathological fractures, right? And that's, I think, where it gets really, really scary is the risk of pathological fractures. If it's chronically over time, obviously this can lead to things like osteoporosis, which again, lends to that risk of pathological fractures. So bone pain, pathological fractures, another one. So stones, bones, groans. Now this is, I think it's important to remember this one because, yes, it can cause changes in your smooth muscle contraction. But one of the things that we talk about with pancreatitis, so it does increase the risk of pancreatitis. This is hypercalcemia. So hypercalcemia, I don't want, we talked about this in the pancreatitis lecture. I don't want to spend time talking about this too much because I don't think it's super relevant to this. But I'm going to quickly tell you without writing it all out. I just want to make sure that you guys understand this. The calcium can activate pancreatic enzymes, zymogens, pancreatic proteases, lipases, amylases, nucleases, all of those things get activated. So if you cause activation, so stimulation of pancreatic zymogens, pancreatic zymogens, all of those different types of inactive pancreatic proteases, lipases, amylases, guess what it's going to do? Boom. You activated it inside the pancreas when it's supposed to be in the duodenum, dude. You're only supposed to activate it in the duodenum. If you activate it in the pancreas, it's going to start digesting the pancreatic tissue. Pancreatic tissue is made of proteins, lipids, nucleic acids, carbohydrates. You will start digesting it. So that's one thing that we worry about. And if you have pancreatic pain, what's it? Stones, bones, groans, oh, abdominal pain. Thrones. This is the one I actually think is really scary. When a patient has hypercalcemia, hypercalcemia, it's actually kind of cool, this mechanism. And again, if you guys have watched our videos, you know this already. There is receptors that are present on the collecting duct. These are your V2 receptors. The V2 receptors are what respond to a hormone called vasopressin, also known as ADH. When calcium is way too dang high, it basically blocks this interaction. ADH ain't doing what it's supposed to be doing. We blocked the ADH. What is ADH supposed to do? ADH is supposed to open up aquaporn subunits. Usually this is aquaporn subunits, right? And when we open up the aquaporn subunits, guess who comes through? Water, agua. But if you have no ADH that is theoretically present because it's being blocked by high calcium, this water that's supposed to be reabsorbed, it's supposed to be driven by ADH, right? Now you don't have this signal. There's no stimulatory signal. So we'll say that's an inhibitory signal. Are you going to allow for this aquaporn to be open? No. Is water going to go through? No. Is water reabsorption, right? Let's write that down. Decrease water reabsorption. And as a result, the water is going to be lost into the urine. You're going to pee pee out a lot of water. And you're going to have an increased amount of water urine. So increase what we call dilute urine. But it's going to be a lot. So we call that polyuria. If you lose a lot of water in the urine, you don't reabsorb enough of it. What can that lead to if that happens severely? It can lead to two things. One is it can lead to dehydration in the form of hypovolemia. And the sodium can go up when you have less water in comparison to sodium. And so we risk hypernatremia and we risk dehydration because we're not bringing it as much water as we should into the vascular system. Dude, that's why when they say stones, bones, groans, thrones, you're peeing all the time. This is the scary one because of the risk of dehydration. We have to give these patients a ton of IV fluids to help to replete their vascular space. The last one is psychiatric overtones. So psychosis is a very, very concerning one as well. What will give you the big thing to take away from the hypercalcemia malignancy? Hypercalcemia malignancy is again, this one's interesting because you don't really have a lot of the time symptoms of it. But if you have pretty severe hypercalcemia, I'm talking greater than 14, you can sometimes get pretty dehydrated with this one. So you can get significant dehydration, so polyuria. But again, you think about the stones, so gallstones, it's kind of a risk factor, but primarily it's going to be nephrolithiasis or kidney stones. They're going to have bone pain, osteopenia, pathological fractures. There's another one, groans. So abdominal pain, this could be due to changes in their overall GI motility, but also pancreatitis is a big one, peptic ulcer disease. Maybe you can get some ulcers as well. That's a lower risk though. And then thrones is polyuria, so they can develop nephrogenic DI. They can lose a lot of volume and then get pretty dehydrated. And then the last one is your psychiatric overtones. So things like psychosis and confusion, et cetera. That would also be something to think about. But I think the big thing here is on a patient that's hypercalcemia, if they have serum chemistry that comes back and it's greater than 14, that's severe. Or if they have greater than 12 but they're symptomatic, that's also severe. And so what do we want to do is we want to prove that. So I like to get an ionized calcium. The reason why is it tells you the exact true amount of free calcium in the blood. If that's elevated, you're in some trouble. So then you got to determine is this PTH dependent or independent? If PTH is high, then it's coming from the parathyroid. It's likely coming from the parathyroid. And then this isn't a malignancy process. If the PTH is low, then that would tell me that something else caused the calcium to go up and that suppressed the parathyroid to decrease the PTH level. So that's what I want to check. But also when you order these panels for hypercalcemia, you also oftentimes order like a PTHRP, you get a phosphorus, you get a calcitriotri, which is your vitamin D level. And you may also add on an alkyl phos level. What I like to do is look at the PTH first. If the PTH is low, it's PTH independent. And then I want to know which of the other one is high. If the PTHRP is high, it could suggest squamous cell carcinoma of the head, neck, or lung. If calcitriol is high, it could suggest lymphoma. And that would be some ways that I can determine right away if this is a malignancy of the lung, a malignancy of the lymph nodes, right? Right off the get go, right? But let's say that the PTH is low, but the PTHRP and the calcitriol is normal. That's where I would maybe consider the alkyl phos, because if the alkyl phos came back super high, there's lots of bone turnover. And that could suggest some type of like lytic lesions. And so what I would do then is I probably get a skeletal survey. I want to see is there are lytic lesions of the skull, is there are lytic lesions of the ribs, is there are lytic lesions of the vertebrae? Because that could suggest things like breast cancer, multiple myeloma, lung cancer, so many primary cancers that spread to the bone. And so that's what I'd do. And it would look a little bit like this. You can see and appreciate there's a bunch of skull lytic lesions here. You can appreciate some lytic lesions here. And you can even do it right here in the rib. You can see some right there. You know, so this I'd see there's a lot in multiple myeloma. Breast cancer can also do this lung cancer. You're going to do this as well. But yeah, the bone one, that's a nasty one. So that's kind of the way that I would think about the hypercalcemia. Well, you can see this is a patient who has some type of squamous cell carcinoma. The lung, they have some lymphoma. Maybe they have a primary tumor where they get lots of lytic lesions of the bone. Breast cancer, multiple myeloma, really, really big ones here. Lung cancer. They have these tumors and they're causing the hypercalcemia. Well, the first thing is when you get hypercalcemia, that hypercalcemia, especially when it's greater than 12, 14 range, it can cause massive dehydration. I need to give back those fluids and maintain uvalemia. So I'm going to hit them with IV fluids right off the get go, probably two, three liters, normal saline most often. That's going to be when it's severe greater than 14 or they're symptomatic. And usually symptomatic plus greater than 12. I'll hit them with this. The next thing is once we've addressed the most acute thing, which is the dehydration, I got to get that calcium down. The fluids aren't going to pee out calcium. The people think that's going to be the answer. It's not. It's just going to help to replace the volume and maintain uvalemia. The way to get the calcium down is going to be calcitonin at first. So we got to treat the lytic lesions with calcitonin. And then after that, we're going to pick something like bisphosphonates or denosumab. And if that doesn't work, then we reach to dialysis. It's going to be the way that we go. But here, let me let me let me take a second here. So we have something called rank ligand, usually plasma cells and B cells make this. And what it does is it acts on the rank receptor on our osteoclasts. That activates osteoclasts to release hydrochloric acid, collagenases. This kind of erodes at the bone releases calcium and phosphate from the bone, which can cause lytic lesions, but also can cause hypercalcemia. The other thing is that on these osteoclasts, they have receptors for calcitonin. Calcitonin is great because it's very quick. It's short, you know, onset. So you're going to quickly get some as some bang for your buck when you give this drug. And so what's going to happen is it's going to hit the osteoclast receptor. When it does, it shuts down hydrochloric acid, collagenase that shuts down the lytic lesions further, that shuts down the calcium resorption from the bone. And then it also activates osteoblasts to help a little bit with the bone deposition and putting some of the calcium back into the bone. So you get a quick drop in the calcium, but then we need something that's going to be a little bit more long term. So calcitonin is just kind of like a short term patch. You need something longer term. That's where bisphosphonates or dinosamab come into play. So bisphosphonates are going to be probably the more powerful one. You may use those. You may use dinosamab and things where a patient has severe renal failure or really bad kidneys and bisphosphonates are a little bit tough on the kidney sometimes. Osteoenocrosis are the jaw, severe esophagitis, and they're just, you know, they just have some kind of like contraindication to it. You may use dinosamab, but bisphosphonates are great. This is your allondrone, your zoonodrone, your palmadrone, all those guys. What they do is they basically kind of like inhibit the osteoclast from proliferating. So you don't have as many of those to release hydrochloric acid in the colloidinase and rip up the bone. The other thing is it actually kind of kills these osteoclasts. It causes apoptosis. So you have less of these, again, to cause hydrochloric acid release and colloidinase release, and that leads to less of the destruction of the bone. So that's one of the beauties of bisphosphonates. Dinosamab kind of comes back to this rank ligand. So dinosamab is a monoclonal antibody that's going to bind to the rank ligand. And when it does that, it then can't bind to the rank receptor. And then if you can't bind to the... See, see how these bind? You can't bind to the rank receptor. You can't trigger this whole process. And so you don't get the lytic lesions and the calcium release from the bone. So it's kind of... It's pretty cool to think about that. One other drug that you could do is if you give them on fluids, you give them calcitonin, you give them bisphosphonates, or dinosamab, you can consider steroids and the patient has lymphoma, because steroids will inhibit the lymphoma from increasing alpha one hydroxylates. Which causes the calcitriol production. All right? So that's one other consideration. All right. The last one is malignant cardiac tamponade. Now, out of all of these, I'd say this is the... Like, it's the most dangerous one. This one will actually... Like, I'm not killing. It will kill you. Most of the patients who get cardiac tamponade, most of them go into cardiac arrest because it's a pretty severe kind of condition. So it is a really important one. But I think in the gambit of all of the ones that we talked about, it's probably the least likely one that you'll be testing on an exam. But when it comes to cardiac tamponade, there is two different types. If you will, with regards to, I'd say more hemopericardium is usually things like you have an aortic dissection. You get hit in the chest with a tomahawk and you puncture through the left ventricle. You have some unfortunate left ventricular rupture and you're just left ventricle explodes because you had an MI there and then blood leaks into that space. You had some cardiac surgery or maybe a radiofrequency ablation that you just happen to create a small hole in a part of the... one of the chambers of the heart and the blood's kind of leaking out. So there's a lot of different things with those. Those develop rapidly. And it only takes a small volume of that rapid blood accumulation to increase the intrapericardial pressure. Boom, you squeeze on the heart and it just doesn't get enough blood flow in and blood flow out. With these usually malignant pericardial effusions, those are slower effusions. So they're more serous or serosanguidous. They're just things that you think about with pericarditis, tuberculosis. You think about this with malignancies. And so that's what I want you guys to talk about here and understand. So with cardiac tamponade, we have a couple of different cancers that I'd say can spread. And it's usually just things that are close in proximity to the heart. And so think about it, the lungs are pretty close in proximity. Oh my gosh, look at that thing. That thing got butchered. So there's a butchered lung there. But lung cancer can definitely be a very, very common one. So lung cancer is a big one. Another one is the boobies, breast cancer. This is another one where this can easily spread. And I'd say the last one is going to be some type of lymphoma. So lymphoma can definitely do this one as well. So lymphoma, breast cancer and lung cancer, they are pretty common malignancies that these can actually start to see their tumor emboli or they can spread directly and they can go and invade the pericardium. So here we have these tumor cells. They're all over the pericardium. What happens is, is once these kind of tumor cells spread to the pericardium, they increase the capillary permeability within the pericardial cavity. So you have vessels that are on the parietal in the visceral pericardium. And what happens is you're going to cause those tumor cells to agitate the vessels there. They're going to have cytokines like interleukin 1, interleukin 6, TNF alpha. They're going to increase the capillary permeability and fluid is going to start leaking out. The problem is, is that this fluid leakage, so let's kind of represent this as dots here, these blue dots. This is the fluid that's kind of leaking out. All right. So here you're going to have the tumor. Let's call these tumor emboli again. So tumor emboli, they're going to get into that pericardium, right? And they're going to increase the capillary permeability. And then what's going to happen, unfortunately, as a result here, of them increasing the capillary permeability is that fluid will start leaking out. And over time, you'll have what's called a pericardial effusion, right? So start off with just a little bit of fluid and you'll get what's called a pericardial effusion. Now here's, here's what I want to write out. This pericardial effusion, again, is usually going to be more serious or maybe even a little bit serious segment, but primarily serious. But the pericardial effusion doesn't mean that you have cardiac tamponade. Once the fluid inside of the pericardial cavity builds up enough where you have enough volume and pressure inside of the pericardial cavity that it's actually compressing the right atrium first, then usually it's enough pressure to compress the right ventricle. And if it's severe, it can compress the left atrium. So it's usually in that fashion, that order. Usually enough fluid accumulates over time that it gets large enough that the pressure inside of the pericardial cavity increases that it compresses the right atrium, then the right ventricle, and in severe cases, the left atrium. You have to understand that when this compresses, so here we're going to say compresses. Let's actually write this down for you. Which one is an order? Right atrium, then right ventricle, then left atrium. These are going to be the way in which we kind of compress these. What happens is when does this occur? When does this fluid get to the point where it starts to squeeze in the heart? If you have a little bit of fluid, it's not really compressing in the heart. At what point do we get to that? So here's what I want you to understand. Let's say here, the dotted line. This is what's called the pericardial stretch limit. So this pericardium, it's got a little bit of give, right? It has a little bit of give. In other words, let's say fluid, you get blood that goes into the pericardial cavity. It stretches, but you fill it up quickly. It doesn't have enough time to stretch. It reaches this pericardial stretch limit too quickly, not enough time to actually accommodate that space. It starts to then squeeze on the heart. That's when you get cardiac tamponon, usually from a rapid development. So let's say in situations like a hemoparicardium, we'll represent that in blue. Here's volume over time in the x-axis and intraparicardial pressure on the y-axis. And when you have this scenario, whoop, that's rapid. That's a rapid development. This is usually, usually your hemoparicardiums. Most of the time, this is your hemoparicardium, where you have rapid development. It's rapid development. All right, so something had to develop pretty quickly. Whereas in these scenarios, it's usually slow. Where you're accumulating, I actually have to kind of move a dotted line here. So I'm going to have to go dotted. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. We'll kind of do it like this. And then we reach that limit. So what happens is that in these patients, it's slow. They're slowly and progressively increasing volume, increasing volume, increasing volume. Because what happens is you get a little bit of volume, the pericardium has time. It stretches, it accommodates. You get a little bit more volume over the next day or two. It stretches, it accommodates. A little bit more volume, stretches, accommodates. But eventually you get to a point where it says, I can't take no more volume, bro. And you've reached that stretch limit. It can accommodate for that space. And then what happens, it squeezes on the thing that it's right next to, which is the right atrium, right ventricle, left atrium. So this is usually slow development. All right. Thus the time on the X axis. And then here, this is usually your cirrus pericardiums. This is the ones that usually are more likely to develop from things like pericarditis. Right. Things like malignancies, tuberculosis, hemoperecardiums. These are very, very rapid. They develop very quickly. And so that's kind of the differences that I want you guys to understand. With malignant pericardial effusions that can lead to tamponade, it is a slow development of pericardial fluid over time due to the tumors seeding, embolizing here and causing increased capillary permeability. Once it gets to the point where it no longer can stretch anymore, that pericardium, it compresses in the heart. What will that do? Well, it's mainly the right heart. Yeah. So you're going to reduce venous return. What happens if we reduce venous return? Let's talk about this for a second. We talked about this in cardiology, so I don't think we need to go too crazy, but you guys know that in cardiac tamponade, there is something referred to as Bex Triad. Bex Triad, we can say that if you got enough fluid in here, you're supposed to have a little bit of pericardial fluid, but not like a massive amount. When I got a lot, and I'm trying to also take, so here I got my, I got my stethoscope right here. All right. I'm going to try and listen. I'm going to try and auscultate over the heart. When I do that, I should be able to listen to the heart sounds. Right. So heart sounds should be traveling towards my stethoscope, but if it has to go through a further distance of fluid, that's going to dampen that sound. And so what happens is the sound that gets picked up by the heart, uh, by the stethoscope is going to be sounding like it's very distant and muffled. So what you'll have is you'll have what's called distant or muffled heart sounds. And that's just because whenever you have that S1, S2 that's being produced, right? So you get that S1, the S2 heart sounds, those are going to be very muffled. And that's what I want you to, as you remember, and that's just because of all that fluid. Now, another thing that can happen, it's not super like, you know, consistent upon this, but you know, whenever you put like EKG electrodes, right? So you actually put the electrodes on the chest, the electrical activity that has to get picked up by the electrodes also reduced. And so guess what else you have? You also have decreased QRS voltage. And so that is something I want you guys to think about. But again, that goes, this is going a little bit beyond, I don't want to take it too far. This is something that you get more in your, your cardiology section. So we'll stop it there. What I want you guys to know is that when this pericardial fluid is, it's, it's building, right? I got enough of this pericardial fluid in here that it's really, really building. It's reached the pericardial stretch limit. As it reaches the pericardial stretch limit, this is where we get kind of scared. We already talked about this a little bit, but look what we got compression of the right atrium. Look, we have compression of the right ventricle. Look, we have compression of the left atrium. So here's what the problem is when you have this mass effect. So you get compression here, compression here. This is the big thing. Blood is supposed to move down here and then right in here. But this is being impeded. It's being reduced. So what you're getting is, is you're getting a reduction. What's really happening here is you're getting a reduction in venous return. Because the right heart is the one who's supposed to be getting a lot of blood from your systemic circulation, right? When you get a reduction in venous return, you drop your preload. When you drop your preload, what happens to your stroke volume drops? What happens to your cardiac output drops? What happens to your blood pressure drops? What can this present like? Oh, dude, you can get a patient who is an obstructive shock. So that's what I want you to know is that a drop in venous return drops, preload, stroke volume, cardiac output, blood pressure, and this can present. This is the scary thing. These patients can be sick. They can have very, very low blood pressure that they're depending upon vasopressor support or fluid resuscitation to try to be able to keep them alive all because of what? Because of right atrial, right ventricle, compression. Because of the pericardium, that fluid. And that right there is the basic path of physiology, right? Here's another problem to think about. Because you got venous return that's reduced, blood is supposed to be coming through two ways. One is through the inferior vena cava. So it comes through the inferior vena cava and it comes through the superior vena cava. If you're compressing the right atrium, is blood going to go down? No. And blood's going to backflow. It's going to backflow into the IVC and it's going to backflow into the SVC. Now, dude, we can't see if someone's got an inferior vena cava that's big and plethoric. You could if you did an ultrasound. So if I did a echocardiogram, I'd be able to see that they have a very enlarged IVC. If you really want to, I will write that. So sometimes you actually can get, you get an echo. You get an echo. You'll see IVC dilation, but that's nonspecific. There's a lot of things that can do that, right? So the echo will show the presence of IVC dilation, right? That's what I want you to remember there. But what we actually look for is clinically something else. What will happen if blood backflows from the superior vena cava up to the brachiosapallic? Where's it going to go? Juggler vena. So another thing that happens is it goes and causes juggler venous distension. Right? So you're going to get juggler venous distension. So oftentimes, Beck's triad is juggler venous distension, right? So here's, let's say, one. The second part of the triad is low cardiac output, low cardiac output. And the third is distant or muffled heart sounds. The last thing is pulses paradoxes is sometimes kind of tested. They can kind of throw this one in there a little bit. And all I want you to think about with this one is that when you see a patient who's taking a deep breath in, normally when you take a deep breath in, you increase your venous return, which should actually increase your blood pressure a little bit. Because theoretically, you're increasing your cardiac output. And patients who have cardiac tamponade, they're compressing their right heart. And so whenever they try to take a deep breath in,  they do the best that they can to suck blood down to the right side of their heart. But unfortunately, they don't get enough venous return, enough stroke volume, enough cardiac output, and their blood pressure drops. During inspiration to where it's greater than or equal to 10-millimeter mercury drop in their systolic blood pressure during inspiration, that's a paradoxical decrease in the systolic blood pressure during inspiration, that's called pulses paradox. It's not exclusive to cardiac tamponon, you can see this in things like asthma and other conditions as well, you can even see it in tension pneumothorax. What I want you guys to remember is that in cardiac tamponon, I remember Bextriot as we said here, here, and here, and the possibility of pulses paradoxes. What makes you think malignancy and underlying history of a primary cancer? How would you really determine this? The unfortunate way that we can truly only determine this is we'd have to do a biopsy. I'd have to biopsy the pericardium. Oftentimes, we would find the underlying cancer like a lung cancer, breast cancer, lymphoma, but with these, oftentimes, the only way that we can truly diagnose the condition is to do a pericardiocentesis after we've done an echo and take that fluid off. And if they have improvement in their hemodynamics, we can technically, diagnostically, and therapeutically figure this condition out. All right, cardiac tamponon. So, with cardiac tamponon, this is not something that you think about with a malignancy, but if they have a no malignancy. So, I think about this in breast cancer, that's a pretty common one, lung cancer. I really think anywhere in that vicinity. So, I'd say breast lung is a really, really big one. And lymphoma, lymphoma is another one as well. So, those are your three cancers that can spread to the pericardium. And when they do, they cause a lot of that serious kind of production of fluid. They cause more leakiness of the capillaries and you can get a pericardial, more of a serious pericardial effusion. And as that grows and grows and grows, it reaches the pericardial stretch limit, can't stretch anymore. So, what does it do? Squeezes in the heart, like it's squeezing out some orange juice, right? And because of that, you can get things like nuonset hypotension from obstructive shock. You can get distant heart sounds because you got fluid around the heart, that you can't hear it as well, those heart sounds. And JVD because of reduced filling into the ventricle, so it backs up into the jugular veins. So, at this point you say, okay, what would this make me think? This is screaming like Bex Triad, right? So, Bex Triad is that constant nuonset hypotension and distant heart sounds and JVD. And really the hypotension is kind of interchangeable to a degree with a reduced cardiac output. It's the way that we think about cardiac output, it could correlate to their blood pressure. It can't, depending upon what the resistance is and how that's adjusting. But yes, in this scenario, an echo is going to be the first thing that I would do. The echo is going to tell me, is there a pericardial effusion? Is there a collapse of the right atrium and the right ventricle? Maybe even the left atrium that's occurring during diastole? That's really going to be the key. And if you see something like this, you run for the hills. No, no, no, you got to get ready to stick a needle into the pericardial cavity because you can see there's a pericardial effusion for sure. And then you can see here's the right ventricle. And that thing is like fluttering as crazy as could be because it's getting compressed during filling processes. And the right atrium is being compressed. Left atrium, not as much, but I definitely see a pretty significant degree of compression here from that pericardial effusion. So I'd be concerned about pericardial tamponade. And so what I would do is I'd get a pericardial synthesis. I would do a subzyphoid approach. You know, that's one way you can go about it. You can also do different peristernal views and kind of target that way or an apical view. And you can tap in that way. Either way, you got to get that fluid off. And the reason why is there's a writer for Internet Book of Critical Care. His name is Josh Varcus. And he talks about how one of the best ways of really determining a patient who has cardiac tamponade is by doing a pericardial synthesis. Because if you think about it, if you tap in, you pull off maybe a couple CCs, 10 CCs, 20 CCs, whatever, you're removing fluid that's giving more time for the pericardium to stretch. It's not squeezing on the heart as much as what should happen. You should see an improvement in their hemodynamics. And so if I see an improvement in their hemodynamics, I can then therefore diagnostically and therapeutically say that this patient has cardiac tamponade. So it's kind of a beautiful thing when you kind of combine those two tests. All right. Malignant cardiac tamponade. We kind of already talked about this in the diagnostic algorithm where you have a patient with a Bex Triad. They have maybe underlying malignancy. You get the echo. You see, oh, geez, they have a pericardial effusion. They got cardiac tamponade. What do I do? Pericardial synthesis. That's going to be the best way in a patient who is unstable, right? And it's going to be diagnostic and it's going to be therapeutic. We talked about that. But in a patient who has malignant pericardial effusions that keep forming recurrently, that puts them at risk of cardiac tamponade, we need a more permanent solution. That's where a pericardial window will come into play, right? But again, just paying homage to the pericardial synthesis is you can tap in subziphoid. You can tap in in the parasternal. You can tap in apically. Either way, these are going to be quick fixes. We need the long-term fix. What's that going to be? We got to basically create a window between the pericardial cavity and somewhere where this fluid can drain. And that's where we'll do a pericardial window. We'll kind of open it up and allow for that fluid to drain maybe into the pair's name in this case. So that we don't keep dumping that, allowing that fluid to just accumulate and accumulate in the pericardial cavity, increasing that stretch beyond that limit. Boom, we can't stretch anymore. Start smashing and squeezing on the heart like an accordion. And that's where we're going to get cardiac tamponade, all right? Woo, baby, that was a long lecture. I'm really sorry. I know that sometimes these lectures are going to be really long. I think we try to focus on learning, understanding, making sense of things, having fun to make learning more enjoyable because I know it can be tough sometimes as a student. I've been there and I'm there for you all. I love you all. I really hope that at the end of this, you feel more confident. You feel like you got something out of this. And I just really thank you guys for being such amazing supporters, for always sticking with us. And I really wish you all the absolute best. And I truly mean that from the bottom of my heart. So thank you guys so much. I hope you learned a lot. Love you. Thank you. And as always, until next time, my friends.