 mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere Today we're talking about pancreatic and hepata-biliary cancer. Like we've been doing, we're moving through our oncology playlist. We're going one by one. So we have four cases for this one, right Zach? Yeah, that's a lot. All right, well then let's not waste any time. Yeah, what are you doing? Get started. Let's go. We're doing. All right, case one. We have a 63-year-old man who is a smoker. Six-week history of pruritus, dark urine, pale stools. No abdominal pain or fever, but we do know a 7-pound unintentional weight loss. Any differentials before going with any testing, with anything at all? I mean, just off the top of the dome here looking at pruritus, dark urine, pale stools sounds like hyperbillirubinemia. I mean, that's just me thinking about it, right? So obviously we're talking about pancreatic and hepata-biliary cancer, right? So I know that there is theoretically, pruritus is due to elevated bile acids. The dark urine, the pale stools, that's usually associated probably more with the bilirubin that's probably built up. So in the urine, and if you don't have the bilirubin and the stools, it loses that kind of darkish color to it, that stercobillin. So that's my thought. I would expect to see some jaundice though as well. That's something I would also be looking for doing a physical exam saying, hey, do you have any kind of yellowish discoloration of the eyes? Ectoris? Is there any kind of yellowish discoloration of the hands, the palms, soles of the feet? Things like that. But that's kind of what I would think about from there. If that is the case, I'm thinking that there's something causing jaundice. It's probably, given the scenario, obstructive jaundice. So pancreatic cancer, which is definitely one of the things I get concerned about, especially in a patient who is a smoker, they have weight loss. And they have some features here of pancreatic insufficiency maybe via the steataria if they're like pale and let's say that they're greasy. That sounds weird, greasy stools. But that's definitely going to be concerning for pancreatic cancer. And the reason why is if it's at the head, it mashes on the common bile duct. And if you mash on the common bile duct, that bile can't get passed into the small intestine. That's why they get the pale stools. Bilearubin backs up. Bile salts back up. They get into the circulation. They start spilling out into tissues. You get pyritis. They kind of spill over into the urine. You get hyperbileurubinuria as you get the dark urine. And then you probably have some jaundice. So that's what I'd be concerned about in the weight loss is definitely concerning from malignancy, ominous, right? And the smoking is a huge, huge risk factor for pancreatic adenocarcinoma. I know we're obviously talking about pancreatic hepatopaleary cancer, but how can you rule out that it's not liver related? Yeah, you can't, right? It could always be something else. It could be hepatitis. It could be choleidocleothiasis. They could have a lot of different things there. They could just have pancreatic cancer or maybe they could have a stone in the common bile duct. They could have a clangiocarcinoma. So they could have a tumor in the bile duct. They could have hepatitis. It could be due to medication related. It could be due to viral hepatitis. There could be Bud Kiari syndrome. There could be so many different things. So do you just start off with a whole bunch of labs and see what you kind of boil down to? I would just make sure that the bilirubin and alfos is really elevated first. That's probably the first thing because it's going to tell me if they have cholestasis. And so if I did a LFT workup, I would expect the bilirubin to be high. And I would expect the alkaline phosphate level to be high. And if that's high, it's more likely an obstructive pathology. Somewhere within the duct system or near the pancreas head. So that's probably what I'd start out with first. If it came back where it had an elevated alfos, bilirubin, and elevated LFTs like ASTALT, then I'm thinking something around the liver. But if I had something that came up where it's not truly hepatic, hepatocellar injury, it really seems like it's more specifically obstructive or colidoco related or something within the biliary system. That's when I would be checking the alfos and the bilirubin and seeing if those are the primary elevated ones. If that came back elevated, something is going on. Something in the combat duct, near the ductal systems or near the pancreatic duct and where they joined the ampula. So that's when I would probably go to a right upper quadrilateral ultrasound. Anytime you have elevated alfos, elevated bilirubin, and even if you have an acute elevation in the LFTs like AST and ALT, I'd get a right upper quadrilateral ultrasound. Right away it's going to rule out obstruction first thing. Cool. And even though he has no pain, it doesn't matter. Your labs have steered you in that direction. Oftentimes, funny enough, they have what we would call painless obstructive jaundice. And that makes me think more likely than anything for it to be like pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Because what happens is it's kind of weird. Pancreatic head goes near the combat duct, smashes on it, backs up, and it backs up into the cystic duct and into the gallbladder. And the gallbladder enlarges. So you can actually go and you can palpate near the right upper quadrant and you'll feel a mass. And it's their gallbladder. And if you press down, you would think, oh, that would elicit pain if it was like inflammation of the gallbladder. But in this case, it doesn't. It's called corvorecier sign. Corvorecier sign is kind of like a somewhat path mnemonic for pancreatic adenocarcinoma that's causing obstructive jaundice and a painless enlargement of the gallbladder. That's usually the kind of thing to think about. And that right there, because that's just that's shocking for me to hear that. But right there, that could be a huge differential to many different things saying that if it is painless, it does lead you in a different direction than it being painful. Yeah, because if I had a patient who was like, it was painful, then I'm definitely thinking about like, especially if it's right upper quadrant pain, collodogalothiasis is a big one. Ascending colonitis is a big one. Cleantia carcinoma, it could be. Definitely could be. Hepatitis, any kind of hepatitis related injury, probably going to have some degree of like right upper quadrant pain. So the fact that this is usually painless is definitely going to be more suspicious. I think in this case for pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Well we do the right upper quadrant ultrasound and we get the result back where we have a CBD 12 millimeter intra-epatic ducts dilated, no gallstones, indistinct 3 centimeter mass at the pancreatic head. Yeah, so the conbal duct is gargantuous. That's pretty big. Intra-epatic ducts are dilated. That means that a lot of the, there's lots and lots of obstructive coliostasis, so back flow of bile. No gallstones mean there's no collodogalothiasis. There's no stones that are kind of like in the conval duct, none in the kind of the ampular area. And then there's nothing kind of in the ducts that we see that's kind of a mass like a colandio carcinoma or biliary duct mass. So that's kind of helpful. And then the gallbladder is fine, so there's no coliostasis. There's no kind of things that really scream at me except for that 3 centimeter mass at the pancreatic head. And then obviously the conval duct is having that obstructive presentation. It's big. It's being, it's back flowing. Yep. It usually kind of screams to me like this is probably pancreatic adenocarcinoma with a obstructive coliostasis kind of picture. Then what's your next diagnostic step? I'd probably then say let's get a better image of the pancreas. And so the first thing is there's a pancreatic protocol. So I get an abdominal CT. I do it with contrast. And it's really going to focus in and take very, very, very thin sectioned looks at the pancreas. I'll be able to get a really, really good idea. Is this in the pancreatic head? What does it look like? Is it invading some nearby vasculature? Is it large? Is it extensive? Is it into the body? Has it gone to the tail? Has it started to involve nearby organ systems? And so that'd probably be my first way to go from here. Get a better look at it. And then you also really could, if let's say that you had any degree of suspicion that I'm like, I'm not sure if this is, you can always do an endoscopic ultrasound. Go down and grab tissue because we can see a pancreatic mass, right, on imaging. And that's imaging related diagnosis, but we may need a tissue diagnosis. And so I would say if I get the CT, really screams pancreatic cancer, you could go forward with an EUS, endoscopic ultrasound, take a small little kind of FNA if I need a laspration, pop it right into there, pull back some tissue and see if I can confirm that that's like a pancreatic adenocarcinoma. That's probably the way that I would go forward with this one. Okay. CT shows a three centimeter mass in the pancreatic head. We have that mass, it's kind of a, it abuts the superior mesenteric vein, but there's no vessel encasement, no liver lesions. And then on that endoscopic ultrasound with the FNA laspration, we do show ductal adenocarcinoma. And we have a CA-199 level of 620 with the norm being less than 37. Yeah, that's helpful. I forgot to mention a C-199, it's not like diagnostic. So it's helpful. It helps in the differential. If you have a pancreatic mass, CA-199 is more a prognostic level. So it's like, for example, the vision is colorectal cancer, we check CEA levels. If they have ovarian cancer, we check CA-125 levels. Is that like an enzyme or what? It's got like a tumor marker. Oh, tumor marker. Yeah. So it's like, so similar to like when we talked about testicular cancer, it's like AFP, LDH and BDHCG. It's kind of a similar thing. It's kind of like a marker. It's not necessarily per se diagnostic, especially in this case, but it does scream somewhat, it's more likely, but its primary indication and utilization is saying, here's what their baseline is. So it's good that we got that because then what we can do is once we start treating them, maybe we do a Whipple, maybe we do some other kind of procedure, we say, what does the C-199 looks like now after we've done them through the roof? Yeah. So it definitely screams a lot of this. It's definitely pancreatic cancer. The fact that it hasn't invaded any of the vessels is helpful. You can't really tell if there's metastasis just yet. Pancreatic cancer doesn't oftentimes like super crazy, distantly metastasize. It goes into the vessels and can encase those pretty bad, but it doesn't usually like go like to the lungs or something. They may go to the liver. It's kind of the closest thing that it may go to, but it's usually it's going to stay kind of right there and it just starts to invade nearby vasculature. And fortunately for our patient, there was no liver lesions. Yeah. Yeah. So that's good. So I think that this is definitely a patient who has a, I'd say a decent, I'd say a receptable pancreatic cancer. So his prognosis can be fairly okay. I think it's a possibility. I think that it's just the tough thing now is that we have to talk to surgery. And so when we talk to surgery, we have to say, Hey, I got a patient who's got a pancreatic ductal carcinoma. They got obstructive cholestasis. They got to see a 19-9 level that's pretty high. They have no vascular invasion, no distanetastasis that is visible at this point in time. What's your recommendation for surgical procedure? And I think the only thing you can really do is maybe like a Whipple, which is like a pancreatic duct, go do a denectomy. But that's a pretty complicated procedure. There's a lot of things that go into it. So that's what I would say would be the decision based upon the surgical kind of like overall evaluation. Do they think that this is the best way to go with that one? So that's why I'd say Whipple would probably be the way to go here. And then adjuvant chemotherapy would probably be the good way. There's all kinds of agents. I think Jim Cytabine is the commonly utilized one. But I think the big thing is your Whipple and talking with surgery to see if that's a good go for them. Remember that the tumor, once you remove it theoretically, the obstructive cholecystasis should improve. Yep. Obviously the timeframe, if they're having like a really, really high bilirubin level, it can, you know, portend a relatively poor kind of like symptom mythology. So obviously obstructive jaundice, puritis, et cetera. You could theoretically put a stent in there temporarily. But the goal here is going to be doing the Whipple if you can. If it was like more distal, like near the tail, you'd have to do a distal pancreatectomy. And sometimes they remove the spleen too because it can actually go to the spleen. So that's another thing that we have to worry about. So if it was more distal, it would go to the spleen. So I'd have to cut that portion out and then potentially remove the spleen as well. So that's the options that you usually have is surgically removing it. Chemotherapy would be the way to go adjuvantally. Sometimes we can only can if it's like not resectable. You may be stuck with just like chemotherapy and like palliative procedures, like putting in a stent because you can't cut it out. So that's kind of what I would say for this patient here. All right. Case two. All right. We have a 58-year-old man with a long-standing compensated history of hepatitis B, cirrhosis. Semi-annual ultrasound shows a new 2.5 centimeter right lobe lesion. His AFP level rose from 12 to 180. Where does your mind go? So first thing is a parasite of the carcinoma. I mean, there's a lot of other things that you can think about here, but right off the get-go. Ultrasound shows a lobe lesion. AFP's elevated and they have a history of cirrhosis and on top of that, it's hepatitis B related. It's like alarm bells are screaming that this could be nothing else but hepatocelular carcinoma. There could be things like nodules and clangiocarcinomas and things like that. Very, very unlikely. When a patient has cirrhosis, they're super high risk for hepatocelular carcinoma. If you have hepatitis B without cirrhosis, you're super high risk of hepatocelular carcinoma. So they have both of those. That's not good. Yeah, and they have a lesion and they have an AFP level. Remember how we said CA-199 is somewhat associated with your pancreatic adenocarcinomas. AFP levels that are really, really high in this kind of scenario do somewhat scream hepatocelular carcinoma. What I would say is now that we have an ultrasound that shows that they have a lesion, they got an AFP that bumped, I'm going to go straight to a triphasic CT. It's a triphasic abdominal CT and it looks at the contrast as it moves through the liver to look to see if the mass kind of hyperattainuates and it really, really gets bright. And then we look at the portal venous washout to look to see if they have a quick portal venous washout. And that usually is going to be the best way of being able to kind of take a look at the mass and look for a arterial hyper enhancement and then a quick portal venous washout would be pretty suggestive of a hepatocelular carcinoma. Alright, the triphasic CT comes back with a lesion showing arterial hyper enhancement with portal washout, capsular appearance, no portal vein invasion, no extra hepatic disease. Alright, that's good. So the fact that it didn't get to the portal vein is actually not, that's a decent thing. Because once you get portal vein invasion, it makes things a lot more challenging. A lot of the things that you want to try to do for the patient, you can't really do for them when you get portal vein invasion. Usually there's procedures we'll talk about them. There are things like you have these trans arterial chemo embolization where you shoot chemo and you shoot at these little emulsified, like little embolic materials and you block off the blood flow to the actual tumor. Because usually these tumors are super vascular. If you block off the blood flow, you could potentially starve the tumor. And theoretically you could reduce its size, maybe even remove it, or at least kind of kill a good chunk of that cancerous tissue. But if you have a portal vein that's completely cut off, you can't do that. Because now you have no other blood supply. The complete problematic issue would arise. So that's one thing I think is decent is that they don't have any portal vein invasion. But they got a pretty nasty kind of lesion here. I think the thing I have to know is do they have portal hypertension? And they don't have any kind of portal hypertension symptoms. So portal hypertension symptoms would be things like asides. I don't see any mention of asides in the patient's history. And they're pretty compensated from what I read, actually. The other thing is they would have things like esophageal varices that would be present, cap it medusae. They could have a potentially elevated LFTs as well, somewhat. And so these are all kind of, and then jaundice would also be another way of kind of them presenting in a decompensated state. So I don't see any concerns of portal hypertension or kind of like a decompensated or high degree of comorbidity of their disease. So what that tells me is that there's a chance that I could remove a piece of that actual liver. So think about this. If I had a patient who had hepatitis B cirrhosis, they now have cancer. And they have portal hypertension, they have a lot of disease in their liver. And you cut out a good chunk of the liver. And the remaining tissue that's left is not very functional. You're going to leave them with a very, very bad overall kind of lifespan now. Because now they have very little functional tissue, most of it's destroyed. They're going to potentially decompensate, go into like decompensated liver failure. So that's why we would never want to do real significant huge chunks or removal of tissue unless they had good functional liver tissue remaining. So for this one, I feel like they actually do. Their tumor is not huge. Usually less than or equal to three centimeters is a decent size. And they also have no portal hypertension. I think that this would be good with either two options. Radiofrequency ablation, which only really works and has equal equivalent results. So like the recurrence rate is about the same if you were to do a hepatectomy. So you remove a chunk, like maybe I do like a little wedge removal and radiofrequency ablation. So those would be the two options. I'd probably talk to surgery. I'd probably see what they think about it. But an RFA or like a little like wedge hepatectomy would probably be the way to go here for this patient. Would this patient ever get to a point where he would be applicable for a transplant? I'd say if they had portal hypertension. If they had portal hypertension, then I got to give them a new liver probably. Meaning that if you remove tissue, you're going to leave them out. I'm going to put them in a high chance of them decompensating in the future. So it wouldn't be any, there'd be no reason to do that. You would have to get a transplant. I'd say if it's a really big tumor where I have to cut out a lot of tissue. And so I'm leaving very little tissue left. Or if it's a tumor size that let's say it's still like less than three centimeters, but they have significant disease, significant disease on their liver. Like their child pu score is really high. And then they have portal hypertension. I'm probably not going to do any kind of like RFA. I'm not going to take any chance with a wedge. I'll probably just go straight to referring them to a transplant search and saying, hey, let's see if we can get a transplant for that patient. Gotcha. All right. Case three. All right. We now have a 48 year old woman with a history of primary sclerosis and colonitis. She had four weeks of progressive parietus, jaundice and alcohol and acolic stools. I almost said alcoholic. She presents with no. She had the beer shats. See, I didn't say, you said. Yeah, I said it. Don't, don't kill me, please. I'm sorry. The patient has no fever. Alps 720 total Billy is 10. Wow. That's high. That's pretty high. Yeah. All right. So what is the, the PSE telling you? I don't think I've ever seen like a Billy like I usually like the billies I've seen are like four, five, six. I don't see one 10, but that'd be, that'd be crazy. 10 is not good. No, no. Her eyes are yellow as the sun. Likely, very, very likely, man. Seriously. But my, my, my main question is like the PSE. What is that telling you? Isn't PSE, isn't there a connection with ulcerative colitis? Oh my boy. Honestly, that's awesome. Yeah. Hey, I, I pay attention. Sometimes he does. I try to. Sometimes. I didn't read a head either. I didn't, I didn't cheat. That's very, very like astute is that it's, it's very common and ulcerative colitis. So usually ulcerative colitis and primary sclerosis and colonitis are kind of going hand in hand with each other for the most part. And so whenever a patient has PSE, it's probably one of the biggest risk factors because you're causing unfortunately inflammation. So there's probably a degree of like autoimmune attack on the biliary tree and that autoimmune attack and the inflammation creates opportunities for display like mutations, dysplasia, dysplasia turns into carcinoma. And so it puts them at super high risk of colangiocarcinomas. That's one of the concerning things is anytime a patient has PSE, you definitely have to be really careful because they have a very high risk of colangiocarcinoma, which is a tumor that occurs in the biliary ducts. Now, location wise of where PSE is usually occurring. So PSE affects more often the extra hepatic duct system, not as much the intra-hypatic duct system. Usually that where we talk about primary biliary cirrhosis, that one definitely has a lot of intra-hypatic duct inflammation. But this one, it can kind of involve both, but it's primarily going to be hitting those extra hepatic ducts. But yeah, that's what I'm definitely thinking is when I see a primary sclerosis and colonitis, they have symptoms where it's obstructive colistasis. Obstructive colistasis meaning they have puritis probably because of the elevated bile salts, jaundice because of elevated bilirubin and eggholic stools. Just means that they don't have probably any kind of bile salts or bilirubin in their actual stool to give it that color. And so that's what I'm definitely thinking the alfos and total bilirubin level that's through the roof, it's an obstructive colistasis. So from there, I think I could definitely consider. I would probably feel good enough just saying we can do an MRCP, but I think it's always astute to like do a right upper quadrinal sound first and say, hey, is there a biliary mass present? Oh, okay, there is a biliary mass, like a biliary tree mass. All right, then let's do an MRCP. I think from here, I feel pretty confident that if I wanted to go straight to the most definitive test, I'd say it'd be an MRCP. If I had any degree of where I'm like thinking, could this possibly be a pancreatic adenocarcinoma or anything else obstructing that biliary tree? I do a right upper quadrinal sound first and see that, but I'd say let's start with an MRCP. I'm going to be a little spicy. All right, I like the spicy. MRCP shows a dominant two centimeter structure at the hepatic duct confluence. Okay. Significant intra-hepatic duct dilation. Yeah, so when I, okay, so that's another thing they called a perihylar clatskin tumor. So it's basically clangiocarcinomas. There's different areas that it can occur. The most common area, and I don't remember the percentage, but it's a pretty decent size, that when you have the right hepatic duct and the left hepatic duct come together, they make a confluence, and then eventually they become the common hepatic duct. Then the common hepatic duct combines with the cystic duct, and then the cystic duct becomes the common bile duct. Actually right at that point where the right and left hepatic duct come together, that confluence, they call that the perihylar region, and that's where the clatskin tumors, or the clangiocarcinomas, usually most commonly form. So that's where I'm thinking that that's happening is the hepatic duct confluence. Because of that, it's occurring right there, all the ducts proximal to it are getting all bulgy and dilated and enlarged. So that's the likely cause there is, it's probably clangiocarcinoma. The only way that you can truly kind of confirm this is you probably have to go up. You probably have to do an ERCP. So that's probably what I would say here is to go down, do a retrograde clangio-pink cartography, so you go down the esophagus, you go down the stomach, small intestine, pop right through the ampula, and then move upwards through the common bile duct. As you move upwards, you can kind of shoot some contrast and get a better look. I'm not even kidding. As they go up, they have this little device that it can scrape. Imagine you got a little brush and they can brush the cells there. And then you can do what's called a brushing or a brush biopsy, and they can take some of those cells and then you can collect it and send it to the pathologist to see if it looks like clangiocarcinoma. So that's probably what I would say is I'd probably, from this look out here, I'd probably do an ERCP, get a brush cytology or a biopsy while you're there, and see if it shows any potential for like clangiocarcinoma. We talked about this before. I think it was in the first case. What about that CA-199 level? It can be elevated. Can you ever go for that again? Yeah, you can. It can definitely be elevated in this one. I would say it's possible. A lot of the pancreatic and the biliary treat diseases can have those. I would try to keep it more easily remembered in your mind as pancreatic, but it can't, for sure I'll have to be elevated. Well, I'll leave that one go for now. We do the brushings. It's positive for adenocarcinoma. CT of the chest and abdomen, we do that just to make sure we're thorough. There are no distant mets. What's your next step? So at this point, I see a patient who doesn't have any distant mets. They got hopefully no other kind of like vascular invasion too. If there's not a lot of vascular invasion and there's not a lot of spread into the liver, like the surrounding liver, parenchyma, and there's not a lot of metastasis, you can do an in-block bile duct liver wedge resection. It's pretty crazy. You cut the common bile duct and then you cut right above where the tumor is. You remove that whole disease section and then you reroute that into the intestines. You actually bring the jujinum up. You bring the jujinum up and then you have the right before the confluence, you have those like hepatic ducts empty directly right into the jujinum. You can still get your bile acids and your bilirubin into the intestinal lumen so that you can still involve it in for the stools and helping with the emulsification of fats and stuff like that too. And then since I think it's always wise while you're there because it does get intrapatically, it's probably also good to take a little resection of the liver just in case there is any residual micrometastasis. It might be helpful. So I'd probably remove like a little liver wedge, cut where that confluence is, cut below, reroute those into the jujinum, and then again remove a little piece of the liver. That's probably the way to go and then you probably have to follow up with some chemotherapy after that just to get any residual micrometastasis out. I know surgeons are, that's one thing I've learned about oncology. Surgery for these things are so, like I don't know, I don't want to be mean but it's like elegant. You know, it's crazy the things that they think about. It's like an art. It is. It's an art. It's things I've never even heard of before. Amazing. Yeah. And so that's kind of the way you probably would go if it wasn't like if they had vascular invasion, a lot of hepatic invasion, metastasis, you're probably just going to be chemo for these patients. You know, that's probably the only thing that you'd really offer them if it was like not receptable. So it's pretty large vascular invasion so you get a lot of vessels involved with it. There's metastasis. It's not worth going after then. I'd probably just say chemo. All right. For this one I think we can do it. One last case left. Case four. All right. We have a 72-year-old woman with a known porcelain gallbladder. It doesn't seem real, right? It's going to go ahead and stop right there. I got to ask. What's a porcelain gallbladder? So this is pretty common with chronic cholecystitis. So if a patient gets chronic cholecystitis, you can have acute cholecystitis, which is like inflammation and infection of the gallbladder. If you get repeated attacks, which can happen, this can cause a lot of inflammation that causes calcifications. It's just like pancreatitis. If you get acute pancreatitis and you keep getting bouts of acute pancreatitis, you can develop chronic pancreatitis. And that usually occurs. It gets lots of calcifications and fibrous tissue that develops there. It's kind of the same thing where it's chronic cholecystitis that the entire gallbladder gets super calcified. I don't remember the percentage. I want to say it's like 30% or 40%. Probability that if you have a porcelain gallbladder, you'll develop gallbladder cancer. So it's around. It's a pretty high statistic. It's a decently high number enough to remember and be like, oh, wow, that's concerning. So anytime a patient has a porcelain gallbladder, you've got to get that gallbladder out because there's a very high chance that it can become just plastic enough that it can turn into cancerous tissue. So really, it's just, it's calcified. It's fibrotic. Yeah. It's not good. No, no. There's a high risk of converting into gallbladder cancer. The patient also has intermittent dull, right upper quadrant pain, and a six pound unintentional weight loss. No fevers present. Yeah. So this seems like gallbladder. I mean, it could be a flare up of their chronic cholecystitis. It definitely could be. But when I hear weight loss, again, that's concerning. And then when I know that they have a porcelain gallbladder, that's also concerning. So I'm definitely concerned about gallbladder cancer. That's definitely for sure. And usually in patients who have gallbladder cancer, especially if they have chronic cholecystitis, which is the most common cause, they can present with features of what seems like a biliary colic, which is like the right upper quadrant pain. And it hurts. And then it kind of goes away. And then it comes back. So those kind of flare ups like that, that makes me think about more of a gallbladder cancer picture. I'd probably start right away, get right upper quadrant ultrasound. The problem with a right upper quadrant ultrasound is that sometimes it doesn't pick up a polypoid. Like if I saw the, if I had a gallbladder ultrasound and I see it and I say, oh, there it is. There's the mass. We're good. Sometimes it doesn't present like that. Sometimes it's a little bit more flat. Sometimes the gallbladder looks thickened. And that's, it's hard to tell. Okay, it's a thickened gallbladder. Does that just mean that they have cholecystitis? It's hard to tell. I'm not there first though, just to make sure I'm not.  mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere that point. Sometimes people unfortunately maybe have chronic cholecystitis and they don't know that they have developed porcelain gallbladder and unfortunately it's something that you can find as oh they got a porcelain gallbladder. All right. Yeah, usually at that point you should be referring them for surgery. Now if there's some contraindication something that's like blocking them or they just I don't know they fall off the map with follow up to a lot of things I think can happen but for this patient 100% you got a porcelain gallbladder you really should be suggesting hey let's get that thing out 100% especially with that high percentage I mean it's not a high percentage but it's high enough to be concerned. Yeah, like that's still very concerning. Yeah. So I just I was wondering okay. Yeah, like if someone said hey Zach there's a 40% chance they're gonna become a millionaire and we're like yeah good enough for me. Yeah, I thought I don't mind there's hope. All right, so we're starting with the right upper quadrant ultrasound. Yeah. All right. So we have a calcified gallbladder wall containing a 2.2 centimeter polypoid mass. The liver's normal. Right. What is that telling you? I think I definitely I'm concerned for cancer. I mean it could be a polyp I don't know but it's unlikely I think this is definitely a cancer. So I I think the best thing to do is to get a better look I'd probably get some very thin sectioned looks I probably get like a CT scan. Okay. Get a better look see if I can have a better look at the mass and also it'll give me better tissue picture to see hey, it says that the liver is normal. Has it extended into the liver a little bit has it involved in the nearby vessels. So I just want to make sure that there's no like vascular invasion, liver invasion whatsoever. Just get a better look because now this patient has to get surgery and so it helped me with the surgical planning. Right. We get a contrast CT of the abdomen. It shows a focal mass confined to the gallbladder mucosa. It has not invaded the liver. All right. The best thing to do is just get a colisosctomy. Cut that son of a gun out. That's really the best way to go. If you if you if they had liver invasion, I would extend it into the liver. So in other words, I do a colisosctomy and pry do a little bit of like liver resection but in this case, I think it's we're probably good to just cut that puppy out. You can always consider chemotherapy afterwards like a little bit of adjuvant chemotherapy just to remove any kind of like micro metastatic like or micro residual disease. But yeah, cutting that puppy out would probably be the best way to go. I do a colisosctomy. That's all I had for our cases cases one through four. Very awesome. How about now what like we've been doing just a rapid review of what we've talked about. I'd say the biggest thing is thinking about clinical presentations, right? So when you think about a patient with pancreatic cancer, oftentimes the buzz term or the classic clinical finding is painless obstructive jaundice. So in other words, if you press on that gallbladder, the area they got the divorce here sign, they got they look yellow. That's definitely concerning, especially for pancreatic I've no carcinoma. But you definitely can't rule out other causes of obstructive coli stasis. So get your right upper quadrant ultrasound, take a good look. Do you see any kind of ductile dilation? Do you see a pancreatic mass? If you do, go down that that rabbit hole saying, Okay, let's get a CT scan to get a better look. Okay, we've done that. We definitely have a pancreatic mask. Let's get an endoscopic ultrasound, maybe do an FNA to see if we got a tissue diagnosis. And then from there, you can make your assumption, get a baseline CA 19 nine just to help you after you do your therapeutics. If I have a patient who has cirrhosis, hepatitis B, if they have those two things, you definitely always want to be concerned about them developing a pathocytol carcinoma. The ways that we try to make sure that we're kind of screening for those is getting ultrasounds and AFP levels, considering those you can always may or may not do them. I think it's always good to do both every six months. If it comes back where the lesion is new, or it's large, especially pretty decent size, or the AFP shoots up, I'm concerned, a pathocytol carcinoma, get a triphasic CT, go down that rabbit hole. Do I have the hyper enhancement on the arterial phase, and then portal venous washout? It's pretty concerning. I think we may have this problem of a hepatitis other carcinoma, we don't biopsy those you're seeding risk bleeding, you risk a lot of problems. So we don't biopsy those. And by the patient who has primary sclerosis and colon gytus are also they don't even have to mention that let's say that they just have ulcerative colitis. Yeah, and you don't even know that they have primary sclerosis and colon gytus because they're associated. And then all of a sudden they come in with presentations of piritis. Maybe they have some jaundice like appearance. Be concerned could be clangio carcinoma. Oftentimes get the right upper quadrilateral ultrasound, it may show some ductal dilation, no pancreatic head involvement, but the better test is going to be the MRCP. That's going to show you the strictures, that's going to show you the ductal dilation, that's going to show you the absence of the pancreatic mass. If you see that pop up ERCP, brush it, get some cells and look to see if you got a clangio carcinoma. Last one, if you have a patient with chronic colitis, are you here the term porcelain gallbladder? You should have a very high concern for gallbladder cancer. The risk is super high. Cut that puppy out. Usually right upper quadrilateral sounds would give you a good look, little little sprinkle of interest into what's going on. CT scan will give you a really good look, especially for surgical planning, if you just are going to be removing more than the gallbladder. Oftentimes porcelain gallbladder removing it reduces that risk. Unfortunately, if you diagnose a gallbladder cancer, you still got to remove it, but sometimes you may have to extend outwards and deliver and you have to follow up with some chemotherapy. So that's what I would say for these. I hope that helps them a lot. Yeah, I mean, that made a lot of sense. I think it's really cool to have that single best test. Like, hey, I have a lot going on with this patient. Where do I start? Yeah. And I think that's really helpful. Yeah, I got you. Cool. Well, hey, I really hope that you guys liked talking about pancreatic and apatobiliary cancer today. I hope that you're having a good day. I hope that you whenever you get your exam, whenever you get tested on this, whether it be in the wards or on the boards, you're able to crush it. I hope you feel confident. I hope you feel like an engineer done got you the way you need to be to be able to do well. But man, I love you guys. I thank you guys so much for just being so awesome. Have a great day. And as always, till next time.