 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам What's up, Ningenerds? In this video today, we're going to be talking about pancreatic and apatobiliary cancers. There's a bunch of different ones that we'll talk about. We'll put a lot of emphasis primarily on two of them because you're going to see those most likely in your exams. It's going to be the pancreatic carcinoma and we'll also talk about the patocelular carcinoma. Again, this is a part of our clinical medicine series and if you guys really are enjoying it, you're learning a lot, you're able to kind of go into your exams and feel confident, please support us. A couple of different ways that you can do that is just hitting the like button, commenting down in the comment section, subscribe. It goes a long way, but for those of you who want to take it to the next level, you want to go beyond. I really urge you guys to go down in the description box below. There's going to be a link. It goes to our website. On our website, we have a lot of other things that we offer, things like notes, illustrations, Q-Banks, a lot of things that I think will really take you to that next level. So go check that out. Without further ado, let's dig into the pathophys. All right, so we're going to dig into pancreatic cancer first. When we talk about this, it's one of those cancers that are very unfortunate. I think Alex Trebek from Jeopardy was unfortunately diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and passed away because of it. Rest in peace, my friend. But Steve Jobs is another one. So those are something that they consider that these are cancers that can really plague patients. And unfortunately, one of the problems with these is that they can be kind of clinically asymptomatic for a period of time until they get advanced. And then usually at that point, that's when we kind of unfortunately see the really scary stuff that we'll talk about. So with pancreatic cancer, I think the first thing to remember is where can it occur in the pancreas? And you may think that's kind of irrelevant, but not. It really is important because the reason why is when we think about pancreatic cancer, it most often occurs in the pancreatic head. So here we'll have the head, we have the body and the tail. It's pretty simple anatomy, right, thankfully. But usually that tumor is going to be most common in the head. And we'll kind of represent that here with this blackish tumor here. This is going to be the most common location. So the pancreatic head is going to be a really important one. And I think when we talk about percentage-wise of how much that makes up of the locations, you could probably say somewhere around like 60 to 70%. So approximately somewhere around 60 to 70% of pancreatic cancers will occur in that location right there alone. And this is unfortunate because this is what usually caused a lot of the really nasty symptoms which we'll talk about. Because if you know your basic anatomy and physiology, you know that the pancreatic head right here is where there's a couple of different little spouts moving through. You have the common bile duct. You compress that. You can get jaundice. You also can compress on the main pancreatic duct. And unfortunately that can potentially prevent pancreatic enzymes from getting into this area and bile. So we can get a lot of complications that we'll talk about with that. Now the other location is the pancreatic tail. And this is going to be a very small percentage, but this is where the remainder of them usually occur. And when we talk about this, it maybe accounts for like, I'd say 20 to 30%. So somewhere within that residual amount. They're probably like, okay, there's still some left over. Where would that be? That's usually in the body. But most often these are going to be the two most common locations. Now the reason why I mention this one is because the pancreatic tail is near, guess what organ? The spleen. And so oftentimes when we have to do surgeries, which we'll talk about them in the treatment section, whenever you have to remove a pancreatic tumor, sometimes you have to remove a lot of other associated tissue, such as the duodenum. And unfortunately, whenever you remove the pancreatic tail tumor, sometimes you may even have to consider removing the spleen as well. So we'll talk about this is called a Whipple here. And this is just going to be a distal tail resection. But you may have to include the spleen in that. So it's really important to think about these things. Now, the next step I want to say is, okay, this is the location wise of where they'll occur. But if you actually kind of zoom in and kind of take it at the microscopic level, you're like, bro, Zach, we're going a little deep here, aren't we? No, I think it's important because I think it kind of gives us a little bit of understanding of the classic findings, the complications, things like that. So when we take and kind of zoom in just in this area, you'll see this kind of structure here. So this is going to be your pancreatic ductile system, right? So all of these, I'll kind of, I'll write those out, but we're going to call these just your pancreatic ducts. And then here are going to be your senile. And then right here, we're going to call these the islets of Langerhann. I bet you remember those, right? So islets of Langerhann are important because they are different as compared to these other two structures up here. So pancreatic ducts, we've got a couple of these. We'll kind of bring these two together, right? And then here's the senile, and then here's your islets of Langerhann. And it consists of some different cells in there. You have the pancreatic alpha cells, the pancreatic beta cells. You get the PP cells. You got the delta cells. There's all these different types of cells. But the important thing to remember is the pancreatic ducts in the senile make up the excreent portion of the pancreas. That controls the digestive juices, the enzymes. Whereas the islets of Langerhann make up the endocrine portion of the pancreas. That's why when we consider it having two different glandular tissues, it's a heterocrine gland. But when we talk about pancreatic cancer, what does it most often arise from? So when you get a tumor that's that big, it has to start at the cellular level. And even deeper than that, it has to start at the actual microscopic DNA, genetic level. And so oftentimes it's the pancreatic ducts that are going to be the first one to get hit. So when we talk about location, it's usually going to be this. The epithelium that lines, the pancreatic ducts are the ones that get unfortunately plagued. And so this is where the cancer often arises. And so if you could imagine, imagine this is the diseased portion. This is where we'll start seeing the tumor starting here and the epithelium. I can obstruct the ducts. And then guess what? When I bust through the basement membrane, that's when we start having invasive pancreatic cancer. So this is usually where we start to have it is the ductal epithelium. So if I were to say, I get pancreatic cancer involving the pancreatic ductal epithelium, and it most commonly occurs in the head, maybe in the tail, what happens to these cells that makes them turn malignant? What is that trigger? So here we'll say we have a normal cell. Here's our normal pancreatic cell. So we'll say normal ductal. Let's go a little beyond. Epithelium, because this is truly where it all starts. And then here we're going to have a cancerous ductal epithelium. So here we went from this cell, which is going to be happy. Here, we'll do this. We'll give it a little happy face. And to this one, which is going to be a cancerous cell, this is going to be an unfortunate one. Look, it's crying. And so this unfortunately is going to be the mutated one. You have to ask yourself the question, what happened in this process? And usually there's something going on with the DNA. There's mutations. So the mutations that usually arise from it, I don't want to go too far because we're talking about more of your USMLE step two stuff, your PANS exams. This is going to be particularly referring to just a generalized concept. So let's say here we have blue. Let's just represent blue as kind of like the gas. It's trying to trigger the cell cycle to go through its process to replicate. So we'll call this one, we'll call these your proto-oncogenes. And then the red, let's use that as the stop sign. It's the brakes. It wants to stop the cell from undergoing a lot of cell division. And that's going to be your tumor suppressor genes. So here we have proto-oncogenes. And you're going to hear this a lot throughout the oncology sections, right? And here you're going to have your tumor suppressor genes. Now sometimes I will mention some of these genes because you may get tested on them. We may have drugs that target them. We may have ways that we try to go about affecting those genes or their downstream proteins. But oftentimes with these, what happens is these get upregulated and these get downregulated in some way, shape, or form. And usually there's a bunch of them. I think if you really wanted to take it the extra step, you could remember two. This one is usually called the K-RAS gene. And this is going to really kind of trigger the cell cycle to undergo a lot of proliferation. And this one is usually your common one that we know, the P53 gene. If this gets turned on, cell replicates. As cells replicate, guess what happens? You bring about DNA replication errors. You bring about opportunities for mutations to rise. When mutations arise, dysplasia can occur. When dysplasia occurs consistently, carcinomas form. Same thing. Pumor suppressor gene is trying to stop the cell from dividing, but it continues to divide. You bring about replication errors. You bring about certain things that can occur where mutations can arise, dysplasia can occur, and carcinomas can form. We've talked about this a million times, right? So that's usually the key. The question is, is what's causing this process? What's the trigger? There's a lot of things that can trigger this process. And that's what you really want to know. So usually, to give you a couple triggers, let's say we write down a couple triggers. So we really want to know what are these triggers, or we can actually call them risk factors. Because right now, we're kind of going through the process of how the cancer actually arises. But we want to talk about what triggers these actual cancers to arise. And usually, the most common ones that I really want you guys to remember is going to be chronic pancreatitis. Whenever patients have just repeated inflammation of their pancreatic ductile system, that's going to lead to opportunities for mutations to arise. Now this chronic pancreatitis, ooh, we just squeezed it in there barely, but this is alcohol related, alright? That's usually alcohol related. Another one, really important, I really want you guys to remember this, and one other kind of factoid about it, is smoking. And the reason why smoking is super important is one of the only, out of most of these, the most important modifiable risk factor. If you can reduce smoking, you reduce the risk of pancreatic cancer and potentially progression. Another one is diabetes. So usually, diabetes can definitely do this. And the last one I will also talk about is certain types of hereditary cancer syndromes. So genetics, unfortunately, nothing that causes inflammation over time. Because this is usually inflammation, inflammation, inflammation. And that's going to cause these opportunities for mutations to arise in these genes. The last one is unfortunately, you're plagued with the poor genetics. Where unfortunately, you're at risk of having mutations in these genes right at the point of birth or shortly after. And that's going to be usually your BRCA mutations. And there's another one called POOTS-Yagers. This one can unfortunately plague not only the pancreas, but parts of your GIT. You guys remember POOTS-Yagers syndrome? We talked about this in the colorectal cancer lecture, where patients can have the hyperpigmented, like lips and tongue and mucous membrane, sometimes the hands and soles of their feet. But on top of that, they're at high risk of pancreatic cancer. And cancer somewhere around the GIT. It's more small bowel. It's more stomach, but it can involve the colon. And they usually get those hammer-tomatous polyps. That's the key term to think about. All right. So I hit you with these things for the pancreatic cancer. So what I want you to remember is usually it's in the head. When we think about that, if we get down to the microscopic level, it's usually the ductal epithelium. It comes to the ductal epithelium that makes it sad. Mutations. What triggers these mutations to occur? It's usually chronic inflammation in this form, this form, and this form. Or you're plagued with poor genetics. The question that comes in, okay, a patient has these risk factors. Usually they'll present like a vignette where you have a 58-year-old male presenting with a history of chronic smoking. Maybe they have diabetes. Maybe they are chronic pancreatitis due to consistent alcohol use. I really want you to remember that. Please don't forget that alcohol use is the strong, strong trigger there. When they come to the hospital or they present to the primary clinic, what will they present like? Oftentimes, you don't see anything. You may get a little bit of epigastric pain, but when we think about this, this is what you really want to be looking at for your vignettes, because that's how they're going to try to present it a little bit more obvious, because we want obvious cases to think about this. If it's a little bit more subtle, it's harder to pick up on, especially for your exams. Let's say that we have a tumor here in the pancreatic head, which is the most common location. If this thing gets big enough, what is it starting to push on? What is this? Your bile duct. Now, the bile duct is supposed to carry bile down and then combine with the main pancreatic duct of the ampula and then dump in bile, in the form of bile acids, bile salts, bilirubin, all that good stuff. But if there is an obstruction here, what's going to happen? Well, son of a gun, that bile is going to back up. As it starts to back up, first off, these ducts maybe get a little bit more dilated. Let's actually grab our green marker here. This is going to be a little bit more dilated now. Let's make these a little bit more plumpy, just to simulate what would happen. Now these things are a little bit more plumpy, a little bit more juicy. Now you're going to have all this bile that's back flowing. I want it back flows. It can back flow into two locations. Funny enough, it can back flow here into the gallbladder. So it can back flow into the gallbladder and then it happens to the gallbladder. It gets really enlarged. It gets distended. So now I have a gallbladder that went from this size to this size. So here it kind of back flowed. We'll kind of represent it like this. Let's say here it back flowed from the bile ducts. But it also back flows into the gallbladder. The gallbladder starts to distend. It starts to get a little enlarged. Now you would think that this would cause a pain, but it doesn't. It's a painless enlarged gallbladder. And there's a particular sign that we'll talk about in just a second. And it's really important to think about here. But let's kind of come back here. Now if the bile starts to spill out, so now it kind of works its way backwards here. Let's actually do it like this since we already have it in the lumen here. If it starts to spill outwards, it kind of runs back to the biliary duct system, goes inside, and then all of a sudden it gets into your circulation. Well now I have a buildup of bile. And this is usually kind of things like bilirubin. That's one really important one that I want you guys to think about here. Now what does bilirubin do? Because if bilirubin is important, it definitely gives you pigmentation to your poos. You don't want your poos to be like creamy and white colored. We're not birds. So because of that, bilirubin is going to give some pigmentation. Unfortunately when it gets into the bloodstream, what it likes to do is it likes to go to the eyes, and it likes to go to the skin. And unfortunately when it deposits into these areas, it causes some changes. Well the one thing it's going to do is it's going to cause the eyes to become a little bit more yellow appearing. And we call that ichterous. So we call that ichterous. But it's going to go to the skin and just cause an overall yellowish discoloration of the skin, which is generally called jaundice. But the actual yellowish discoloration of the eyes, we prefer to call that ichterous. So this is something that you're going to see as a result of the bilirubin backing up and depositing into those tissues. Now there also is bile salts. If you really want to take it that far, bile salts actually can get into the bloodstream. And if we did actually say that you got a little bit of the colic acid and the deoxy colic acid, and some of these puppies got into the bloodstream, these like to go and trigger like maybe like a histamine response into the skin. And so what they can do is, is they can trigger something called puritis, which is kind of that itchiness of the skin. We see this a lot funny enough in any kind of like biliary duct obstruction, especially if it's more chronic like chalangeocarcinomas, which we're going to talk about, primary sclerosin colonitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, pretty common. But these are the big things to think about here. So whenever we get this, this is their jaundice. So that's why whenever we talk about these patients, remember I told you they have an enlargement of their gallbladder and you can palpate it. And then they have yellowish discoloration. This is the characteristic findings of what we would say is painless jaundice. So painless jaundice is relatively important to remember because if a patient presents with jaundice and they have pain in the right upper quadrant or pain in that vicinity, then we start thinking about something going on with the common bile doctor, maybe potentially going on with the liver. All right, that's really, really important. But one of the big things is when we talk about this painless jaundice, it's usually also associated with this very, very, very specific sign here. All right. And what is that sign called? Let's actually kind of put this here so we don't write the same word twice. This is, we're going to say jaundice here. Let's actually put this here, maybe parentheses. This is painless. We'll just add this there because I want to talk about this next one. This sign here, whenever you have an enlarged and distended gallbladder, this here, let's see if I can get this one down, guys. This is called corvoiseurs. There is definitely two eyes in this poppy here. Sign. Corvoiseurs sign is basically kind of an enlargement of the gallbladder where you can go and you can palpate and feel a gallbladder, but it's not tender. So it helps you to think it's less likely to be something like cholecystitis. All right. So we have corvoiseurs sign and painless jaundice as a very common clinical presentation. What else? I want you to think about this. This is blocking the pancreatic duct and it's blocking bile. So now you're supposed to be squirting right there some bile and some pancreatic enzymes. Now you're going to have a decrease in these two things. So it's going to be a decrease in bile and it's going to be a decrease in like your pancreatic enzymes. And I think the really important one here is going to be your pancreatic lipases because these two work in tandem. Bile helps to take big fat globules and emulsify into small fatty droplets and then pancreatic lipases break those fats that triglycerides into fatty acids into glycerol. But if you don't have these, guess what? You're not going to be able to break down the fat. And so that's what I want you to remember is there will be a decrease in fat metabolism. Well, let's actually call it digestion. We should more particularly call it digestion and emulsification. And as a result, if you can't break down the fat and emulsify it, you can't absorb it. And if you can't absorb it, guess what this does? This leads to fat malabsorption. And this is where I'm not even kidding. These patients will come and they will complain, hey doc, my poop smells rancid. I'm not kidding. And they will say it looks like I'm pooping like greasy white turds. And that is referred to as something called steateria. All right, so they can have something called steato ria, which is a greasy pale foul smelling stools. And usually this is associated with fat malabsorption. So they can actually lose some weight too. So if you see a patient coming in who has pancreatic cancer and they come in particularly with jaundice, maybe even as an ichterous of the eyes, they complain of having, or you find cavorciary sign on your exam because they won't complain of right upper quadrupole pain. And then you find that they're complaining of the steateria and maybe some associated weight loss. These are very, very common clinical signs of a pancreatic head tumor that is compressing in this area and obstructing biliary and pancreatic juice flow. Sometimes if it's big enough, it can even smash on the duodenum and you can get some bowel obstructive symptoms too. But we're going to go past that. All right, so this is something I want you to think about here. Now, another thing is that this tumor, it's near nerves, man. There's a lot of nerves nearby. So you can get some epigastric pain because there's, I think it's the splenic nerve and the ciliac, the plexus that's all in this vicinity. So epigastric pain is another pretty common. It's usually more dull. It's not like your classic, it's not your classic acute pancreatitis pain. It's more of a chronic one. It can radiate into the back a little bit, but this is definitely something that you can see some mild, dull epigastric pain. As it gets pretty invasive and the tumor does start to really involve more of those nerves, the pain can be actually unsurmountable. It can be insane. So that's one really, really important thing to remember is if it does start really invading into the nerve plexi, like the ciliac plexus and the splenic plexus, they can get a pretty great deal of pain. All right, the next thing here. With pancreatic cancer, it's interesting because not only does it cause like its local effects of just mass effect, but it can also do some nasty things. It can secrete some chemicals that can wreak some havoc here. So again, what do we tell you? It's a tumor that's more likely to involve the pancreatic head than the tail. Now, one thing that it can do is it can release cytokines. Interleukin-1 is a big one. Interleukin-6 is a big one. TNF-alpha is a big one. We know that cancers in general gain that capacity, unfortunately, to produce just a little bit more of these cytokines. And what happens is these, normally, what they do is they go to the hypothalamus, especially during like, you forget like I use smack your skin. If I were to smack the crap out of my arm, I would trigger an inflammatory response and my cells in the area would start secreting these. This tumor just does it on its own. When it does that, it activates the hypothalamus. And so whenever you activate the hypothalamus, there's a lot of things that are controlled by this bad dude. This is a bad dude, man. And so because of that, it can cause things like change in your appetite. It can cause change in your desire to eat. It can literally lead to changes in your body temperature. But the biggest thing here is it's really going to kind of decrease your hunger. And so what's going to happen is these patients are going to experience satiety. And then as a result, that can lead to anorexia, where they just don't want to eat, and that can lead to some significant weight loss. So not only can they have weight loss just as a result of fat malabsorption, but if you're really activating this hypothalamus from these cytokines, that unfortunately is going to lead to these secretory chemicals that are going to suppress hunger. It's going to make you not really hungry. You're not going to want to eat. As a result, you'll start to lose weight. And that's usually what we see in these patients. Another kind of interesting thing, and this one's always presented in some way, shape, or form in the exam. If it's not in this one, it's more in the hematology section. But we actually did talk about this. We talked about DVTs and PEs. But here, this tumor here, whenever it has the capacity, it can secrete some different types of chemicals. One, it can secrete something called musin. And unfortunately, that's the real nasty one. But it can also secrete something called tissue factor. So we're going to say musin is this one right here. And then this one is going to be called tissue factor. Do you guys know what the other number is for tissue factor? So in other words, we have factors, you know, three. So this is going to be factor three. So factor three is one that this pancreatic cancer can actually secrete. And so what happens is they secrete a little bit more than normal. Now musin is interesting because it has the capability to actually go and activate platelets. So we can have either too much tissue factor or we can have musin that basically there's like little receptors on platelets. And it can bind on to them and activate these platelets. So now we have factor three, which is a pro-coagulant. Loves the bio factor seven. That leads to the common pathway. And then we have platelets that are going to want to trigger a platelet plug. As a result, guess what's going to happen? If you have increased tissue factor and increased activated platelets, you're going to form a thrombus. And now we're going to have a thrombus formation. And then these thrombi can potentially break off. And if they break off, what happens? Then you get emboli. And this is where you get things like PEs, right? So we can end up with thrombus formation and we can end up with emboli that can lead to things like PEs. But the other thing that's really, really important here is when we think about these guys, right? So we think about tissue factor, it's going to combine with what factor? It's going to combine with factor seven and then platelets are just going to become activated. And they're going to trigger this thrombus formation. Well, this thrombus formation can occur in two different ways. One is it can occur, and this is the classic one. It can cause something called superficial, superficial, venous, thromboflabitis, which is the superficial veins of the arms and the legs can get a clot and they can become inflamed. And so what that does is, and I'll show you guys a quick pic of that, is it can cause very red and tender and angry palpable cords in their arms and in their legs that are clots in the superficial veins. And it actually looks a little bit like this. So now if you have those, that's the classic clinical presentation. And so that's what I want you guys to remember is when these get these like superficial venous thromboflabitis, that's almost pathodemonic for your exams for pancreatic cancer. Another thing is it can obviously cause things like DVTs and then DVTs can break off and trigger things like pulmonary emboli, right? So that's what we get worried about is DVTs and PEs. We call these in general venous thromboembolism. So this whole thing collectively of where you're high risk of forming clots, you know what they call this? Actually they call this whole thing here where you're just at super high risk. So we'll bring here, we'll bring the DVT, we'll bring the PE. They call this trisose syndrome. Now this is not the trisose sign that we talk about in your hypochalcemia. This is different. This is a patient who has hypercoagulable states due to a pancreatic carcinoma. They can present with DVT, PE, but the big one is the superficial venous thromboflabitis. The way they may see this in the exam is a patient coming in with a smoking history, an alcohol history, a chronic pancreatitis history, whatever it may be, they come in, maybe they have some vague abdominal pain, maybe they have some jaundice, maybe, maybe they complain of steatoria and some weight loss, but on top of that they may have some associated veno-thromboembolism. The last thing, and I don't want to go too crazy because I wouldn't say it's very, very common, but they may present it, is that this can secrete two other chemicals and this is called interleukin-6 and another one is called adrenomegulin. Don't go too crazy. I'm not asking you to memorize these like out of the, you know, all the things that we're going to talk about today, but this is something to think about in general. These are, they're tumors. Tumors can have perineoplastic qualities. One of the big things to remember is, these can do two things. They have a two-fold function. One is that these two chemicals can act on your pancreatic beta cells and what they can do is they can cause destruction of the pancreatic beta cells. Because now these pancreatic beta cells are lost, what can you not secrete? Uh-oh, insulin. All right, that's one problem, so I got to decrease an insulin, so that puts me at risk of diabetes. Another unfortunate problem of these is that they also act on your tissue cells that express insulin receptors and they basically make these insulin receptors resistant. So they increase insulin resistance. So now you have a two-fold effect here is you increase insulin resistance at the receptor and then you decrease insulin production by the beta cells. What's this going to lead to? Is insulin be produced as much and can it even work on the cells? No. Can you shuttle glucose into the cells? No. If I can't shuttle glucose into the cells, my friend, what is going to happen to the patient's glucose? It's going to go up and they're going to end up with hyperglycemia. And hyperglycemia chronically, chronic hyperglycemia is going to lead to what kind of condition? Diabetes mellitus. The way I want you to think about this is that a patient who has diabetes mellitus, you're not going to go thinking that they have a pancreatic cancer, right? No. The way that this could theoretically be presented in the exam is a patient who developed new onset diabetes in their 50s. They're a smoker. They have associated weight loss. I think it's reasonable to consider something like pancreatic cancer. But oftentimes before we move into a pathocytocarsinoma, you'll have a patient who's a drinker, a smoker, a history of repeated bouts of pancreatitis, who will come in with some type of painless jaundice and corvorecure sign, maybe some dull epigastric pain, maybe some steatorea, but more likely some weight loss due to these two mechanisms here.  and you're probably gonna see some type of superficial venous thromboflbitis. In the rare scenarios, you may see something like diabetes. That's what I want you to start thinking about. So when you have some of these big, big things that kind of like pop up at you, that's when you start saying, could this be pancreatic cancer? One other thing I want you to tell you is, pancreatic cancer is interesting. It's not a diagnostic marker, but tumors, not only can they secrete these cytokines, sometimes, man, I got butterfingers today. This is going to secrete a chemical that we do not, I'm gonna repeat it again, we do not use as a diagnostic tool, it's more of a prognostic tool, but it may be presented in your exam and I want you to think about it and associate with it. It can secrete something called CA-19-9. And whenever this is released in higher amounts, it brings about the possible suspicion, could there be pancreatic cancer? But we do not use it for that function. We use it more as saying, hey, we're gonna do a Whipple procedure and remove the tumor. What was their CA-19-9 before? Oh, wow, it was 1,000, okay. What's it after the procedure? Oh, it's five, all right, great. We had success with the procedure. So that's something to think about, is it's more of a prognostic tool rather than a diagnostic tool, all right? So a prognostic tool, or lab, then we would say a diagnostic lab. All right, we've covered pancreatic cancer to death. Now let's go over and talk about a padocercal carcinoma. All right, so we move on from the pancreas and we go to the liver. So with a padocercal carcinoma, it is something that, funny enough, it's not funny, but when you talk about patients who have cancer that is in the liver, it's very, very unlikely. I'd say you have a better chance, probably, I don't know, maybe 70% of hepatic cancers are likely metastatic. So if you find a cancer that's present in the liver, it is strongly more likely to be metastatic than it is to be primary. And so when we talk about this, it's really, really critical to know what are those risk factors that make it a little bit more of a stronger suspicion that it could be a primary padocercal carcinoma as compared to a met that came from the lung, that came from the breast, that came from the colon, that came from somewhere else. It is really important because tumors love to spread and the area that they love to spread to is the liver. So again, more often, probably 70% of the time, hepatic tumors are usually metastatic. It's not always that common that it's a padocercal carcinoma. So when we talk about this, let's say here we have a hepatic tumor. It can occur anywhere. There is no specific location. There's nothing really pertinent to talk about when it comes to that. What I do want you to know is that these are very vascular tumors. So they can have inputs from multiple different areas. So these tumors, obviously, when you talk about blood flow to the liver, you have the hepatic artery proper that comes from the aorta. You have the hepatic veins that drain it into the inferior vena cava. You got the portal veins that supply blood into it. So there is lots of blood flow. So these can be pretty vascular tumors. And that's really, really important. So that's one of the things I would say about these tumors is that they are pretty dang vascular. And that makes them pretty nasty in the sense that they can kind of bleed and they can spread pretty quickly into these vascular systems. But when I talk about a padocercal carcinoma, it's really kind of important to remember that when we talk about these hepatocytes, again, we'll kind of use the picture we have here where you have a normal hepatocyte, right? And all of a sudden, this hepatocyte becomes cancerous. So the differences between this is this is a normal hepatocyte, healthy as can possibly be. And then all of a sudden, you develop a cancerous hepatocyte. What changed? Yes, there is genes that probably got mutated, right? There's highly likely that there was a proto-oncogene that got turned on. And really, really, really, it's weird, keep your mind clear, not turned on. But you know what I mean, it got activated. And then you got tumor suppressor genes that got turned off, all right? Now, I'd say for the most part, it's usually the tumor suppressor gene that gets kind of shut off on this one. And that's usually gonna be the P53. There is other genes that are theoretically involved in this, especially like in what's called the Wnt pathway with the beta-catenin, but I think that's going too far down the rabbit hole. But usually what happens is you're having an increase in proto-oncose and a decrease in the tumor suppressor genes and then the cells replicate, they don't die, they become vampire cells. And that's when you can get these cancerous cells. So the question that usually arises is what led to this mutation, what caused this? And that's where this is really, really, really important. Because again, I wanna make sure that you understand this fact. When we talk about hepatic, when we talk about hepatic tumors, I'd say 30% of them are primary, 70% of them are metastatic. So oftentimes when you find a tumor in the liver, it's more likely going to be what? Metastatic. So how do I differentiate this? How do I know what triggered this hepatic site to become sad and start crying? Well, the big thing to remember is that we really wanna suspect this in patients who have cirrhosis and hepatitis B virus infection, regardless if they have cirrhosis or not. So cirrhosis is going to be the strongest risk factor. Think about this. Patient has cirrhosis, they're having constant inflammation, constant regeneration, constant fibrosis of the liver. Even if it's compensated, there is fibro nodular degeneration of the actual liver. Another one is hepatitis B virus. Because this thing infects and it's chronic, it's a chronic infection. It doesn't matter if you have cirrhosis or not, it keeps replicating and spreading to more hepatic tissue. So chronic hepatitis B and hepatitis C virus infection with or without cirrhosis does not matter. These are the things that are gonna trigger this patient to go from a normal hepatocyte to a cancerous hepatocyte. Now the question that you should be thinking about is, okay, if a patient who has hepatocyler carcinoma, what would make me think about it? Cirrhosis is the big one or hepatitis B virus. If they present in the vignette that a patient is coming to the hospital, they have a history of cirrhosis, they have a history of hepatitis B virus infection and all of a sudden they present with some things that we'll talk about, you then wanna consider, is there a possibility? Now a lot of the times, you know what we do when patients who have cirrhosis or hepatitis B will survey them. And I'll talk about why in a second because these tumors can actually secrete something. And we'll talk about what they secrete that may help you to think about starting to image them or go down that rabbit hole of something going on. But also we like to ultrasound these patients a lot. So usually when they have cirrhosis or hepatitis B, we have ways to check this out and that's what you'll get tested on in the exam, is screening for hepatocyler carcinoma. So patient comes in, the vignette will usually present with a patient who has an underlying history of cirrhosis or hepatitis B virus infection. They have compensated cirrhosis, right? They're coming to the hospital, they're coming to the clinic and you need to evaluate them and survey them potentially for hepatocyler carcinoma. Oftentimes it involves something called an alfalfitoprotein, a level that you'll get maybe every six months you can or cannot do this one. And then an ultrasound, usually a hepatic ultrasound or transabdominal ultrasound to look at the liver to see if you can find any nodules or lesions that suggest it. That's how we kind of think about that. Now one way that you could definitely unfortunately find patients who have hepatocyler carcinoma is they present clinically with some decompensation. Oftentimes it's surveying and you look for it and you find it. Rarely, but it is possible, they come in really nasty and really sick and then you find it. So usually what happens is, let's say that here I have a tumor, all right? So here's a tumor. And what happens is this tumor starts to kind of either invade or compress from the outside the hepatic veins. As it starts to compress the hepatic veins or invade the hepatic veins, you now block the outflow. So now blood is supposed to be going out this way. But is it gonna be going out that way? No. So you're decreasing, you're decreasing hepatic vein outflow. What does this lead to, my friends? This is called Bud Kiari syndrome. Now Bud Kiari syndrome is occlusion or obstruction of some way, shape, or form of the hepatic veins. And now what happens is all of this blood kind of backs up and it kind of causes the enlargement of the liver. So then the liver starts to get a little enlarged. It starts to get distended. And this is called Hepato-Megaly. So that's one potential presentation that they can have. So one thing that we can think about with Bud Kiari syndrome is that they can have Hepato-Megaly. Another thing is when you cause the liver to be filled with blood and get congested, the cells aren't happy with that because you can't get blood out. It really congest the sinusoid, it congest a lot of the vessels, and that kind of makes it where blood can't get out of the actual liver and that can cause destruction of the liver tissue. And so you may see an increase in the patient's LFTs. So Hepato-Megaly, a bump in the LFTs is a really, really important one. But another one that we get worried about is a patient who is completely compensated, serotic, or has hepatitis B virus that all of a sudden comes in with a CITES. That would also make me think about that because guess what? If this blood can't get out, it starts to back up, right? And then it starts to back flow. Unfortunately, into the portal veins. And then the portal veins start getting filled with blood. And unfortunately, this can lead to things like portal, hypertension, and portal hypertension can definitely lead to a CITES. So these are the things I want you to think about. Bud Kiari syndrome is oftentimes one of the ways that these patients will present acutely in a decompensated, serotic state. Can they get occlusion of the portal veins? 100%. This tumor could even invade into the portal veins. And so that's definitely something to consider is that it could actually lead to a back flow here. And that could lead to this increasing portal blood pressure. So an increase in the portal BP. Now that's what usually leads to this presentation of a CITES. So whenever you have this kind of problem here, this portal hypertension that we see here, this can cause the a CITES. It can cause all of this fluid to kind of start leaking out of the capillaries because of the increase in the actual hydrostatic pressure. So the hydrostatic pressure goes up and then you start having a albumin pore fluid that leaks into the peritoneal cavity. And so that's where a CITES usually starts to develop as a result of a back flow or an increase in portal blood pressure, whether that's due to an occlusion of the portal veins or due to the occlusion of the hepatic veins. The other thing is that whenever you have dysfunctional liver because it starts to get kind of swollen and gets congested, guess what starts to happen, my friends? You lose the ability to control bilirubin. And bilirubin starts busting out of these cells. And if bilirubin starts busting out of these cells, what's the unfortunate thing that can happen? This can lead to jaundice. This can lead to jaundice, my friends. So now the bilirubin goes up. And why does the bilirubin go up again? Because you're having all of this congestion or obstruction. The cells start to get destroyed because of all the pressure that's building up around them. Imagine you're sitting in a space and all of a sudden fluid starts to accumulate around you, it smashes you. That's gonna cause death of those cells. And then bilirubin's gonna start going up. And as a result, that's gonna cause that yellowish discoloration of the eyes and the skin. And that's where you're gonna start to see these patients develop things like jaundice. All right, so we got jaundice. That's a potential presentation. We got a CITES that's a potential presentation. The other thing that I want you to remember is when the portal BP goes up, right? So the portal BP goes up, yes, that causes things like portal hypertension. Portal hypertension can present with a CITES, but it can also present in another way. And so what we'll do is, well, unfortunately, we'll have to bring this one a little bit over here. Whoop, and then we'll come like this. When blood backflows from the portal veins, it also can backflow. There's like a little channel here for the esophageal veins. And so what can happen is these esophageal veins can kind of start getting engorged. And as they start getting engorged, the pressure builds up in these, and then you get something called varices. And what's the problem with varices? If the pressure builds up enough, whoop, now you have bleeding that can occur into the esophagus. So you can have esophageal varices, but the scary thing about esophageal varices is that if they do rupture, this is gonna cause some pretty nasty hematemosis and a really nasty upper GI bleed. So that's what we get kind of scared about with this kind of condition. So when a patient comes in who has, let's say, cirrhosis or hepatitis B virus infection, and they come in with maybe some features of Bud Kiari syndrome, maybe they have something that's obstructing it, and that's where you have to go and find an image and say, oh my gosh, they have a tumor that's encasing or it's actually invaded into the hepatic veins, it's invaded into the portal veins. Or they come in with full blown decompensated cirrhosis. If they come in with decompensated cirrhosis and they were completely compensated, then you gotta start going and thinking about what put them into this state, right? There's a lot of things, and a pathocytocarsanoma is just one of those thoughts. That's when you would probably go get an image and take a look. Now, the other thing about these tumors is that they are secretory. So again, here we have a tumor. Here's gonna be a pathocytocarsanoma, here's a nodular lesion. One of the things about this is it can secrete a couple of different chemicals. This is not, I don't want, I'd rather you remember this comes from renal cell carcinoma, but the textbooks do mention that it's possible that these tumors can secrete erythropoietin. They can also secrete a lot of the other cytokines that we talked about before with pancreatic cancer, interleukin one, interleukin six, two-minocrotic factor alpha. What do we know about these? And they're good friend, the hypothalamus. Loves it, loves it. It's gonna activate that hypothalamus. And what is the hypothalamus gonna do? It's gonna shut down that desire to eat. They're gonna have satiety. They're gonna feel like they don't wanna eat. They're gonna start losing weight. They're gonna have some pretty significant weight loss. And that's one way that a podicellular carcinoma can present. The other thing is that sometimes, and I don't want you to go crazy, you may just pick it up incidentally on a CBC where you see a patient has polycythemia. We talked about this in the Milo-Proliferative Neoplasia lecture that oftentimes you wanna think about something where if a patient has polycythemia, you'd like to think about things like increased EPO production from a tumor. Renal cell carcinoma is the one that I really want you to remember. But if you don't see that and they don't have any kind of COPD or underlying lung disease that's triggering an increase in EPO, you can consider a podicellular carcinoma because that will stimulate the bone marrow and the bone marrow will increase the production of red blood cells. And this may present completely asymptomatic. But the thing that we worry about is if it's high enough, number of hemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cells, thus the diagnosis of polycythemia, can it start to cause hyperviscocity syndrome? Can they get headaches? Can they get nausea? Can they get vomiting? Can they get blurred vision? Can they start to have other symptoms that we get concerned with that usually if it's a big enough viscosity that's too high, can it clue the vessels and they can lead to TIAs or strokes or things of that nature? But that's really, really, really important. The last thing, and I wanna tell you this again, it is not a diagnostic tool per se. It's a little bit helpful, I'd say, in comparison to something like CA-199, but these, a pathosalic carcinomas, especially if they are primary, they do tend to increase the production of a tumor marker. So CA-199 is not exclusive to pancreatic cancer. You can see it in other tumors. Ovarian cancer, cholangiocarcinomas, there's a lot of them, but we think about them a little bit with more likely, more likely thinking about them with pancreatic cancer. But AFP is pretty consistent to be concerned about in patients who have a pathosalic carcinoma. You could also see these in testicular tumors. You can see this in ovarian tumors who are more of the yolk sac, kind of derived tumors, right? But AFP is something that we think about because it's actually helpful. If we have a patient that we know has cirrhosis or has hepatitis B virus, and then we are surveying them with ultrasounds, and we're checking the AFP. If the AFP bumps a lot in a small period of time, and there are the six month timeframe by which we screen them, and their ultrasound doesn't show anything, we should consider should I get a better image, like a triphasic CT to see if I have a lesion, right? That is the benefit of knowing that. All right, so what I want you to take away from a pathosalic carcinoma is a patient will oftentimes present asymptomatically. We will usually screen them with AFPs. We'll usually screen them with the ultrasounds. The primary population is cirrhotics and hepatitis B virus infections. If they do present, they'll come in really, really sick. If they were compensated cirrhotic, they could present decompensated. If they do have weight loss, it could be because of those chiquectic cytokines, and they could have polycythemia. But this is gonna be the more common presentation and associated with an increase in the AFP. All right, now let's move on and talk about the last two. We're not gonna go too crazy on them. I kind of wanna go through them quickly, but at least mention them to play homage to them is we're gonna talk about cholangiocarcinoma and gallbladder cancer. All right, we're gonna talk about these last two, and I would say again, I don't want you guys to be super focused on these because they are relatively lower yield. If you're gonna get questioned on something regarding like pancreatic and apatobiliary cancers, it's more likely gonna be the first two. But the quick things that I wanna pick up with this is more, I'd say when you think about gallbladder cancer, it's not something that we often talk about. Usually when a patient has things like chronic colisocytus, are you hear the term anywhere about a porcelain gallbladder, which is basically a patient who's had chronic colisocytus and they developed very thick calcifications. So the point where this thing is like a rock solid gallbladder, those are things that put you at high risk of developing gallbladder cancer. Oftentimes it's relatively preventative and it's easily treatable by removing the gallbladder. It's just whenever it starts to kind of spread and it gets kind of deeper and invades into the liver tissue, that's when it gets a little bit more complicated. You may have to add some chemo, you may have to kind of remove some of the liver too, which you can do, but it's just ideal to prevent this in general. So when we talk about gallbladder cancer, again usually with this one, it's a tumor that develops, it can really develop anywhere, it can develop in the body, it can develop in the actual, this neck portion or the cystic duct, it can develop around the actual fundus. So whenever a patient has gallbladder cancer, it's really you're just taking a gallbladder epithelial cell. So this is a gallbladder epithelium and it's happy, it's normal, all of a sudden, what happens? You develop a cancerous. You guys are gonna hate me after repeating this stuff all the time, but I promise it'll help you to at least remember the generalized concept of how cancer genetics really kind of occurs, which is usually just these genes, right? So something happened in the enteromor, we went from this cell, which was happy as can be to this cell that is now sad, because it has cancer. What are those things? It's usually mutations and again, it's something that's usually gonna be activated and something that's gonna be turned off. So the proto-oncho are the ones that get kind of turned on and they kind of trigger lots of cell replication or you have a shutdown and there's tumor suppressor genes, all right, that P53 gene. There's not really any genes that I want you guys to remember for this one that we talk about. It's really what it comes down to is what's causing them to go from this to this. It's relatively simple. The triggers is going to be anything that causes chronic gallbladder inflammation and that's really all it comes down to. So what will happen is, is you'll probably have in some way, shape, or form the way that they would potentially kind of bring this into a question, is you may have a patient who has chronic cholecystitis. So chronic cholecystitis, which can definitely be due to gallstones, right? So you can have chronic cholecystitis just due to consistent gallstones. That's one potential reason. Another thing that I want you guys to think about is whenever that chronic cholecystitis leads to thick, thick, thick calcifications, and this is called a porcelain gallbladder. This increases your chances of developing gallbladder cancer by about 30 to 40%. So whenever a patient has a porcelain gallbladder, all I really want you to think about here is, you have two potential reasons why this can happen. One is you have a gallbladder, right? Like this, or like this. And the two potential triggers here is one of them is constantly experiencing inflammation. That inflammation is going to lead to dysplasia. That's the chronic cholecystitis. The other one is it repeated inflammation that led to calcifications. And now you have this porcelain gallbladder. That's the two things that I want you to remember. So a porcelain gallbladder, you see that, you get rid of it. Again, what's the percentage of a developing cancer? Somewhere around 30 to 40%. So just when I write this number down, you go back to it a little bit later. Remember that 30, 42% is the chances of them turning from a porcelain gallbladder, which is just kind of like calcifications of their gallbladder of converting into gallbladder cancer. That's what we want to try to prevent. So when you hear porcelain gallbladder, gallbladder cancer. Now clinically, how will they present? It's really kind of like vague. It really is vague. So usually what happens with these patients is they'll come in and you may have a tumor. You may have a tumor that it could possibly obstruct this opening. So could they get some right upper quadrant like pain? Absolutely. If you are trying to push things through and this is being hindered, 100%, the gallbladder can definitely get a little bit distended. And so 100%, you can kind of get some gallbladder distension and a little bit of thickening. That's definitely possible. But the most common presentation of what you may see is just a right upper quadrant abdominal pain. That's it. And it's kind of tough because usually this is what happens and it's usually intermittent. So it's usually that intermittent abdominal pain that can come about in these patients. So it's nothing really that's gonna be super, super obvious. Now, yes, in these tumors, what we've really come to see is that these tumors do have the ability to secrete some chemicals. Things like interleukin one, things like interleukin six, things like tumor necrotic factor alpha, 100% they can secrete these chemicals. And because of that, that loves to go after our good old friend, the hypothalamus. And if that hypothalamus gets super activated, he gets turned on, guess what he's gonna do? He's gonna lead to satiety. He's gonna shut off your hunger. He's gonna lead to that anorexia. He's gonna lead to that unintentional weight loss. And that's something that we can see is if you have a patient with an unintentional weight loss, satiety, anorexia, and they have associated kind of intermittent right upper quadrant abdominal pain with a history of chronic colisostitis or a history of porcelain gallbladder, which I'd be very, very angry at any kind of gastroenterologist or surgeon who knows that a patient has a porcelain gallbladder and doesn't get removed as long as the patient is willing. So that's the really, really important thing to remember here is cancer, gachexia, and right upper quadrant abdominal pain that's intermittent associated with an underlying history of chronic colisostitis or porcelain gallbladder portends a concern for gallbladder cancer. All right, that's really all I want you to take away from that is just remember chronic colisostitis, porcelain gallbladder, associated with gallbladder cancer, they can present with some right upper quadrant pain, maybe some weight loss, but the real way that I'm gonna determine this is I'm gonna have to get an image, maybe an ultrasound, look to see if I see anything, and then potentially I have to go to get a CT scan. All right, let's now talk about Calangia carcinoma. All right, my friends, there is hope we're almost done with the whiteboard, and then we gotta get into our diagnostics, but just stay positive, we're almost there. When we talk about these epitobiliary cancers, I think Calangia carcinoma is something to just quickly mention, and the unfortunate thing about these is that these are also kind of one of those that can cause like a painless jaundice type of presentation, and we'll talk about that, it's kind of like similar to the patient who could have, you know, pancreatic cancer. I think one of the things that's kind of important to remember about these is the specific risk batch, so you know, pancreatic cancer is usually the patient with chronic pancreatitis, alcohol related, smoking, nuance of diabetes, those hereditary cancer symptoms, whereas patients who have Calangia carcinoma, it is most often associated with primary sclerosin colonitis, all right, that's what I want you to think about. So when you think about Calangia carcinoma, think about PSC, but again, before we do that, where do we see these occurring? So this is actually something I would wanna remember as compared to gallbladder cancer and a padicella carcinoma, we talk about pancreatic cancer, it's more the ductal epithelium in the head or in the tail. Well, this one is really important because it involves the biliary epithelium, but it loves to go right here, you see this confluence here? So they got a couple names for it, I'm just gonna give it the easiest one to remember, but right here, the confluence. So where the left and the right hepatic duct come together and they make this confluence, they call this a perihylar or a clatskin tumor, if you really wanted to remember it, but this is the most common location. So it's called a perihylar tumor or sometimes we call it a clatskin's tumor. I'd say that's the most common location, this is where the Calangio carcinomas tend to really, really reside and occur. And so when you think about that, bile is being obstructed, it's supposed to come down through the right and left hepatic ducts from the intraepatic duct system and then move downwards, but it's not. And so what ends up happening is it starts to back up and that's when you can start getting bile back flow. So when we talk about these perihylar tumors, essentially we're taking a biliary epithelium. We're taking a biliary epithelium that is completely normal. I know, please don't hate me, it's the same thing, I'm repeating it, I get it, but we're gonna turn it into a cancerous, a cancerous biliary epithelium. And the whole point here is that we took this cell that looked completely normal, it was smiling, cheesing all day, and then what happened is it became a cryer, it became a cancerous cell. What happened in that timeframe of what took it from this cell to this cell? And again, it comes down to genes, some kind of genes were mutated, it's probably certain genes like proto-oncho genes that got activated, hyper-activated I would say, and tumor suppressor genes that got turned off. So it's gonna be some type of proto-oncho gene and then some type of tumor suppressor gene. Now there are so many genes that you can definitely think about, I don't think that these are relevant and something that you should waste your time on. What I do think that you need to know is what's kind of triggering this? And the most common kind of trigger is a biliary tract inflammation. And what I mean by that is it has to be usually chronic. So that's when I talked about the particular condition called PSC, primary sclerosing colongitis. This is the big, big trigger. And what we see with this one is you'd have a patient who comes in and they probably have inflammatory bowel disease of sorts, right? So this one I want you to remember is it is associated with which one of the inflammatory bowel diseases is more likely, ulcerative colitis, I know you said it, I know you did. So this one is definitely more associated with UC, ulcerative colitis. Now we can go back and we can talk about this when a patient has primary sclerosing colongitis. If you remember, we can do a quick little recap here. Here you're gonna have your gallbladder, your cystic duct, you're gonna have the hepatic ducts, common...  and on bio-dox. And what we remember, is you can even kind of take these guys in and then, you know, split these out, if you really wanted to. What's really happening is you're getting areas of lots of inflammation. So usually this affects the intrapathic dox, and it also affects the extrapathic dox. So it loves to cause inflammation of all of these apathic dox systems. And then unfortunately what happens is, is you get areas of strictures, and you get areas of inflammation and fibrosis. And that is kind of what really pushes the patient over and the development of that cancerous epithelium. So again, when we talk about cholangial carcinomas, the most common location, this is actually relevant to remember. It's a perihylar tumor. It's the confluence of the left and the right apathic duct. We also call it a clatskin tumor. What triggers them to go from a normal epithelium to a abnormal? It's primutations. What are triggering those mutations? Chronic inflammation of the biliary tract. What's that most often trigger? It's primary sclerosin colon dryness, which is a chronic inflammation associated with sclerosis and strictures of the intra and extrapathic dox. What disease is it associated with? A lot. All sorts of clats, which is a type of IBD. The thing I want you to think about and associate it with cholangial carcinoma is again, because it is obstructing a biliary tract, you're gonna get backflow. You're gonna get backflow, dude. I mean, it's just gonna happen, right? You're gonna get some kind of obstruction here. Bile is supposed to be coming down, but it's gonna be obstructed. And so what's gonna happen is this bile is gonna backflow, this is gonna backflow, and then it's gonna get into your circulatory system. And so what you're gonna end up having is you're gonna have a buildup in two things. A buildup of bilirubin and a buildup of bile salts. And this should sound relatively familiar. I know it does. So if you have lots of bile salts, they may in some way, shape, or form work against the histamine production by your mast cells. And then you also are gonna have bilirubin. And bilirubin is going to be a little son of a gun that it will go and deposit into a lot of different tissues. And so what happens is these collectively may cause some problems. Well, bilirubin loves to go to the eyes, it loves to go to the skin, but bile salts has an affinity to maybe have some kind of reaction with basophils or mast cells, where there's some type of histamine response. And so what you end up getting out of this is you end up with jaundice. So we can end up with jaundice, which is we're gonna kind of combine these two, which is that yellowish discoloration. Usually if it's of the eyes, it's ichterous. But we're just gonna combine this for now. We're gonna say they could have jaundice. And that could be the yellowish discoloration of the eyes and the skin, usually the palms and the hands, soles of the feet, right? The other thing, as the bile salts, are gonna love to trigger itching. They're gonna trigger like a histamine response of some sort, and that is gonna cause pyridis. Now, theoretically, theoretically, yes, if I were to say, can't this have this tumor obstruct going down the biliary tree and getting into the intestine, 100%. It's just less likely. It's less likely for these to cause complete total obstruction, where you're not gonna get bile acids and bilirubin into the actual duodenum. So they still don't oftentimes have intense deficiencies. Usually vitamin A, D, E, K deficiencies, that's associated with a fat malabsorption. So they can get a lot of things. That's what we talked about a little bit over with pancreatic adenocarcinoma, is they can definitely get fat malabsorption. That's associated with vitamin A deficiencies, D, E, K. Lots of problems with that weight loss in steatoria. You don't oftentimes get that as much with this one. But what we will potentially see is that if you have a tumor here and you're gonna be like, oh my gosh, I get it, weight loss, I get it, you can get cancer catechia. These can secrete things like interleukin one, interleukin six, tumor necrotic factor alpha. When that happens, they hit the good old hypothalamus. Hypothalamus is a beast, man. It's a master of especially a lot of our primitive and just overall functions. Whenever the hypothalamus is hit with these cytokines, it obviously can change our body temperature. It can change the way that we eat. And unfortunately, what that may look like is satiety. So you don't really have that desire to eat. And if you don't have that desire to eat, you may start to experience some anorexia. And so we can see things like satiety, really kind of becoming problematic. We can see things like anorexia. We can see other kinds of features like weight loss. So there's a lot of things I think that come into play associated with cancer catechia. So whenever I have a patient who comes in, let's say that they present a vignette, patient has an underlying history of ulcerative colitis. They now present with features of piritis. They also present with jaundice. And they also present with weight loss. What should you start thinking? They may have primary sclerosis and colonitis that has been going on for a long time now. And now it's potentially progressed to them developing a clangio carcinoma. What do we gotta do? Well, first thing is if they have jaundice, I should check the LFTs, make sure that those aren't elevated. Because here's the thing, whenever patients have increased bilirubin, the other one that's oftentimes associated with this, and we'll talk about this in the, we talk about a lot in our LFTs lecture, but we're gonna talk about it in the diagnostic workup. Whenever a patient has jaundice, you definitely wanna check the bili, but the other one that we like to check, the other LFT is alkaline phosphatase. That's probably gonna be elevated too. So an increase in alkylphosphate, an increase in bili, and not a profound increase in your AST and your ALT, scream more of a colistasis. And that's what you see with this, and with the pancreatic carcinoma. That's when we go to consider doing a write-up or quadrenultra sound. And if I looked at this, I would probably see some ductile dilation. But would I see a pancreatic mass? No. So that's when you have to do further testing. So usually we do something called an MRCP, but we'll get into that, which really visualizes the biliary treat and helps us to find that mass. So this is what I want you to think about. PSC, a tumor here at the confluence, they can get some colistasis due to this obstruction and some cancer catechia. Now that we've put all of this together, we've talked about these cancers heavily. Let's now get into really systematically approaching them one by one. The first thing is I want to kind of combine pancreatic and clangiocarcinomas, because oftentimes they present with a similar kind of classic finding, and that is obstructive jaundice, right? So when you think about this, when a patient is obstructive jaundice, usually one of the ways that they'll present is with that yellowish discoloration of the eyes. It may also be kind of like a yellowish-brownish discoloration of the hands and the feet, usually palms and soles areas. But this is one thing to think about. When I have something like that, the question that you often have to ask is, what is that coming from? Is it coming because of the hepatocellular injury? The cells are dying, they're spilling out AST, ALT, alkyphos, bilirubin. Is it because of a mixed injury where there's kind of a hepatocellular injury and then some type of biliary disease? For specifically, more specifically, colistasis, something that's kind of decreasing the flow of bile through the biliary tree, like a stone or a cancer. Or is it usually a primary colistatic pattern, something that's only causing an increase in the alkyphos, the bilirubin, the GGT? They don't have this significant increase in the AST and ALT. So that's what I wanna know. And I think the best way to determine that is to get some LFTs. If I get the LFTs and they show a primary colistatic pattern, which is usually the increased alkyphos, increased bile, not really as significant or really in the increase as much in the AST and the ALT. Mixed, you would have both of them being pretty increased. And if it was hepatocellular, you would only really have the increased AST, the ALT. And you may have an increase in kind of a mixture of the bilirubin as well. But I think this is really what screams colistasis to me. So then the question is, okay, is it in the biliary tree, specifically in the bile duct, hepatic ducts? Or is this somewhere down towards where the bile duct and the pancreatic ducts kind of come together? So that's what I have to start thinking about. And that's why these kind of go nicely together in this algorithm. So what I would say is let's get a write-up or quadrant ultrasound. That'll evaluate the biliary ducts. It'll evaluate the pilliative, the pancreatic head. It'll also evaluate the liver, the gallbladder. Just make sure that there's nothing else that's kind of like, hey, I didn't expect that to pop up. So when you see this, let's say that you evaluate these patients and you find, oh my gosh, hey, there is a biliary tract mass. Yeah, okay, that definitely would be very, very helpful, especially if there's maybe some associated biliary tract dilation. That could stream maybe that they have a billion or some type of Calangio carcinoma. And the only way that I would say that we could go to the next step here is to get a non-invasive image. And I think MRCPs are really the way to go here. And MRCPs are beneficial because they're gonna be a magnetic resonance Calangio pancreatography. They're gonna give you a good visualization of that biliary tree and some of the pancreatic tree. And so if I look at this, I can see that all of these hepatic ducts are coming down. And I'm getting to that common hepatic duct and the biliary tree. And look, I can see this, there is some flow. But what I'm noticing is that there is a very narrowed area there's a pretty good stricture. Now that stricture could be primary sclerosis and colongitis. It could even maybe be something going on with like PBC, like primary biliary cirrhosis. There's a lot of different things that this could be due to. The question has to become is it Calangio carcinoma or not? And then MRCP is kind of like the initial point here to say that something is definitely going on with these hepatic ducts. And I have to evaluate it further. That's where I think an ERCP comes into play. And the ERCP is beneficial because it'll visualize what you're actually seeing in the actual biliary ducts. I'm going to run a scope down. This is an example of someone who has like gallstones with the same kind of concept exists. They are going to run this down, run this into the biliary tree and you're going to visualize this. ERCP is obviously great for helping to retrieve gallstones and place in stensive need be. But it's also going to be grateful for diagnostic purposes such as we can do like a little brush biopsy. So if I ran this scope up and I say, oh my gosh, there's a mass here in the biliary tract. I can then scrape or do a little brush biopsy to collect some cells and send it off to the pathologists and say, hey, does this come back as a Calangio carcinoma or not? And if it does, boom, there's our diagnosis. On the flip side, let's say that the right upper quadrilateral ultrasound showed me that I have a pancreatic mass and then the biliary ducts, you know, that are a little bit more above that, they're dilated because that pancreatic mass is pressing where the main pancreatic duct and the common bowel duct fuse together. And so that's causing compression at that site, causing biliary, what, tree dilation. That would really scream to me, there's a possibility of a pancreatic mass. And a CT scan of the abdomen, really with a pancreatic protocol, is going to be the best way to visualize this pancreatic mass. And what I'd be looking for is I'd be looking for that double duct dilation, main pancreatic duct dilation and common bowel duct dilation with a mass that's usually explaining that process. And here we can see this patient definitely has a mass and it's causing some biliary tree dilation and then some main pancreatic duct dilation. So that's our double duct sign. That's pretty consistent with pancreatic cancer. Now, again, I could go to the next step and I could get what's called a endoscopic ultrasound and do a biopsy in that area. The benefit of this is that when we run this one down, we're running the scope all the way down to where we think the pancreatic mass is. And we can kind of actually kind of see how far it's invaded within the pancreas. And we can even take and use the needle off of this and biopsy particular areas, maybe the tumor itself, maybe some lymph nodes that are involved. And this is a pretty helpful test and it's gonna tell me if there's pancreatic adenocarcinoma. That's a benefit of this one. Now, once we've diagnosed this and we've said, oh, this patient definitely has pancreatic cancer, we've made a pretty official diagnosis to say that the obstructive jaundice is due to colandiocarcinoma or it's due to pancreatic cancer. Now, one other thing I think that comes up a lot on the exams, I wouldn't put all of your money into this but I would think about it. If they ever mentioned something about CA-199, theoretically, this can be elevated in both pancreatic and colandiocarcinomas. However, I would say it's going to be more likely to see this in the pancreatic cancer. When we talk about this as a diagnostic tool, that's not truly what it's meant to do. It's more designed to guide how well did the treatment that we put into place work. So I want you to remember that it guides prognosis and treatment planning. It's not, you really use for making a diagnosis. So again, the reason why is this can be falsely elevated in obstructive jaundice. That's why it's really important. So when a patient has obstructive jaundice, sometimes we actually have to wait. Wait for it to relatively normalize or get close to that before we can actually interpret these tests. So that's why it's really important to just remember it's more as an indicator of how well did they respond to a Whipple procedure? How well did they respond to some type of in-block bowel duct resection of some sort? That's what we're trying to look for with this. Let's now move our attention to a Patosilocarsanoma. So with this, the way that you would think this presents is not what you would think. It wouldn't be like a right upper quadrant abdominal pain oftentimes. It's not going to be some kind of like weird presentation like that. You may have, it is always possible for them to come in with an acute increase in their LFTs. But oftentimes what we would see, especially in the clinical scenarios, is that you'd have a patient come in with decompensated cirrhosis. So they have an underlying history of cirrhosis. It's compensated. They have no problems with their LFTs. They have no problems with any kind of nuance at jaundice or psities or esophageal varices. Hepatoreinal syndrome, SBP, you go down the list. There's no evidence of decompensation. All of a sudden they do compensate. Why? Again, we talked about this. Could be that the carcinoma is obstructing some of those hepatic veins and reducing the venous outflow that's causing congestion, that's causing more of a Patosilocard dysfunction. And that can lead to an increase in LFTs, a jaundice, a nuance at a psities by causing portal hypertension. Sometimes the clots can travel into the portal veins. And if they travel into the portal veins, you can even get portal venous hypertension and that could start causing again, nuance at a psities. So I think that's the key thing is that usually it's just the actual cancer, did it spread and did it invade, did it cause thrombosis or did it do something to the vasculature of the hepatic veins or the portal veins that threw them into a decompensated state? I think when you have a patient who comes in with any evidence of something going on with their liver, which you would assess based upon jaundice, increased LFTs, nuance at a psities, and they have a history of cirrhosis, they have a history of hepatitis B virus infection, a right upper quadrant ultrasound is going to be one of the best things that you can do. And the same concept, if I have a patient who has compensated cirrhosis or they have chronic HPV infection, we shouldn't let the patients get to this state. We shouldn't let them become decompensated. So one of the ways that we try to do that is that we will monitor these patients, usually somewhere around every six months or so. And you'll do that with a right upper quadrant ultrasound and we often will order what's called an AFP level. We talked about this alpha-futile protein. This is a serum tumor marker that is oftentimes found to be elevated in cases like a Paticella carcinoma. We've also seen that it's elevated in yolk sac tumors, both ovarian and disticular tumors. So this is something I would actually be trending on these patients to say, hey, AFP levels are consistently going up, it's now greater than 20. Or I'm looking at the right upper quadrant ultrasound and I don't see any kind of a PADIC lesion, but all of a sudden I see a PADIC lesion and it's a size that I'm actually starting to get concerned about. That's when we have to evaluate these patients further. So if you're screening them as you should be here, anybody who has cirrhosis, anybody who has hepatitis B virus infection, you should screen them according to this guideline. If they come in decompensated, oftentimes you're gonna work them up with the right upper quadrant ultrasound anyway. You may not think to get an AFP level right after the get go, which will probably get a right upper quadrant ultrasound. What you're looking for this is, is there a PADIC lesion? And is that a PADIC lesion greater than or equal to one centimeter? If it is, that deserves a further evaluation and a deeper look. We should do what's called a tri-phase akylical CT scan, if that's the case. Another indication is if the AFP levels are really high. So if the AFP levels, let's say they just doubled or they increased or they went up to greater than a 20, that's something that would make me want to evaluate that, especially if a patient has known cirrhosis, they have known chronic hepatitis B virus infection. I want to make sure that I check that out and that's when I would get this tri-phasic CT. I'd say the CT is gonna be more preferable in MRI, you can also do that one as well. Now you look at this at different phases, which is the unenhanced phase. And what you can obviously see is that there is an isodensity to a slightly kind of like hypotenuation that you can kind of appreciate here. But what we really look for, as we can see that this is definitely a pretty obvious mass here, what you start to notice is look, it kind of in this arterial phase, you get some hyper enhancement. It's definitely kind of got like some darker kind of areas here, but you definitely have some brightening effects and that's due to the enhancement of that tumor during the arterial phase. And then what happens is you go into the venous washouts. So now it's not any hyper enhancement here, most of the liver, it's actually washing out through that portal venous circulation. And that's when we can appreciate this classic presentation where there is a hyper intensity of the mass on the arterial phase with portal venous washout during the portal venous phase. And that's pretty consistent with this patient having, again, a patocellular carcinoma. So from that point, we can say, all right, this patient has a patocellular carcinoma. Do I need to biopsy? No, we actually have found that it is really, really important to go based off of imaging and that is usually gonna be enough. If the imaging is inconclusive, then maybe you can bring about that discussion, but the problem with sticking a needle into this tumor and doing a biopsy is you risk bleeding. That's one thing, especially if it's like a patocellular adenoma. But the other thing is you can seed the tumor. And I think that's where it's relatively risky. And it's just better in these kinds of situations if you have that concern, then I would say it's probably better to talk about surgical options, all right? So here we've diagnosed it, boom, let's move into gallbladder cancer. Gallbladder cancer is a relatively rare cancer. And I think it's because most of the times, patients who have what we would say is chronic cholecystitis and they have that diagnosis, that's a concerning feature and that puts you at pretty high risk of developing gallbladder cancer. Another one that puts you around the 30 to 40% risk of gallbladder cancer is a porcelain gallbladder, that thickened calcified gallbladder. And so these patients, they come in with very vague symptoms. It's probably symptoms similar to cholecystitis. Do they have right upper quadrant abdominal pain that's recurrent, it's persistent, it doesn't necessarily go away. You'll probably get a right upper quadrant ultrasound, because again, it's in that area, you're gonna look at the liver, you're gonna look at the gallbladder, you're gonna look at the bilir tree, you're gonna look at the pancreas, that's the whole goal. When you do that, what you'll probably find is, oh my gosh, there is a weird intraluminal mass, there's some thickening of the gallbladder wall. That is definitely abnormal, I should further evaluate that, right? And so that's when you do a CT, I think a CT MRI is gonna be a really good way, because it'll actually show you, the key thing is, did this spread into the liver? That's what we wanna know, because that's gonna change a little bit of the surgery, because obviously if this was just confined to the gallbladder, you do a simple cholecystectomy. If it's extended its way into the liver, as you can appreciate here, sadly, we may have to do a cholecystectomy, but extend that out and do a little bit of a paddock resection as well. So that's why I think this test is pretty beneficial to see how much it's kind of invaded, all right? Either way, we've determined that the patient has gallbladder cancer. All right, gallbladder cancer, again, I can't stress this enough. It's not something that we usually identify from a chief complaint or based upon clinical presentation. It's oftentimes more than not diagnosed incidentally. When a patient gets a cholecystectomy, they send it off to the pathologist, and the pathologist says, oh my gosh, they had gallbladder cancer. All right, perfect, we just dealt with it and we treated it anyway by removing it. And so that is truly the benefit of this. And if a patient has a porcelain gallbladder, you should be getting a cholecystectomy, because it puts you at pretty high risk. All right, that covers the way that we would think about these clinically when it comes to how do I determine which step? How do I know what I order? How do I know how to interpret that test? How do I do what is the next step based upon the results of the prior test? And I hope that you feel a little bit more comfortable with that now. But once we've determined that the patient has pancreatic cancer, so we went through the appropriate step. They have jaundice, I did the LFTs, I did the right of a quadrenultrasonic, I got the CT scan, I did the EUS with the biopsy, and I found that they have pancreatic cancer, and it's in the pancreatic headers, in the pancreatic body and tail, what do I do? Well, I think the key thing is if they have a cancer somewhere within that pancreatic head, this is where we can really consider offering something called a Whipple procedure. There's different surgical options that are coming about, but this is one that we found to be pretty beneficial. And so you're obviously cutting a couple different areas that are kind of crucial here. So what I'm showing you is that we're cutting off the biliary tree, we're kind of separating the pancreas, we're kind of separating the kind of distal part here of the stomach as it's getting ready to dump into the duodenum, and we're gonna kind of piece these areas back together. And what we're gonna do is we're gonna suture this duodenum, or the jugenum in this case, actually, to the pancreas, and then we're gonna suture that common hepatic duct to the actual jugenum, and then we're gonna suture this stomach to the jugenum. The whole point is that I still have a way for the pancreas to empty the pancreatic enzymes into the small intestine, I still have a way for the biliary tree to dump bile into the small intestine, and I still have a way for the stomach to empty the fluid and food contents into the small intestine. And so all of that was done in an attempt to let's remove the pancreatic head, all right? We gotta get rid of that mass. All right, I hope that makes sense. Again, you're kind of cutting different areas, you're rerouting them to have the common hepatic duct dump into the jugenum, stomach into the jugenum, pancreas into the jugenum, and that one little piece that we cut, we're gonna make it more of just a stump, or kind of like, we're gonna shut that area down. When you have a pancreatic tail tumor, then unfortunately we're probably gonna have to just do kind of a distal pancreatic resection. And then what we'll also do is depending upon if it's near or invaded into the vasculature around the spleen, we'll probably maybe even have to cut out the spleen as well. All right, now another consideration to these patients is when you do the Whipple procedure, you're theoretically removing the tumor, right? Or at least hopefully all of it, you get good tumor margins, whether it's the Whipple, whether it's the distal pancreaticctomy with the splenica removal. But what we also have to consider is the utilization of chemotherapy. Now this chemotherapy is also, we kind of have two different options, Gemside to Beans, a common one, Fulfurinox is another one. I don't think that you're gonna be super significantly tested on these, and we'll talk about all of these different types of chemotherapy to gageans, because I know that there's so many of my, I know it's challenging, we'll do it on its own lecture. But these are really gonna be neoadjuvant. And so if I have a tumor that's a pretty decent size one, and I'm about to do a surgery, or I'm gonna do a Whipple, I really wanna get that tumor to be as small as possible. And so I can actually achieve a really successful surgical margin. And so that's where I think that this is where we're gonna find this being truly beneficial. Adjuvant, meaning we're gonna give it after. So we're gonna give this to downstage the tumor, get it smaller, hopefully get it to where it's easier on the surgical procedure. Then afterwards, after we've hopefully cut out the tumor, is there any chance that there's any residual tumor cells that are microscopic that I didn't see? That adjuvant chemotherapy should help to kill any of that residual microscopic tumor cells that remain. All right? The other option is if a patient can't get a Whipple, or they can't get a distal pancreatectomy, maybe because of unfortunately their age, maybe because of the degree upon it's invaded into other structures, whatever it may be that they are not a true surgical candidate, this may be the only option to reduce the progression of that disease, reduce it from continuing to get bigger and invading and invading and invading. And that is really the only unfortunate benefit there. And again, I think this goes back to the discussion here that when we talk about pancreatic cancer, how do we know if the Whipple actually helped? Well, obviously symptom improvement, obviously we're gonna have a lot of different things that we're monitoring for like anastomotic leagues and monitoring their abdominal pain. We'll potentially do a repeat serial imaging to make sure that the tumor is not coming back. But CA-199 levels would probably be a part of that workup and you could be tested on this to know, I wanna monitor those and if that is going down, that is a potential positive prognostic sign. And if it starts to trim back up, oh no, could they have recurrence? It may trigger you to get an image. It may trigger you to kind of go and look and see if there's any signs of unfortunately that they relapsed, all right? That covers your pancreatic cancer. Now, Calangio carcinoma in this one is relatively straightforward. It's actually just a surgical resection. You're gonna find that perihiler mass, right? It's usually gonna be where that left bile duct, usually the left, the right, the right of paddock come to the confluence there. That's where we oftentimes tend to have these tumors. And so we'll probably do like a little surgical resection. We'll kind of remove this biliary tree out of here. And sometimes what we might even have to do is if that tumor, it did kind of extend inwards. Sometimes we even have to do like little resections. But that just depends on if how deep it actually got, right? Now, the other thing that we'll wanna do is, is we'll wanna consider adjuvant chemotherapy. So some type of side to being of some sort, this is what we would do after they've gotten that surgical procedure. So again, you're trying to go in and you're trying to literally remove out that bile duct where that section of the cancer is. And then after that, you may even, depending upon if it got into the liver, you may have to remove a little wedge of the liver. After I've removed that cancer, I wanna make sure I got any microscopic residual tumors that I don't see, that's where the adjuvant chemotherapy would come into play. Now, chemotherapy, we can also consider giving to these patients usually in these three drugs. This would be if they have, you know, I'd say it's pretty significant like vascular invasion. It's pretty significant to where I probably can't even do a surgical procedure, unfortunately, for these patients. And this will just reduce the progression, the size, and the unfortunate invasion of this tumor as much as you can. All right? So surgical resection, removing that area of where the actual tumor is, sometimes a little bit of a patech resection may be necessary. And then adjuvant chemotherapy. If they unfortunately have a lot of vascular invasion, it's invasive, you may not be able to do this successfully without sacrificing a lot of vessels and unfortunately leading to things like maybe a patech ischemia because you cut off a potential vessel or a feeder around that area. And then you maybe just be stuck with palliative chemotherapy. Now, again, I think the important thing to remember here is that we make the diagnosis as we can see written here via ERCP with biopsy. If they have vascular invasion, again, it doesn't say, pretends a poor prognosis. And the reason why is, if I go in surgically and I'm trying to remove a tumor for that's encasing and surrounding vessels, I run the risk of cutting that vessel. I run the risk of sacrificing that vessel. And unfortunately, whatever that vessel supplies, the liver, other tissues around it, you run the risk of ischemia. You run the risk of having that organ, unfortunately experiencing necrosis of some sort. And so that's why it's better to err on the side of caution. And we would say it's better to actually consider more of a palliative approach. All right? A palatocerelar carcinoma is actually quite an interesting cancer. If you do happen to ever see this and it is diagnosed or you screen for it and you find it unfortunately as well, I mean, I guess you could say fortunately if you find it before it's a little advanced. There's a lot of different things that you can do and it kind of depends upon the degree of the disease. So if I have a patient who, unfortunately these patients usually have cirrhosis. And even with hepatitis B, they probably have some degree of cirrhosis. So they already have a compromised liver architecture. They probably already have a decrease in their liver function. They may already be on the verge of developing things like portal hypertension. And so your question then becomes if I want to remove a piece of liver and I already have a liver that's struggling, I already have a liver who can, he's just literally, he's meeting the standards right now of being functional. And I remove a big portion of tissue. Do I compromise that person's liver where they can easily develop liver failure postoperatively? And that's what you have to discuss. And so there's a couple of different options here. One is we could consider things like radiofrequency ablation, right? You're hitting them with these radiofrequency ways. It's a targeted area. So obviously with that, you have to have kind of a smaller kind of tumor. It can't be too big, usually less than or equal to three centimeters, but they can have any portal hypertension. That's something that they could benefit from, right? You have other options. I think radiofrequency is the best. You can do microwave ablation. You could do cryoablation as well. But again, radiofrequency is going to be the primary one that we would utilize. Another option is surgical resection. So this is when you have to start asking yourself the question, can I do a surgical resection? If they have significant liver dysfunction, if they have portal hypertension and you remove a chunk of the liver, you run the risk of these patients developing liver failure. So if they have a solitary tumor and it's a little bit bigger than three centimeters, but it's not greater than five centimeters. So it's less than or equal to five centimeters. They don't have severe liver dysfunction. They don't have portal hypertension. I think it's safe for me to remove a portion of that liver where the tumor is. And this is where we get into partial hepatectomies. You do not have to know this, but for example, if I take into consideration that I divide these liver up into different types of lobes or mini lobes, if I wanted to only remove this little portion where the tumor is, I could do a wedge resection. Maybe I could do a left hepatectomy if it's operating or it's kind of confining itself to most of the left lobe of the liver. I could do an extended left hepatectomy. I could do only a segment hepatectomy of that left lobe. I could do a right extended hepatectomy, or I could only do a right hepatectomy, or I could do a right posterior section hepatectomy that you get the point. Depending upon where the tumor is, I can remove that different section or lobe or extend it beyond that.  alylob, it just is very, very critical because I can only do this if they have at least a decent liver function and no portal hypertension. That's the key there. So that gives you the point there, surgical resection. Liver transplant is probably a patient who just, they already have significant liver disease. They already have portal hypertension. They have pretty significant decreased liver function. They have significant amounts of fibrosis. This patient, if you removed a good chunk of the liver, they probably would end up going into a Q liver failure. That's something I need to consider. And so in that scenario, if they have a tumor that's less than or equal to five and they got portal hypertension, or they got lesions all over the place, then I have to remove so many parts of the liver, which I leave very small amounts left with, I should just do a liver transplant. And that's where I think it would be best to just swap it out, out with the old and with the new. All right. The next thing is a transarteriochemoembolization, also referred to as a taste. This is something I'd say that you can consider. I'd say it's when you have a bunch of different lesions. All right, so multifocal lesions. Now, obviously in this scenario, you'd be like, okay, why not just do the liver transplant? You can do this, but they just, here's the key thing to this procedure. Obviously you don't run, you have to get this patient on a transplant list. There's a lot of different things that goes into a liver transplant. So if I have multifocal lesions, if I don't go to a liver transplant, I could consider doing a taste. The one key thing here is that you are going to embolize vessels. If these patients have a tumor that's invading the portal vein, you'd knock out the blood flow. One of the sources of venous flow, or at least flow in or out of the liver. If I knock that out, I run the risk of damaging the liver even more. So I need to make sure that that portal venous circulation is not occluded. There's no tumor that's invaded around it or in it. Because if I go and I chemoembolize a particular area and I knock off flow, I just also knock out a source in. And on top of that, I'm affecting another way of blood getting into the liver. Don't want to do that. So you need to make sure that portal vein is patent as can be. What we do is we take a catheter, we've thread this up through the arteries. We run this into the hepatic artery, hepatic artery proper, and you literally will infuse in a chemo agent directly into that tumor. But here's the other thing, I'm going to embolize. So now only am I giving chemo particles, I'm going to give other particles that are going to embolize. So if I imagine here for a second, I'm going to embolize the blood flow as well to that tumor. If I help to kill the actual tumor with the chemo, and I give emboli agents, so things that are going to knock off the blood flow into the area. I reduce the blood flow to the tumor, I reduce the oxygen supply, the nutrient supply. I'm starving the tumor of everything it needs to continue to proliferate in supply and grow. So that's one of the benefits of doing a taste. And what you can do this for multifocal lesions, is just you can't have another vascular circuit being invaded or clotted off or filled with tumor. That is the key thing for this one. The last thing is we can consider, and we've seen this throughout multiple aspects of our oncology section, which is that immunotherapy. These immune checkpoint inhibitors are becoming a really, really popular and kind of go-to agent that we can give in patients with more of the advanced stages of cancer. And so one of the concepts behind this, let's say that you have a tumor cell, and this is for a patient who has a pedocelular carcinoma. And here you have a T cell. Normally these cells will express specific proteins. One is called a PD1 ligand, and the other one's called a T cell receptor. The T cell receptor will interact with a MHC complex, usually on that tumor cell, and it's gonna be via an antigen that's expressed on the surface. And then the PD1 interacts with what's called the PDL1. Now, if I give a drug that can bind onto the PDL1, what happens is I don't allow for the PD1 to click with it. Why is that beneficial? When PD1 and PDL1 interact with one another, these T cells get tricked. The tumor cell tells the T cell, hey, don't kill me. Don't mess with me, I'm okay. I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm normal. And then the T cell kind of says, okay, cool, I'm gonna back off and move on. If I give a drug that blocks that interaction between the PD1 and the PDL1, now that crosstalk between the T cell and the tumor cell isn't gonna be there. That tumor cell can't tell them then, hey, I'm normal. And so what happens? The T cell reviews this tumor cell as being abnormal, and then guess what it does? It kills that cell. That's the benefit of this. This is when you have a portal vein that's really occluded, a paddock vein that's included, and you can't do a taste. So if I have a tumor and there's lots of invasion of vessels, I can't safely go ahead and do this taste procedure. That's where I would reach to something like an anti-PDL1 antibody, an immune checkpoint and have a like a tessellism map, and that's gonna be beneficial in this potential scenario. Now, another one that you can consider is, this one actually does make a lot of sense. And so you know, VEGF receptor, that's a vascular antithelial growth factor. What we know is that growth factors, especially VEGF binds to this receptor, stimulates a lot of genes that are involved in what? The production of VEGF. And VEGF is a very strong chemical that is going to act on blood vessels, especially endothelial cells, and it's gonna cause them to proliferate and make more vessels. What's that called? Angiogenesis. Angiogenesis is gonna supply lots of oxygen and nutrients to the tumor in this kind of scenario. If I gave a drug that blocked that kind of concept, I blocked VEGF, like with bevicizumab. I inhibit that kind of interaction. I shut down the release of MorvaGF. I shut down that angiogenesis and the supply to the blood tumor. I starve the tumor of its nutrients and its oxygen. And theoretically, it will die. All right, so that covers a lot of different mechanisms that we can treat a padicellular carcinoma with. Obviously, when you think about this, again, radiofrequency ablation, small tumor, they don't have any underlying liver compromise, no portal hypertension, so they can survive a little bit of localized killing of the tumor, but some of the surrounding normal hepatocytes. If the tumor's a little bit bigger, or I can't do the RFA, and it's not gonna provide as much benefit in this scenario, but their liver function's good, they got no portal hypertension, I could cut out a bigger section of the liver. If I gotta cut out a good chunk of the liver, or I gotta cut out chunk of multiple different areas of the liver, and they already have liver compromise, they got portal hypertension, they won't survive, hepatectomy, I gotta put in a new liver. If they have multifocal nodules or lesions, but in this case, they don't have portal hypertension, but the portal vein is kind of like not invaded, it's fine. I can safely, instead of kind of pushing to do something like a liver transplant, I could theoretically do a TACE, and so that's going to do chemo and embolize the feeders to that tumor, right? If I have, where a tumor's invaded the actual portal vein, it's invaded maybe the hepatic veins, and it's kind of causing problems there, that's when I have to say I can't do a TACE, in this case, I have to go ahead and consider something like a systemic immunotherapy. Your anti-PDL1 would be the first line, and your VEGF inhibitors would be more that second line. All right, one other thing to remember is that we always want to monitor those AFP levels, post resection, any kind of surgical procedure that we do to say, hey, do we have complete remission? In other words, we're noticing that the levels are trending down, or is an unfortunate recurrence or relapse if those levels are coming back up, and that may trigger us to say, okay, we gotta go ahead and do another image, we gotta talk about surgical options again. All right, the next one, the gallbladder cancer. So gallbladder cancer, again, with this one, usually you keep it pretty simple, it's diagnosed incidentally, and you actually treat it when you diagnose an incidentally, which is a cholecystectomy. So whenever you have a tumor that's really just confined to the gallbladder, it hasn't gone outside of that area to the liver, you just cut that out, and you're done. But whenever it starts kind of invading into the liver, unfortunately, so it goes gallbladder and starts kind of going past the wall, going in and provides some hepatic invasion, then you have to extend that cholecystectomy out and remove also a chunk of the liver as well. So that would be covering that. Now chemotherapy, you can consider things like cis, platen, gymside, you're kind of probably gonna be doing that more likely after. So adjuvant, you're gonna be doing a post resection to kill any of the microscopic residual tumors that are actually gonna be present. The other thing is that if you unfortunately have a gallbladder cancer, that this thing is decent size, it's invaded the liver, it's invaded some of the vasculature nearby, and it makes it, unfortunately, nonoperable or nonreceptible, then you may only have the one option of chemotherapy. All right? Last thing to remember is, again, cholecystectomy is the key for a patient who has chronic cholecystitis or porous on gallbladder. These carry a risk, a high risk of converting into gallbladder cancer. So it's obviously better to prevent this before it's actually identified, and that's a key thing there. My friends, I really hope that you liked this lecture. I hope you learned a lot. I hope that you understand a lot after this, and I feel like when you get that exam and you're tested on something, I hope that you know, okay, this is what I need to do. I feel confident, I feel ninja, I feel nerdy, and I'm ready to take it to the next level. I love you guys, I thank you guys so much for hanging in, and as always, until next time.