 and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, but sometimes another way that you can describe a perineoplastic syndrome is not just hormones, but these tumors have antigens and your immune system can sometimes produce antibodies that are designed to be against those tumor antigens, but they attack other tissues that have similar molecular mimicry. So I think the overall definition is kind of like proteins that are either produced by the tumor, usually hormonal, that can act on other different kind of target organs, or it's usually kind of an autoimmune phenomenon that's usually related to tumor antigens where those antibodies attack other tissues besides the tumor. So I think that's the best way of describing it. Alright, well we have a lot of cases here, but they're short and they're packed with info. Yeah, yeah, there's a lot of different types of perineoplastic syndromes. I think we'll hit the top tier ones along the way, which is the ones that you'll probably get tested on in the exam, which is what we really want to focus on here. So we'll definitely focus on those, but just know that there is many of them. Okay, case one, we have a 65 year old man. He is a 55 pack year smoker, three weeks of morning headaches, nausea, gait unsteadiness, and worsening confusion. No diuretics, no polydipsia. For his review of systems, we note a mild cough, an eight pound unintentional weight loss. For his vitals, we have BP's 132 over 78, heart rate is 92, he's a fibril. For his exam, he's uvelemic. There's no edema, moist mucus membranes, normal, normal JVP and clear lungs. So overall, we've got some good information here, but what I'm really concerned about is he's been smoking for half a century. He's been smoking for a bit, right? When you really think about it, that's not good. So with this great person, obviously we're about lung cancer, and since we're talking about perineal plastic syndrome, it's oftentimes a cancer that is causing this process where the tumor gains the capacity to produce hormones. Usually small cell lung cancer is the most common neuroendocrine tumor. And when that terminology, you think about neuroendocrine tumor, you think about the capacity to gain the ability to produce hormones. And usually one of them is ADH. It could also be like ACTH, so they can get Coaching Syndrome as well. And then there's also tumor antigens that can mimic other types of, let's say proteins present on our terminals, on the pre-synaptic neurons going to our muscles. And so you can get something called Lambertian syndrome too. So these are three common perineal plastic syndromes that are associated with small cell lung cancer. That's what I'm going with. I'm going with that. And I'm guessing that this patient probably has SIADH. The reason why I think that, and it's just me assuming it kind of off of this, is we have a patient with lung cancer, and then we hear the term headaches, nausea, gait unsteadyness, and worsening confusion. So obviously something cerebral is going on here. Headaches, nausea, gait unsteadyness, and then the worsening confusion could be some kind of cerebral edema due to pretty bad hyponatremia. So that's what I'm thinking. Well, where do you start then? We have a lot of information. Are there any tests or first diagnostic imaging you would go for? Yeah, there's a lot of things that you can come up with. But the first thing I need to do is prove that they have hyponatremia. So I start with a BMP. And that would at least give me most of my serum chemistry and kind of give me a good thing to start off with. Based upon the sodium, if it is low, I want to make sure that it's actually hypotonic hyponatremia. So I'd check a serum osmolality. From there, that would tell me if it's truly hypotonic versus if it's isotonic, which is more of that kind of not really true, or of the hypertonic, which can be due to things like hyperglycemia, man, and tall stuff like that. So I'll do that second. Then after that, based upon the serum osmolality, I'd probably get a urinosmolality to tell me if this is more the weird kind of scenarios where they're having a low-solute intake and a little bit too much water intake. And that would be things like in-stage renal disease, primary polydipsia, teen and toast diet, all those things that we talked about before, beer potomania, and the sodium disorders lecture. From there, I would kind of tell me if I have more of a patient who's really looking like they're in the ADHD dependent process. And then from there, I would look at the volume size, which you already kind of gave me, their uvelemic. So it doesn't give me a lot of large differential for uvelemic, thankfully. So from there, if I think that I have a patient with SAADH, I also have to rule out things like hypothyroidism, adrenal insufficiency. So I would also check that if that got me to that point. And then from there, I'm pretty sure that this patient, just based upon the vignette, it's like a perfect, perfect picture. Probably has lung cancer, so I'd probably get a chest X-ray or chest CT, depending upon what the chest X-ray got solved, showed me. So that's kind of the ways that I would go. Get the BMP, get the urinosmolality. Urine sodium, here, there, with it, it kind of depends, usually, and uvelemic patients, I don't kind of bank on it too much, but it might be helpful. And then, I would check the thyroid function, and I would check a cortisol, and then, chest X, right, and start it off, with, all right, so, I have all those results, here, for you, the tests, that, you, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, So our sodium is 118. Wow! Not good. No. Serum osmolality is 260. Urine osmolality is 550. Urine sodium is 48. And the TSH and AM cortisol is normal. For the imaging on our chest x-ray, we note right hyalurfulness within op for a non-contrast CT. And we find a 3.8 centimeter central mass with bulky nodes. Yeah. So it sounds like S80H. And the reason why I say that is you have low sodium, so you have hypotentremia. Check the serum osms to make sure it's actually true, like hypotonic hypotentremia. You said it was low, 260. So that's hypotonic. Urine osmolality, if it's less than like 100, we go to the beer podomania. We go to the psychogenic polydipsia. We go to T and toast diet. We go to end stage renal disease. But we don't have that. Ours is greater than 300, which puts us into the ADH-dependent processes. So then from there, you look at the volume status to know if it's hypo-euvolimic, hypervolimic. We're in the euvolimic category, so that rules out a lot of the other kind of complications. Urine sodium is high, which again, that doesn't always mean a lot when you're in the euvolimic camp. So then I look at the thyroid function test in the cortisol normal. Rules out hypothyroidism, rules out the adrenal insufficiency. So at that point, we're left with a diagnosis of exclusion, which is S80H. And then the chest x-ray confirms that we have a likely source of that ectopic ADH production with the lung mass. So that's definitely, from here, we got S80H, my friend. All right, so S80H, likely perineoplastic from small cell lung cancer. What do you do for this patient? How do we manage him? Well, usually if it's like, this is pretty severe. So this is usually less than, sodium less than 120, which is a cute drop in the sodium. Severe, less than 120, or symptomatic hyponatremia is always hypertonic saline, 3%, bolsum, nail it. And then I would go to try to push that sodium up. Don't go more than 6 to 8. All right, and remember, sodium disorders lecture, you can risk the ODS, the Osmotic Demonation Syndrome, or another term of central pontine myelinalysis. So you don't wanna go, there's a lot of literature out there that says like you can do eight to 10. Used to be that one, newer literature is suggesting 6 to 8. I would say at least within that eight range. Don't go greater than that. But 6 to 8 is what I like to go off of. And then if it was mild, I could probably just do like fluid restriction, restrict their fluid intake to like maybe, it's hard to keep things less than like 1.5 liters a day. So I'd probably go like no greater than, two liters, even that's a little kind of tough. I'd probably try to just do my best to fluid restrict them. The reason why is if you have a patient who's pumping out ADH, they're gonna bank anything that they drink. So you gotta kind of restrict this so that they're not banking all of that water. And then I give them salt tabs, just simple. It's gonna increase the serum concentration. It might only do like one, two mili equivalents. That's why it's not really good for a severe case like that. And then if it was, let's say that they were on fluid restriction, salt tablets not doing as well. And I just couldn't get that sodium where I wanted it. I would consider things like Vaptans. You just gotta be really careful. Vaptans and ADH antagonists, so it's gonna block ADH and they are going to pee a lot of water. So you can actually put them into DI and cause them to rebound really quick. They can develop hypernatremia. What about the most important thing is the underlying issue? The lung cancer, what are you doing there? Yeah, so while you're doing all these things until you treat the underlying disease, it'll probably just continue to occur and you're just treating, you're kind of just putting a bandaid on it. So obviously treatment of the underlying disease, in this case they have likely small cell lung cancer. So you're kind of limited with chemo-radiation therapies, really all you're gonna have. Depending upon this, I mean, they have some bulky nodes and stuff like that. If it hasn't gotten to the point where it's kind of spread to the other side, you may even consider prophylactic cranial radiation, but really you're stuck with chemo-radiation therapy. Maybe immunotherapy in some circumstances, but that's pretty much what I think that you're stuck with here. All right, case two. We have a 61-year-old female chronic smoker, four months of progressive proximal muscle weakness. Noticing that on stairs, rising from a chair, it just seems a little more tough for her than usual. Easy bruising, facial rounding. I got that. New onset hypertension and leg edema. So we're noticing some, she's got some fluid there. She's holding on to. Yeah, yeah. It's definitely more like in this case, leg edema hypertension. She looks a little like a Michelin man. So yeah, definitely concerning for, I don't know. Obviously when this scenario here, sounds like lung cancer again, but just because of the chronic smoker, but there's some other things here. Whenever I hear facial rounding, I think of... Cushings. Yeah, yeah, moon face. I got you. You're going for moon face. Yeah. Buffalo hump. Yeah, buffalo hump, bibdominal, striall, that stuff like that. All right, so there's some giveaways right there, but furthermore, the patient also reports acne and mood swings. Her review of system, we note a 12-pound weight gain. Her vitals BP is 168 over 96, heart rate is 98. For her exam, we have facial plethora, thin skin with echemosis, mild petyl edema, and then again, we have that proximal weakness in the hips and shoulders. So we are kind of painting that Cushings. Yeah, yeah, usually everything kind of... So problem with Cushings is that because that cortisol strips the muscle off of your extremities. So usually they have thin kind of like very atrophic, a lot of like, you know, catabolism of the muscle tissue. So that's probably explaining a lot of the proximal muscle weakness in the hips and the shoulders is most likely, and that's explaining their difficulties. It also can lead to lipolysis and fat redistribution. So that's probably why they have the facial rounding. And the thin skin is again, due to collagen, connective tissue destruction, that's a protein that's gonna start thinning the skin and they do get a lot of striae and sometimes echemosis. The hypertension is because cortisol actually does increase the sensitivity of norepinephrine, epinephrine on the vessels. So the beta one receptors are gonna be a little more active and the vasoconstrict more. So that probably explains the hypertension. And then cortisol also can lead to a little bit more sodium and water retention. It has a little bit more of an testosterone effect. So that can increase their blood volume and increase their blood pressure. But on top of that, it can lead to some more swelling and edema too. So I think a lot of this does explain more likely kind of a cushion picture. Question is, is just, all right, cortisol is elevated in this possibly? What's it coming from? Is it coming from the pituitary? Or talking about perineoplastic syndrome, right? So is it coming from the pituitary? Or is it coming from the adrenal cortex? Probably not in this case. Or is it coming from another tumor somewhere else in the body? Probably. We just gotta figure out. Some ectopic. Exactly. All right. Well then, you have an idea of how you wanna differentiate things just to be thorough and you wanna differentiate what you just talked about. How do you do that? You start with screening tests. We talked about this in the adrenal disorders. We talked about this in I think Cushing's. We did a video on that one. So if you guys haven't listened to that one, you can check that out or watch that one. But I would start with the screening tests. I would do, you have a couple different options. Late night salivary cortisol is a decent one. I also like the low-dose dexamethasone suppression test. That's a good one. And then you can also just do the urine. Like a 24-hour urine cortisol. I think the easiest one for people is probably the late night salivary cortisol. Having to collect urine for 24 hours is a little bit more difficult for people. And a low-dose dexamethasone suppression test, you have to get a steroid and then go back and check. So oftentimes late night salivary cortisol is preferable. Sometimes you can even do an AM cortisol, just an early morning cortisol as well. But either way, my goal is to check all of these. And a late night salivary cortisol, it'd be elevated. And a patient who has a 24-hour urine cortisol, it would be elevated. If they had a low-dose dexamethasone suppression test, all this is saying is you give them a little bit of dexamethasone, which is a steroid. It kind of acts like cortisol. So you got to think about your negative feedback mechanisms. You give them a cortisol, cortisol is gonna go. It's gonna shut down the hypothalamus and the antipatuitary. They don't produce ACTH. ACTH is then gonna be not produced as much. That's not gonna stimulate the adrenal cortex to produce cortisol. So you should see the cortisol levels drop in a normal person. But if they have something going on where it doesn't matter that you're giving them this steroid, they'll probably not respond anyway, especially if they have an adrenal tumor, pituitary tumor, or an ectopic site somewhere where it's producing it. It's not gonna respond. So that cortisol will be elevated regardless. And so if you have at least like two, I'd say one or two of those screening tests that are positive, you can go to the next thing, which is then saying, okay, cortisol is elevated despite all these things. Where is it coming from? Check the ACTH, because the ACTH will tell you, ACTH is elevated, that's coming from the pituitary or an ectopic site. If the ACTH is low, that means that the adrenal cortex is producing this and it's shutting down the pituitary from producing ACTH. The third test I would do is based upon the ACTH test is I would do a high dose dexamethasone suppression test, especially if the ACTH is high. The reason why is higher doses of dexamethasone suppresses the pituitary tumor, but it can't suppress an ectopic tumor. And so if I give high dose dexamethasone, it should suppress the pituitary tumor from producing ACTH. But that ectopic site won't respond as much and it'll keep producing ACTH and the cortisol will still be elevated. And if that happens, then I'm gonna go ahead and say it's possible it's an ectopic site. The most common site is usually the lung. So I'd probably maybe do a chest x-ray or scan the chest and see if there's a mass there. So that's kind of the ways that I would go about doing this one. All right, we have the results here for you. The cortisol is elevated on two screenings. ACTH is high. For our dexamethasone suppression test, there is no suppression, she doesn't respond. The CT of the chest, we have a central four centimeter mass with media sinon nodes. We also do a BMP and we have a potassium level of 2.9, bicarb of 32 and a glucose level of 2.12. Yeah, drink a lot of sodies. I'm just gonna say, is that a lot of sodies? Now this is definitely, it sounds like ectopic production because cortisol is elevated so they have something that's causing this cortisol to be high. ACTH is high, which means it's either pituitary or ectopic site, no suppression on high dose. That's more an ectopic site. And CT chest showed the ectopic site being small cell lung cancer, most likely. The other, you know, labs that you gave me is cortisol in high, high amounts can act like aldostrum. And so it can cause proton secretion, which can cause metabolic acolysis. And it can cause potassium secretion, which can cause hypokalemia. And so that's probably what you're seeing here. And the glucose 2.12 is because it causes gluconeogenesis, glycogenolosis, it causes a lot of breakdown. It's more of a catabolic hormone, stress hormone really, long-term stress. So that definitely seems like what's going on here for sure skis. How treat? I kid you not, on my script here, Zach wrote these out. He's a very wonderful writer. He wrote, I kid you not, two words, how treat? So he just expects me to maybe elaborate a little bit more. How we treat, Zach, but how treat? So with this one, obviously you'll notice a theme. It's treatment of the underlying disease is the key thing. So removing the tumor is gonna be the key way. Obviously in small cell lung cancer, that's really difficult. So you're kind of stuck with chemo radiation therapy as the primary kind of like therapy, but it'll likely persist. So what you can do is continue to suppress cortisol synthesis. So you're not gonna be able to stop this tumor unfortunately from being able to grow. You may do something with chemo radiation, but it's not gonna be great or immunotherapy. So you're still gonna have the tumor. So what you're gonna do is you can give something, believe it or not, it's an antifungal, ketoconazole. So ketoconazole in systemic form, when you give it an oral form, it actually can suppress the adrenal cortex, the synthesis of cortisol. There's another one called materipone. I've never used it and I've never seen it, but it is an alternative that you can consider as well. And it's, again, a cortisol synthesis inhibitor. So you'll kind of shut down the synthesis of cortisol. So even if that ectopic site is producing ACTH and it's telling the adrenal cortex to make cortisol, you're putting the brakes on that. You're pumping the brakes on that and shutting down the cortisol synthesis. So that's what I would say would be kind of the ways that we would treat this in the scenario. Other than that, you're kind of just treating the underlying kind of side effects of it. Usually, ketoconazole and materipone, that will kind of help you with the elevated cortisol and you'll pricey an improvement in their blood pressure and improvement is on their electrolyte abnormalities, their glucose, things like that. But I was just gonna ask, what about the potassium? Yeah, I mean, from this, if it was low, 2.9, I would probably replace it. I mean, I'd probably, if they're in the hospital and stuff like that, I'd probably maybe give them some K-Riders IV, but I think you could also just do some oral potassium and let it slowly ride up. But treating the underlying disease, it'll kind of shift that cortisol and back down, which will help to eliminate some of that potassium excretion. Gotcha. How about some of the complications you're most concerned for? In this patient, what do you think we're really at risk for? I think the biggest one is when you have cortisol and it's really high for a long period of time, it does suppress your immune system. And so you do see some increased risk of infections. Hyperglycemia is another one. So one of the things I get scared about is if you have a patient who has diabetes or they have underlying history of hyperglycemia and you give them steroids, you run that risk of them having some higher, higher glucoses. And so you could push them, especially if they have diabetes, into a diabetic ketoacidosis. Sometimes you may not push them into that, but into the hyperglycemic hyperosmolar syndrome. So those are the things I get worried about. If you're on steroids for a long time, it can cause the muscles because you're causing so much catabolism, is what I worry about with McGee. He's on steroids. It's my dog, he's a principal, like he's got some spinal issues, but he's on steroids. And when you're on them for a long period of time, it actually can just strip away the muscle. So they can get myopathies. And over time, that can cause them to lose some of that strength. And so that's one of the things I get a little bit worried about as well. But that would be the biggest things, I would say it would be the concern is kind of infections, hyperglycemia, and kind of just overall weakness, especially that they are weak at this point. All right. I'm noticing a trend here. If you haven't watched our lecture on lung cancer, you probably should. Yeah, I know. I know. A lot of small cell lung cancer issues here. Yeah, that's what you notice is that a lot of these perineoplastic syndromes, they're kind of linked back to lung cancer, especially small cell. You'll see there's another one, squamous cell carcinoma. And we talked about this in the Alkologic Emergency that squamous cell carcinoma actually kind of was like, oh, I know what it is. Because you hear that vignette. Squamous cell, adenote, these are really, really big ones. So lung cancer definitely is a knightess a lot for perineoplastic syndromes, you'll see. Case three, we have a 59-year-old male, heavy smoker, five months of progressive proximal leg weakness, more than the arm weakness. He needs his arms in order to push up from a sitting position. He notes dry mouth, constipation, and also erectile dysfunction. The patient has no diphopia or ptosis. And for his review of systems, we have a 10-pound weight loss, chronic cough. For his vitals, they're normal. Neuro exam, we have hip flexors, four out of five strength, patellar achilles reflexes are reduced. And also, which is kind of weird, Zach, we have strength improvement after 10 seconds of a maximal contraction. What does that tell you? It sounds like limbs, Lambert eaten myasthenic syndrome. And really the only thing that kind of tells me that is the strength improves after exertion. Exertion, yeah, that's kind of odd. How does that work? It's usually just repetitive stimulation. So if you have high frequency repetitive stimulation to people who have limbs, limbs is a condition in which the tumor antigens resemble something like the voltage-negated calcium channels on the presynaptic nerve terminals. And so you have antibodies that are produced against these tumor antigens, but they go and they bind onto these voltage-negated calcium channels and they block calcium influx. And then that kind of reduces the acetylcholine release and you get kind of a decreased neuromuscular transmission. If you keep stimulating that muscle with high frequency, kind of constant stimulation, you eventually can cause enough calcium, you can cause enough stimulation where you can overcome that blockage and push enough calcium into the nerve terminal and cause enough acetylcholine release where you can cause the muscle to contract a little bit more powerful. So it would be opposite in this person who has myasthenic gravus. Which usually that's one of the telltale signs is that their strength gets worse with exertion. So we do a lot of tests where we'll kind of have them hold their arms up and see how long they can hold their arms up and stuff. And so we can use it as a way of saying, oh, their strength kind of started, their arms started dropping after 10 seconds. And then you treat them with things like, I used to see a lot of people who were myasthenic crises and so you do things like Plex or IVIG and then what your goal is to see is that strength, can they hold their arms up a little bit longer? How do they look in the beginning of the day as compared to the end of the day when they've been using those extraocular muscles all day? They've been using some of their arm muscles all day. So with this, usually it's kind of the opposite. And also they tend to have autonomic effects too. You don't really get a lot of that, especially when you get the erectile dysfunction, the dry mouth, and then the decreased deep tend to reflexes. So that's interesting in limbs as well. So that's what I'm thinking about is Lambert eating myasthenic syndrome. And again, heavy smoker associated with lung cancer. Myasthenic gravus, usually this could just be, we don't have a lot of great reasons, but we usually associate it with a tumor called a thymoma. So sometimes we can associate it with that. But this is what I'm thinking is limbs. Okay, well then what tests are you gonna order for this patient right away? You can do a nerve stimulation test or even an EMG and stuff like that as well. That's fine. I think the key thing is whenever you see these on the exams, they'll talk about you, you have a repetitive nerve stimulation test. Your high frequency stimulation of the nerve will cause their strength to improve. If you see an incremental response in their actual strength with, or at least the nerve kind of like firing, within high frequency stimulation, then that really suggests more Lambert eating. If you did low frequency stimulation to the nerve and you saw that it had a decremental response, that suggests more myasthenic gravus. But the way that we truly determine this is that it's an antibody. So a lot of this is tumor antigens, antibodies that are being produced against the tumor antigen, but they're attacking the voltage gated calcium channel. So we test what's called an anti-PQ, which is a presynaptic voltage gated calcium channel antibodies. So those come back positive and you see that on the exam, it's Lambert eating myasthenic syndrome. That's gonna be usually the way that we'll kind of look for that more and the true kind of clinical stuff here for your exam. That's what I would start off with. And then again, smoker probably coming from the lung, probably small cell, get some chest imaging to take a look there as well. Okay. Well, we do the repetitive nerve stimulation test. We know an incremental response is present. That anti-voltage gated calcium channel is positive. And then we do a CT of the chest and we find a mediastinal small cell tumor. I don't know how they would know it's small cell off of CT, but hey, we're going off of that. Also, I wrote these. Yeah, I was just gonna say, I'm not gonna lie. I'm just reading what you wrote there. Yeah, I know. But no, in all seriousness, this suggests more limbs. So incremental response to repetitive nerve stimulation, the positive antibodies and the CT showing a lung mass. So yeah, I definitely think that's how it is. All right, well, how treat? I'm just kidding. Seriously, with this patient, there, all right, let's just say we have small cell lung cancer. There's a lot of underlying issues here. Kind of scary, you know, because you're getting a lot of neurologic involvement. Where do you start? I think that the newer drug is, you know, amyfamperine. So it's a newer drug where it's supposed to help to increase the neuromuscular transmission. So, mechanism-wise, it's not as well understood, but from what it's really thought is that it helps to increase a lot of that presynaptic kind of like transmission and increase acetylcholine release into the synapses. And so if you have more acetylcholine release, you're gonna have more of that muscle contraction. So you'll see some improvement in their overall strength, their deep tendon reflexes, things that also the nerves are supplying, which is, you know, your things like your salivary glands. So you'll see an improvement in their dry mouth. So that's what is the first line. But if they were in, I mean, it's not common, but if they had a pretty bad like, let's say respiratory distress, because it does affect skeletal muscles and the lungs are one of them. So if I started to see that the diaphragm was getting affected and they were in respiratory distress, that's when we reached for things that are a little bit more intense that you can't do at home. You can give amyfamprodine at home, but you can't give them IVIG or you can't stick a large catheter into their neck and do what's called plasma ferrisis. So in crises or severe cases where it's really bad or just refractory to amyfamprodine, then I would go with something like IVIG infusion or Plex to see if that can help them. But that's really the key thing there. But as you know, you got to treat the underlying disease. Chemo-radiation therapy until you can kind of get some control. Any complications for this patient to watch out for? It does affect the autonomic nervous system. So I'd watch for swings in there. It's not like Guillain-Barre syndrome. You don't get as much of that one. It's a scary one where I used to have such a hard time when I worked in the right, I had Guillain-Barre syndrome as you would come in. And one of the key things that you would see is that their blood pressure would go, blood pressure heart rate all over the place. They would have so much autonomic instability where you would try to, okay, their blood pressure is like 220 over like 110. All right, let's give them something to kind of like drop their blood pressure. Let's put them on the cartipine infusion. Do a little bit of slow titration. You do that, their blood pressure would drop. And then you're back on them, put them back, put them on, you know, norabinephrine, let's put them on leave effect and increase the blood pressure. And then before you know it, you'd be back up in the swings of it and your heart rate would be all over the place. So crazy balancing act because of that autonomic instability. Yeah, yeah, you can see that with limbs, but I'd say it's nowhere near as severe as Guillain-Barre syndrome. So you can see that, but otherwise I'd say that's the key thing. And then just anything related to any kind of weakness, obviously you run the risk of falls and especially if they're older and frail, you run the risk of like fractures and stuff. But otherwise autonomic instability is maybe something you can't see. Some swings in their blood pressure, heart rate, things like that. Let's move on to the next case. We have a 68 year old man with a history of squamous lung cancer, one week of confusion, constipation, anorexia, polyuria, polydipsia and diffuse fatigue. Right there, what is that telling you? We're talking about perineoplastic. So when you think squamous cell carcinoma and then you hear polyuria and polydipsia, it makes me think about hypercalcemia, like malignancy. Okay. Yeah, that's usually what I go to right away. Just in this scenario. That's your giveaway term there. Yeah, like, cause you know, whenever you have people who have squamous cell lung cancer, you know, it doesn't usually cause like any weird like perineoplastics except for really one. And the one thing that you can get is it can produce a lot of PTHRP. PTHRP increases your calcium reabsorption across the kidneys and causes your osteoclasts to break down more bone. And so you get hypercalcemia, hypercalcemia shuts down the ADH at the kidney and then they just piss. They have tons of polyuria. So is this the whole stones, bones, groans? Yeah. Psychiatric overtones. Yeah, and here you got the psychiatric overtones, the confusion. The groans, constipation, polyureas, the thrones. I'm sure they'll probably have more in here that potentially disrupt some of those. This is really textbook so far. So far, yeah. They got a lot of the pictures here that make it seem like it. All right. Well, for our review of systems, we have, we know mild abdominal pain and there is no bone pain. Vitals, BP is 118 over 74. Heart rate is 104. Our exam, there is dry mucous membranes, reduced skin trigger, no focal bone tenderness. So also some dehydration. Yeah. It seems like, and that's usually the key thing. That's one of the main reasons. I don't like giving fluids, but in hypercalcemia malignancy or severe hypercalcemia, you can't get pretty dehydrated. So you have to. So you have to. Yeah, you gotta give them some fluids. Okay. Where do you start?  and albium. So, if you're a person who's not a high-protein, if you're considering the hypercalcemia, PTHRP, where do you go? I mean, with this one, I could just get a calcium and a PTHRP and call it a day, but I mean, you should always rule out other things. So I would start with just checking that, making sure I just get a basic CMP, see what that gives you, because usually that'll give you the corrected calcium if you do the albium. I like ionized calcium, so I always like to check that one separately. And then I would also check a PTH just to make sure that this is not PTH dependent, meaning that it's not hyperparathyroidism. And then from there, if the PTH is low, I check the PTHRP calcitriol and calcitriol, so I check the both of vitamin Ds. And then I probably even add an alkyphos, but the fact that they don't have a lot of focal bone tenderness, that doesn't mean that they can't have a lot of bone turnover or like a lytic lesion of sort, but I think it's lower, but I'd probably consider an alkyphos, and depending upon that, and the other results, I may have to do more bone scans or skeletal surveys to see if there's lytic lesions. That would be my kind of like full run of the mill kind of like look at it if I'm being thorough. All right, I got some results here for you. Total calcium is 15.6. The ionized is elevated. PTH is low. PTHRP is high. Vitamin D is normal. The alkyphos is normal. And for our ECG, we know a short QT interval. There it is again. We did that in the oncologic emergency. Yep, yep. This is, it seems like this is definitely a hypercalcemia due to squamous alcarcinoma due to the PTHRP. That's what you said before, ECG. The short QT, high calcium, inversely proportionate. Exactly. Other way around. Yeah, inverse proportion, inverse relationship between the QT and the calcium. Yeah. Cool. Yeah, so this is definitely, this is PTHRP related hypercalcemia. Okay, so we know what it is now. How do you treat it? So, they're dehydrated, so I give them some fluid, probably one, two liters to start off with, normal saline. Not usually my first choice, but I like it in this scenario. And then, probably get calcitonin, because that's going to be rapid acting, really short, short like term, but it's going to get a quick little shutdown of the osteoclast. And then I need a long term shutdown of the osteoclast, so I'd reach for bisphosphonates. You can also consider genosomab if the renal function's kind of like iffy, but that would be the way to go in this scenario. So that's what I'd start off with. Hit them with a couple of liters of fluid. Calcitonin right off the get, go along with that. Should we get the calcitonin, maybe a day or two later, I'll start them on bisphosphonates to get a long term control. All right, and then for complications, worry about, obviously renal functions, so maybe A.K.I., arrhythmia's nephrogenic D.I. I think the biggest thing is A.K.I. due to dehydration, nephrogenic D.I., which can worsen A.K.I.s because they're causing you to lose a lot of fluid. And then also hypernatremia. I would worry about that one as well. And then arrhythmia, it's possible, but it's not as likely here. Yeah, I think whenever you worry about calcium, calcium, it can cause arrhythmias, but I'd say I'd be more concerned if it was hypocalcemia combined with low magnesium and low potassium. And like we talked about before in oncologic emergencies, you're more concerned with that long QT interval and progressing into like torsades. Yeah, that would give me a pucker factor. Okay. All right. All right. Well, that was it. Let's go to Case 5. All right. We have a 24-year-old female, previously healthy. She has been having two weeks of escalating anxiety, insomnia, then bizarre behavior and auditory hallucinations. She has three generalized seizures in 48 hours. For her review of systems, low-grade fevers, no travel, vitals, heart rates 112, temp is 37.9 Celsius. For exam, we notice a labile affect, or a facial dyskinesias, autonomic lability, just tachycardia, BP swings, mood swings. What's going on here? This is a lot. I mean, obviously something cerebrals occurring here that's concerning me. So you could have a lot of different things going on here. Seizures. So the first thing I think about is obviously we're talking about patients who have perineoplastic syndrome. You think about a female. There's not a lot of things that cause these kinds of issues if there's a tumor somewhere, except for maybe ovarian cancer. Usually it's small cell lung cancer that causes brain problems like encephalomyelitis or limbic encephalitis or cerebellar degeneration, stuff like that. This seems more just overall central nervous system involvement. Anxiety, insomnia, bizarre behavior. So there's some changes in their overall cognitive effects. They have a having seizures and there's autonomic instability. So it definitely concerns me for some type of encephalomyelitis. So when I see something like this, there's a lot of things that could go on. I'm definitely going to be reaching to get an image right away because there's a lot of things that could be explaining this. The first thing I'd probably do is I'd probably get a head CT, make sure that there's no large stroke, make sure that there's no large bleed or any problems there. Large tumor. From there, if I needed a better look, I'd probably reach for an MRI. I'd probably do brain. I don't think I need spinal cord. I think I just need brain for right now. So I'd probably just do the MRI of the brain. Since they did seize, I want to make sure that I don't miss any seizures. I'd probably do a spot EEG and then a continuous EEG to make sure that I'm not missing any subclinical seizures because you can have patients who seize, especially if they have changes in their overall mental status, their overall cognition, how they act, that their current state as compared to their baseline. If I looked at you and I saw that you were just like this all the time and that's not your normal baseline, okay, just because he's not visibly seizing doesn't mean that he can't be having subclinical seizures. We call it nonconvulsive status epilepticus. So I'd probably do CT, get that first, get them an MRI, get them on EEG right after that. While the MRI is done, I'll take a look, see if I can find anything on that. EEG is going to tell me if I have at least with that spot timeframe, if I have any seizures going on actively, and do a 24-hour one to see if there's any kind of subclinical seizures, anything concerning during that timeframe. Based upon that, there's a lot of things that we could do. I think you would have to look at those things first. Let's say that we looked at the CT, there's no bleed, there's no stroke, there's no tumor, it doesn't even really show you anything. You get a brain MRI. Maybe you see some areas of T2 flare, some hyperintensities. There's a lot of things that can do that as well. Usually it's kind of things like autoimmune. Sometimes it could be old strokes. There's a lot of different things that can cause this. So I would kind of take that with a grain of salt and get any EEG. See if they're actively seizing, seeing if there's any seizure activity. From there, if the MRI doesn't give me anything, especially in these kinds of scenarios, I would probably reach to consider something like a lumbar puncture. So if I did the CT, did the MRI, it's not really yielding any kind of explanation of why all of this is happening. And especially the thing with what I get concerned about is encephalomyelitis. Sometimes you may see leptomeningial enhancement, you may see multifocal white patches or hyperintensities on their T2 flare, their MRI. I get concerned about autoimmune encephalitis or some kind of process like that. So I do an LP, make sure that they don't have meningitis, look to see if they have any kind of infectious processes, and then order kind of like an overall autoimmune panel. So order any kind of antibodies that see if they come back. So that's kind of what I would start off with first and see what that shows me. All right. Well, a couple of things here. You already talked about the MRI, the EEG, which was kind of relatively boring, but we have other things to talk about. Such the CSF from the puncture, we have lymphocytic pleocytosis, normal glucose levels, but we note an anti-NMDA antibody positive. Okay. Yeah. So that's pretty helpful because MRI, the T2 flare changes means that there was probably some multifocal hyperintensities, but you don't know what to make of it. Right. EEG, diffuse slowing just means that there's probably, it could be post-ictal, it could just be the overall effect of an encephalitis going on. The CSF means that they have white cells, but it's primarily lymphocytic. Normal glucose helps to rule out for the most part bacterial infections and things like that. An anti-NMDA positive tells me it's an autoimmune kind of like process, like an encephalitis going on. And that one, so there's anti-HOO and anti-NMDA, which is like a glutamate kind of receptor. And that one's associated with ovarian cancer, a specific one, the Frankenstein tumor, the teratoma. So sometimes you can't see with that. So if I did, I'd probably scan to see if they have any kind of ovarian mass, to see if there's any kind of weird tumor there as well. So you would do maybe an MRI there? Yeah, you could do that one. I'd probably, you know, you could definitely do that. Ultrasound would be another alternative as well, CT. But a lot of the times, if you have MRI at your disposal, definitely get one. For our patient here, let's say the pelvic MRI came back with a 4 centimeter right ovarian teratoma. Yeah. What do you do then? Ovarian from this state, I mean, if they had no varian mass and they had these anti-NMDA positive, that's good enough for me. And then the MRI, the EEG, they didn't really show anything else. And the lumbar puncture didn't show another explanation. It's probably autoimmune encephalitis that's anti-NMDA related. And so from here, it's usually, obviously treat the underlying disease to remove the source of what this is all coming from, oophorectomy, from removing the ovaries. But it's going to be pretty aggressive. And these patients who are in the ICU most likely, they're probably getting, I'd probably start off with polsto steroids. I give them a pretty high dose of steroids right off the get-go. And then what I would do is after I hit them with the polsto steroids, I would see how they respond. If they're not getting any better, I would reach for two options. One is IVIG, one is Plex. I've always found that Plex is a little bit better because it's quicker. So you're going to get a quicker removal of those autoantibodies and you may see some improvement a little bit quicker in these patients. IVIG, I think, takes a little bit longer, but a lot of the studies have shown that they're relatively the same overall long-term in efficacy. So that would be good. I want to do it. I hit them with a good dose of methylprednis alone for a couple of days and get them started on either IVIG or Plex and see if I see any improvement from there. And if they do have any more, they did have seizures. So I'd also put them on an anti-apileptic, probably something like levitarazetam, capra, and that may help to kind of reduce seizure recurrence. From there, that's kind of how I would go treating this one. Okay. Let's move on to case six. We have a 55-year-old woman with three months of progressive proximal muscle weakness. She says it's tough for her to comb her hair, rising from a chair. It's harder than normal. She also has a photosensitive rash, scaly, violacious plaques over her hands. Okay. What do you think of that so far? If we had a picture of it, especially in this scenario, a photosensitive rash, especially with this one, you can see heliotrope rashes sometimes. Then if I saw these plaques on the hands and stuff like that, you can think of, again, this is tough because you don't have the pictures to see it, but goatrim papules can also be seen with this one. But I think the key concept behind this one is when you hear progressive proximal muscle weakness and you're thinking about potentially an underlying perineoplastic syndrome, there is a concept of something, there's a couple of different diseases that cause muscle weakness. We already talked about one, Lambert-Eat Myocenic Syndrome. We talked about another one, Myocenia Gravus kind of briefly, but there's another one called Dermatomyocytus. Dermatomyocytus, as compared to the other condition called Polymyocytus, Polymyocytus is usually something that we see more autoimmune related. It's not usually as heavily associated with malignancies. Dermatomyocytus has about a 30 to 40% association with malignancies, especially breast, ovarian. Those are going to be some big ones as well. I definitely would be concerned about cancer in this scenario of some sort. Could it be an ovarian cancer given it's a female, a breast cancer? It's possible we didn't get as much of the information from this patient yet, but when I think muscle weakness and rash, muscle weakness and skin lesions associated with malignancy or perineoplastic syndrome, I think about Dermatomyocytus. That's what I'm thinking about off the get-go. If I didn't have any pictures to take a look at, Heliotrope Rast, Gotrin's Papules, there's another one that was called a shawl sign across their back, a pretty nasty looking rash on their back as well. Those are things I'd be thinking about right off the get-go here. Skin manifestations, proximal muscle weakness, you're thinking Dermatomyocytus, but possibly a link to ovarian cancer. It's usually things like ovarian cancer, breast cancer. You can even see it in lymphoma as well. There's colorectal cancer. There's a lot of different cancers that this can be associated with. But nonetheless, cancer. What do you then do to try and suss out some more findings here? The first thing I would say is if I had this patient, I would probably start off with just getting maybe a CK, so creatinine kinase. All the ways is another one that can be helpful in these potential situations to tell me if there's again a lot of inflammation of the muscle. Myocytus looking for, again, an elevated CK can help me at least off the get-go. From there, if I really, and it's tough, man. You have to have a pretty high degree of suspicion for these kinds of conditions. This is not easy. You don't just have every patient who has progressive muscle weakness. You're like, I'm going to get a CK and an autolase, and then a myocytus antibody profile. No, I think in this scenario where you have some risk factors here that concern you and the other kind of findings, Dermatomyocytus can be autoimmune related. It can have potentially no bearing on a malignancy, especially if they have the anti-MI2 antibodies, which are the more common classic case. But your other antibodies, anti-TIF, gamma, and anti-NXP2 antibodies, those can be associated with malignancy. I would do a CK, get an autolase. If those come back elevated, I would consider a myocytus antibody profile. That would check the anti-MI2. It would check the anti-TIF1 gamma and the anti-NXP2 antibodies. See if any of those come back positive. If those did, I'd say I prefer to not do a muscle biopsy, but the muscle biopsy would be the gold standard to truly determine it if you really needed to. But then from there, if I find out that they have Dermatomyocytus, I got to figure out where this tumor is coming from. So I would do appropriate cancer screening based upon their age, based upon their symptoms. So that's how I would go about this one. All right. So I have some red fly testing here for you. So the CK was 2,500. The anti-TIF1 gamma was positive. The EMG was myopathic. And we have a biopsy. We do the biopsy. We know periphesicular atrophy. We then take it a step further and say, let's do a transvaginal ultrasound. We know a complex right adnexal mass. Yeah. So this is, it sounds like Dermatomyocytus. You got a high CK, high autolase. The TIF1 gamma is usually pretty commonly associated with malignancies. So that one's a pretty common one. Anti-NXP2, it would be the second one. Anti-MI2 is more associated with your classic autoimmune cases that aren't malignancy associated or perineoplastic associated. So this definitely seems like Dermatomyocytus due to a malignancy. They got the biopsy, again, showing that there's ischemia, necrosis, and atrophy probably of the muscle. And then the transvaginal ultrasound just confirmed that they got ovarian cancer. So that's probably the source of where all of this is coming from. All right. So Dermatomyocytus, ovarian carcinoma. Let's go to the treatment. What do you do now? I'd probably just, you know, same thing treat the endoline cause. For me, it'd be more just removal, oophorectomy if possible. And then from here, you got to hit them pretty hard right off the get go. Kind of like how you would with the patient we just talked about, with the perineoplastic encephalitis or encephalomyelitis. I'm gonna hit them with a pretty good pulse dose of steroids, but you don't do IVIG for these ones or Plex or anything like that. We just put them on steroids, get them to suppress those antibodies and then put them on immunosuppressants long term. So we kind of get control of the ovarian cancer. So I do things like methotrexate or azathioprene after I've kind of stabilized them with steroids going forward. Okay. Are there any complications you're concerned about with this patient? Yeah. I think the big one is dysphagia. So they can have some associated dysphagia in this kind of condition. So I would worry about that. And then potentially with dysphagia, it runs that risk of things like aspiration. So and then aspiration runs the risk of pneumonia. So those are the things I can get concerned about is what the amount of myocytus, if it's getting worse is aspiration. Okay. Let's move on to case seven. All right. We have a 48 year old man with six months of fatigable dyplopia, ptosis that's worse at night, chewing fatigue, a nasal like speech by evening and intermittent dyspnea with colds. For his review of systems, weight is stable, vitals are normal. His exam we note bilateral ptosis that worsens with up gazing, fatigable nasal dysarthria, limb strength normal at rest declines with repetitive use. Yeah. I mean, you probably know what this one is. Yeah, definitely. And it's like you said before, we talked about the limbs. Now we have the opposite. Yeah. And myocinogravus tends to like cause bulbar weakness too. So you definitely get the D's, the dyplopia, the dysarthria, the dysphagia. And then on top of that, you get usually muscle weaknesses that is proximal. But one of the worst things about myocinogravus, especially if you go into a crisis is it can spread to the diaphragm. And so that's when we get kind of concerned is if it gets to the diaphragm, it really can cause problems. But then the other thing with the weaknesses that it gets worse throughout the day, it's fatigable. That's the key term. Yeah. Fatigable. And with repetitive use, it gets weaker. Limited up gaze because their extraocular muscles become affected. They get difficulty being able to lift up their eyes. That was one of the tests that we would often do is I would have a patient to follow my finger and I would hold my finger up for a while and I would have them keep it there. And what you would notice is over time, it would get fatigued and it would start to drop, drop, drop. So that's kind of the things that you look for is these kinds of effects here. You had mentioned before with myocenia gravis, it could be from an underlying thymoma. If you are suspecting that or you have some idea of what could be going on, where do you start first with your testing? I mean with this, antibodies are the best way to go. I mean you could do repetitive nerve stimulation like we did with limbs. That's a classic one for the exam that they'll try to compare to. And all you look for is that term a decremental. So limbs is an incremental response with repetitive high frequency stimulation. Myocenia gravis is a decremental response with repetitive low frequency stimulation. And so that's one thing but I'm looking right at the antibodies. This myocenia gravis is acetylcholine receptor autoantibodies. And if that comes back, well you can have that one and you can also have another one, what the heck is it called, musk. There's a musk and that's a kinase enzyme. That one can also be positive in some cases as well. So I would consider that one if the anti acetylcholine receptor antibodies came back negative, I would just check my musk antibodies as well. Either way, I'm going to check those and see if those come back positive. If those come back positive for your exam, it's myocenia. You can do an EMG if you want to but at this point we have kind of an idea, especially given the clinical symptoms, the antibodies, it's likely myocenia gravis. And then from there, if you really wanted to say, hey, is it coming from the chest, you could probably, I'd probably say acetyl would be better because the chest acetylcholine won't give you any kind of like true look at the mediastinum to look to see if there's a thymic mass. Okay, well we do a couple tests here that you talked about. The acetylcholine receptor antibody is positive. The nerve, we do a nerve simulation. It does show that decremental response. The CT of the chest, we have an anterior mediastinal mass compatible with a thymoma. Yeah, we got my acetyl baby. So what next? So the next thing is treating them with something that's going to, I'd say, problem here is that when patients have these autoantibodies, they bind to the acetylcholine receptors, right? So what we want to try to do is competitively beat out these autoantibodies. We want to increase the concentration of acetylcholine so much that it can start to kind of competitively beat out these antibodies that are binding to the acetylcholine receptor. And so you give a drug called peritostigamine. And peritostigamine is a acetylcholine esterase inhibitor. And essentially what it's going to do is it's going to inhibit acetylcholine esterase. Acetylcholine esterase breaks down acetylcholine. If you don't break down acetylcholine, you have more acetylcholine in the synapse, it's going to start beating out that antibody at the receptor site. It's going to bind to the acetylcholine receptor and you're going to start causing more muscle contraction at that motor implant or that neuromuscular junction. And that's going to start seeing some improvement in their strength. So peritostigamine would probably be the way to go for treating them. If they had respiratory distress, then peritostigamine, we can still do that, but I'm probably going to say let's get the more important thing, which is either blocking the antibodies or removing the antibody. So I go with IVIG or Plex. That would be the way that we do it. Same thing as you talked about in LIMS. If you have that kind of crisis or any kind of respiratory distress, you don't play around. Peritostigamine's fine, you can still do it, but it's preferred to do IVIG or Plex and then start the peritostigamine afterwards. So how about cutting out the tumor? I do a thymectomy for the thymoma if they have that as well. That's definitely going to be helpful against source control in this case. Okay. Now for me, the most concerning complication is going to be the myosthenic crisis. In that scenario, if you have a myosthenic crisis, we're talking respiratory failure. You said you would probably do an IVIG or Plex. Does that change at all? Is there anything else you would do? No, I'd say at this point here that would be my biggest thing for this patient is treating them with peritostigamine. That's going to definitely help with the long term. IVIG or Plex is going to be the big thing for that acute crisis. Otherwise, yeah, I think that would be the primary thing. Also, I would watch out. When you put people, I've never seen it, but it is something that you got to get concerned about whenever you go high doses of peritostigamine. Sometimes you can cause them to go in the opposite direction. This is why you have to then say, oh, dose was a little bit too high in my peritostigamine. I got to drop it down a little bit. You can't get a cholinergic toxicity or a cholinergic crisis. You take them from when they couldn't actually, they had problems with contracting their muscles and moving. You get them to get better and all of a sudden, then you get them a little bit too problematic. What? They're twitching everywhere? They can have a lot of issues, especially significant problems with a lot of their salivary control, their blood pressure, their heart rate, their GIT. They can have a lot of different issues. You can make the problem worse. Cholinergic toxicity is definitely something that you can see if you overdo the peritostigamine. That's the one thing I'd be careful for. Case eight, we have a 62-year-old female and she has two months of migratory painful cord-like superficial thrombophlebitis on her forearms and thighs. My gosh, that was such a long leg thing. Yeah, I really had to drag that one out there. She now is presenting with unilateral leg swelling and pleuritic chest pain. Where do you, where's your mind? I'm curious, where does your mind go? There's so much, I just spit out a whole bunch of terminology here. Where does your mind go? So, you know, with this one, when you have the clots, these painful cord-like, probably waxy wainy, kind of like red cords that are appearing in the arms and legs sometimes, migratory superficial thrombophlebitis, right? Unilateral leg swelling, could it be a DVT since they have clots in their arms? Could they have a DVT possibly? Pleuritic chest pain, did that clot break off? Get into the lungs? Do they have a PE associated with this as well? That's possible. So, definitely there's something that's causing kind of a more of a hypercoagulable or pro-thrombotic state here in this scenario. The pleuritic chest pain just sounded random to me, but that makes sense if it's possible to be. Yeah, it's just the assumption off of this is something I would kind of think about is, did they have clots that broke off and then they got up to the lungs? Obviously, pleuritic chest pain is not the primary way that we would determine it, but it is a symptom. Obviously, things like dyspnea and hypoxia and tachycardia and all these other kind of things would be concerning as well if we had that. Okay, you have an idea here of what's going on. Where do you go next? What testing would you order here? Well, I think we're missing some more parts of the exam. Wouldn't you say here, my friend? Yeah. Yep. Yep. You missed the whole fucking section. My mic. The way my mic is, it's cut off. The way my make it kind of set up. Yeah. No, seriously, it was cut off. It's going to take three business days. Ah, yes. There's a few sentences I missed here. All right, let's head it. All right. So review of systems. We have anorexia, a 15 pound weight loss, vague epigastric pain radiating to her back. That's helpful. Is it? That is helpful. I'm happy to be helpful. She's had no recent surgery. Vitals, heart rate is 108. Respiratory rate is 22. SpO2 is 93% on Romare. For her exam, we have tender arrhythmtis cords, left calf edema, no heart murmur. Does that help you out there? That helps. Okay. Well, now, Zach, where do you go from here? Vague epigastric abdominal pain definitely is helpful here. So that may be something going on with the stomach, the pancreas. Again, pancreatic adenocarcinoma, lung adenocarcinomas. Those are pretty nasty ones where they can cause hypercoagulase. Those are probably the cancers I get worried about causing hypercoagulase for sure. So that's something to think about here. The other thing is that they're vitals. They're a little tachycardic that could be due to the pulmonary embolism, especially if they're the pleurotic chest pain. Rumare, 93%, not hypoxic. I don't think that I don't know what their underlying history is, but it's a little bit on the slightly lower end of normal. Tender arrhythmtis cords, we already know that that's explaining their superficial thromphyl ablitus, left calfedema. It probably explains the DVT. So I don't know. Right off the get go, I'm thinking that they have pancreatic adenocarcinoma. So this sounds like what's called Trissot's syndrome. Yeah. So it's a hypercoagulable state that's due to a musinous adenocarcinoma and two musinous adenocarcinomas that we get worried about is pancreatic and lung adenocarcinomas. So that's what I would be thinking about here. It is probably pancreatic. So that's where I would kind of start off with is, let's see. How would I go about this actually? Okay, first thing, let's see if they have a DVT. You gotta get a Doppler. Yeah, that's good. I'd get like a venous ultrasound. See if there's any, you know, with compression, if there's any good clots there that's actually kind of non-compressable. I probably, since I have kind of like a higher degree of probability of them having a DVT, I may even get like a PE scan. So I may do a CTPA. The other thing that I would say here is once I've diagnosed that they have a DVT or a PE, then you have to start thinking about what's the source of it. So let me give you that first. Okay. Let me give you that first. We do the Doppler. Yeah. We do have an acute DVT. Okay. We do the CTPA and we have a segmental PE. All right. So we got DVT, PE, and we got migratory thrombophilbitis. So you can't ever just assume that this is okay. Just because we're talking about perineoplastic syndrome, we need to be thorough clinicians and say, could there be other reasons why this patient has this? So could it be an inherited thrombophilia? Right, possibly. But usually those are recurrent. Usually those aren't going to happen at a one-time scenario. So usually I'd be more concerned about this is that this was a patient who had recurrent DVTs, recurrent PEs, unexplained issues. I'd probably start off with getting some basic coagulation studies. Make sure that there's no abnormalities in their PT, their PTT, their INR. Make sure that there's no problems with a basic CBC that they have low platelets. I would do all of those tests first to make sure that all of those things are normal and there's no coagulopathy. The other thing here is when you see patients who have these kinds of situations where they have clots like this, I also think it's kind of important to make sure that you think about inherited thrombophilias, yes, coagulopathies, yes, or hypercoagulable states, yes. So definitely get those workups. But in this patient, I also want to make sure that they have no other kind of like clots in other places. So sometimes you get worried about these patients, especially if they do have pancreatic adenocarcinoma. I get worried about something called non-bacterial thromboembolic endocarditis. So it's not infectious. It's kind of like non-bacterial. It's a non-bacterial thromboembolic endocarditis and it happens on the heart valves, especially in the left heart. You can pop one of those puppies off a little clock and go, cause a stroke, cause leg ischemia. So in this patient with superficial migratory thromboflbitis, DVT's, PE's, I also get worried, could they have MBTE. So I'd probably do an echocardiogram in blood cultures just to make sure, hey, is this possibly endocarditis, but it's more MBTE rather than bacterial thromboendocarditis. So that's kind of what I would start off with first is get an echo, look to see if there's anything there, get blood cultures, cause if you have a vegetation, you can't ever assume that this is not infective endocarditis. So I'd look for positive blood culture.  and alkyl-carnitine. There are a lot of things that I could start to think, could this be possibly pancreatic adenocarcinoma? It could be. Starting with the CBC, coagulation studies, they're normal. We then go to the CT of the abdomen, and we know a 3.2 centimeter pancreatic head mass with biliary dilation. We also do the echo, and we have a small sterile aortic cusp vegetation. Blood cultures, we do that as well, they come back negative. They got bunches of clots. They're in hyper-coagulable state. DVTs proved, PEs proved. Visibly, you see the migratory, the superficial thromophobitis, and then you want to make sure that they don't have MBTE. We checked. They do have an MBTE on their aortic valve. Blood cultures to make sure that it's not an infective endocriditis came back negative. For the major criteria for Dukes, I think we've ruled out that. You can still go through the minor criteria as well, and still make sure that you completely rule out infective endocriditis. In this situation, it seems like this is pancreatic adenocarcinoma that's caused this trisso syndrome. How do we treat trisso syndrome? A lot of it is you just have to treat the underlying disease. The pancreatic adenocarcinoma, depending upon where it is, you're going to have to do some kind of resection. Whipple procedure, distal pancreatic tail resection, maybe a splenectomy, things like that. I think that's the big thing, but until then, you have a provoked DVT, a provoked PE. You have to put them on anticoagulation. Since they've had a DVT and PE event, you're on anticoagulation indefinitely until we have changed the decision otherwise. I'd prefer to put them on an anticoagulation. I think heparin is the best for cancers. Lomolecloid heparin would be the preferred. That is a sub-Q injection, so if they didn't feel comfortable with that one, you can consider other alternatives long-term like a DOAC or things like that. That's what I would go through with this one, is I'd definitely put them on anticoagulation. What are you most concerned for with our patient? The next one that I get concerned is that DVT, PE, those are bad. Won't lie. Obviously, PE is pretty bad, but I get worried about strokes. Strokes, acute limb ischemia, so if that MBT flicks a little clawed off, I get worried about that. That's the things I get scared about in the long term is them having strokes or them having acute limb ischemia, splenic ischemia, all kinds of different problems that can arise from an embolic phenomenon. We talked about a whole ton of information today. So much. The stuff we were throwing around, is there anything you want to give a final send off just to wrap this whole podcast episode up? Yeah, I think you can really summarize a lot of this coming down to, we talked about small cell lung cancer a lot. There was a lot of tumors that were related to that one. I said you got to watch the lung cancer. Yeah. You got to make sure you watch it. So small cell lung cancer is a pretty common one that can cause three perineoplastic syndromes, SIADH, Cushings, and limbs. So I would definitely remember that one. Pneumicalsemia, remember that is usually, and these scenarios could be due to high PTHRP, which is in squamous cell, high calcitrile, which is in lymphoma, orlytic lesions and bone kind of like metastasis. So usually things like breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, multiple myeloma. For neurooncologic complexes, so the things that we get worried about is myostenia gravis. I would really worry about that one with your thymomas. Think about thymomas with that one. Baccholine receptor antibodies. For the patients who have perineoplastic encephalomyelitis, I worry about small cell lung cancer with anti-HOO, and I would worry about ovarian teratomas, so the anti-NMDA antibodies. And then the last thing is when you have a patient who is very hyperquaggulable, they have lots of clots. They have risk factors for potentially cancer, pancreatic, and lung. Definitely want to consider things like MBTE, so non-bacterial thrombolymint and endocrinol thrombolymbolic endocrinitis, as well as a lot of the reasons for them having DVTs, PEs, and bollock phenomenon. So that's something to definitely consider in pancreatic and lung adenocarcinomas. I can't wait to see this on the whiteboard. This is going to be a monster. Two whiteboards. It's going to be pretty easily. Easily. Sounds like some fun. Yeah, I think if you guys want a little bit more of a visual explanation, we'll definitely be hitting this on the whiteboard. There'll be tons more that we talk about on the whiteboard that we don't talk about here. Obviously getting into a little bit more of the depths on certain things. So definitely stay tuned. I think that you guys are going to like that. But man, I just thank you guys for hanging in. I thank you guys for listening to the podcast. I hope that you guys really are learning a lot, enjoying it, and just feeling comfortable with these things. And man, I just love you guys. I thank you guys. And as always, until next time.