 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам What's up, Ningenerds? In this monster of a lecture, I hope you brought popcorn. I hope you got a babysitter for the kids because we got a long one out of us. We're going to be talking about perineoplastic syndromes today. Again, as a part of our clinical medicine section, if you guys are really digging these, they're really helping you out, they're making sense. They're helping you to truly provide light to some of these things that can be really challenging in clinical medicine, then give us a like. Hit the like button, comment down in the comment section, subscribe. What I really think would benefit you and something that we're really trying to do to help the student out go to the extra level, take it to the next extra step is to go in the description box below. If you do that, you'll go to our website. There will be a link there. On our website, we have a lot of different things that we offer, notes, illustrations, Cubanks, we're even making flashcards. All of these things will help you to understand a little bit more, follow along, lots of space repetition and truly test your understanding of the topic. So go check that out. All right, enough of all of this talk. Let's get into it. Let's get into perineoplastic syndromes. All right, my friends. Let's start off with the first one. When we talk about perineoplastic syndromes, so SIDH is definitely one of them and you're probably like, wait a second, isn't this like an endocrine kind of problem? We talked about this in endocrine. We talked about it associated with like, you know, the combination or the comparison, I should say between D, I and SIDH. We talked about a lot in the sodium disorders lecture too. When we talk about perineoplastic syndromes, it's kind of like it's where a tumor maybe gains the capacity to be able to produce different types of hormones. That's one thing. But also perineoplastic syndromes can be interesting where it's not just a tumor producing hormones. It also could be due to tumors that have tumor antigens where maybe those antigens resemble other tissue antigens in the body and autoantibodies that are produced by the plasma cells that are supposed to go and attack the tumor antigens, then fortunately go and attack a tissue that has a similar appearing antigen, that molecular mimicry process. So there's a lot of these that we got to talk about. Let's dig into the first one, SIDH. So with SIDH, when we talk about this one, a lot of different things can cause it. It could be drugs, right? It could be due to a brain tumor, a bleed. It could be due to pneumonia. You could be having a positive pressure ventilation because you're being intubated. It could be due to a pneumothorax. There are so many reasons. But when we talk about this being related to neoplasia, it's oftentimes most often related due to lung cancer. So the question that when we talk about this with lung cancer, which type of lung cancer is most commonly associated with SIDH? And that is usually going to be small cell lung cancer. So small cell lung cancer is most often associated with SIDH. And what happens is this tumor gains the capacity to produce SIDH. It should not, should not be producing SIDH. Who normally produces SIDH? Come on, tell me. The posterior pituitary, right? So the posterior pituitary is the one that's supposed to be able to produce SIDH. But if it's being produced by this small cell lung cancer, unfortunately, this SIDH will go down. It'll bind onto one of these receptors. Don't you love it when you get to kind of like go through things and recap things that maybe you forgot about a little bit? This is going to hit those V2 receptors. When it hits the V2 receptors, the whole point here is that water, which is going to be moving through your ductile system here, it may come over to this collecting duct. And normally what happens is it runs into a brick wall, unless ADH is present. Because what ADH does is it sends signals. And these signals lead to the production, the transportation, the movement, the plugging into the membrane of aquaporn subunits. Now this aquaporn subunit will be opened up because ADH is going to stimulate this process where it makes aquaporn two subunits, helps it to get kind of pushed up into the cell membrane. So when it does that, now we open these up. We got a bunch of these aquaporn two. So now there's a hole for the water to kind of squeeze through. What happens is water will then go and get reabsorbed. When the water gets out here, what do we get? We get an increase in water reabsorption. Why is that a problem? You're like, oh dude, you're just getting some fluid here, right? You're getting more water in you. No, that's not always a good thing. Because with excessive amounts and continuous water reabsorption comes a dilution effect on the sodium. And so then you get this dilution effect. And this dilution effect on the serum sodium leads to hyponatremia. And that's when the patient can start to experience a drop in the serum sodium. We'll drop the drop in that serum sodium. And this can get to the point where that sodium level drops below 135 mL per liter. What is that called? Hyponatremia. So oftentimes this is one of the problematic issues. That's why we see this as an endocrine disorder and a renal disorder, but also an oncologic related disease. So now when this happens, when we have this particular issue, what would be the problem with this? What would be the way that these patients will present? Because you could have a patient you know has small cell long cancer, you know they have malignancy, and they come in with hyponatremia. That could be their presentation. Unfortunately, sometimes it may not just be you get some lab work, it may be that they present clinically related to their hyponatremia. So sometimes when a patient has, let's say, severe, let's kind of define this as more of the severe hyponatremia. And so when I say severe hyponatremia, what would that really kind of be defined as? I would say a sodium level that is like less than 120 mL equivalents per liter. Also acute, meaning it's within like the past two days. When that happens, these patients can develop some pretty problematic issues. One of the things that happens here is that low sodium causes cortical irritability. You're like, well what does that mean man? Well cortical irritability is a disaster waiting to happen because if your cortex is irritated. Imagine you had a tumor that was pressing right on the cortex. Those neurons can start firing asynchronously. And that cortical irritability, what it does is it creates an opportunity for seizures. I've seen this a couple times in the neuro ICU where a patient comes in severely hyponatremic sodiums like 112 and they're seizing uncontrollably. That is usually due to that sodium really altering their cortical irritability, lowering their seizure threshold and they end up with these seizures events. So that's one way that they could present. So definitely think about this in like a patient with nuanced seizures. Always check that sodium level, see if they got a severe hyponatremia. The other scenario here is cerebral edema. Think about this. Here you have a brain and it's a normal, here let's say this is a normal brain tissue. So the sodium and the water movements between the brain tissue and the vasculature normal. All of a sudden you get hyponatremia. So if we think about the movements of water, let's say here's your vascular system here in the normal case. What you're getting is you're getting kind of an equilibrium. You're getting a normal movement of sodium and water back and forth. When you get into a patient with hyponatremia, they can develop something called cerebral edema. This is a problematic issue. What happens here is that the sodium, the sodium concentration is really low inside of the vascular system. Now sodium is important because where sodium is, water also will follow. So you should have less sodium in the vasculature and hyponatremia and you'll have relatively more sodium inside of the brain tissue in comparison to the vasculature and a patient who has hyponatremia. Where's the water going to want to go where the sodium is rich? So where's the water going to want to move? Most of that water is going to want to move into the brain. And when that water moves into the brain, that is what leads to all of this swelling. That's when the patient experiences cerebral edema. Well cerebral edema, how will they present? They don't just come and say, dude brain's swollen. It's all fracked up. No, you can't. That's not the case. They come in and they have very specific symptoms. Cerebral edema usually, so let's actually put this down here, the clinical presentation oftentimes is, it can be mild. So what I mean by that is sometimes it's enough to increase the intracranial pressure. So cerebral edema, the primary problem here is that this, really what it's going to do is it's going to increase, this is a little side note here, this is going to increase your intracranial pressure. So the pressure inside of the skull is going to be a little bit higher. Problems with elevated intracranial pressures that can cause headaches. Right? That's a simple thing. Another thing is that it actually can cause compression of areas in the medulla, like the chemo trigger zone, so they can get things like nausea and vomiting. They can get compression to where cerebral spinal fluid builds up around the optic disc. So they can get features like papal edema. I think the last thing that you want to get worried about is in a patient who has severe, I mean severe cerebral edema, the intracranial pressure can go up enough and it can get really, really high enough where they start to experience herniation. And I think that's the most feared complication that comes from hyponatremia. So what I want you to take away from SIADH, the biggest thing is that this is a condition that is likely more often than not due to simple things like pain, nausea, medications, brain injuries, lung disease, but it can be due to cancer, such as small cell lung cancer. Lots of ADH, lots of water reabsorption dilutes down the sodium in the blood. Hyponatremia is a very common presentation. Yeah, that may be the way that you find it as a lab result. Sometimes the sodium is so low, the way that they present is new onset seizures, generalized seizures or elevated intracranial pressure. Maybe it's mild symptoms like headache, nausea, vomiting, papal edema on fundoscopy or herniation symptoms. They blow a pupil. They have new focal onsets of neurological deficits of sorts. Their mental status is declining. Those are things that I would want to be concerned with. All right. Boom roasted with the SIADH. Let's move our way down the board to talk about the next one. All right. So the next one is going to be Cushing Syndrome. And again, you could technically consider that ectopic ADH production. You can consider this one ectopic ACTH production. So Cushing's, when we talk about this, technically you could have a Cushing Syndrome and a Cushing Disease. This is technically a Cushing Disease if you really want to be particular because it's coming from a source that's not from the adrenal cortex. It's coming from an area outside of that. And so it's kind of like a secondary hypercortisolism if you want to think about that. But here's what I want you to understand. With Cushing, obviously the one thing that we want to think about is, is there a tumor in the adrenal cortex? That's one thing that could pump out a lot of cortisol, right? So that would be one thing. And that's not really what we talk about when it comes to these perineoplastic syndrome because cortisol is not really the big one here. It's ACTH. So ACTH is one that is actually produced by what? It's usually produced by the anterior pituitary. That's a normal process. But what if, what if there is a cancer of lung? And I bet you, you know which one it is. It's the small cell lung cancer. So small cell lung cancer not only can it produce ectopic ADH, but guess what else it can produce? It can produce ACTH. And ACTH should normally only be made by the anterior pituitary. Just like ADH should be made by the posterior pituitary. Well, when ACTH is produced in an abnormally high amount from this lung cancer, guess what it's going to do? It's going to go to the adrenal cortex where the zona fasciculata is. The zona fasciculata is going to respond by pumping out lots of cortisol. And cortisol is a very, very potent hormone. Has multi-system effects. And so what you're going to see is, is you're going to see multi-system organ involvement. Let's actually just put a multi-organ involvement. Obviously, the, the cases that we think about with cushing, especially with elevated levels of cortisol is that it really causes changes in their, you know, their, their overall fat redistribution processes. And we'll talk about what that means, but you know, the swollen moon face, the buffalo hump, the abdominal striate, those are the classic ones. And what are some of these things? So again, small cell lung cancer can not only produce ADH ectopically, but it can also produce ACTH ectopically. What does that lead to? A bunch of different effects. Let's talk about these things. Because not everybody's going to come in and be like, do I got the cushing? No, they're going to come in with very specific kind of clinical presentations. And then what you'll do is you'll work them up. You'll work them up for cushing by checking to see what's their cortisol level on their salivary cortisol test. What's their cortisol on their low dose dexamethasone suppression test? You'll see if the cortisol is high. Okay. The cortisol is high. What's their ACTH level? Oh, the ACTH level is high. Okay. Could it be pituitary? Could it be an ectopic site? You do a high dose dexamethasone suppression test. Does it suppress? Oh, it doesn't. That's likely coming from an ectopic source, not from the anterior pituitary. And that's when you start kind of further evaluating and you say, oh, this patient has lung cancer. That's probably the source. So thinking about this with cushing syndrome, whenever cortisol acts on these different organs, one of the big things that it can do on the fat, it can lead to lipolysis. So it actually can increase fat breakdown. But with that fat breakdown also comes fat distribution, like redistribution. So we move the fat redistribution. It goes to different areas of the body. And this is that classic presentation. This is the one we get worried about with the moon face, the buffalo hump. And usually when we think about the moon face, we think about the buffalo hump. And we also think about the abdomen. So they get a lot of abdominal, like central trunk abdominal obesity. So yeah, we'll see it a lot around the central abdomen. We'll see potentially a buffalo hump right here in the back of the neck. And you get that swollen moon face. So those are definitely things I would want you guys to think about. The other thing is it can cause a lot of changes to the muscles. So it can cause like proteolysis. And when we think about proteolysis, the big thing with proteolysis is it's going to cause breakdown of the muscle. And so what they start to see is we start to see that they're kind of like they have muscle atrophy. And this main way that the muscle atrophy presents is they end up having very thin arms. The other thing is that proteins, whenever they actually are, again, a very critical component of the connective tissue as well, one of the things that happens is that when they have this abdominal obesity, they also have a very problematic issue with thinning of the skin. And that thinning of the skin also can lead to a lot of striate. And that's another way that we think about these patients is they have a lot of striate. And that common area where the striate usually occurs is along the abdomen associated with that obesity. The other thing is it can work on the liver. And I think this is a really, really important one. It can actually cause the liver to go into glycogenalysis and gluconeogenesis. So it's going to cause glycogenalysis and gluconeogenesis. The cool concept behind this is what are both of these things doing? You're breaking down glycogen into glucose or you're making new glucose molecules. So it's the primary way by which this can present. If you're having enough cortisol, you can have hyperglycemia. So you can have an elevated glucose level. Elevated glucose level. Obviously that puts the patient at a pretty high risk of developing something like diabetes, especially if they have underlying diabetes. They're pretty high risk of hyperglycemia. So that's something to definitely consider. The other thing that I get worried about with elevated cortisol is that we have receptors on our blood vessels. These are actually going to be, you have different types of receptors. You have alpha receptors. You have beta receptors. But all I want you guys to know is that we have adrenergic receptors. And usually on the vessels, it's going to be the alpha one receptors. So these are your adrenergic receptors. Cortisol really, really helps to increase the sensitivity of these receptors to epinephrine and noropnephrine. So imagine whenever you have epinephrine or noropnephrine present, all I want you to think about is if these are present normally, when they hit this receptor, you'll get a positive response, you'll vasoconstrict. If you have elevated cortisol levels, what it does is, is anytime these even touch, it gets them really excited. They're just like whee! And they start getting super activated and stimulated. So these receptors get super, super activated and stimulated because you increase the sensitivity of those receptors. And so when you have cortisol increase, increase the sensitivity of which one? The adrenergic receptors increase the sensitivity of alpha one adrenergic receptors. This should be alpha one adrenergic receptors. What's that going to do? It's going to make these things constrict, constrict like a son of a gun. So you're going to get intense vasoconstriction. Vasoconstriction of arterials is going to do what? It's going to increase resistance. If you increase resistance to blood flow, what's going to happen to the patient's blood pressure? It's going to go up. So we oftentimes see that these patients experience an increase in their blood pressure and it predisposes them to hypertension. Usually this is more of like a secondary hypertension, if you will. All right. The next thing that we get worried about with these patients is that cortisol, it can have an aldosterone-like effect. And so what we've seen with cortisol is it can have, let's actually write this down, is an aldosterone-like effect. And so what aldosterone does is it actually helps to do what? Well it increases sodium reabsorption and it causes potassium excretion, right? So that's one thing, it's going to help with sodium reabsorption and potassium excretion. That's the primary way that aldosterone works. And with sodium reabsorption also comes what? Water reabsorption. So one of the problems with this is that these patients run the risk of hypernatremia, I'm sorry, hypernatremia, hypochalemia and overall just water overload. And so they can have hypernatremia, they can have hypochalemia because they're dumping potassium. But the big thing that we notice is they had developed a lot of edema. And this is probably because of with sodium reabsorption comes what? Following it, water. And so I'll write that down here, water follows the actual sodium, right? And so with that you're going to get an increase in sodium reabsorption and water reabsorption. So these are a couple of different things that we can see in Cushing syndrome. So if the patient came in, they have a swollen moon face, a buffalo hump, abdominal obesity, striat, thin arms, hyperglycemia, hypertension and some electrolyte abnormalities and swelling. Oh man, do they have Cushing? How do I know? Well, I got to check and see if the cortisol is high, check and see if the ACT is high and check and see if they suppress the high dose of the dexamethasone. We'll talk about that in the diagnostic approach, I promise. All right, that's the ectopic ACTH production that can cause Cushing, right? What about a patient who can have this condition called Lambert Eaton Myosthenic Syndrome, also abbreviated LEMS? You're never going to believe. I mean, you're just never going to believe which type of cancer is most often associated with this one. You'll never believe it. It's small cell. It's small cell. I mean, I knew you probably, you know, you never believe it, but yeah, it's small cell lung cancer. This one definitely, it's got a lot of problems. I mean, it's a very, very aggressive cancer, but when you think about small cell lung cancer, there's not this process of where you're like, you're pumping out some type of antibody or you're pumping out hormones or anything like that. All that happens is, let's say here's the cancer, let's say here's the cancer, I'll pop into this cancer cell. So here's the cancer cell of the lung. And when we look at it, let's say it's got some antigens on its surface and we'll represent these in red, right? So here's your tumor antigens. These are called your tumor antigens right here. And what happens is these tumor antigens look like, you know, antigens or proteins that are present in other different areas of the body. And so what happens is our plasma cells, what they'll do is they'll produce antibodies. And these antibodies, they're producing it primarily against the tumor antigens. That's what it's designed to go against. Problem is, is that they're going to unfortunately attack other areas that look like that. There's a protein here, I drew it in red, maybe it resembles this one. And this one is called a voltage, I'm going to abbreviate it voltage gated calcium channel. So all it is, what happens is, is you get action potentials that run down a neuron. This is usually due to sodium influx and then after that you get a repolarization with potassium efflux. And it gets down to this point that depolarization reaches these channels, the voltage gated calcium channels, and they open up. Because you get them to where they're actually more of a positive state. Once that happens, they open and what's supposed to occur is calcium that's out here in the extracellular space is supposed to do what? It's supposed to rush in, right? We want calcium to rush in because what happens is, is inside of this neuron there's little vesicles that contain neurotransmitters. And what that calcium will do is it will activate these vesicles and then they'll migrate and they'll fuse with the synaptic membrane and they'll exocytose all of this chemical out into that space. And so what you should do is you should cause an exocytosis process. And what is this neurotransmitter? It's a very common one, the neuromuscular junction. It's called acetylcholine. And acetylcholine is supposed to bind onto this, open that channel up because it's a ligand gated and then what happens is sodium should rush in. And you should lead to kind of like a depolarization effect. And that should lead to contraction of a muscle, right? That's kind of the process that we think about here is that once acetylcholine binds onto this, opens up that gait, sodium should rush in. If it rushes in, it should make the inside of the cell more positive. That should stimulate a depolarization mechanism. That should stimulate the muscle to contract, right? That's the normal processes that we think about with the voltage gated calcium channels. Now introduce, right, this is going to try and go and attack this, but guess what else it does? It finds this. And now introduce this bad boy. These antibodies bind onto the presynaptic voltage gated calcium channels and they inactivate them. When you inactivate them, can calcium rush in? No. If calcium can't rush in, can you cause this fusion? So this process here, what's going to happen? Can you cause this kind of movement and fusion process here? No. So that becomes inhibited, bro. So we inhibit this. Can we release acetylcholine? No. So there's less acetylcholine out here in the synapse. Can we cause this to bind? No. We don't have binding. Can we open up the channel? No. Can we allow sodium to influx? No. So do we cause depolarization? No. We inhibit depolarization. Can we cause contraction? No. We inhibit contraction. And guess what happens? They end up developing weakness. All right? And so I think that's the key thing to remember here is that these patients are producing antibodies and what we call these antibodies is anti-PQ, which is your presynaptic, voltage gated calcium channel antibodies. Isn't that a name? Isn't that a name? That's a heck of a name. And that's what these things are and they are really the crux of this disease. And really what it comes down to is that your plasma cells are producing antibodies that they probably think resembles tumor antigens, but instead it's attacking a protein on our neurons. And this is what really causes a lot of the issues. Now, these patients, obviously, they're going to come in with weakness. What kind of weakness is the question? And it's a very interesting one. Usually this is going to cause, you know, it's going to be probably more often proximal muscle weakness. So you'll probably see it more in, like, the shoulders. You may see it potentially in the hips. So I think the big thing here is that when we see this proximal weakness, what is really helpful here, usually there's another condition called myostinogravus. And that one usually attacks the receptor, the acetylcholine receptor. And so you get kind of a similar effect. The difference here is that with limbs, it doesn't cause as much of the effect on the face. So you don't have as much of the diplopia. You don't have as much of the dysphagia. You don't have as much of that kind of disarther process. But you do get muscle weakness. One of the things that helps us to think about this is that sometimes the weakness can improve with exertion or get worse with exertion. So let's say that I introduce exertion into the mix. If I introduce exertion into the mix and with that exertion, right, they get better or they get worse. So let's actually write this down. They get better or they get worse. This suggests more of the limbs. This suggests more of the myostinogravus. And that's one of the key things with myostinogravus is it's a fatigable condition. So with more exertion activity throughout the process of the day, you notice that their weakness gets worse. Whereas to some degree with this exercise and this kind of exertional activity, you may notice that limbs gets a little bit better. That's the key thing I want you guys to think about. It may affect some of the actual salivary glands. So sometimes they can get dry mouth and they may even get a little bit of an effect on their reflexes. They may get a little bit of hyporeflexia. But I just want you to think about proximal weakness and the way that they'll probably try to test you is something with exertion or when we do nerve stimulation tests. We can do nerve stimulation tests and we want to see is if we really stimulate the heck out of that nerve with high frequency or low frequency, what happens to their response? What does the muscle do? Do they have an incremental response or a decremental response? And that's a key thing. Another really key thing to differentiate these is that this is associated with the anti-PQ voltage get a calcium channels. This is associated with the anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies. So that's going to help us and we'll get into that a little bit later. But that's the condition I want you to think about is limbs. All right, let's move on to the next one here. All right, so now we move on to the next one, which is going to be hypercalcemia malignancy. We actually talk about this in the oncologic emergencies lecture as well. But we've probably seen these and that's the kind of the beauty of this. I think the whole purpose of this lecture is to talk about ones that you're more commonly going to be tested on. And it's going to be a lot of these that we're talking about on the whiteboard here. We have another whiteboard. That's why I said this is going to be a tough one. But we're going to talk about some more perineoplastic syndromes. But hypercalcemia malignancy is kind of one of those where you can see it as an oncologic emergency and you can see it as a perineoplastic syndrome. So what do I mean with this one? So with hypercalcemia malignancy, we can have a couple different reasons why the patient can develop hypercalcemia. One of the things is you're going to say, oh, okay, it's going to be lung cancer, right? Is that small sound? No, for once. This is usually associated with squamous cell carcinoma, or abbreviated as SCC. And what happens is this one pumps out a little bit too much of a molecule called PTHRP. So PTHRP is parathyroid hormone-related peptide. That's one problem. And that right there is a hormone that we produce ectopically from this tumor that is producing a way too large amount and it's going to cause some problems. I'll talk about that in a second, though. Another thing is if you have a tumor of the lymph node, and this is usually going to be due to lymphoma, and funny enough, I'd say it's actually more common with Hodgkin's lymphoma, believe it or not, than we would say with non-Hodgkin's. Now with lymphoma, this tumor actually can increase the expression of an enzyme called one alpha hydroxylase. So it increased the expression in these kind of tumor cells of alpha-1 hydroxylase. And what happens with this is alpha-1 hydroxylase, what's kind of cool is that it takes a molecule called 25-hydroxy-vitamin D and converts it into 1,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D. That's a lot, right? So what we get is we get 25-hydroxy-vitamin D getting converted into 1,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D. This is the active form of vitamin D. This is called calcitrile. And what happens is that one alpha hydroxylase is going to be designed to stimulate this process. The last thing here is that certain cancers can spread to the bone, right? They can spread directly to the bone. And when they spread directly to the bone, they actually can activate osteoclasts in the bone. So there's different types of osteoclasts in this bone, and there's different types of cancers that spread directly to the bone. There's different types of them. What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone? What's the difference between a bone and a bone?  alkyne, I mean, you got lung cancer, that's a big one. Breast cancer is a really big one. Prostate cancer is a really big one. Multiple myeloma is a really big one. But a lot of these, they will spread to the bone, and they'll cause a lot of destruction to the bone. So what they'll do is, they'll cause bone destruction. And when you cause bone destruction, you're going to cause, we'll talk about this a little bit later, this is going to lead to the liberation of calcium, or calcium release. From the bone. And that's going to lead to hypercalcemia. But there are so many different cancers that can spread here. Lung cancer can spread to the bone. Breast cancer is a really, really important one. Prostate cancer is a really big one. Prostate cancer doesn't often times cause, so actually we'll get rid of this one, because this one doesn't actually often times cause much of hypercalcemia. Another one that's really, really important is multiple myeloma. So multiple myeloma. I would definitely, definitely want you guys to remember this one. But either way, these cancers, they can spread to the bone. And when they spread to the bone, they're going to cause bone destruction, and that's going to lead to calcium release from the bone. And that's going to be really, really helpful. The ones I really want to talk about though is these two. With squamous cell carcinoma, we pump out too much PTHRP. What can that do? Too much of this PTHRP can act on the bone, particularly on the osteoclasts, right? So if we take the bone, we kind of zoom in on this area. Here we have the osteoclast. The osteoclasts, they really get pretty significantly activated. And let's fix that a little bit there. They get activated. If we activate these osteoclasts, what they do is they pump out two chemicals. One is called hydrochloric acid. Hydrochloric acid. And the other one is called collagenase. Collagen. My gosh, I can't spell today, guys. So collagenase. And what these two do is that they really cause a lot of destruction of the bone. So they're going to get down here in that bone, and they're going to start kind of really ripping through the bone. And when they start ripping through the bone, they're going to start eating and eating and eating like they dying and eating. And that is going to cause two things. One is it's going to cause some more lytic lesions to form. So you're going to get really eaten through the bone. And the other one is they're going to cause calcium release from the bone. This is called bone resorption. And by doing that, you end up causing an increased risk of bone destruction so they can get bone pain. They can also get pathological fractures, early onset osteopenia. And so you're going to get lytic lesions that you're forming, and you're also going to increase calcium release. And that's going to cause hypercalcemia. Now the other thing PTHRP does is PTHRP also acts on the distal convoluted tubule, kind of like PTH. And what it does is it actually increases calcium reabsorption. So calcium will get reabsorbed, and there will even be some phosphate excretion as well. But you're going to have an increase in calcium reabsorption. And when you have increased calcium reabsorption that gets into the blood, boom, you have hypercalcemia. The vitamin D is the interesting one. When you've got one common 25-dieteroxy vitamin D or calcitriol, this is a steroid hormone. It acts like a steroid hormone essentially. And it goes into the intestines where your small intestine is the enterocytes, and it increases the expression of these calcium transporters. And if I increase, I'll just represent it like this. Let's say here I've got a bunch of these blue dots. These are all calcium transporters. I'm increasing the expression of them. If I increase the expression of them and the activation of these channels, what am I going to do? Oh, I'm going to be ripping the calcium across the GIT. Any calcium that's in the GIT, that puppy is ripping through here. And what you're going to do is, is you're going to get an increase in the calcium absorption across the GIT. There's a lot of literature that says that calcium, calcitriol also can act on the kidneys. It can also act on the bone. But the primary effect that I want you guys to know is going to be calcium absorption. So, PTHRP causes bone resorption and calcium reabsorption. Increased vitamin D from lymphoma causes increased calcium absorption across the GIT. These solid cancers that spread and erode the bone are going to cause erosion of the bone and calcium liberation from the bone. These are the things I think are really, really important. Now, hypercalcemia is in a way an emergency. And the reason why it is an emergency is it can cause massive dehydration and hypovolemia. That's definitely a concern. And oftentimes, the hypercalcemia, we remember the, you know, there's a lot of different mnemonics in medicine, but for some reason, this is an easy one to remember. And that's that you can get stones, bones, groans, thrones, psychiatric overtones. So when we think about these, because of that high degree of calcium, these patients run the risk of getting calcium oxalate or calcium phosphate stones, right? So they can definitely run the risk of, you know, what we say nephrolothiasis. There's definitely one concerning feature. So these are usually calcium oxalate, calcium containing stones. That's because hypercalcemia, you have more calcium in the bloodstream and that calcium gets flushed into the actual kidneys and you have hypercalciuria. And the hypercalciuria, if there's phosphate present, oxalate present, it will lead to these calcium oxalate or calcium phosphate stones. The other thing is that you're going to cause bone pain and fractures. The bone pain and fractures is because you are, again, think about it. Think about with the actual cancers that are depositing in the bone, activating a lot of that destruction of the bone. Or think about PTHRP. It's ripping and chewing through the bone. You're going to definitely lead to some potential issues here, where you're going to have bone pain and fractures and early onset osteopenias. That's one definite thing to think about. The other thing is it can activate pancreatic enzymes undesirably. And this can increase the risk of pancreatitis. So pancreatitis is definitely a big one to think about here. That can lead to the undesirable activation of pancreatic enzymes like pancreatic proteases, lipases, amylases, and it starts getting activated inside of the pancreas when it should have been activated inside of the small intestine. That's going to cause inflammation and auto digestion of the pancreas. And the last one I think is really, really concerning is nephrogenic diabetes and sypetis. So with nephrogenic diabetes and sypetis, you get worried because normally what should be happening is ADH should be binding to the vasopressin II receptors, V2 receptors. That's where it should be going. But guess who comes in and blocks this effect? Hypercalcemia. So hypercalcemia basically blunts this effect of ADH on the V2 receptor. And so what you're supposed to be doing is you're supposed to be able to reabsorb water. That's supposed to be what happens when ADH is present. You just get water reabsorption. But if you have hypercalcemia, it knocks that mechanism down. So can you reabsorb water? No. So what ends up happening? You lose a ton of water into the urinary of polyuria. We've talked about this mechanism a little bit a million times, right? So when we say stones is nephrolithiasis, bones, it's bone pain and fractures. Growns, abdominal pain with pancreatitis and thrones, you're peeing all the time with nephrogenic DI. When psychiatric overtones, it can increase the risk of psychosis. So these are the things I want you guys to think about with hypercalcemia malignancy. The next one that I want to talk about here is going to be an interesting one. This is called perineoplastic cerebellar degeneration. You're like, oh my gosh, dude, this is an intense word. What the heck is happening here? Cerebellar just eroding away. This is a very, very sad one. And there's a couple different cancers that we've seen associated with this. And it all kind of goes back to tumor antigens, if you will. So there's a couple different types of these. We can see that in patients who have breast cancer, so let's say here you have a mast there, or ovarian, and I'm going to put CA for the abbreviation of cancer. These right here, there may be tumor antigens. And those plasma cells are producing antibodies that resemble those tumor antigens. What I want to do is I want to give a different color to each one. So here we're going to kind of, we're saying that this is producing antibodies. And the whole concept here is I'll kind of give these, right now I'm going to have these kind of look like this. They're all going to be the same color, but I'm going to give you an understanding here of what's really happening. These are antibodies that are produced against the tumor antigens, but unfortunately it attacks other areas besides the tumor antigen. There may be an antibody. And let's just represent this one. We'll make this one blue, where it wants to go and attack the tumor antigens that are kind of on the breast cancer or the ovarian cancer. There's a specific name for these antibodies, and these are called anti-yo. I'm not even, it's like, yeah dude. So anti-yo antibodies. These are designed to where they want to go and attack the tumor antigens, but unfortunately what they do is they attack antigens in the cerebellum that look like that. A patient who has lung cancer, if they have lung cancer, usually, I bet you'll never guess it, it's small cell. Yeah, you're right. So small cell lung cancer, they may have tumor antigens that resemble some antigens that are present here. These, let's do these in red, just to give a different color change here. These are called anti-hoo, right? Anti-hoo, anti-you, no. Anti-hoo. So anti-hoo antibodies. And who antibodies, again, these are going to be antibodies that are made against some of the antigens inside of the actual, like small cell lung cancer tumor, but it unfortunately resembles some of these antigens in the cerebellum. The last one here is if you have lymphoma. So lymphoma, your plasma cells may produce antibodies against the tumor antigens in this that resemble some of the one in the cerebellum. Let's pick another color, let's do pink, let's do pink, yeah. Ooh, that was loud. Sorry guys. This one are called the anti-tr antibodies, anti-tr antibodies. So basically, if you have one of these cancers, your plasma cells produce antibodies against the antigens on that cancer, but unfortunately they decide, depending on which one of these cancers you have, that these antibodies can go and attack the cerebellum. And then what you're going to have here is you're going to have some nasty destruction and injury and over time atrophy of the cerebellum. So that's what's going to happen is you're going to get some cerebellar destruction. This is kind of when you think about it, it's kind of like an autoimmune attack, right? That's essentially what it is. It's an autoimmune attack, but it's due to an underlying malignancy that's triggering on this process. Now I don't want to get deep into like the neurology here because this is something that we would talk about more when we talk about like localizing things in neurology. But for simplicity's sake, when we think about a patient who develops some type of disease process here, we know that the cerebellum has different types of nuclei, like the dentate nucleus, right? And the fastigial nucleus and all of these different types of things that are kind of important. But what I want you to remember is, as the cerebellum really has lots of conversation with different types of areas in the brain. And one of the things that happens is, is that when you have a motor pathway, you always want to have interaction with the cerebellum. So oftentimes what happens is when you have a motor pathway, this is gets sent down to the cerebellum and then the cerebellum will send that motor pathway back up. So this is kind of an interaction with your corticospinal pathway. And whenever you alter or you damage the cerebellum, you alter that crosstalk between what? Between the cerebellum and your actual corticospinal tracts. And this can lead to a lot of problems with coordination. And so one way that this may present is ataxia. So ataxia is likely because the interaction between the motor cortex that goes down and interacts with the dentate nucleus here in the cerebellum and then back up, there is a disruption there. Another thing is that you oftentimes, let's represent this in kind of a greenish color here is you have a nucleus here and that's going to interact with you have your vestibular cochlear nuclei, right? So let's say here I have some vestibular nuclei and that interacts with your cranial nerves, which cranial nerves three, four, so cranial nerve three, four, and then usually down here six. And six, all of these are important and involved within our vestibular ocular reflexes and our movements, our extraocular movements, right? And so this is supposed to have an interaction back and forth here. But if you have damage to the cerebellum, you alter this pathway. You alter the interaction between the vestibular nuclei and what's the structure that runs upwards? We'll represent this kind of in a pink that kind of communicates between these all. This is not like perfect anatomy. It's more for a simplistic definition. That's your medial longitudinal fasciculus, right? Because that connects the three, four, and six. But now you're going to lose some of that extraocular movements and you're going to lose the normal vestibular ocular reflex. And so what ends up happening here is that these patients run the risk of having something called nystagmus. So this is because the vestigial nucleus is losing its interaction with the vestibular nuclei, the medial longitudinal fasciculus, and three, four, six, which control your extraocular movements. Again, very, very simplistic explanation. The last thing is the vestigial nucleus also interacts with some fibers that move down to control some of the areas here. We have fibers that come down from the cortex, right? You're supposed to have some fibers that come down from the motor cortex and they come down here and they control some of the cranial nerves that go to control things like your speech process, right? And so you have things, this is called your corticobulbar. Corticobulbar tracks. When you lose the cerebellum, the cerebellum is supposed to be interacting with these. You're supposed to get a lot of interaction with these. When you have destruction or degeneration of the cerebellum, you lose this interaction. And therefore you have a decrease in that corticobibular fiber pathway. And what this can lead to is this can lead to things like dysarthria. The difficulty with that speech and articulation process. All right. So when patients come in who have something like a perineoplastic cerebellum degeneration, the things I want you to think about is they may present with a taxiness, a stagmus, and dysarthria. There's a lot of things that can do this. A stroke can do this. A hemorrhage can do this. So a lot of the times you're going to get brain imaging to see if you find anything. And guess what? You oftentimes don't find much. But if they have an underlying malignancy, something like what? Pneumastovirin cancer, small cell lung cancer, lymphoma, taking into consideration could it be a perineoplastic process? How do I really determine this? I probably need to get an LP, test their CSF, and see if I can find some of these antibodies that are present. All right. Let's move on to the next one. All right. So the next one is perineoplastic encephalomyelitis. That's a heck of a name, right? So the concept behind this is actually very, very similar to what we talked about with perineoplastic cerebellum degeneration. You have a tumor of some sort, and you're not going to believe this. I'm telling you. You're just not going to. It's small cell lung cancer. There's, again, the same concept that there's some similar tumor antigens that are present on these cancers, as it may resemble some of the antigens present on the neurons that are present in the brain and the spinal cord. Same thing in patients who have, usually it's ovarian cancer. And it's an autovarian cancer. So I actually really should specify this. It's actually an ovarian teratoma. It's an ovarian teratoma. And we talked about this in the gynecological cancer's lecture that ovarian teratomas, this is one of those types of... It's an odd one. So you have different types of cancers. Teratomas don't generally produce any kinds of tumor markers like you would see with the epithelial ovarian tumors or the yolk sac and choreocarcinomas and dish<|de|>angiomas, etcetera. Plasmacels are usually tumors where they consist of various different types of tissues, multiple germ cell layers essentially. They can have skin, hair, nails, bone, you name it, nerve tissue all up in this thing. But what the key thing that happens here is again, similar concept to plasmacels are producing antibodies. And again, just as represent these in general, these are antibodies that are going to go and act on specific tumor antigens. Now what happens is that these tumor antigens resemble some of the antigens in the central nervous system. And so we get specific types of antibodies that are very, very important to remember. Let me see which color did I pick? I picked red. So for these ones, you're never going to guess what these were. It's the same ones that we talked about with the perineoplastic cerebellar. That's the anti-who. The anti-who, the anti-you. So the anti-who antibodies. For ovarian tamateratomas, this is a anti-NMDA antibodies. And let's just do these. Let's pick green. Why not? We haven't picked this color in a bit. So here we're going to have anti-NMDA antibodies. And again, these are produced by the plasmacels. They're designed to go and attack the tumor antigens, but they resemble other tissues in the central nervous system. So you get attacking of the central nervous system. So these patients end up with encephalitis. So inflammation of the brain tissue. This can involve the limbic nuclei is a really big one. It can involve multifocal areas of the brain. And also it can involve the spinal cord. And so they can get some myelitis. That's where we get encephalitis. Now what's the problem in the disease process that is really an issue here? When you end up causing damage and inflammation to the brain tissue, so you end up with a lot of inflammation, brain inflammation. So you end up with brain inflammation. And you end up with spinal cord. So spinal cord inflammation. This is where you get that terminology of the encephalomyelitis. This is really the key thing that you want to think about. Again, I don't want to go down to the localizing effects. We'll talk about that in neurology. It's being more simplistic. When you damage areas of the brain, you cause inflammation of the brain, especially if it's involving like the cortex, any part of the cortex. When you have cortical irritation, what do you increase the risk of? Asynchronous firing of these neurons. That increases the risk of seizures. Usually this may present with a new onset seizure. So that may be one thing to consider or recurrent seizures. What the fuck? You probably wonder why I'm sitting down, robbed through a chair and cracked my shin bone in half, so I'm sitting down now. But here, I want to move on to the next part. So if we're attacking these limbic nuclei, these are the ones that control behavior and memory and emotions. What we start to see here from this limbic nuclei is you start to see like memory deficits. You also start to see a lot of cognitive behavioral changes and you see cognitive behavioral changes. I think that's the really important thing to think about here is that if you see a patient with new onset seizures, changes in their cognitive behavioral aspects, and I think if it does start to involve some other areas of the brain. So to give you a concept here is if I start to hit other areas like focal motor areas, I obviously can experience things like weakness or sensory losses. And so I think any kind of focal deficit could be considered. But I think starting off a seizure, memory deficits, cognitive behavioral changes, those are all really important because you can get things like cortical irritation from the inflammation there. And you can also get limbic inflammation, things like the amygdala, things like the hippocampus, etc. And so these are really important things that I want you guys to consider that can cause these symptoms. The other thing is the spinal cord involvement, right? So you have all these different types of tracks that are present. And so if a patient comes in and they have, for example, let's say that you damage their dorsal column, what could they have as a result? They could have decreased proprioception, vibration, fine and discriminative touch. If you cause inflammation or damage to the lateral white column, this is where your lateral corticospinal tracks come down. This could lead to some paralysis. This depending upon where that location is, it can cause things like flaccid or spastic paralysis. If I start damaging other areas like the anterior and like this lateral portion over here, I could lose, have a decrease in pain and temperature sensation or loss in pain and temperature sensations. And so depending upon the track that's involved, you could have some type of track loss or track damage. So again, you could think about dorsal column and damage. So you have loss of fine and discriminative touch, proprioception, vibration sense. You could have lateral white column, lateral column damage. And this could lead to loss of potentially a lot of the motor pathways that are part of the lateral corticospinal tracks. And you could even have more of your anterior column. And this can lead to changes, particularly of pain and temperature sensations. So this is all possibilities due to that as autoantibodies attacking the spinal cord and attacking the brain. I think the big thing to remember here is that when these antibodies do attack the brain and the spinal cord, you may potentially have a couple of different problems here. And sometimes we can pick this up. So for example, if we have these areas of inflammation in the brain, this may show some multifocal hyperintensities on the MRI. If you get it in the spinal cord, you may have some multifocal hyperintensities that come up on the spinal cord. And so all of these different areas are really critical to remember here that I want you guys to think about. If we have some type of damage to the actual cortex, it could be seizures. If we have it to more of our deeper nuclei structures, memory deficits, cognitive behavioral changes. If we damage the actual spinal cord, you can have dorsal column damage, lateral column damage, anterior column damage. The other thing is that this can also affect even potentially cranial nerves. And so you can even get cranial nerves or the brainstem could be affected as well. So that's another thing is that not only can you have that, sometimes you can even have damage to the brainstem. And there could be changes in your level of consciousness. And so there can be definitely an important thing to think about there. Could be potentially if you really want to, cranial nerve deficits could be definitely one. Or you have an altered mental status or an altered level of consciousness. And so that's an important one. And that could be due to the particular formation in the brainstem that's being affected as well. All right. That was a crap ton to talk about. I want you guys to again take away from this the anti-NMDA from Novarian Teratoma, anti-Hoo from small cell lung cancer. And remember that these can attack the brain and the spinal cord and lead to primarily memory, cognitive behavioral changes, potentially some damage to the actual spinal cord that can lead to weakness, can lead to loss of fine touch, proprioception, vibration, can lead to loss of pain and temperature. A lot of these things that are happening in these patients. So the next one is dermatomyositis. Now there is a couple of different types of myositis. There is what's called dermatomyositis, polymyositis, like inclusion body myopathy. We'll talk about that more in the MSK slash room section. But when we talk about these, there is dermatomyositis that is the most often associated with malignancy out of those three myopathies. And so what's really important is that with dermatomyositis, there's a classic case where they oftentimes have what's called like a heliotrope rash. They have gotrim papules. They have proximal muscle weakness. They even have like it's called a shawl sign. And when you test them for specific antibodies, they come back with an anti-MI2 antibody and that's not usually a malignant associated kind of antibody. When you look at the other ones, like maybe 30, 40% of cases, it can be associated with ones that we'll talk about like anti-TF, gamma 1, and anti-NXP2 antibodies. I don't think that those are super, super, super critical to remember, but I'm just giving you an overall understanding of it so we can bridge the gap. But in dermatomyositis, it's associated with potentially 30, 40% of cases of malignancy. Lung cancer is going to be one and the other one is going to be ovarian cancer. So these may be associated with dermatomyositis. Now you can see this in kind of a lot of different like with solid organ cancers, maybe breast cancers, there's a bunch of them. But I think these are probably going to be the big ones that I want you guys to remember. Now what happens is these plasma cells, again it's a pretty simple concept. It's the same thing that we've kind of talked about. They're producing antibodies. And these antibodies that are being produced are being produced against kind of like similar tumor antigens. The tumor antigens that these patients have, unfortunately they may resemble other kind of proteins that are present throughout the body, maybe in the muscles and in the skin. That's the name, dermatoskin, and then myositis muscle. Now these antibodies that we actually see are interesting because they're not like a specific kind of thing. They're not like organ specific, if you will. We just find that this may lead to a process, and this is going to be your anti-TIF gamma 1. That's why I don't want you guys to go too crazy remembering this. And the other one is the anti-NXP2 antibodies. And we can kind of just consider these. These are being produced again. And they're supposed to be directed against these cancers, the tumor antigen. But what happens is they find that there's other kinds of, let's say, proteins on other areas of the body. And what they do is they actually find these proteins on vessels in the muscles and in the skin. And what they do is they cause injury to these vessels. So they cause inflammation of the vessels. We call that vasculitis, right? Or it can lead to a vasculopathy, essentially. So it leads to a vasculopathy. And this is going to be to the vessels that are supplying oxygen and nutrients to the muscles and to the dermis. And so what happens is you end up causing vasculopathy to the muscles. And so they end up developing myositis. And you also cause this decrease oxygen delivery to the skin and you end up with skin lesions. And so this is where we start to see certain features like myositis and dermal skin lesions. Now we can't just like, I'm not going to leave you guys out there and say, all right, that's it. What are these potential presentations? It's pretty straightforward. With these patients, they have myositis. And oftentimes, again, it's more likely proximal muscle weakness. The other thing is that because these muscles are getting kind of like hit pretty hard and they're relatively inflamed, one of the things that we see that's actually increased in production and myositis because you're kind of popping open some of those muscles, those muscle cells is going to be the creatinine kinase. We may see a bump in the CK. There's another one that we also see called alde lace. I'll add that one in there as a plus or minus. You may even see that one that's elevated as well. But this is the key thing. Now another important presentation is that these patients can have rashes and they oftentimes can have rashes usually around the eyes. This is called a heliotrope rash and it looks a little bit like this. And then another thing is that they can have rashes that are usually on their hands and it's usually all over like their hands, their metacarpal areas. And this is called your Gotren's papules and it looks a little bit like this. So again, the big things that I want you to remember is what is the primary presentation they may have? Proximal muscle weakness. That would be one potential presentation, your proximal muscle weakness. And the other thing is that they can have a rash called a heliotrope rash and the other one is that they can have what's called Gotren's papules. And these are the clinical presentation that should definitely make you think about it's in a perfect clinical world. That's what you would see. And if you have these clinical presentations, you have a potential underlying malignancy. One of the ways that you can go about this is you can potentially test for those antibodies. But oftentimes it comes down to actually doing a muscle biopsy and finding that there's potentially like periphecicular muscle atrophy. You even have potentially a lot of these skin lesions that show problems as well. So these are the big things to think about with their matomiasitis. Again, associated with cancer can be associated with these autoantibodies and they can present with muscle and skin findings. Let's move on. All right, let's move on to the next one, which is myosthenia graft. So myosthenia graft is kind of similar to limbs and this is definitely, this can be a perineoplastic syndrome. The concept behind this one.  is usually if a patient has a tumor in their mediastinum called a thymoma. So whenever you have a thymoma, this may create an opportunity where the thymoma has very similar tumor antigens. And your plasma cells, yeah, you guessed it, bro. They're producing antibodies. And these antibodies that they are producing, they mimic or they look a little bit like the tumor antigens that are present on the thymoma. Now, what happens is these antibodies are actually really, really important. These are called anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies. So you'll have a pretty good understanding of how this works. All right, ready? You have an action potential running down the axon. Then what happens is it opens up the voltage-gated calcium channels on that pre-synaptic neuron. Calcium then rushes in. When calcium rushes into the neuron, it then does what? It stimulates the synaptic vesicles that contain acetylcholine to start to fuse with the membrane here. When that happens, it triggers exocytosis. So then you release out the acetylcholine. Acetylcholine once out here is going to do what? Acetylcholine will come down and bind on to this receptor. When it binds on to the receptor, the ligand-gated ion channel, it's going to open that puppy up. It's going to lift the gate. And then sodium is going to rush in. When sodium rushes in, it triggers depolarization of that actual muscle cell membrane, right? That in-play potential. And eventually that'll lead to a contraction of the muscle. This is very simplified, obviously, but this is the kind of concept that I want you guys to think about here. Depolarization and then contraction. Now, here's where this antibody comes into play. The antibodies, what they do is they like to bind on to this receptor. When they bind on to the receptor, they don't allow acetylcholine to bind. And now they're going to inhibit this process. So all of this up here, the action potential, the calcium, the exocytosis, the acetylcholine diffusing, once it gets to the point where it binds to the receptor, antibodies are going to block it. Now acetylcholine can't bind. And what happens is, as then now that happens, this ligand-gated ion channel, that gate closes. Sodium can't rush in. You don't depolarize that muscle and you don't contract the muscle. If you can't contract that muscle, that muscle going to get weak. That's where we see the issue here. So the real problem here that exists in this disease is that at the time moment, you have these antibodies that are being produced against the tumor antigens. Problem is, is that they're going to attack a receptor, the acetylcholine receptor, that may mimic some of those tumor antigens. Now the question that comes from this is, okay, if we can't contract these muscles, how will the patient potentially present? And again, I think you're noticing that a lot of these, they carry kind of a similar presentation. It's usually proximal muscle weakness. But the one muscle that I get absolutely terrified in this condition, when I worked in the neuro ICU, I wouldn't see it a lot, but you'd see it sometimes in the myocenic crisis. But they can get proximal muscle weakness. That's definitely a common presentation. But what you get scared about enough is if it hits the diaphragm. If it hits the diaphragm, that can cause things like respiratory distress. These patients can get hypercapnic. That's what we would see as hypercapnic respiratory failure. And so this respiratory distress is what makes this considerably concerning because sometimes in myocenic gravus, they can have a myocenic crisis. And usually that's triggered by an underlying infection or some type of stress process on the body. Usually infections and that can cause, you know, especially like things like pneumonia. And that puts more stress on the body. And especially they end up having damage or inflammation. I'm sorry, not damage, inflammation. You end up having significant weakness of the diaphragm and that can cause respiratory distress. They can't allow for the proper respiration process. And they can definitely develop some pretty severe hypercapnic respiratory failure. Now, these are the big concerns. The other thing that happens with myocenic gravus, it actually can weaken some of the extraocular muscles and the muscle of the levator palpabrosupirioris. So this muscle here, the levator palpabrosupirioris, it can get hit. And then what happens is, is this causes a drooping of this upper eyelid, a drooping effect. What is that called? That can lead to the called, we lead to kind of a ptosis. So that's one potential presentation here. The other thing is that it can also cause these extraocular muscles, you know, things like the superior rectus, we should kind of do this superior rectus, you know, maybe the medial rectus, inferior rectus, all of these get affected. And so these are supposed to allow for you to allow for extraocular movements normally. But what happens here is that these patients, their muscles are weakened, so they don't allow for proper coordination of eye movement. And so they get diplopia or double vision. And so that's another one that I would want you guys to watch out for. So ptosis is a big one due to the levator palpabrosupirioris. And then diplopia is another one due to the effect on the extraocular muscles. The other thing is it's affecting the muscles of the pharynx. And so the pharynx is going to be affected, the muscles of the tongue, these are all skeletal muscles will be affected. And so your ability to allow for swallowing and speech becomes affected. And so these patients can have things like dysphagia, difficulty swallowing, especially in the early stages, more orofaryngeal dysphagia, you really should be specific in that scenario. And then also difficulty with the articulation and their speech processes. And so they may also have dysarthria. Now, one of the key things I think that is really, really important with this condition is that a lot of these symptoms or this weakness is worse over the process of the day or worse with exertion. We use it in that kind of like little dichotomy that if you have weakness, you have them exert themselves. What happens? If they get worse, it's myocenia gravis. If they maybe get a little bit better, it could be more of the Lamberti myocenic syndrome. That is super, super important. This is a fatigable disease. If I look at their strength of their extraocular movements in the beginning of the day and looking at the end of the day, it is much, much worse at the end of the day. It's a fatigable condition. All right, that covers our myocenia gravis. Let's move on to trousseau syndrome. With trousseau syndrome, this one is actually a hypercoagulable state. Believe it or not, it's a hypercoagulable state. And what happens here is we see this with adenocarcinoma. So, it's usually musin producing adenocarcinoma. What are the two most common ones? It's going to be lung cancer. So, we call this like the adenocarcinoma, which is believe it or not one of the most common lung cancers, especially for the non-small cells. And then this one is pancreatic. Pancreatic. Adenocarcinoma. All right. Well, I put pancreatic, so let's add here lung. So, here we got lung adenocarcinoma and here we got pancreatic adenocarcinoma, most common in the head. Now, when we think about this, in these conditions, what they do is they produce a couple different types of molecules here. One is they produce a lot of something called musin. All right. Now, musin is a protein and what this musin can do is it can actually stimulate platelets. It may kind of cause the platelets to become a little bit more activated. So, it causes platelet activation. The problem with that is, is that now if I got all these platelets that are just kind of chilling around all of a sudden, they're just like, you know, they're hyped up. They're like ready, you know, they're ready to go. What's going to happen? These platelets can aggregate and they can kind of start causing platelet aggregation. This increases the risk of thrombus formation, primary hemostasis, right, my friends? So, that's one thing. The second thing, so musin again is going to cause platelet activation that may lead to increased risk of thrombus formation. The other thing that happens with these tumors, and let's actually kind of do it like this, it's kind of like bifurcated maybe, musin and then here, it also increases the expression of a molecule called tissue factor. Now, this should sound familiar. This is factor three. So, tissue factor or factor three is a part of our extrinsic pathway. And so, what that's going to do is, that's going to increase the coagulation cascade, right? That's going to increase the coagulation cascade. If we want to, we can always go back to hematology and say, oh yeah, tissue factor is going to be helpful in activating factor seven. Factor seven and factor three in combination lead to the activation of the common pathway. Factor ten, that leads to thrombus formation, fibrin formation, and then we end up causing that secondary hemostatic plug, right? So, then what happens is, the combination of these, as you end up with a really nice secondary hemostatic plug. And here is where we have a thrombus. So, now we can have an increased thrombus formation. And the problem with this is that when you have these thrombi, what can thrombi do? I think you know they can break off. And so, this could actually break off, and we could also get increased risk of emboli. And I think that's where we get a little bit concerned, is that if these do break off, then you get things like emboli. Now, clinically, how would these patients present? Well, what you're so syndrome, because you have this increased thrombus formation, that's where we get concerned about things like this. So, for example, which are so syndrome, one of the things is these patients can get what's called recurrent migratory thromboflabitis. So, recurrent migratory thromboflabitis is basically where they have inflammation and clots in their superficial vessels. Now, this usually is going to affect more of the arms and the legs. And so, what you'll notice is these patients will have these red, swollen, tender palpable cords that can wax and wane. And that's usually going to be something that you'll see in the arms and the legs. So, I want you guys to remember that, is they can have what's called superficial migratory thromboflabitis. That's one thing that we can see. And this is usually one of the key things, is you'll see these palpable, tender, red, kind of like cords that wax and wane on the upper extremities. That's usually what you'll have. Another thing, it's pretty straightforward. It does increase the risk of you getting clots, especially venous thromboembolism. So, watch out for the DVTs. And one of the concerns with the DVTs is if they pop off. If they pop off and they move via the inferior vena cava into the right atrium, into the right ventricle, where can they theoretically get stuck? Into the pulmonary arterials. And so, you also run the risk of PEs. And again, PEs, we know that this can break off as a DVT. From here, run the inferior vena cava into the right atrium, into the right ventricle, and into the pulmonary vessels. The last thing that I want to talk to you guys about is that sometimes what happens with this, is you can sometimes get like these clots, these kind of like fiber-in platelet-rich clots that form. They're non-bacterial, but they kind of look like vegetations and they can form on the valve. And this is called non-bacterial thromboembolic endocarditis. And so, this is called an MBTE. So, these patients will actually have, if you get an echocardiogram, there's two things. On their echo, it may show, it may show a possible vegetation. So, they may have a vegetation. All right? But then, whenever you get a blood culture, whenever you get the blood cultures, this will actually be a negative blood culture, meaning that it's not due to infective endocarditis. This is usually due to clots, all right? And so, this is something that I want you guys to think about as well. So, if you ended up getting an echocardiogram, they have like this weird vegetation, you get blood cultures, it's negative, but they have an underlying malignancy, you could be thinking about an MBTE. All right. Truso syndrome is a condition, it's a perineoplastic syndrome associated with adenocarcinomas, pancreatic, lung, makes them hyperquaggulable, they get clots. Where do the clots occur? Usually, the superficial vessels can also occur in the legs. If you have a patient who keeps getting DVTs, recurrent DVTs, recurrent PEs, that is something to think about in this potential condition, especially if it's unprovoked, meaning they don't have a lot of the verco triad risk factors besides an underlying malignancy that's usually there. This is when I would think about it. And then, oftentimes, you won't see this, but think about this as a potential cause of a vegetation on a heart valve, but a negative blood culture, none of the Duke's criteria really suggests this is an infective case, you could be thinking about a non-bacterial thromboendocarditis, a thromboembolic endocriditis. All right, my friends, let's now talk about the next one, which is hypertrophic osteoarthropathy. Sometimes we even call this hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy. You want to know why? Because it can be associated with some type of like lung cancer. And usually, if you guys remember back from the lung cancer lecture, this was usually lung adenocarcinoma. And this is one of the most common of the non-small cell lung cancers, and I would say in general the most common, our lung cancer. Now, with this being said, this cancer, what's the problematic about this one is that it can produce a couple of different types of chemicals. One is it can produce something called platelet-derived growth factor. It also can produce some other ones, other growth factors like vascular endothelial growth factor. Now, when you produce these in large amounts, what happens is the platelet-derived growth factor, this goes and works on your fibroblasts. So here's going to be our fibroblasts. And what it's going to do is it's going to increase your, usually I'd say, your connective tissue, and it's going to act on the osteoblasts and cause the bones to thicken. So it's going to cause connective tissue and bone thickening. That's really one thing that we're going to see. All right, and again, why? Because it's going to act on the fibroblasts. What do fibroblasts do? They're going to lay down a lot of the collagen and extracellular matrix, which is going to be, again, thickening up the periosteum and some of the bone tissue. It's also going to act on the osteoblasts. And that's going to help to increase a lot of your hydroxyapatite, your calcium deposition into the bone, and that's going to thicken up that bone plate and bone tissue as well. So it's usually the combination of these due to platelet-derived growth factor acting on these tissues that is going to cause that bone to thicken up and some of the periosteum around it. What helps in this process is if you have a lot of blood flow to this connective tissue, to the bone tissue, it's going to allow for a lot of these processes to occur. And so another thing that we can appreciate, especially in the periosteum, where you get a good amount of vascular supply, we're going to have a lot of angiogenesis, which is a good amount of blood supply. And so this is the things that I want you guys to remember. So that angiogenesis is really going to help to fuel this process. And really, it's really just going to contribute to this connective tissue and bone thickening. Now, what would this look like? I'm not kidding. You're going to look like you got spoons for fingers. So it's going to cause digital clubbing. And so it's going to cause clubbing of the digits or digital clubbing. And that's what it's going to look like. You could eat a bowl of Cheerios with these fingers. All right. Sorry. That is called digital clubbing. All right. So that covers hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy. Again, big thing, notes associated with a pulmonary condition, lung cancer. Usually, growth factors. Growth factors cause bone connective tissue production, especially around the areas of the digits. Also, lots of blood supply to the periosteum, where we're going to allow for these processes to occur. And you're going to get some big spoon fingers where you could eat, you know, fruity pebbles pretty easily. All right. Let's move on to the next one, polysathemia. All right. So the next one is polysathemia. This one is again associated with this perineal plastic syndrome. We see this more, I'd say, most commonly with renal cell carcinoma. In a small percentage of cases, you may see this associated with a patocellular carcinoma. What do these tumors do? They will produce a hormone that should generally not be produced in large amounts by these organs, especially like a cancer. Now, your kidney does produce EPO. So it's usually a cancer of that kidney. That's why you see it more often, renal cell carcinoma. That's going to produce a ton of erythropoietin. A little bit of erythropoietin is made by the liver. So whenever you get a cancer of the hepatocytes, you can get a little bit of a bump in the EPO. So these EPO levels go up. Erythropoietin. Erythropoietin acts on what? Acts on the bone marrow, especially the red bone marrow. Stimulates the red bone marrow to say, hey, kick it in gear. Let's go. Make some red cells, bruh. And that's what's going to happen is you're going to pump out these red cells. Now, the problem with increasing the number of red blood cells is that you do what? You increase the mass of red blood cells. And whenever I have too many red blood cells, especially in a vessel, imagine here I got a vessel and I'm filling this thing with a bunch of red cells, right? What's going to happen? Enough of these, I'm going to start increasing the viscosity. And that's what you start to see. You see a real significant bump in the viscosity of blood flow. Sometimes, I'd say sometimes, it's not often, but sometimes you can get enough of these red blood cells where they really start to clump up and get stuck in vessels. And so not only do you increase the risk of having a bump in their viscosity of the blood flow, which is kind of the, it's not going to flow laminarly. It's going to be more turbulent. It's going to be very, very sluggish flow. But also, you increase the risk of thrombi. So you can even cause thrombus formation. All right. So thrombi formation as well. These are the two things I think they're kind of really, really important to consider when you talk about polycythemia. And again, it's not vera, meaning it's from a bone cancer. This is actually due to some type of secondary process, usually with reputant production of riotumers such as the kidney or the liver. What happens when you have too much of these red cells? Well, we know that it bumps up the viscosity or it can cause thrombi. What happens is when you have what's called a condition called, it's actually called hyper viscosity syndrome. And we can see this in this condition. If you guys remember back to the myeloproliferative neoplasia, you can even see this in essential thrombocytemia. But it's a triad. It's a triad of presentations that we oftentimes see. And usually what happens is you may have some kind of reduced blood flow to the circulatory vessels in the brain. What was these called? That's your circle of willis bruh. Right. There could be a potential reduced flow in these. And so what happens is you may have some slight ischemia due to reduced blood flow to the brain tissue. This can cause things like headache. This can cause things like altered mental status. It can even potentially, I'm not even kidding, cause stroke symptoms, some stroke like symptoms. So you may have some focal neuro deficits potentially due to some slight ischemia due to the hyper viscosity causing a lot of reduced blood flow. The other one is that you're going to clog up the retinal veins. And so these veins get clogged up and you can't get blood out of them. And so they get really, really engorged. And because of that, it can cause things like papillodema, which is kind of enlargement of the papilla, a lot of edema around that area and the optic disc. And also sometimes it gets way too engorged and under pressure that some of the small retinal vessels bleed. And so this can cause visual changes due to retinal hemorrhages or papillodema. So you can even get visual changes. And then the last thing is it also causes potential problems. So one of the things that we see and people don't think about what polycythemia is, it's actually really interesting. It's not just red cells. Theoretically, you can have an increase in platelets. You can have an increase in white cells too. It's just the primary lineage that gets affected is going to be the red cells. But sometimes if you have too many platelets, what happens is that those platelets sequester the von Wilderbrot factor. And so you can kind of get like a von Wilderbrot disease. You don't have enough platelets to start clogging up holes. I'm sorry, you don't have enough von Wilderbrot factor to allow for activation of platelets to clog up those holes. And so these patients can actually experience some bleeding, some muco-cutaneous bleeding. And so that's where we see potentially this presentation as well. So some muco-cutaneous bleeding. So whenever you think about this triad, the hyperviscocity syndrome, that's what I want you to think about as potentially with polycythemia. The other ones, because that can get caused clots at unusual locations. You can see clots in the apatic veins. What's that called? This is called Bud Kiari syndrome. How does Bud Kiari syndrome present? This presents with apatomegaly, increased LFTs, potentially some ascites due to apatic vein occlusion. It could also occur in the portal veins or the mesenteric veins. And so you can even get some type of portal vein thrombosis as well. And I won't write down the other one, but you can even get some mesenteric vein thrombosis. And so this can also cause ascites. It may cause some kind of swelling of the GIT as well. So these are things to definitely potentially consider. So clots in unusual locations, you should also consider a condition like polycythemia, especially Bud Kiari syndrome. All right, polycythemia, I think we roasted that one. The last thing I want to talk about is a dermal condition called acanthosis nigra cans and lesser trilotsyme. With these, this is oftentimes most associated with gastric adenocarcinoma. So with gastric adenocarcinoma, usually there is diffuse type and there's intestinal type. Intestinal type is the most common, you'll probably see that more often with this one. But when we talk about gastric cancer, especially gastric adenocarcinoma, these tumors have the ability to produce a couple of different types of chemical factors. And what are they? Well, the big ones that I want you guys to remember is going to be different types of growth factors. So this could be things like transforming growth factor beta. There could be other ones like epidermal growth factors as well. But these ones are off the chain. You pump out a lot of these things, man. And what happens is they get down into the skin tissue and they start acting on the skin tissue. What happens is transforming growth factor beta and epidermal growth factors, they love to bind onto these receptors on your keratinocytes, on your skin cells. So here we'll represent this like epidermal growth factor. This may be used to transform and growth factor beta. But what's going to happen is it's going to cause these keratinocytes and all these skin cells to undergo a lot of cellular proliferation. Those are going to increase cell proliferation. Now, if we cause a lot of cell proliferation of the skin tissue, it's going to cause maybe some thickening and some abnormal skin lesions to start being generated as a result here. What could that look like? Well, I'm glad you asked. So with acanthosis nigricans, we'll put that one here. We'll put acanthosis nigricans in here. We'll put less circular. These ones present with very specific lesions. Oftentimes with acanthosis nigricans, this affects usually the axilla. You may even see it near the nether regions. But the other one is if let's say that this is the back of the head, right? You may see this also kind of on the neck. So you may see this in the groin. You may see this in the axillary regions. And you also may see this on the back of the neck. It's a thick velvety kind of like skin appearance that you would appreciate here as well. Very hyperpigmented as well. The other one is lesser trilotsine. This one is actually called, it's a very itchy suborheic keratosis that we actually want to think about here. And this one is going to more commonly occur on the trunk. And this is going to occur on the trunk because it could be on the actual front or it could be on the back. So suborheic keratosis is a very itchy, kind of like larger, popular appearance. And this could be due to lots of say the proliferation in the skin. And again, what do we see this in? Most often, gastric adenocarcinoma. All right, my friends. So let's start off first, really taking a systematic approach to each one of these. So SIADH, we talk about this a lot in our sodium disorders lecture, but this might be a quick little recap again in a patient who has an underlying malignancy. I think one of the key things is you may find a patient who has a low serum sodium, right? That's usually the key thing. Now, that hyponatremia, it could be completely asymptomatic. It may be silent and you just find only the hyponatremia itself on their serum chemistry. However, they may come in with signs of hyponatremia related to cerebral edema or related to cortical irritability, which could be things like headache, altered mental status, seizures, right? So this is their clinical presentation. You may get some labs find that they have hyponatremia or they may have no symptoms and have hyponatremia. One of the other things I think that really helps to think about likely SIADH is if they have a known malignancy or even some type of intracranial process, like a bleed or some type of like pathology, like a tumor. Those are things where you really, really want to be thinking about a likelihood of SIADH. However, we can't rule out that it couldn't be something else. So what do we do? Well, again, I think it's best to always just make sure that you check the serum sodium and really, really think about what's going on here. And if that serum sodium, serum sodium really is low, one of the best things to do is to make sure that it's truly hypotonic, hyponatremia and not hypertonic or isotonic. And so you check the serum osmolality. If that serum osmolality is low, that's what really suggests a hypotonic type of solution. And that's going to be kind of then taking you into the direction of, okay, could this be something that is hypovalemic, uvalemic or hypervalemic? And I think that's super crucial. So before we do that, once we've determined that it is a hypotonic, hyponatremia, we ruled out the hypertonics, right? Which is usually the things like, you think about oddly, you know, usually these are things whenever a patient has a like an extremely high glucose, or they've been given manateal, something like that of that nature, whereas someone who is a high isotonic hyponatremia, that's usually more of a laboratory artifact, things like high triglycerides or heavy amounts of proteins that are kind of throwing off the machine. But now that we've confirmed that it's low, all we got to say is, okay, what's ADH doing? Is ADH really high and it's tapping into the kidneys and telling the kidneys to, you know, reabsorb a lot of water and so they don't have a lot of water in their urine? Or is it telling it to really tap in and really, you know, really absorb a lot of that water? So that's what we want to know is what's ADH doing? Is it tapping in and pulling water? Is it not? And so that urine osmolotomy is going to be super helpful. Also volume status, I want to know, are they hypervalemic? Something like CHF or, you know, a very bad serotic, sometimes even end stage renal disease or those who have like an acute kidney injury, that could be a hypervalemic state. Are they hypovalemic? So that they have massive, you know, nausea like that caused vomiting. So their exorcist level vomiting across the room. They've got a Poonami and they're just drizzling out the Hershey squirts and losing volume. Is it something else? Right? So those are very common things. Are they getting over-diarrheased? These are all things to be thinking about and really considering. So the concept behind the urinosmolotomy, we dig in a little bit deeper. You think about anything that causes a reduction in your circulation, your effect of arterial blood volume. Your kidney is going to try to do something about that and it's going to say, oh crap, there's less volume. I better start retaining water. All right. And that activates your renangiotensin aldosterone system, the other name, ROS. And also in patients who have SIADH, which is just an inappropriate production, it's just your posterior pituitaries pumping out of the age. Again, could be due to malignancy, could be due to drugs, could be due to pulmonary diseases, could be due to an intracranial process. There's so many things that can cause this pain can do this. But either way, both of those things are leading to a bump in the ADH. And if that ADH is there and the kidneys are responding, it's going to reabsorb that water and then you're going to have less of that water in the urine. And that means that the urine is going to be very, very concentrated. So it's going to be a hypertonic type of urine. And so that's where the urinosmolotomy would be high. And so that's what I would expect in an SIADH case is I'd expect a high urinosmolotomy. Whereas if someone had like a low-slaw intake, like a tea and toast diet, they had a high water intake, so they had that primary polydipsia. And again, usually something like beer podomania is another one to think about with the low-slaw intake. And in general, what that does is it decreases your plasma osmolality. Your kidney isn't just able to really kind of like modulate these processes appropriately. And so what happens is the plasma osmolality goes down. Well, your pituitary doesn't respond to a low plasma osmolality, it responds to a high. And so in this situation, the ADH levels tend to kind of be suppressed. And so the ADH isn't working on the kidney, therefore you're not reabsorbing a lot of that water more. The water ends up in your urine. And so that causes the urine to become a little bit more dilute if you think about it. And again, we go less than 100, but oftentimes in severe cases like beer podomania, tea and toast diet, primary psychogenic polydipsia, people who are on hemodialysis in-state where they just don't make much urine, and they just retain a lot of their water. This is usually the things that we would think about. All right. So again, hypervolimic is very easy to identify. We, especially on your exams, not in true clinical reality, it's actually quite challenging, but reduced skin turquoise, so you're pulling up on that skin. And when you pull up on it, if it bounces back, that usually could be an indication that you're well hydrated. But if it's reduced, that could be an indication of hypervolimia, not a perfect one. Kind of a dry, mucous membranes, including the tongue that looks a little bit fissured, that could be a potential suggestion as well. Hypervolimic, you're looking at JVD. Again, you're looking for that jugular vein to be a little bit more distended, telling me that the right atrial pressure, centrivenous pressure is high. Pulmonary edema, pulmonary interstitial pressures, I mean the capillary wedge pressure is just a little bit high, so more fluid is...  leaking out, again, could be an indication of someone having heart failure or volume overload. Lower extremity edema, again, could be indicative of more of a heart failure overload situation. You can see this in cirrhotics, you can see this in kidney disease. And again, acides, acides is a pretty common one, especially in extreme volume overload states. So these are things to really be considering. But let's say that the patient had a high urinozmalality, that means ADH is on, it's definitely making the water pretty concentrated, and it's eulemic. Well, then you get to a very small number of things. It's usually either due to some type of cortisol problem. So usually we would think about this in a hypocortisol state, or hypothyroidism. So hypothyroidism can also potentially do this as well. So that's something I would be considering. So I'd get a TFTs and I'd check my cortisol, see what that comes out to be. If the cortisol is low, the thyroid function tests come back, showing me that I have a hypothyroid state, okay, it's not SADH. I have to truly exclude these to really make the diagnosis. So if it comes back normal, then I probably have SADH. But in this case, since everything that we talked about up to this point is that it came from an ectopic site like a lung mass, which is a really, really common one, that's what you're going to be thinking about. At this point, once you've done that, you then have to start searching for where it's coming from. And that's where I would do things like get a chest X-ray or a chest CT, you may find that mass. And then from there you can determine, okay, they may have small cell lung cancer. That's causing this potential issue. So that's how I would go about that one. Cushing syndrome, again, a similar concept here. Again, we're taking multiple different systems and putting this together. So it may seem like a lot, I know, but just hang in there with me. So with Cushing's, obviously the key way that you'll see this on the exam is a patient's going to come and they're going to have that swole moon face. They're going to have the buffalo hump. They're going to have some type of abdominal striate. They may have very thin arms, lots of bruising. Sometimes you may have hyperglycemia or refractory hypertension. Those are all things to definitely be considering. And then a lot of abdominal. So they're very thin in the arms, but they have a very obese kind of abdomen. And so those are things that are kind of like a, maybe a telltale sign on the exam. When they have a known history of cancer, especially small cell lung cancer, this really screams like a Cushing's type of presentation, which is a perineoplastic effect here. So what I like to do is always when you think that a patient may have Cushing's is you get the cortisol screening test. So this is the salivary one. You can do the low dose dexamethasone suppression test. You can do a urinary cortisol and just check all of those. And at least if one or two of those are positive, then you got to move on to the next step, which is testing them. So let's say that you have a high cortisol on those screening tests. So then from there, you want to determine where is that actual cortisol really coming from? Is it coming from the adrenal gland because it's got a tumor there? Or is it coming from somewhere else? Like something else is releasing ACTH like the pituitary or another tumor that's telling the adrenal gland to pump out cortisol. So in this situation, I would expect the ACTH levels to be high because it's coming from a source. And then you got to determine, is it the pituitary or is it the actual like the lung in this case? That's where you do the high dose dexamethasone suppression test. You give them cortisol essentially because dexamethasone is a steroid and it'll eventually kind of get that effect of cortisol. So once you do that, the cortisol level should spike. Now in the pituitary, if it's normal, usually it'll suppress. Even if there's a pituitary adenoma, if you give a high enough dose, it will suppress the pituitary and it should shut down the ACTH. But if the ACTH levels still remain high, despite giving them a high dose dexamethasone, it's not coming from the pituitary. It's likely coming from an ectopic source. And so that's where we would think about this being an ectopic source. And we'd start imaging them to find where that's coming from. All right. Lambertine myosthenic syndrome. You would see this in a patient who comes in, usually on the exam, with proximal muscle weakness. That's usually going to be kind of the biggest thing. They may also have this listed into the vignette where that weakness usually kind of, I would say, gets better with exertion as compared to myosthenia gravis. And that's what's weird. So Lambertine myosthenic syndrome is they have proximal muscle weakness, but it can actually get a little bit better as you try to exert them. Whereas with myosthenia gravis, which we'll talk about, that one actually tends to have proximal muscle weakness that gets worse with exertional activities. And so that's something to definitely think about. So usually between the two, the first thing is to just see if the nerves are actually working and to see that if you stimulate them, what type of response are you getting? And that's the key because with Lambertine myosthenic syndrome, you're getting the antibodies are attacking the voltage-eated calcium channels. And that's why you would get these probably in combination if you have any concern with the acetylcholine receptor antibodies as well. That would definitely be something that you'd be checking with myosthenia gravis that just kind of rolled the two out. But either way, if you did the nerve stimulation test, let's say that you do that and you check like a baseline, usually what you'll see is you'll see this kind of waveform. When you then do kind of like exercise, you should see that there should be an increase because the muscle is getting activated, the nerve is firing. So you should see this kind of expected increase in amplitude. When you take a patient who has Lambertine myosthenic syndrome and you kind of change how much you hit them with kind of that increasing voltage, what you'll notice is that with repetitive stimulation at a very fast frequency, they'll have an incremental response. And I think that's the key term to remember. So with increasing repetitive like stimulation at high frequency, they will have an incremental response if it's Lambertine. Whereas with myosthenia gravis, they usually have a decremental response and I'll show you that afterwards. Now the incremental response is one thing, but the telltale sign is the antibody. So you want to check these antibodies and see if they have serum antibodies with the anti-voltage gated calcium channel. Sometimes they'll even be written as anti-P slash Q. That's just kind of like the presynaptic voltage gated calcium channel antibodies. If those come back positive and you get a nerve stimulation test like this, it's highly likely that it's Lambertine syndrome. Alright. Now, hypercalcium amyloignancy is a pretty interesting one because a lot of the times we think about calcium causing those presentations of stones, bones, groans, throes, psychiatric overtones and you may get that. But a lot of the times it may just be like dehydration. They may have some like neurological abnormalities where they have some irritability or psychosis and things like that. That's really what I would want you guys to be thinking about. They also could have some bone pain. But regardless, one of the key things is a patient would have a very abrupt increase in their calcium. So the calcium may have been like 7.8 or 8. something before and all of a sudden it's like 14. That new onset and very severe hypercalcium is what really should trigger you to think about that. Now, the first thing that you always want to do whenever a calcium level is off is to see what's going on with the PTH because that will then guide you to the parathyroid or somewhere else. So the PTH level in this case, the hypercalcium amyloignancy usually there's a couple sources. It's either because of a lytic lesion of the bone. It's because of PTHRP or it's because of elevated vitamin D. And in all of these scenarios, all of the PTH should be suppressed. So if I check this, it should be low and that tells me that it's a PTH independent process. And I got to figure out what are the other potential triggers, if you will. So I'm going to check the PTHRP because that'll tell me if it's that squamous cell carcinoma, which we see most often, most often in the lungs. Calcitriol would be if I had potentially like a lymphoma. Extremely rare, but Hodgkin's lymphoma can cause an increase in alpha-1 hydroxylase. So can things like sarcoidosis and then alkaline phosphatase. If you have a massive amount of bone turnover, that's really going to kind of jack up your alfos, especially if your PTHRP and your calcitriol levels tend to be kind of in that normal range. That's something I would think about. So let's say that we went this route. PTHRP is high, which one? I would start thinking about squamous cell and I'd probably image the lungs. If I had a high alfos, okay, well that's definitely going to make me think about a bone turnover. Well, let me get a skeletal service. Let me get a bunch of x-rays and see if I can find any evidence of lytic lesions. Usually the culprit here is multiple myeloma. That's a really, really big one. Breast cancer can also do this too. And lung cancer. So I would start kind of serving and saying, okay, here's some ribs. Do I see anything abnormal? This looks a little wonky right here. There's definitely something going on here. And they probably got a lytic lesion there on the ribs. Here, this is like supravious. It looks like Swiss cheese. There's like holes all over the place, right? So that's definitely some lytic lesions of the vertebrae, which is a very common source. And then this is another one that really screams like multiple myeloma too, is you got all these lytic lesions on the skull. So this is something that really tells me that there's something going on where there's a bone chewing process and it's probably from a cancer that's metastasized to the bone and it's just eroding the bone, all right? All right. The last one is if that calcetriol is high. So if that's high, that's when I start thinking about things like lymphoma or some type of granulomitous disease. And then we can kind of do like lymph node biopsies from there, obviously, if there's an affected one. But that's kind of the way that we go about this, all right? Now, these neurological ones are kind of hard. They're not easy because they're kind of like an autoimmune process, if you will. And so a lot of the times we just have to get LPs. So when you got a patient who comes in and they have like symptoms like this, it's so hard to know, is it a stroke? Is it a seizure? Is there something else going on? Like, I don't know. Is it a tumor? And so you can have things like a taxid, dysarthria, and a stagymus. There could be a lot of different neurological diseases that cause this. It doesn't make you think right away about this. So obviously the first thing that you would probably do is get some type of image of the brain. Some people may go for a CT, but a brain MRI is going to be kind of the best quality one because it's going to show you, is there a bleed? Is there a stroke? Is there a tumor? Is there any kind of like highlighting and weird patterns, especially on that T2 flare that suggests maybe kind of like an autoimmune process? And so that's what I would say, but oftentimes here's the problem. With cerebellar degeneration, it's usually just atrophy over time. We don't really see like a normal or abnormal. It's kind of like variable. You may get some hyperintensities, but they don't mean anything. What you may actually see is a little bit of atrophy if they've been dealing with this for a long period of time. But this one, I don't want you to get too worried. It's just you're probably going to get an MRI. It's going to rule out a stroke. It's going to rule out a bleed. It's going to rule out any kind of like tumor. You're going to be left with maybe some vague things that don't tell you a lot. So then what you may do is if the patient continues to proceed with these symptoms as you may get an LP. And the whole point of LP is ruling out other things like, I know it's unlikely, but is there things like meningitis? They probably have other symptoms, but let me rule that out. And is this cancer? Is this an autoimmune process? And so that's where the LP will really, really come in handy is telling us what else is going on. And once you're tapping in there, what you're really looking for is you're looking to see is there any kind of like antibodies that are coming present in this case? So we're going to send those off and you're going to see is there any anti-yo antibodies, especially that suggests more of a breast ovarian cancer where that tumor really led to an autoimmune process that then attacked the cerebellum. That's something to think about. Anti-Who is almost always suggestive of the lung. And then anti-TR, that's a really odd one, but that can make you think about lymphoma. All right. And usually the one that you're probably going to see more likely, if you do see this on the exam is that anti-Who. So don't forget that one. All right. So the next thing is kind of similar with the perineoplastic encephalomyelitis. When you think about this one, again, it's not going to be someone who is going to be like a super obvious presentation. Now, anytime a person comes in with a nuance that seizure, you should always suspect some kind of like structural process, whether it be a tumor, whether it be a bleed, whether it be some type of like really large ischemic stroke or sometimes even things like meningitis or encephalomyelitis that's not infectious, it's autoimmune. And so those are always on the docket. And again, it'll lead you to an LP in some way, shape or form to kind of prove that and rule out a lot of other things. But we've got to get imaging first, right? So whenever a person comes in with like... Oh. The fuck happened there? All right. So same thing with... A patient comes in with like something like perineoplastic encephalomyelitis. It is not something that you think about. It's again, it's kind of more like a zebra diagnosis. So usually how you make these kinds of diagnosis is you exclude a lot of other things. So, for example, a patient comes in with a nuance that seizure, there could be a plethora of causes, right? Patient comes in with like confusion or cognitive deficits. There's a large differential. So there's a lot of things, a focal neural deficit, lots of differentials. So you have to start kind of like thinking about that. So when a patient comes in with a nuance that seizure, that's probably a really, really big one, maybe some cognitive behavioral changes. Those are things that I'm going to get a prime image of some sort, right? I'm going to probably start off with either CT MRI, just see if I can find something going on, whether it's a bleed, whether it's a stroke, whether it's a tumor, whether it's some type of like hyperintensities that are showing up that could signal something like encephalitis or myelitis or meningitis, anything like that that I can look further into. So if I do that and I were able to stroke a bleed, a tumor, anything abnormal, but maybe I find some like areas of hyperintensities, especially in areas like this could be explaining some of the memory and cognitive behavioral deficits. This could be explaining some of the focal deficits, but there's lots of these like, you know, hyperintensities that are appearing on that T2 flare. That really would make me a little bit kind of like, all right, something's definitely not normal here. I think I need to do an LP. And that's really what would take me to the next step. Is this something that is usually autoimmune and infectious? Is it cancer? Let me just kind of go from there. And that's where I would then tap into saying, let me get an LP. Let me check that CSF. Let me make sure that there's no virus. Make sure that there's no kind of infectious like bacterial pathogens. Make sure there's no fungus. Make sure that there's no cancers like tumor cells. Check any weird antibodies. And so that's what I'm going to do. And I send that off, make sure I rule out infection, make sure that I rule out any kind of like weird thing like that and any kind of other cancers. But then from there say, could this be an autoimmune process? And that's when I would check those antibodies. I would check the anti-who, which again is small cell lung cancer. And I would also check the anti-NMDA, which is usually kind of a very interesting one, but it's something that we can see with ovarian teratomas, which is like that Frankenstein tumor where it contains like muscle and bone and nerves and teeth and stuff like that in an ovarian tumor. But that's how I want you guys to think about this one. All right. Dermatomyositis is something that is usually going to be presented on the exam pretty obviously in a patient who may have, again, some proximal muscle weakness. The other thing is that they're going to have skin lesions. So that's the name Dermatot. There's probably going to be some type of dermal or skin lesion. And then myositis. There's going to be inflammatory processes involved in the muscles, which is going to lead to myalgia and weakness. So pain and soreness of the muscles and weakness associated with it. So usually the key terms that you want to look for is a gotron's papules or a heliotroparousion. Sometimes maybe you see a shawl sign, but that's usually less associated with cancerous lesions. So this is going to be your gotron's papules. You're going to see kind of like these weird lesions that are usually going to be on the hands. All right. And then the other one is going to be the heliotroparous, which is usually going to be somewhere around the eyelids and just below the eyelids. So these are going to be something I really, really think about if you see this on your exam, you hear those terms, think about Dermatomyositis, especially if it's associated with muscle weakness. Now, CK levels will help us to see is there any kind of muscle damage, which you get in Dermatomyositis because autoantibodies are attacking the muscle. It's causing damage to the actual skeletal muscle and it's going to leak out some of the things like CK and another enzyme called aldolase. And so the CK level, I would expect to be elevated. And sometimes aldolase, which is another enzyme, can be elevated as well. When that happens, there's a lot of different things that you have to think through. Could this be like a medication effect? Could they have had like a seizure? Could there's a lot of things that can cause a rise and see, okay, was it a crush injury, a rabdo, all of these things? And so you have to start thinking about those processes. But in this patient, if you rule out those things in their history, you may start thinking about some type of an autoimmune process. And you may by chance order an antibody profile. And there's a bunch of them. There's two of them that I think are more likely to be associated with cancer. That's about like 30% of cases. And that's the anti-TIF gamma or the anti-NXP2 antibodies. I don't think that you're going to probably be tested on this. But what they may ask you to do is to get a biopsy. And so if they say that there's positive antibodies, they have an elevated CK, they have this kind of clinical presentation, the biopsy may be the way to go for these patients to really kind of determine that. Because there's dermatomyositis, polymyositis, and inclusion body myopathy, that's something to definitely consider. All right. Now, myocinic gravuses, again, if you go back to Lambert Eaton, it's that proximal muscle weakness, but this one gets worse with exertion. They also usually have the 3Ds, Diplopia, Dysphagia, Disarthria. So they have double vision, which is the Diplopia. Dysphagia, which is the difficulty in swallowing, and dysarthria is the difficulty with their speech or their articulation may be affected. And again, a lot of this gets worse and later in the day, because they've been using these muscles and by the time it gets to the end of the day, those muscles are so fatigued that they are just extremely weak. One of the tests that we used to do in ICU is you test their strength of how long they could hold their eyes upwards, like having them look upwards for a while. And you do that in the morning, see how well they could do it, and do it in the evening. And you would notice that the eyes would just fall back down because of the fatigue. So that's something to definitely think about here. Again, you're going to do that nerve stem test if you have a really high degree of suspicion in this particular scenario, and you're going to get those antisethylcholine receptor antibodies. And if you ever had a concern of the Lambert Eaton, you might get the anti-PQVGCC antibodies. Another one that's also commonly ordered with myocenia gravis is the anti-musk antibodies. So sometimes that can also be listed in your exams as well. A lot of the times the antisethylcholine receptor antibodies is going to be the gold standard, though. So if I do this, I'm going to notice a difference in the nerve stimulation test and a different antibody that comes up positive. So here what I would notice is as I kind of go with my stimulation, like the actual kind of like stimulation of the actual the muscle and the nerve, what I would notice here is a change in their response. And it's almost like a U-shape. So it's almost like a reverse bell curve, if you will. So you notice that as I continue to keep stimulating the muscle, what do I notice as I go from 1 to 6? It starts to decrease and then it kind of moves its way back up. So with repetitive stimulation at a very slow frequency, we notice a decremental response with myocenia gravis. So Lambert Eaton incremental myocenia decremental response. And again, their antibodies are going to be that kind of like dead giveaway, the one kind of slams the diagnosis in your face. And that's myocenia gravis. Again, you can see that more with like a thymoma. Whereas someone with Lambert Eaton syndrome, you're probably going to see that more with like a small cell lung cancer. All right. Okay. Truso syndrome is an interesting one. This is definitely more of a clinical diagnosis. It's not something that you're probably going to see too much. I won't spend a lot of time. But in a patient who has like, you know, DVTs, PEs, maybe recurrent migratory thrombophlebitis, maybe they have like an embolic phenomenon. And real quick, recurrent migratory thrombophilitis is they have these red, tender, hard vessels that usually you can see. It's usually in the upper extremities, sometimes in the lower extremities. But it's pretty obvious they have these red, tender palpable cords in their arms that are due to the inflammation and clots that are in those superficial vessels. So they can get deep clots like DVTs and PEs. They can get superficial clots. They can get embolic phenomenon. So if one of those clots break off, they can move up and cause a stroke. They can cause acute limb ischemia. They can cause a mesenteric ischemia, lots of different things like that. And if they have known malignancies, and the two most common ones associated with your so's is usually going to be pancreatic adenocarcinoma and lung cancer, usually adenocarcinoma. So what happens is when you have a patient who has these kinds of things, you may do things like coagulation studies to figure out if they have some type of hypercoagulable state. Especially if it's recurrent, if they have some of those particular risk factors like a family history, they have recurrent unprovoked DVTs, PEs, things like that I think is really important to consider. And so you may order that. I think the other thing is that if you have any kind of concerns with these patients, sometimes blood cultures are helpful because these patients, they can kind of look like they have like sometimes like an infective endocarditis, and it's always good to get those blood cultures and make sure that they're negative. And echo could show, and the reason why I say the blood cultures is sometimes trisocinium can cause a non-bacterial kind of like thrombotic endocarditis and NBTE. So you can get an echo and you may see what looks like kind of like a vegetation on the actual valves. And this could be a non-bacterial type of thrombotic emboli. And so then you would get the blood cultures that come back negative, and that may tell you that this isn't truly an infective endocarditis. And so that's one thing I would do is I'd get the echo, make sure that if you see any of those kinds of like valvular vegetations, get the blood cultures, make sure those are negative, and check the coag studies. Usually what's going to happen is these patients, they're coagulation studies, they shouldn't really be abnormal. Their blood culture should be pretty much normal, and you may see some of those heart valves with some kind of weird vegetations. That may make you think about it. I think that's when you consider Tristocentrum. But again, this is not an easy diagnosis. This is more of one of those where it's like, if you think about it, it's usually going to be presented where you have a patient who has a known malignancy. They're presenting with these kinds of like clinical symptoms. They may give you some of these like elapsed to kind of throw you off a little bit and ask you what type of like condition do you think that they're displaying. And that's what would be Tristocentrum. All right. Polycythemia. This one's interesting because usually with these patients, if we talked about this in our kind of like myeloproliferative neoplasias, this one is usually aquagenic parietus. If you see that exam, boom, that's what you should think about. Hyperviscocetase syndrome is another one where they can have bleeding. So usually this is mucocutaneous bleeding. They can have usually things like headaches and vision changes. And that's really going to make you concerned because the high viscosity is reducing blood flow to the brain and out of the eyes. And so that's why they get the vision changes. That's why I get the headaches and the altered mental status and they get the bleeding because it kind of can tie up, especially with the platelets, if they're making too many platelets as well associated with the red cells, it can tie up all of that von Wilderbrot factor. So they have less of that to actually generate a good clot. So hyperviscocetase syndrome is going to be one of the big things. Aquagenic parietus and recurrent thrombosis is a really big one. And polycythemia tends to love more of your hepatic veins. So they like to get like Bud Kiari syndrome and portal vein thrombosis. So it's kind of interesting to think about that one. But either way, what you would do is let's say that they presented with some of these symptoms and then you had to ask for a lab or you got a lab and you got a CBC, what would you see? You see probably a high hemoglobin and hematocrypt, pretty dang high. And that would make you think about polycythemia. So then the next question is, is where is that coming from? Is it a secondary or is it a primary source? And so you check an epolevel because epolevels, if they're really, really high, that tells you it's coming from somewhere else. It's probably coming from something like the kidneys because of a tumor or it's coming from the kidneys because of high, because of hypoxemia. Or is it coming from the bone marrow? So is there some type of Jack 2 mutation that's causing an abnormality and causing this hyperactive activity of the Jack 2 stat pathway? And this is leading to excessive proliferation of red cells and maybe even platelets of white cells. And so that's kind of the way that we would go with this. So if I checked it and epolevel is high, that tells me that this is coming from the kidney and I need to figure out the source. That would be kind of the issue here. And so the next thing is I would check the Jack 2 mutation and that would tell me, okay, it's not coming from the bone marrow, so it's not in the kind of myeloproliferative neoplasia. And if I checked the ABG and it shows me that there is no hypoxemia, so it's not an oxygen deprivation kind of cause that's leading to an increase in epoproduction. That means it's probably coming from the kidney. And that would make me think about a renal cell carcinoma. So what I would do is I would probably image the actual kidneys, maybe do an ultrasound or just CT of the actual abdomen with contrast and then see if I can find any kind of tumor that is causing this. All right. So I think the last thing to think about here is whenever we talk about neoplasics, we talked about a lot of them and how to really think about these on the vignette and clinically. But what about when you have the determination to say, what do I do for them? How do I treat them? With SI-80H a lot of the times it's just simple. For that mild case where it's not too bad, maybe the sodium is like 132, 130. It's not too low. You could just restrict some of their fluid intake so that they stop banking all of that water. If they're drinking three to four liters of water a day, they're going to bank all of that because the 88H is just going to keep absorbing it or reabsorbing it. So restrict some of that and give them some salt tabs and that's going to help to increase their sodium incrementally. That's really the key thing. If it continues to get worse, that's when I start to say, okay, maybe should we do something else. Because again, if you think about this, if you give someone sodium chloride tablets, they're going to absorb some of that and that's going to get into the blood. It's going to increase the serum sodium, but it's not going to be much. It's maybe like one milli-equivalent, two milli-equivalents. It's not going to be a ton. And again, if you decrease their intake, that's really where you're going to have your best bank for your buck because if you decrease that intake of water, that means that less of the kidney is going to be reabsorbing that and that's going to cause less dilution of the serum sodium. So that's really where the money is at is the fluid restriction. But the thing that comes into the next step is let's say that you have a patient who is, they're still not, and this is all outpatient stuff. You're not going to be really doing a lot of other things. Inpatient you might be doing things like hypertonics. We'll talk about that. The next step is the 88H antagonist. So sometimes you can do this as well. Sometimes you can even do diuretics. So we can even sometimes do diuretics as well. We used to do that a lot. You used to give loop diuretics as well to really get rid of some of the excess water. You just got to be careful because you could easily overshoot it. But either way, 88H antagonist would be the next go to if you're more in that moderate, you're not really responding well. So this is things like Tolvaptan and basically what it's going to do is it's going to block 88H. So essentially, 88H is going to bind to the receptor and cause the water reabsorption. If you block that effect, what are you going to do? You're not going to allow for that water reabsorption. So you're going to dump a lot of water into the urine. But that can actually cause the sodium to correct pretty quickly. So you got to be really, really careful with 88H antagonist because it can definitely rebound and cause hypernatremia sometimes. The last thing I think that's really, really important here is in patients who have a severe and acute, like symptomatic kind of hyponatremia where they're coming in season, they have entanglement or cranial pressure. Their sodium is less than 120. And this has happened within the past like 24, 40 hours. Then you got to go really aggressive and you got to get a lot of sodium into their blood stream quickly because you want to either get them to stop seizing, you want to drop their intra-caneal pressure, you want to get that sodium up so that they don't continue to have these symptoms. And so that's when you would kind of hit something like a hypertonic saline. And basically, you're just pushing in a super salty solution into their bloodstream to really rise that serum sodium. All right. Cushing syndrome is actually pretty straightforward. So the problem here is cortisol. Regardless, if it's coming from ACTH from the actual lung tumor, it's causing cortisol to go up and that's what's causing the disease processes. You just have to figure out a way to shut that down. And so how would you do that? It's kind of weird. It's an anti-fungal, but it has the ability to inhibit some of the enzymes that are involved in steroid hormone synthesis, especially cortisol. Another one is metirapone. But either way, both of these could be utilized. There's like no pick this one over this one. You can use both of these. Again, in this situation, you have a tumor that's pumping out ACTH. It's telling the actual adrenal gland to pump out cortisol. If you give something that can work at the actual adrenal cortex and inhibit the enzymes, doesn't matter if ACTH is present or not, it's not going to allow for that adrenal cortex, which is responding well to things like ketoconal metirapone. It's going to shut it down and it's going to not allow for that cortisol to continue to be elevated. Ultimately, you're going to have to remove the lung cancer if possible. That's usually the thing that we'll talk about at the end is ultimately the primary treatment goal is the treatment of the underlying lignancy. You can do all of these things that we're going to talk about, but it's just a band-aid. That's all it is. It's treating the symptoms. It's not treating the root cause. That's super-criticable. We'll highlight that as the big theme at the end. I'm just on my soapbox here. Lamboridine Myostatic Syndrome. With this one, it's the antibodies. What should you do? Attack the antibodies. What we can do is we can use a drug called M-famprodine. This one is really interesting. It's a weird mechanism, but you're going to use this in more of that mild to moderate cases where they're not in full respiratory stress. This is a Lamboridine just like a Myocinagravus. It involves usually your muscles or the proximal limbs. It can eventually move to the diaphragm. Once you hit the diaphragm, that's when you start experiencing respiratory distress. That's when we have to do things like IVIG or Plex. That really attacks the antibodies. In this case where it's maybe a little bit more mild, it's not super severe. You're not having respiratory distress or difficulty with their breathing, their niffs, all of those things are really good, which is, again, their negative inspiratory force, which is a measure, somewhat of a good measure, of the respiratory pulmonary function. If those niffs are being affected, then you might start saying, I'm a little bit nervous. Maybe we should start IVIG or we should start Plex. Either way, M-famprodine is really going to be the go-to. What it does is it blocks specific channels. You have the sodium channels, which are the voltage-gated sodium channels, which allows for the action potential. You have the voltage-gated potassium channels, which allows for that repolarization effect. What if I shut down the potassium channels? If I do that, what I do is I overload in a little bit that nerve and I allow for it to continue to allow.  fracalsium to really push in. So I overload it and I give an opportunity for calcium to push in. Even those antibodies are trying to block those channels, I allow it to be somewhat depolarized and because of that, that's going to help the nerve to overcome this inhibition by the antibodies and spill out the acetylcholine. When it does that acetylcholine now that it's actually spilling out because it wasn't spilling out before, guess what? It's going to hit that receptor, the like-angiated ion channel, open up for sodium to rush in. So, it is going to cause the actual muscle to depolarize, it's going to contract, and you're going to start noticing some of the weakness, start to dissipate or strength start to increase. If they're in a full-on respiratory distress state, amyfamperidine is not going to be the way to go. I need something that's going to be quick and very powerful, and I got to tie up those antibodies. That's where IVIG or Plex comes in. You guys remember Plex, Plasmas Exchanges, essentially you're removing the blood which contains these kind of the antibodies, the anti-VGCC antibodies, anti-voltage, anti-calcium channel antibodies, which are usually the presynaptic ones. You're removing them, running through them through a filter, removing all of those antibodies, and then giving them their blood back free of those antibodies. That's the goal so that they stop hitting that calcium channel. IVIG is another way of binding to those antibodies. You're just giving them to block those antibodies, and if you remove the antibodies or you block the antibodies, you block that consistent calcium movement. You're not allowing for that to block calcium movement inwards. Calcium will then allow it to rush in. If it rushes in, it can really help to spill out the acetylcholine, really help to increase the sodium entry, really help to depolarize that muscle and contract the muscle, and improve that underlying weakness. That's what I want you to think about there. Pretty cool, right? All right. Hypercalcium in malignancy, we've talked about this one I think like a thousand times, but hey, repetition is the key. It's always about space repetition and medicine. IV fluids is always going to be your first go-to in a malignancy case because usually they appear with a pretty acute onset and they're going to get dehydrated. The concept behind this is that calcium is inhibiting ADH. It's causing like a nephrogenic DI. It's blocking ADH at the receptor and you're peeing out tons of volume. You have to replace that volume and help them to get eubolimics. IV fluids is the case. Calcitonin is great because it shuts off the osteoclast and helps to stimulate the osteoblast a little bit. It also kind of reincorporates some of the calcium back into the bone and really, really shuts down that calcium, the bone resorption that's occurring. That's going to be very acute and it's going to be a very short duration. It's just going to get you that acute, quick, quick thing that we need. We need something long-term after this and that's where bisphosphonates or dinosomab come into play. You can consider steroids the only time and write this down. Please, please, please think about this is if they have lymphoma. Otherwise, don't even do steroids. IV fluids, calcitonin, bisphosphonates or dinosomab between the two. That's the tri that you want. That's going to be in the severe symptomatic hypercalcium use of their symptomatic, calcium greater than 12 or asymptomatic, doesn't matter, calcium greater than 14. You're hitting them with these three things. The concept behind this is that plasma cells like in multiple myeloma, they release lots of ligands. Rank ligands are really, really big one and this is one of the problematic ones that we see here. Hits that rank receptor, releases hydrochloric acid, collagenases from the osteoclast. They start ripping through the bone. That's what really gives you a lot of these lytic lesions and then they liberate calcium from the bone. That's what gives you the hypercalcemia. When we think about that, we also have a calcitonin receptor. Calcitonin, when it hits that, actually helps to do what? Well, it actually helps to shut the osteoclast down. It says, all right, osteoclast. I'm going to shut you down. I'm going to actually allow for the osteoblast to do their thing for a little bit. What I want you to do is to stop releasing hydrochloric acid in the collagen, stop chewing up the bone and stop liberating calcium. That's going to give you that quick little hit. The bizphosphonates, on the other hand, those are cool where they're going to be a little bit more long-term and the reason why is the mechanism that they have to do. These are usually your first line. This is your dronate. Alan dronate, Zolan dronate, they're a bunch of them. It inhibits the osteoclast from proliferating. I take some time, but it also shifts the osteoclast. If you inhibit the osteoclast from proliferating, you have less of them. Less of them to release hydrochloric acid, less to release collagenase, less lytic lesions, less calcium. Here's the key thing. It also induces apoptosis. It kills them. The long-term effect is that you have less of these osteoclasts really, really chewing through the bone. That's the benefit of this one. There is another one called dinosumab. I don't have it written down in the therapy section, but we only really use this one in patients who have contraindications to bizphosphonates. It's either bizphosphonates or dinosumab. The only real consideration here is dinosumab is more of an injection. When we give this one, we can do this in patients who maybe have a little bit of some renal failure. If their kidneys aren't that great, bizphosphonates could make it a little bit worse. Dinosumab would be another viable option. Dinosumab will give this one. It's basically going to bind to the actual rank ligand. When cancers are releasing the rank ligand, we can bind to that and block it. It doesn't hit the rank receptor. It doesn't release the hydrochloric acid. The collagenase, the relicis, the lytic lesions reduces the calcium liberation. That's a really cool mechanism. I really like that. The steroids, really, that's just for shutting down the alpha-1 hydroxylase in lymphoma, so that you stop making a lot of that calcitrile. That's really the mechanisms there in explaining this, but really that's the go-to. With perineoplastic cerebellum generation, perineoplastic encephalomyelitis, this is an autoimmune process that's due to from a cancer. It's always going to be steroids. Because those antibodies can be tied up, you can even do IVIG or PLEX. It's always going to be high-dose steroids, especially if there's any neurological deficits. Usually if they're not responding to that, it's pretty severe. We then go to the next step, which is usually your IVIG. Again, concept here is that these plasma cells are pumping out those antibodies, the anti-yo, the anti-hoo, the anti-TR, the anti-NMDA antibodies. They're damaging different areas of the brain. That's where you're getting a lot of these kinds of problems. Corticosteroids really just shut down that process. You're going to get less of these antibodies being produced. IVIG or PLEX, they block the antibodies themselves and they block them from binding on to the neurological tissue, which causes this damage. That's the way I want you guys to think about that. Oftentimes, what will happen in true clinical reality is when we get these patients and we see them and we get an MRI, we're getting an LP, we're waiting for the LP, we'll hit them with a dose of steroids. If we've ruled out the infectious etiologies and things like that, cancers, we'll hit them with a dose of polsto steroids and see how they respond. If they don't get better, we may do IVIG or PLEX. Sometimes you can do all of these things and you end up doing both, high dose steroids and IVIG or PLEX. Sometimes they'll respond and you don't have to do the IVIG or PLEX, but it's usually one of these or the other. You're not doing both of these. If you do them, it's better to always do PLEX first and then IVIG because if you do IVIG and PLEX, you'll remove all the antibodies that you give and you just wasted all of that product. That's something to think about. The goal is to reduce the inflammation of the brain and the cerebellum and also up the spinal cord. Dermatomyocytes is the same thing. It's these autoantibodies. It's the anti-TIF gamma. It's the anti-NXP2. These are causing muscle damage and skin lesions. How do I really approach this is the question. Stareids are usually going to be a lot of the go-to. That's going to be for the acute flare. When a patient has an acute flare or they have these skin lesions, they have these muscle problems, we'll do steroids. That's really going to be the go-to. For long-term remission, keeping them from having these acute flare-ups and keeping them under control is where we'll do things like DMAR. Things like methotrexate, things like azathioprene. Those are going to be more for your long-term control. The concept behind this is that your T cells, really they're releasing cytokines undesirably. These cytokines are telling your B cells to turn into plasma cells and plasma cells to make antibodies. The antibodies that cause vasculopathy. All vessels become inflamed and injured. That affects the muscles and that affects the dermis. That's when you get the skin lesions and that's when you get the myositis. Corticosteroids are designed to inhibit those T cells. Methotrexate is designed to inhibit those T cells. Azathioprene is designed to inhibit those T cells and B cells. If you're shutting all of these pathways down, think about that. You're shutting down this, that's going to lead to that reduction in vasculopathy and help to improve those skin lesions. That's the concept I want you to think about here. Myostenia gravis, with this one, it's similar to the Lambert etin. We don't do steroids though because when you think about, I'm sorry, we don't do the Amethanpridine, which is the one that blocks the voltage-gated potassium channels. In this case, we actually want to block an enzyme. The gold standard, you can do steroids and myostenia gravis, you can. It actually can worsen myopathy, but we like to prefer preferably go with something like an acetylcholine esterase inhibitor. This is usually going to be something like peritostigmy. Peritostigmy is really, really cool. What happens here is when you release acetylcholine, it binds onto those ligand-gated ion channels and then helps to go all over the sodium to come in, depolarize the muscle, lead to contraction eventually. Sometimes what happens is the acetylcholine, after it's done doing its function, it has to get removed. We have this enzyme called acetylcholine esterase and that degrades the acetylcholine into acetylcholine and acetic acid. It should get recycled and then make more acetylcholine. I want to keep enough acetylcholine in the synapse is to overcome or beat out, to competitively beat out those antibodies. Those anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies that are hanging out around here and it's bumping the acetylcholine out the way. It's like, no, bro, I get that receptor. I get that receptor. I want to keep the acetylcholine in the synapse so it can beat it out and bind to the receptor and push that sodium in. I decrease its degradation. That would be cool, right? Right now it's low. It's getting degraded. I'm going to give predestinate me. I'm going to inhibit this enzyme. I'm going to prevent this process. What's going to happen to these acetylcholine levels in the synapse is going to go up. What's it going to do is going to beat that antibody out. Then what's going to happen? It's going to bind to that receptor. It's going to open the ligand gated ion channel. Sodium is going to flush in. It's going to depolarize. It's going to contract. We may notice some improvement in their weakness over time. IVRG or Plex is really more for that severe case. They are not responding well to the peritostigmine. They're having some respiratory distress that's hitting the diaphragm now. That's when we'll start reaching for the IVRG or Plex. All we're doing is, remember, plasma cells are making the acetylcholine receptor antibodies. Those things are blocking the acetylcholine from binding to the receptor. If I either remove it via Plex or block it via IVRG, I'm fixing the underlying issue. Pretty cool, right? If I do that, acetylcholine can bind. Sodium can come in. I can influx it. I can depolarize it. I can contract that muscle, baby. The next thing to think about is that, again, myosinographis usually is associated with a thymoma. What do we do? We cut that poppy out. That's really going to fix the underlying disease here, somewhat. Pso syndrome is they're just super hypercoagulable. Again, obviously, you've got to treat the underlying malignancy, but until then, you've got to figure out a way to prevent them from developing DVTs, PEs, recurrent migratory thromophilitis, NVTEs, embolic phenomenon, et cetera. When you think about this, when we're going to be doing these to prevent these scenarios or treat those unfortunate scenarios, we're giving something like heparin because what heparin is going to do is it's going to increase antithrombin three. That's then going to degrade or break down other pro-thrombotic agents, things like factors 10, factor 9, and thrombin. If you decrease these, you decrease the coagulation cascade activity. You're going to decrease the formation of a secondary hemostatic plug. By doing that, you're going to prevent the clots from forming. That's really the key thing here is why we would do things like heparin. Again, it's just going to be a bridge. You got to treat the underlying issues so that it stops occurring where you have this heithrombotic state. Again, in things like Trousseau syndrome, they're pumping out lots of mucin. They're making a lot of factor, three- or tissue factor. We got to just figure out a way to stop it. It remains removing the tumor. Polycythemia is one of those things where it seems like it would be super complicated, but it's relatively not. A lot of the times, if they have a lot of these hyperviscosity syndromes, we can do things like you can do things like where you actually give them like Jack stat inhibitors. A lot of the times with these patients, you can probably get away with just phlebotomizing them. What that means is you just remove some of their blood. You drop their hemoglobin. You drop their hematocrit. It just helps to reduce the risk of that hyperviscosity syndrome in those recurrent thrombosis. It's also never a bad idea. As long as their plate levels aren't super high, like greater than one or 1.5 million, I would say you could even give them some aspirin. Oftentimes, phlebotomy and aspirin are the way to go, but if they continue to occur and they continue to not get any better with this or they're not doing well with that, that's probably when I would reach for a Jack II inhibitor in these patients, like Ruxalitinib. That's it. I think this is really the key. It should be the most paramount thing that you remember. No matter what you do with all of these treatments, it's treating the symptoms. You got to treat the underlying disease or these things will just keep happening. This is a perfect example. If it's due to a thymoma, you cut that thymoma out, you're going to see some benefit. It's important to treat the underlying cancer to allow for true resolution of these syndrome because it's the tumor that's putting out these hormones. It's the tumor that has antigens that are similar to other antigens in the body that our immune system is responding to and producing autoantibodies against. That's what I want you to remember. My friends, I really hope you liked this lecture. I really did. Man, I love you guys. You guys are so awesome. Thank you so much. Love you. Thank you.