 and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, He also suffers from lumbosacral endervitibro dist disease. He also has a subarachnoid diverticulum pushing on his spinal cord. So he has a lot of problems, neurological deficits, ataxia, neuropathic pain, stuff like that that we try to treat. And so one of the things I actually experienced upon his therapy journey is photo biomodulation. It's essentially laser therapy. And I noticed a pretty significant impact in his overall neurological status and some of his actual symptoms. And so for me, that was something I thought I should actually talk to you guys about because it's a noninvasive option. I think it's a great adjunctive therapy. It's not a surgical laser. You're not doing any kind of cutting. It's a very simple, safe therapy that I truly think can maximize a lot of benefits and modern medicine. So let's talk a little bit about that today. So photo biomodulation, what really is it? It's essentially you're using light. Now, what kind of light is the question? It's really you're using what's called non-ionizing light. So non-ionizing, what kind of light? It's usually red or near-infrared. So non-ionizing red or near-infrared light. And what you're doing is you're using a laser. And this laser is essentially going to be attached on, you're going to have this probe. It's going to be placed on the skin. It's kind of just like almost like an ultrasound probe, essentially. You're putting it on the skin. And what it's going to do is it's going to shoot these photons of light into the skin, down to the tissues, into the target area that you're trying to focus on. Once it hits that area, we'll talk about what happens. It's going to absorb that, you know, this chromophores, especially cytochrome-C oxidase. We'll talk about that one. It absorbs that light. And when those photons get absorbed by that cytochrome-C oxidase, it actually helps it to perform a lot of physiological functions. And what is the overall result? Well, there's a couple things that we'll talk about, but I think there's three beautiful things that come from this type of simple therapy. And that is that it can decrease a lot of your pain. It can decrease a lot of the swelling and edema in a tissue. And it can actually speed up a lot of our cellular repair processes. And I think that's a pretty beautiful thing. So again, decreasing pain, decreasing edema, and increasing our repair processes. That's something that I think deserves a little discussion, right? Now when we think about this, let's say that I take this probe and I'll just give you, we're going to do a simulation to show you guys how this thing actually works. But let's say I take the probe, I put it over my arm, and I start shining that light into the skin. Well, what happens is this light from the probe, it's going to start working its way. And there's different wavelengths, and we'll talk about that. But it's going to start moving through the tissue. And as that light penetrates through the tissue, it can reach different depths. And that depths are dependent upon a lot of different things. It's dependent upon the chromophores that are in that tissue. It's dependent upon the melanin in the skin. It's dependent upon the size of the patient, but it's also dependent upon the type of laser that you're using. There's different classes of laser. The laser that we're going to be showing you guys today is called a class four laser. So these are lasers that essentially, they're FDA cleared. And so what they allow us to do is they allow for us to utilize a basically a way of penetrating deep into the tissue and fast enough into the tissue that we reduce a lot of the reflection of light, the scattering of light. We can maximize the penetration on that tissue. And so the way that we do that is that these class four lasers allow for us to use a specific power. And so they use a power that is usually greater than 0.5 Watts. And again, the benefit of this is that we get deeper penetration and faster penetration of that light. So deep penetration of light. And the benefit of that is if we can penetrate that light deep into the tissues where the muscles, the joints, the bones, the tendons are, you can get these physiological effects that we want to talk about. But the other thing is that you're going to get faster penetration of that light. And that's going to help to reduce a lot of the scattering of light, a lot of the reflection of light and make sure that we kind of focus on one honed in area. So again, photobiomodulation is the utilization of non-ionizing red or near infrared light. We're utilizing class four lasers that allow for us to give a specific power to offer deep and fast penetration where we can hone in on the area of injury and reduce pain, reduce edema and increase the repair processes in the tissue. How does it actually, you know, maximize this effect? Well, that's where we have to just very briefly dive into wavelengths of that red light and that near infrared light spectrum. So we have different chromophores in our tissue, things that can absorb some of the light, and that may be beneficial. The one that we really care about here is in green. And that's that cytochrome C oxidase. There's another one here in blue, which is actually very helpful because it helps to improve some of our microcirculation, our lymphatic drainage, a lot of the spasm that we can get muscles. We'll talk about a lot of this, but that's water. But let's go over a couple of these chromophores. So we have a graph here just kind of representing something. And I have one overall purpose of kind of going through this graph. So don't get bogged down in the details of specific wavelengths, synonymy. I really am just trying to focus on one overarching theme, which is something called the optical or the therapeutic window. This is the area of the wavelength of light that we want most of these lasers to be shooting photons in. And so here in this brown color, I want this to represent a specific chromophore called melanin. All right. Melanin usually has most of its absorption. It's more of its maximum absorption and that less than 600 nanometer range. And that's why we actually try to make sure that our kind of our lasers are targeting more above 600 and less than 1100 nanometers. Another one here in red. So hemoglobin has kind of different contours. There is some that are a little bit higher in the less than 600 nanometer mark. And there's a pretty decent size one here around that 915 nanometer mark. And again, we'll talk about that a little bit later, but hemoglobin is another chromophore that actually helps with absorption of that light. Another one here is this blue and that's water. And what you'll notice is that water is kind of like smaller than the less than 600. But as we kind of get over here, we notice a pretty good peak, probably somewhere around like the 980 nanometer mark. And so that's another one is going to be water. The last one is really important and that's that green one here. All right. That's called cytochrome C oxidase. So cytochrome C oxidase. So also we like to abbreviate this CCO, cytochrome C oxidase. It's basically, it's a part of our electron transport chain. So it's one of the components that it helps with the passing of electrons to help to generate a lot of our ATP production inside of the mitochondria. And so this is the true area that we want. And you see there's a peak here kind of around the 600, 650 nanometer mark. And again, I'm just throwing out numbers. Don't get too crazy, but you see a really large peak absorption here. So that's what I really want you to hone in on is the area that we are truly trying to focus our light is somewhere around that range. And this is called the optical window. That's where we want most of this light, that red light, near infrared light that we're using with a class for a laser to focus in on. That's the wavelength. And it's again, we'll talk about this more, but it's somewhere within that 600 to 1100 nanometer range. Because the whole purpose is that in this area, if you look, there's less absorption of other chromophores that can interfere with that light, like melanin, less interference by hemoglobin, less interference by water. And most of the absorption is occurring by the chromophore that we care about, which is which one? Cytochrome c-oxidase. So when we talk about this, again, it's kind of going into this wavelength discussion. If we were to use light at the less than 600 nanometer mark, what would really happen? You'd probably get more of your melanin and some hemoglobin absorption. All right? That's probably what would happen is you'd probably get more of your melanin, your hemoglobin absorption. You'd get some cytochrome c-oxidase absorption, but not as much. What happens here is that if you have that, you're really hitting the melanin, you're probably going to get more of a superficial effect. So you don't allow for those photons of light to have a deeper penetration. And so the problem with this is that you probably have more of a superficial effect. You'll still get some cytochrome c-oxidase involvement, but you're probably going to have more of a superficial effect and not going to have true of that deep effect that we're looking for. If we get in that 600 to 1100 nanometer range, that's the optical window. You'll probably have less interference with a lot of these other chromophores. You'll still be there, but you're not going to have as much. So you'll probably have less of that melanin, less of that hemoglobin absorption as well. So you'll probably have less of that melanin, probably less of that hemoglobin absorption. Now there is one little caveat here. Hemoglobin does have another peak, probably somewhere around 915 nanometers. So when you think about that, you may get a little bit of absorption of hemoglobin around that range and less of that deeper penetration. But again, you're going to get less of that hemoglobin absorption, less of the melanin absorption and what's going to result as the primary feature, you're going to get a lot of that cytochrome c-oxidase absorption. And the benefit of this is this is going to give you that deep tissue effect. This is where you're going to see a lot of benefits to the connective tissue, the muscle tissue, the bones, the joints, etc. One last thing I want to mention though before we move on to the next wavelength of 980 is again this optical window of 600 to 1100 nanometers, that's a pretty broad range. And when we talk about that, the reason why it's the best window is because you have less of these other chromophores like melanin and hemoglobin really absorbing some of that photon energy and it's allowing for the cytochrome c-oxidase to get most of it. And that's going to provide a really cool biochemical effect that we'll talk about in a little bit inside of these cells. But I want to say that there is some slight exceptions and we'll talk about it here, that 980, that falls within that range, there is a particular chromophore called water and that's actually going to help to absorb some of that photon energy and it'll produce a physiological effect. Hemoglobin has kind of different peaks, there's kind of a really decent sized peak less than 600 and then there's another peak, a really good one, around that 915 nanometer range. And so I really want to give you an exception to this in saying that there's less melanin hemoglobin absorption, yes, but around that 915 nanometer range there's a decent hemoglobin spike. Because of that you're going to get a good amount of absorption of that photon energy, now you're going to say okay, does that mean that we lose some of the cytochrome c-oxidase effect? Just a little bit, but guess what? There is a benefit to allowing for hemoglobin absorption. We'll talk about it a little bit later but what happens is when hemoglobin absorbs that photon energy, it changes its ability to allow for its oxygen delivery system to be improved. And so if we increase oxygen delivery to a tissue cell, that allows for it to take the action, convert pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and help to generate ATP. So there is a benefit to that, I just want to make sure that we talk about that first, that less than 600, really not the best area for these photons to produce their true physiological effect. You may get it but it's going to be more superficial at the skin kind of like mucosal level. When you get in this range you're getting more of that deep tissue effect on the mitochondria because you're having less chromophores interfering, except for at 980 with water and except for on 915 with hemoglobin. But they still have beautiful physiological effects. Alright, now let's talk about the water absorption wavelength at 980. So you get a lot of water absorption here. And one of the, it's not a problem, it actually can be a pretty good benefit, is again 980 that's within that optical window. So sometimes what happens when you get a lot of water absorption is this kind of produces a small little thermal effect. It's not very much, maybe one, three degrees Celsius change. It's just a small little temperature change where it just heats up the blood a little bit where it provides more of that vasodilatory, that circulatory perfusion change. And so we'll talk about that a little bit later but this is beneficial because this is going to provide more of an improvement and we'll talk about how it's really going to increase your microcirculation. And again, we'll go over that a lot more a little bit later. But if the water is absorbing most of that light, it's going to produce a small little heat change. That small little heat change will produce microcirculatory changes which are beneficial. So to kind of summarize this, when we use these class 4 lasers, and we're using the example here is we were thankful to work with Sumis on their horizon laser and they use wavelengths around 650 nanometers. So if you think about that, that's where, okay, that's within our optical window. We'll probably get more of a superficial effect in this region. So it probably gets more of that superficial effect here. We'll talk about how that really works. 810 and 915 is another one. So you'll probably actually get more deeper penetration into more of the muscle, the nerve, the connective tissue, the bones, the joints. 915 has a little bit of hemoglobin absorption as well. And so you may have a better deep penetration with 810 and a little bit less with 915. But these are probably going to be the deepest penetration. So when we think about how well these are working, this is probably going to be more superficial. This is probably going to be deep. And what was 980? That was the water absorption. And so because of that, you're going to get more of that kind of change and microcirculation. So what we're going to say is we're going to, for right now, I just want you to trust me, this can be around the superficial deep range somewhere in the middle, but the primary change here is you're going to get that microcirculation change. That's what's going to really, really improve here. All right. So taking what we've gotten so far, we're using a class 4 laser. It's delivering enough power that we can get the photons of light deep into the tissue, reduce a lot of the reflection, reduce a lot of the scattering of that light. We allow for this to get down into the tissue. Once it does that, that red or near-infrared light does what? It gets absorbed by specific chromophores. Which one do we really want to get absorbed? Cytochrome-C-Oxidase. How do we do that? We maximize our wavelengths within the optical window, the 600 to 1100. We try not to go to the less than 600 because we get hemoglobin, melanin absorption. We try to, certain scenarios we may target the 980, we really want to warm the tissue up just a little bit to reduce spasm, to reduce some of the edema, to improve microcirculation. But if our primary area is in this, we're trying to do this to reduce a lot of the melanin interference, to reduce a lot of the hemoglobin interference, and help to maximize the green one, the cytochrome-C-Oxidase absorption. You're probably wondering why? Well, now's the time to find out. Once this light, this photons, hit the actual cytochrome-C-Oxidase, what are the physiological changes? Let's talk about that now. All right, so we've taken our sumo laser as the example. We placed it on the skin, we've gotten good contact, we turn it on, delivers a really good power, usually greater than 0.5 watts. We allow for that red or near-infrared light, which is non-ionizing, to penetrate through the tissue, we're pushing photons through the tissue, and that power that it delivers allows for us to get deep enough without scattering reflection and really get to the specific areas. When we use the proper wavelengths, those ones that were talked about 6, 50, 8, 10, 9, 15, and 9, 80, it allows for us to hit the specific tissues at varying depths, superficial, deep, get the changes in the microcirculation. Once we've done that, let's actually try to understand how these things actually change the reduction in pain, the reduction in edema, the improvement in a lot of our cellular repair processes. This laser, we're going to shoot that light down, we're penetrating through the tissues at varying depths, but we're trying to target that cytochrome-C-Oxidase. So let's say the photons of light, right? So we'll say here's going to be our photons. All right, what's going to happen is they're going to move through, let's say that we're at a tissue. Let's say, for example, we pick the muscle tissue. We're having that light around that 8, 10, 9, 15, we're getting a good deep penetration down to that area. We hit the muscle tissue, and inside of the muscle tissue we have a special organelle called the mitochondria. When those photons pass through, they're going to pass through the cell membrane, they're going to hit here on the mitochondria. You see these little black dots here? Those are a part of your electron transport chain. We're going to label these as which one? Your cytochrome-C-Oxidase. That's what these are. They're going to absorb that light. They're going to absorb those photons. Whenever they absorb these photons, it basically, these puppies become activated, they become ready. And when they become ready, it increases the activity of the electron transport chain. They start passing electrons along like crazy. As a result, you're going to increase your electron transport chain activity. When you increase the electron transport chain activity, one of the beauties of that is that what do you make as a result of the protons moving down inside of the mitochondria? When they move down, it helps you to generate ATP. As a result, this patient who got that light is going to increase their ATP production. ATP is crucial for so many cellular processes. It's important for DNA proliferation, our DNA activity to undergo the DNA proliferation. It's important for a lot of our pumps that we need to be able to pump sodium and potassium out. There's so many different things that are dependent upon ATP. That's really going to be crucial. The other thing that's really cool is once the cytochrome c-oxidase is absorbed and gets activated, not only does it increase the electron transport chain activity, but what it also does is it leads to what's called nitric oxide disassociation. You're going to release a little bit of nitric oxide. There's also going to be a slight increase in the production of reactive oxygen species, just a little bit. And that slight increase is interesting because what happens is when these get released, there's little transcription factors. Let's draw them as these little things right here. Here's a transcription factor. So we'll abbreviate this as transcription factor. This nitric oxide, reactive oxygen species, what they're going to do is they're going to help by activating these transcription factors. When you stimulate these transcription factors, you help them to translocate here into the nucleus. Basically what it's going to do is it's going to activate specific genes and then shut down other genes. So maybe one of these genes I'm going to activate and the other one I'm going to shut down. So say I stimulate this gene and I inhibit this gene. What's going to result in? Let's say that I stimulate genes that are going to help with a lot of growth and proliferation to allow for that improvement in cellular repair. So maybe I activate genes and they're going to lead to the increase in, let's say, vascular endothelial growth factor or some type of growth factor in general. Just any kind of growth factors. You get an increased production of these. These are going to allow for what? Angiogenesis, cell proliferation. It's going to allow for that cell to start undergoing its repair processes. That's pretty cool. So maybe we're going to activate some genes that are going to upregulate some of those cytokines that are really helpful in the cellular repair process. But another thing that we're going to do is maybe we'll shut down some of the genes that play a role in a lot of inflammation. You know there's a couple of these. One is interleukin-1. Another one is called tumor necrotic factor alpha. These are some really nasty ones. So maybe there's a reduction in the production of interleukin-1 or interleukin-6 and maybe there's a reduction in tumor necrotic factor alpha. What this is going to do is this is going to help to increase things like angiogenesis, cell proliferation, and this is going to help to reduce a lot of the swelling, edema, and associated pain. So maybe this will help to help the repair process. And this is going to decrease the amount of your pain, the edema. And that's really the kind of the beauty of this if you think about it. You're going to get more angiogenesis. You're going to get more repair processes. You're going to decrease your pain and edema. This can really do anything. ATP can allow for a lot of the repair processes. It can really be very, very helpful. And so I think that's really where you'll see a lot of this ATP production is coming into the repair processes. All right. You're probably like, oh, that's pretty cool. That's not it. Another thing that can happen is when the photons of light hit that cytochrome c-oxidase, it can also cause a little bit of nitric oxide to kind of be disassociated. And so let's kind of show here that you have nitric oxide. And what it's going to do is I'm going to kind of show it like this. Let's say it kind of passes through the cell membrane and it gets out and it finds your vessels. And what it's going to do is it's going to go over here to your vessels. When it gets over to the vessels, it's basically going to act on the endothelial cells. All right. I'm sorry. It's going to act on the smooth muscle cells. I apologize. The smooth muscle cells in your vasculature. And what it's going to do is it's going to cause those smooth muscles to undergo relaxation. When they relax, what happens to the actual vessels? They undergo vasodilation. So what you'll notice is, is you're going to notice, this is your microvascular, right? Here is going to be your arterial, your capillary bed. You have some lymphatics here. You'll have a venial and here's your tissue bed. What we're going to do is we're going to change it and go to this. What you notice here, you're going to notice that there's going to be a increase in vasodilation. That's one thing. And that vasodilation is due to the nitric oxide. That's basically going to come over here. And what is it going to do? It's going to stimulate your smooth muscle relaxation. So smooth muscle relaxation. And as a result, boom, I think I'm done. Another thing that also is going to result out of this, and the mechanism isn't completely understood as well, but it's going to do something with your lymphatic system. Maybe in some way it helps to squeeze the actual lymphatics and push some of that fluid out. But another thing that we're going to notice is any of the waste products, so you're going to have a lot of lymphatic fluid here. And so that lymphatic fluid that's kind of in that interstitial fluid, the interstitial fluid that you have here, these lymphatics are going to start kind of going more active. And what they're going to do is they're going to drain more of that lymph. And so what you're going to notice is you're going to notice an increase in lymphatic drainage. So that's another thing that actually is going to be happening here. So not only do you get vasodilation of your arterioles, but you also get increased lymphatic drainage. What are you noticing? If you have vasodilation and a lymphatic drainage that are being improved just because of nitric oxide, what's going to happen? Well, one thing that's going to happen is when there's vasodilation, you're able to get more blood flow. You're going to allow for more oxygen, more nutrients to be delivered to the tissue bed. So what's going to result in here is you're going to have an increase in perfusion. And if you have an increase in perfusion, what is that going to do? That's going to enhance your oxygen and nutrient delivery. And if you enhance oxygen, nutrient delivery, you're going to really pump these cells up to be able to deal with any kind of challenges. You're going to help them to heal. So you're going to increase oxygen and nutrient delivery. That's a beautiful thing. That's a beautiful thing. All because of a red and near-infrared light therapy, this can happen. The other thing is that if you improve lymphatic drainage, you help to get some of that actual interstitial fluid and lymphatic fluid out of the tissue bed. If there is existing edema in that area, what are you going to help to do? You're going to help to reduce tissue edema. And so that's kind of a really beautiful thing. You're going to really reduce a lot of the tissue edema. You're going to help to really remove some of the waste products from this area. And that's what I want you guys to think about. So here we're helping to improve oxygen, nutrient delivery. We're helping that. And on top of that, we're reducing some of that edema. There's another thing that's also kind of cool here is that when you shoot photons of light, not only does it lead to this whole kind of like photochemical process on its own, which is pretty magnificent, but the photons of light itself, if you guys remember, just taking a second, let's say that we take a second, photons, if you're hitting, let's say that you're targeting around that 900, let's test your knowledge, that 980 nanometer range, which one of those chromophores is getting hit? So what's going to happen is, is you're going to get increased water absorption from that light. When you get increased water absorption, what's going to happen? That water is just going to kind of heat up just a little bit. It's nothing crazy. It's not going to like burn anything. You're not going to go crazy and like heat up like a monster. There's going to be a slight little increase in the temperature. So it's going to have a small increase in heat production. That increase in heat production is just enough, just enough, maybe one to three degrees Celsius change. That's just enough to trigger smooth muscle relaxation, to cause these arterioles to dilate a little bit, to help to improve that vasodilation, that perfusion to the tissue, that oxygen and nutrient delivery. And on top of that, it's also going to improve some of the lymphatic drainage to help to do what? To get some of that actual interstitial fluid in the lymph out of the tissue beds to reduce some of that edema. And so that's kind of the benefit when we think about this. So when you're using these photons of light with that, again, 650, 810, 915, 980 nanometer range. And a lot of these lasers, especially the Sumis horizon laser, these wavelengths, all four of them are being shot at the tissue at once. And so you're getting superficial effects, deep effects, and you're getting an improvement in microcirculation. And that's one of the true benefits of this. And I think that's pretty darn cool to think about. All right, so we talked a lot about the mechanisms of how these photons of light at different wavelengths produce these physiological effects. We talked about how most of them in that kind of 810, usually that 915 kind of nanometer range, they have really that deep tissue mitochondrial effect on the cytochrome c-oxidase. We talked a lot about how particularly when you think about that 980 nanometer range, when you think about the benefit that that has on the water absorption and how that generates heat, there is another thing that I want to kind of just briefly talk about. And again, we talked about a little bit over here when we talked about these spectrums of light and really what they're doing and where these chromophores are actually absorbing that light. And when photons are again in that, I'd say that 915 nanometer range, we talked about this. This is one of those areas of where you can kind of get some decent peak absorption of hemoglobin. And so you can get increased hemoglobin absorption. Now this may seem like this doesn't do much, but it actually is pretty beneficial. And what happens is whenever you have that hemoglobin absorbing that light, what happens is it allows for the hemoglobin to improve its oxygen delivery, the disassociation of oxygen to deliver that to the tissues. So then you get increased O2 delivery to the tissues. Now think about that. If I'm delivering more oxygen to the tissues, that allows for me to go through cellular respiration. If I go through cellular respiration, I'm going to be able to generate ATP via the electron transport chain. So you see the true benefit of all of these aspects that whenever you take photons of light, regardless of their wavelength, they have so many different types of benefits. 980, that's primarily the water absorption. That's going to be a little bit of heat production. That's the vasodilation, the increased microcirculation, increased oxygen, nutrient delivery helps to remove some of the waste, helps to remove some of the edema from that lymphatic fluid. We talked about how it's in the 810, 915 nanometer range. It's really producing that mitochondrial effect at the cytochrome c-oxidase. Now the last thing that we mentioned here is that 915 is an area where, again, you still get mitochondrial effect, but you get some hemoglobin absorption along that process.  because of that, that's another benefit, because it allows for increased oxygen delivery to the tissues. All right, that really gives us a pretty good appreciation of how photobiomodulation can produce these physiological effects. Now let's talk about how do we actually put this into a method of treating different conditions and making sense of them. We've shot the photons of light in, we've used our optical window, we're using that non-ionizing red infrared light, we're using the proper power to make sure we get proper depth penetration. We hit the cytochrome C oxidase, we increase ATP production, we shut down the inflammatory cytokines, we up-regulate the growth factor cytokines, we help to cause a little bit of improvement in microcirculation. A lot of these things are happening to help to reduce pain, to reduce edema, to improve our cellular repair process, that should make sense now. When we think about this, what could we actually treat when we use this laser? And I think that's the beautiful thing, is when you think about it, because of the varying depths, and again, this laser uses all four of them, you have presets that will show you, where whenever we turn this laser on, it can have varying, it has all four of those wavelengths moving through. And so if I have, let's say a depth of here, 650 and I get down here with 810, 915, right? And then I get over here with 980, what's actually happening? What kind of conditions could I target with this laser? And so if you think about it, that 650, it's gonna be more superficial, right? It's gonna be more superficial, it's not gonna be able to penetrate as deep. And so what kind of effects will we get? We're really gonna be targeting the skin. That's gonna be one. You also are gonna be targeting the mucosa. So yeah, you could actually use this in the mucosa. We actually use this a lot in oral mucositis, patients who unfortunately suffer chemotherapy-related side effects due to their underlying diagnosis of cancer. We can use this in dogs, we can use it for like licked granulomas and things like that. But another is very, very superficial tendons. And so if you think about this for a second, if that's what it's gonna be primarily hitting, if that wavelength from when we hit this laser onto the skin and we start shooting these photons of light, what could it actually treat? It's pretty straightforward. If we're targeting the mitochondria in the skin, it's gonna improve a lot of the cellular repair process, this is the panne adema in those areas. And so this is really good for like surgical wounds, surgical wounds or any kinds of incisions, things like that, right? Surgical wounds, let's just say, and incisions. For mucosa, you could get a benefit if they have underlying mucositis. You can decrease the pain, the inflammation and improve the processes there. So this could also be utilized in mucositis. Hey, say come on, pick the right colors, Zach. And then the last part here is if they have superficial tendons. So I mean, you know, de Quervin's tinocytovitis, some kind of superficial tendon where if you target that area, you could get a benefit. And so again, maybe more superficial tendinitis. So superficial tendinitis, right? And you could think about using this on animals, you could use this on humans, that's a pretty good benefit there. The other thing is if we target the 810, 915, 810 is gonna be the deepest penetration. That's gonna have no interference with melanin, right? Because that's usually in the less than 600. Also, you're gonna have less interference with water because water's mainly peak absorption around 980. 915, you get a little bit of hemoglobin, again, and there's another peak absorption of hemoglobin. You get a less than 600 and you get it again around that 915 mark. So 810 is gonna get the deepest penetration and the 915 will be the less, I mean, the second deepest penetration. But because of that, these things can get pretty far, man. I mean, you can get almost all the way down to the deep bones and joints. And so you're gonna see bones and joints because this is gonna be that deep mitochondrial effect. You're gonna get to the muscles and the nerves, right? And you're even gonna get to the deep tendons. And so because of that, think about that. If I'm using this wavelength of light to get deep into those tissues, what kind of conditions could I treat? Well, if it's impairing the cellular repair process, reducing the pain, reducing the inflammation in those areas, this would be good for things like osteoarthritis, intervertebral disc disease, degenerative disc disease, things of that nature, muscles and nerves. It's really gonna be beneficial, I'd say in patients who have things like neuropathy, radiculopathy, neuropathy, radiculopathy, things of that nature. Just barely squeeze that in there, apologize. And the deep tendons, it's really gonna be good for deep tendinopathies. So with that one, you could be targeting things like the rotator cuff would be a great example of this. So if a patient has like some kind of rotator cuff tendinitis, maybe a epicondylitis of some sort, you're gonna be able to target those. And so more of those deeper tendinopathies is gonna be extremely benefiting from this type of therapy. We have the 980. The 980 is really cool. And because of this one, you get that water absorption, right? And that's the peak for water absorption. 915, you get more of that hemoglobin absorption. So that's why it doesn't penetrate as deep as compared to 810. 650, you get a little bit of the melanin kind of interfering with it. So it stays more superficial. 980, you get a lot of the water absorption. And because you get a lot of that water absorption, you get a true benefit of this micro circulatory change, right? Now, when would that be helpful? Well, think about it. Let's say that you have a patient who has, for example, their early post-op. So they have early post-op edema and pain. That would be truly beneficial. Because if you think about it, they just had a surgery. They have a lot of edema. They're gonna have some pain in that area. And there's actually studies. And so what they found is that when utilizing this laser post-operatively, it actually truly reduced a lot of the post-operative edema and pain. And that's a beautiful thing. Another thing, and this is actually, I didn't talk about this, but that effect of that water absorption at 980 nanometers, right? Another thing is that when you cause a slight heat change, not only does it cause vasodilation to improve microcirculation, it also relaxes the muscles. It actually gets the skeletal muscles to kind of relax and stop spasming, bro. And so think about that. If you have an acute muscle, strain, or spasm, or you have some type of like myofascial trigger point area, this can potentially relax that muscle a little bit and on top of it, increase the perfusion to the muscle to allow for it to get more oxygen, more nutrients, help it to be able to heal faster and get more of that repair process, improve the lymphatic drainage and get some of the edema out of that area. That's pretty darn cool. And the last thing is when I was talking with, I assume they actually said that not only can this help with perfusion changes for these scenarios, but you could also improve circulation to poorly perfused tissue beds. I was told that there was a dog who got bit by a snake and unfortunately was suffering a little bit of necrosis of the skin from that. And they ended up doing laser on one part of the wound and then no laser on the other part of the wound. And what they found is in the area where there was some necrosis and they did laser, there was an actual improvement in the repair, improvement in the overall hue, decrease in the necrosis in that actual tissue area. And so that's pretty beneficial. So you're gonna improve the perfusion to poorly perfused tissue beds. So we're gonna increase perfusion to poorly perfused areas. And so that's a beneficial. So one of the things that we really like to use this is a lot in the post-operative state. You're really gonna get a lot more of that kind of tissue warmth, nothing crazy. It's not gonna burn the skin or anything like that. It's just gonna create a little bit of warmth which helps for the muscles to relax, to help to improve some of the post-operative edema pain from any kind of surgical procedures. And I think that's really, really cool. Now, when we think about all of this, we're kind of coming back to a little bit of discussion. So we take that probe, we put it over the area of injury, we shine the photons of light, we have a hit the cytochrome C oxidase, we target that optical window, we get the increase in the ATP, we get the increase in the VEGF and the other growth factors. We shut down the cytokines that are causing inflammation. We improve the perfusion to the tissue, oxygen nutrient delivery, lymphatic drainage, all of those things and treating these conditions. The power is key, man. You need these class four lasers to deliver a strong enough power because what this power is going to allow for is it's going to allow for that photons of light to get to the area of injury. What we want to avoid is scattering. We don't want the light to scatter because then we don't get the photons to where we need it. We also want to reduce a lot of the reflection. And so utilizing that power is really important. Obviously there's certain scenarios where you have to be careful because with higher power, sometimes you can create just a little bit more warmth. And so we want to be careful with using super high power on an area where a person has darker skin. That's one thing. Where they have lots of pigmentation, for example, me, if I did this over a tattooed area, it might heat up a little bit more. Or if it's like a very sensitive, irritated, ridiculopathy kind of area, I may not want to go with a super high power in continuous mode. So that's what I want to talk about next. Is when we use these, and I'll use a lot of these examples when we get to our simulation, but when we put the probe on and we have our power, when you have that high power and you have it set to a continuous mode, it's shooting that at a continuous rate. These photons are moving at a consistent, efficient rate. And so imagine here power, and let's say that this is continuous. This is shooting it in a continuous fashion. Whereas in pulsed, it's kind of like, as you would expect. It's more of a, you're kind of shooting it, giving a second, shooting it, giving it a little bit of time, shooting it. And so these are the two modes that we're utilizing. One is again, continuous, and one is pulsed. Usually when we set up these lasers, continuous is going to be allowing for us to use the proper high power and continuous mode. We'll offer us to ensure that you get deep penetration fast enough into the tissue, and you really get more of that deep effect for osteoarthritis, for some of these particular problems with radiculopathy, some of the tendinopathy, some of the joint issues. When we're doing pulsed, you're doing that more in the person who, let's say that they have a darker skin tone, and they're gonna heat up that skin a little bit more. Maybe they have tattoos. That might be another potential benefit, or they have a little bit more of a sensitive skin at that point in time. You may reach for that pulsed mode instead. But either way, when we're using photobiomodulation, think about how this actually works, and it makes sense why it can truly benefit these areas that you're targeting. So to finish off all of this on photobiomodulation, and using these class four lasers for the true therapeutic benefit that we've really discussed a lot about, what I want you to understand is that there really isn't a lot of drawbacks. There really isn't any. There's some things that we should talk about, just like some careful considerations. I don't think it's anything that really deters you from doing these. And a lot of this is like individual preference, provider preference, and you can kind of get into the weeds a little bit and do it, and so I don't wanna go too crazy. But what I want you to know is just some things to consider. And I think the most important things is the risk that it has. When you take red or near infrared light, and you, I'm not kidding, you just take it and you shine it directly into the eyes or anything like that, you're gonna cause some retinal damage. And so that's one of the things that we try to really, really be careful with, is reducing any kind of harm to the retina. And so how do we do that? There is risk of retinal, risk of retinal injury, but this is if you're kind of just not utilizing this therapy safely. And so one of the ways that we try to mitigate this is the use of goggles. And so I'm not kidding, we'll talk about this. We'll be using a lot of eye protection in these videos when we go through this and show you a simulation of how it works. So it's just, it's using eye protection to mitigate that risk. Again, I think this gets in more to the provider individual preferences and stuff like that. But when we talk about this in cancer, there's some providers that maybe will not institute laser therapy and patients who have a history of cancer or have active cancer. But what we've actually found, there's been some studies from the World Association of Laser Therapy that this has actually been beneficial in treating those patients who have cancer related side effects. So for example, this has actually been beneficial. So again, some people say, eh, don't use it in those who have active cancer, history cancer, that's again, that's provider preference. But what we have seen is it's truly beneficial and those who have chemotherapy associated side effects. And what's a good example of that? A good example of that is mucocytus. So when they have chemotherapy associated mucocytus, it's actually been shown to be beneficial. So that's what I wanna write down, is it's beneficial in chemotherapy associated side effects. Again, there may be a provider preference in those who don't wanna use it and those who have active cancer or history of cancer. But overall, it is something that can be beneficial in this scenario. The next one, and I think this is just overall safety. Again, this is non-ionizing red or near infrared light. And I believe in my honest opinion, it's not going to cause any teratogenic effects, but I think it's just to be cautious in pregnancy. So really just have caution in pregnancy. But again, I think if you think about this really, really simply, it is non-ionizing radiation. So the risk of teratogenic effects, I think is pretty like nil, all right? The last thing that we also talk about when we're utilizing this type of laser therapy is associated with specific types of injections. So usually if a patient is getting some kind of like, for example, they're getting a steroid injection, when they get the steroid injection, we should actually wait. So it's actually believed to say wait seven days. So wait seven days until you initiate laser therapy, until you start laser therapy. The concept behind this is that it may just increase the kind in production just a little bit more, and it may cause just a little bit of pain after you do the laser therapy. When we talk about injections, just in general as a side note, I actually have, you know, there's a lot of like research that actually shows that laser therapy by utilizing this photobiomodulation therapy, it's been truly beneficial after other orthobiologic injections. So patients who have gotten PRP or stem cell therapy, utilizing these adjunctively, very, very beneficial. And again, extremely beneficial when utilized postoperatively. For example, my dog who is gonna be getting a surgery, he's gonna be unfortunately getting a spinal surgery to treat the subarachnoid diverticulum. After he's gotten done with the surgery, there's going to be the utilization of this laser to help with a lot of the surgical wound, the incisions, a lot of the spasming of the muscles that can happen after these surgeries. And that's truly gonna provide a very, very beneficial clinical benefit for his overall process. Obviously surgery is gonna help with the overall neurological deficits that he's suffering from, but the laser can provide a true benefit for him postoperatively. So that's something as an example. Now, with all of this being said, we've talked about a lot of information. I think we've become pretty good experts when it comes to laser therapy and photo-biomodulation and how when you shoot a photon of light through the tissue with the appropriate power, with the appropriate wavelength, hit in the optical window, get in the cytochrome-C-oxidase to absorb it and producing all of these physiological effects, we know what it can do. I wanna show you guys a little example of this and how simple this can be instituted for you, for your patients, for your other animals. And so when we talk about this, we're gonna do two case scenarios. One, we're gonna use me. I'm a 35-year-old male. I got a pac-mediculation of C5 to C7 discarnation. I suffer with chronic neck pain and radiculopathy, and we're gonna have Rob, who's our filmer. He's going to be showing you guys how this works on me. And then we're gonna use my little buddy, McGee. He's my seven-year-old male French bulldog. He's got lumbosacral and vertebrodys disease and a subarachnoid diverticulum around the T10, T11. And he also, fortunately, suffers with some pain in ataxia. And we're gonna show you guys how all of this machine works. So let's now take some time. Let's go through a simulation. Let's talk about the machine, and then show you guys how this works on us. What's up, engineers? Today, we're diving into the Sumis Class 4 Medical Laser, specifically the Horizon Unit. And it's an amazing place in the clinical world. The system we are working with has a total of five heads, as you can see here. There's two open probes, two closed probes, and then one, it's more specialized than an intraoral probe for a pinpoint application. In veterinary medicine, the intraoral head is included to give providers easy access to the inside of the mouth. This attachment, it's most often used for your post-dental applications. It allows targeted treatment of oral tissues in a safe and convenient manner. Among the open probes, as you can see here, the 25 millimeter head stands out because it has an adjustable collar, as you can kind of see here. And what this does is this allows us to collimate the spot size of the laser beam. At a setting of around 11, the beam is wide and fully open, ideal for direct contact treatments on the skin or the musculoskeletal system. As you rotate the collar towards zero, the beam narrows and it zooms in, which can be useful when treating from a distance, such as on wounds or post-surgical incisions. The only time you'd ever, I'd say, want to close it completely to zero and hold it in one spot is when stimulating, like acupuncture points in places of needles. The other 25 millimeter probe that we have here is curved contact head. With this attachment, the spot size of the beam is fixed. And so you can't adjust the collar. It must always be used in direct contact with the skin. Many providers find that the curved glass dome is especially helpful because it allows them to incorporate some additional soft tissue techniques, like working out trigger points or gently massaging the area, while also simultaneously delivering the laser treatment. What I will say is if the average power of the protocol, when we kind of go through that, does exceed 15 watts, the horizon is really cool because it'll prompt the user to insert one of these 50 millimeter heads. The 50 millimeter open head, as you can kind of see here, it can be used either in direct contact or sometimes you can even, with the patient, you can hover it just above the surface when treating areas of open skin. Some providers also choose to use this head at a power under 15 watts when treating broad areas, such as like the low back. Because this is a class four laser, though, what I will say is it's extremely crucial to be using protective eyewear. They must be worn by both the clinician and by the patient. For us humans, that's easy enough. For our other patient that we're gonna be using, McGee, our short haired French bulldog, well, good luck keeping the goggles on him. But still, it's a critical precaution and you've got to do your best to make it work. And so in this video, we're gonna break down how each of these probes and the features make the horizon unit such a versatile and powerful tool in clinical practice. Let's do that now. All right, my friends, so we kind of got a little introduction into talking about this amazing class four laser. Let's actually put it into practice. And so let's do that first on our French bulldog. So as we talked about in the case scenario, he's a seven year old male French bulldog. He suffers from two conditions, an interpretive rotis disease. He also suffers from a little bit of the myelopathy, primarily because he has a subarachnoid diverticulum pressing on his spinal cord. And so what we're gonna do today is we're gonna go through the protocols and I'm gonna show you kind of how we can set up everything with amazingly, this is all done with preset protocols. Everything's gonna be kind of programmed properly for me. And then we'll show you the different probes that we're going to use and then we'll kind of show you the whole process and how simple this can be done. So let's kind of dig in now. All right, so we're gonna use this kind of interface here to pick which component we need. So obviously see here, this would be for me when I'm gonna be the patient, but Maggie is an animal. So let's go ahead and click on this. There's a bunch of different animals, obviously. All right, so we're back in here. And now you can see here that there's different types of animals that we could pick from. Maggie is gonna be a dog. So we're gonna go ahead and pick that one. From here, we have a bunch of different kind of system options. And so we can go musculoskeletal, dermatologic, and trothoracic. You can kind of, you have a bunch of different options here. Maggie's is primarily more of a musculoskeletal issue. From here, you can see that we could target joints. We could do postoperative, which is pretty cool for reducing a lot of that edema and pain and also just providing some warmth. We even have a couple other issues here, but I think the primary one that we're gonna focus on today is gonna be IVDD or we could do degenerative myelopathy. From here, we're gonna pick his fur color. He's a red font, so it's more of a lighter colored one. And he's a little bit of a porker. So he's around that 31 to 50 pound range. All right, so it's kind of interesting. That's kind of cool. The horizon is just kind of told us that we don't have a tip attached here. We'll put that one on. And it's also really nice because it tells us which tip is really best for this particular protocol. And you can kind of see here just a little bit of more of that physiology information that we talked about before, which is kind of going through and showing you that that's the power that we're actually gonna be generating for that pretty decent, deep and fast penetration to reduce a lot of the scattering of light, to reduce the reflection of light. Just make sure that we're hitting those chromophores and getting good absorption there. We now need to insert the proper tip. And so what we're gonna do in this one is we're gonna use the open 25 millimeter probe and we can adjust that again. I'm gonna adjust it to 11. And then we'll insert this on here and work that on the key. And then as you can kind of see here, we're just gonna follow this pattern. It's literally written out for you. It couldn't be easier how we're just gonna move along the spine and then we're gonna come up and down. And then we're gonna continue that pattern again. And so this is gonna be a really easy way that you can kind of initiate this on your patients, on your animals. All of these things are pretty straightforward and really, really set nicely by the sumus risin, the laser unit. So let's go ahead and get McGee in here. Let's actually practice on him. All right, my friends. So we got McGee. It took a little bit. He was a little worked up, as you can tell. Don't mind him. But we're gonna go ahead and get started. So we have everything that we talked about with the protocol set, but we have to get our safety going on. Now, let's see if he behaves with this. Come on, Bobby. Oh, this is gonna be cute. This can be. All right. All right. So we got all of our safety goggles on him. And then I'm gonna go ahead and get mine on. Hopefully he lets it stay on. Oh, bud. But we're gonna go ahead and get our open 25 millimeter probe set on. And then what we're gonna go ahead and do is now that all of this is done, he's actually cute as can be. Look at that. He's actually being really good. And we got that set all the way to 11, as you guys can see there. Oh, he's not unhappy again. We'll see how long these stay on. But the next step here is we're gonna go ahead and start treatment. And from here, and he's got him off already, we should be good to go. And then we're just gonna follow that pattern, moving kind of down. And this nice pattern coming back up. And then moving back down again. And then doing the same thing. We won't do it the full time with you guys here. We'll probably start speeding up here soon. That was a little bit of gas. Woo. That was a stinky one. But yeah, we're gonna go ahead and do this one. So I'll let you guys take a break here. And we'll go ahead and speed this up while you guys watch McGee get his treatment. ["Spring Day"] All right, we've been going for a bit. This is kind of simple. It's a nice three minute treatment. That's all it takes. McGee's definitely liking it. He's definitely calming down here. He had a couple more tooths in the arsenal, but this is definitely gonna make a pretty good difference here for him. Look at that, man. Simple as that, we made a pretty good impact on McGee today. And I think this is something that you really wanna consider for your animals. Obviously, again, eye protection is key with animals. You can't control that to a degree. But just making sure that you're sticking with that and making sure that you're following the protocol. And man, I just, I like this. I think this is a really, really effective therapy. So now let's actually move over and work on me. All right, my friends, so we finished off with McGee. Wasn't he cute? Didn't he do so awesome? He was an amazing patient. And now, hopefully I can follow up with that same kind of like cuteness. I don't think I will though, because that dog is absolutely amazing. But it's gonna be my turn now. We're gonna work. Rob's actually gonna be the technician in this scenario. We're gonna be working on my cervical area. And so it's gonna be my turn. Let's go ahead and get there now. All right, so you guys got to see the whole protocol with McGee. Now it's gonna be working on a human. And this is again, just kind of shows the versatility of this unit and how this really can be beneficial, not just for humans, but also for animals. And so in this scenario here, we're gonna pick our human. For me, I suffer from cervical disc disease. And so I'm going to primarily focus on the spine. And then my area is the cervical region. So we'll pop on that one. And there's a bunch of different types of conditions that we can treat for. And this is really cool. And this is why this unit is so amazing that it has all of these presets already set in. And so for me, my primary issue is I suffer from more of a radiculopathy. So we'll go ahead and target that. You can offer here again, what's the potential area that we're working on? I'd say mine's somewhere around like the average. We can select skin tone. And this is actually really helpful as well. And so for me, I'm probably gonna go with more of like a two. And then we can select the pain level. And we have anywhere from one to 10, obviously, the higher you go up, the more power is gonna be needed. And so for here, I'm probably gonna go ahead and go with like my usual three or four. And then from here, same kind of like interface. You can see here how we have everything properly set up. And it's kind of nice. Again, it shows you the whole pattern that we would have being followed for me. It gives you all the kind of different power ratings and everything that would be utilized here. So around that seven watt range. And again, it tells me that I don't have the tip inserted. So what I'm gonna do is again, I'm gonna pick this one. I'm just gonna use a different one. I'm gonna use that closed probe. This is gonna be the one that has that little curved edge, which we can kind of use more for that massage function, more of that trigger point. And so we'll try this one. It doesn't have any of that adjustable kind of columnator there that we talked about for the open one. But we're gonna try that one. We're gonna get some active range of motion in play and we'll see if we can get that one to provide some benefit. So let's go ahead and do that and then work on that with me. All right guys, so we're gonna go ahead and get started with me. Don't pay me any attention. Obviously I had to get the target area kind of focused on. So Rob is going to be the technician today. He's gonna be inserting in the closed probe with that kind of nice contact curve surface. And then we're gonna go ahead and get started. So you guys can see the same kind of process that we did with McGee. And then the other thing that we'll do is besides Rob kind of following the normal contour according to the machine is that maybe here and there, what we'll do is we'll kind of involve some active range of motion. So my problem area is more on the right side. And so maybe when he runs over that kind of like right side, what I'll do is I'll tilt my neck kind of laterally away. So maybe it can help a little bit, especially with that soft tissue. You work in that curve probe. I can kind of just keep doing that moving different angles. And that might help a little bit with some of that muscles to kind of relax, loosen up a little bit. But yeah, we'll have you guys hang out for a little bit. We're not gonna keep you here watching this whole thing. So we'll go ahead and speed it up and we'll be back in a little bit. Music All right, guys. So we're back. We're almost done here. We've been doing a couple of times where we can get some active range of motion. Definitely feel the warmth. It feels pretty good. Definitely helping out a lot.  and that's it. That was my treatment, just as simple as it was for McGee, and I liked it, helped out a lot. And again, I really hope that you guys appreciate how simple and how amazing this machine can be. All right, I'll see you guys in just a second. Let me get my clothes back on. All right, guys, so I hope that you guys like this video. I hope you learned a lot. I think he enjoyed it as well. And so thank you guys so much. I really hope that you can learn to appreciate what something as simple as photobiomodulation, utilizing a class for laser, can do for both humans and for our animals. And so thank you guys so much for the time. Thank you for the support. Thank you for watching this video. I hope you learned a lot. And man, I love you guys. I thank you guys. And as always, until next time.