 вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам вам What's up, Ningeners? In this video today, we're going to be talking about plasma cell disorders that includes the following. Multiple myeloma. It includes monoclonal glomopathy of undetermined significance. That's a heck of a name. And also, Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. We won't be talking about amyloidosis in this lecture. That'll have a dedicated lecture on its own. But these are going to be the primary things that we're going to focus on on this clinical medicine lecture. If you guys like this video, it makes sense. Please support us. You can do that by hitting the like button, commenting on the comment section. And also subscribing. It really makes a difference. Also, if you are a student who sometimes just really struggles with the burdens that comes with going to medical school and PA school and MP school, et cetera, I really do understand. And I think we have a way that we could potentially help you. Go down to the description box below. There's a link that goes to our website. If you become a member, you'll have access not just to our videos, but you'll have access to a ton of notes. And these notes are really high yield. They really will help you to understand the topic. We have tons of quiz questions that'll help you with that repetition based learning and really see if you guys truly understand that topic. And then if you want, we also are developing exam prep courses. So those of you taking things like the step two, go check that out. All right. Without further ado, let's dig into plasma cell disorders. Plasma cell disorders are sometimes viewed as like kind of complicated, but it's truly, I'm telling you, the pathophysiology, the causes behind this, it's actually probably one of the easier topics to understand in heme, I know, which is crazy because when you think about heme, you think about anemia, and it's like, oh my gosh, those are challenging. You think about platelet disorders, that's enough to kind of jump off of a, you know, a bridge. So there's a lot of complicated topics in heme. I think when it comes to plasma cell disorders, thankfully, these are pretty straightforward. And when you come down to it, it's really a monoclonal gamopathy. So there is a abnormality within the plasma cells or cells that are almost plasma cells. They're like tweeners, you know, like between B cells and plasma cells. But there's three different types that I want to discuss. And this is going to be monoclonal gamopathy of undetermined significance. I'm going to say mgus a lot, multiple myeloma, I'm going to say mm, and then Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, I'm going to say WM. For each one of these, there is a kind of somewhat of similarity with slight differences. So for mgus, there is a, it's a pre-malignant condition. That's the way I want you to think about it. So it's a increased number of plasma cells. So you have an increased number of plasma cells. It's not a malignant condition yet. It's pre-malignant. So here, let's actually write that down. This is a pre-malignancy. So I'm going to put it's like a pre-malignant, it's like a tweener where you're not at the point yet of it being malignant. But again, this is a pre-malignant condition that causes an increase in the number of plasma cells. If you have an increased number of plasma cells, what happens is these plasma cells, they make normally antibodies. And if you have a lot of plasma cells, guess what you end up with a lot of, a lot of antibodies. And the primary antibodies that can come out of this scenario is you end up with this plasma cell, right? And this plasma cell, when you actually kind of cause this condition where you keep proliferating them, you sometimes proliferate the same one repeatedly, repeatedly, repeatedly, and it produces the same antibodies in an overproduction manner. One of them, and this is probably the most abundant one, I'd say most of the time, this is 50% of the cases, sometimes even higher, is you overproduce IgG antibodies. And it's important to remember that these are not really truly functional. The other one that you can produce a lot of is going to be the IgA antibodies, right? This is kind of lower, maybe 20%. And then the last thing that you also produce a decent amount of, which you're going to count for about 15%, 20% is going to be these light chains. And so you have these things called light chains. Now there's different types of light chains, but oftentimes the two big ones are going to be what's called Kappa, that's a long A, Kappa and Lambda. These are going to be the two big ones here, but what happens is you're making a lot of these, right? So in patients who develop MGUS, they make lots of IgG, or they make lots of IgA, and they also make light chains, Kappa and Lambda. The concept behind this is when you look at an antibody, this sequence here, if I kind of follow with a black line, this part here, this part here, right here, right here, that's your heavy chain, right? And then these little guys that are coming off the edge here that are connected by disulfide bonds, those are going to be your light chains. So whenever a plasma cell makes antibodies, they are supposed to have these as immunoglobulins, which is a combination of these heavy chains and light chains. But what ends up happening, you make a lot of these normal immunoglobulins, and then you also have an excess amount of light chains. So that's the big, big thing I want you to remember. Now here's the big, big concept to understand with MGUS. When you make a lot of these, maybe you make these monoclonal antibodies and increase light chains, the big thing to remember is that these are present, but they do not precipitate organ damage. So there is no presence of organ damage due to these antibodies. And the most important types of organ damage presentation is usually something that we'll call the Crab criteria, which is classic and multiple myeloma. But the other thing that's really important, and we'll talk about this a little bit later, is with MGUS, when you make these lots of immunoglobulins and light chains, it causes, whenever you do something called a serum protein electrophoresis, where you basically separate the proteins in the serum based upon their electroneutrality and their charge, et cetera, it separates them out into different proteins. You can remember it via the Chaka. And so the Chaka kind of goes, you have albumin, the alpha one globulins, alpha two globulins, the beta globulins, and then the gamma globulins. And so what happens is in patients who have normal cases, they have like a normal gamma globulin level. But what happens is when a patient starts to develop a plasma cell disorder, that puppy goes up and that's the pinky side will really, really shoot up. And then up on the real, what's called an M spike. And that's really important to remember. We'll talk about that in the diagnostic section, but their M spike is less than three grams per DL. I'll get into that a little bit later, but again, remember it's less than three grams per DL and they have no organ damage. That's one of the big ways that we can differentiate MGUS from multiple myeloma. Now multiple myeloma is a malignant condition. So this is a malignant condition. And what happens in this situation here is you end up with a lot of these plasma cells, dude, and it's like, it's like a lot, lots and lots and lots of these plasma cells. And these plasma cells, what happens is that they end up making a lot of antibodies. If you have lots of plasma cells, you're gonna end up with a lot of antibodies. And again, this is a quick recap. What's the most common one? IGG, or what's the other one that you could make less commonly? Because again, it's either gonna be one or the other. It can't be both in these scenarios. So you see either the plasma cell makes a lot of immunoglobulin G and light chains, or it makes a lot of IGA and light chains. There's other types. They're less common. Sometimes you only make light chains and sometimes you only make heavy chains. We're not gonna talk about those. Which either make a lot of IGG or a lot of IGA plus a lot of Kappa lambda light chains. And I'm talking a lot. So let's do a double arrow here for these. Now when you make all of these, these actually are high enough and you have enough of an M spike greater than 3 grams per DL that it's actually able to precipitate organ damage. All right? And this organ damage again, we'll talk about it a little bit later when we get to the complication, but it's often referred to as the crab criteria. We'll talk about it a little bit later, but again, that's the big difference. When you look at these, you're like, oh wow, similarities here. Right? Pretty close. The only thing that's different is that you get more of these monoclonal proteins. So I'll write it down now here. But this is gonna cause an M spike. This is basically all of these less than 3 grams per DL. This right here is gonna cause an M spike greater than or equal to, greater than or equal to 3 grams per DL. It's important to remember these concepts. So you're gonna have so many monoclonal proteins in these scenarios that it's gonna cause an M spike, but the height or the degree of the M spike determines somewhat of a difference to be multiple myeloma and M guss. And the presence of organ damage or not determines the difference between myeloma and M guss. Walden strums. This one's a malignant condition as well. And what happens with this one is it's technically a tweener. And what I mean is you have like a B cell and a plasma cell. It's like a B cell that's trying to proliferate a differenti into a plasma cell, but it doesn't completely differentiate. So we call these lympho-plasmocytes. We call them lympho-plasmocytes. Now lympho-plasmocytes, basically, you have a over-proliferation of these bad boys. When you have an over-proliferation of these bad boys, these are gonna start producing a pentamer, a very specific type of immunoglobulin. And you're gonna make a lot of them. So you'll make a lot of this IgM antibody, which is our pentamer. And this is problematic because this can cause a lot of problems. And so this will precipitate organ damage. This will precipitate organ damage. The way that it presents is not a crab criteria though. We'll talk later. It's usually something called hyperviscocity syndrome. Or sometimes it can also cause tumor infiltration. And sometimes it can even potentially cause neuropathy. But big thing here is, again, you're gonna get so many of these that on the S-Pep, that gamma-globulin spike, the M-spike, which consists of the monoclonal proteins, is gonna be elevated. So what the M-spike here look like, greater than or equal to 3 grams per DL. And so it's important to remember that you're gonna get an M-spike for all of these. This one, not as intense. These two, intense. These two, organ damage. This one, no organ damage. Malignant, pre-malignant. All right? Now let's come down and talk about what are the causes of having too many plasma cells or too many lymphoplasma sites. It's actually, thank goodness, so straightforward. M-guss is a disease of old age. I know that sounds crazy. But we see that the prevalence is high when a patient is greater than or equal to 70 years of age. All right? And so what we notice here is something kind of interesting. That for every year, the percent chance that a patient can convert from M-guss into multiple myeloma is about a 1% chance per year. Let me explain something. There's a reason I wanna talk about M-guss, because M-guss is usually asymptomatic. There's no organ damage. There's no symptoms. All right? Not usually. So you have kind of this array, right? Our spectrum. So we're gonna say M-guss, it can convert into what's called smoldering myeloma. Sounds like, what was that movie? Jumanji, right? And he's like the smolder. It's a smoldering myeloma. And then you have what's called multiple myeloma. So this is kind of a spectrum, if you will. And so when a patient kind of goes, they can go from M-guss to smoldering myeloma and smoldering myeloma to multiple myeloma. How do you differentiate them? All right? So it's gonna have the M-spike, right? So it's gonna have that M-spike and it's gonna be less than 3 grams per deal, all right? But what happens is, is when it starts to get to smoldering myeloma, so maybe over a year or years, the chances of this kind of going up can happen. But it's a low chance. If it does break that point where you get to an M-spike greater than or equal to 3 grams per deal, you'd be like, okay, you smoldering myeloma. All right, well Zach, you just told me if I bump above 3, that's multiple myeloma though, right? No. Because in this scenario, guess what? No organ damage. Here, no organ damage. All right, so there's, and we're gonna actually call this the crab criteria. I just want you to trust me for right now. I promise it's the way that they have organ damage, but just trust me. And then here, they're not gonna have any crab criteria. So the only thing that really changes the number of these immunoglobulins, whether that's the IgG or the IgA, and the increase in light chains, it just went up. All right? So it's kind of progressed. So we started here, we got to this. How do I then finally get that chance for a patient to eventually convert? You see right away that now you have to have an M-spike greater than or equal to 3 grams per dl plus you have to have the presence of crab criteria. All right? That's really where it kind of comes down to. But this chance of converting is about a 1% chance. So this has a chance of converting of about 1% chance per year of this eventually converting from M-guss into what? Multiple myeloma. So about a 1% chance per year of them transforming. So that's why it's important to know this. So when we talk about multiple myeloma, what really happens here is we actually don't have good reasons as to why this condition occurs. There could be a lot of different factors, but what we've seen is it could be due to chromosomal translocations. And there's a lot of them. I don't want you to stress about them. I want you to know the most common one that's associated with the standard risk of multiple myeloma. And you'll see why I'm telling you that. And it's usually the 1114 translocation. So on chromosome 11, there may be this gene. And then over here on chromosome number 14, there is this kind of gene. So here on 11, it's a cyclin D gene. And then on 14 is an Ig immunoglobulin heavy chain enhancer. So basically this controls the production of immunoglobulins. This controls the, it's a proto-oncogene. So it controls proliferation of cells. What happens is you get this little chunk here that kind of moves over here. So then what you end up having is you have this translocation on chromosome number 14 where I'm going to have this immunoglobulin enhancer. And then I'm going to have this cyclin D gene. And this is going to really enhance this activity. And what it'll do is, is it'll cause a massive proliferation of plasma cells. So basically it'll stimulate the proliferation because the cyclin D gene is going to go ham. And so it's going to cause massive proliferation. And it's also going to kind of make them survive. So they're going to be resistant to apoptosis. But on top of that, it's also going to have in these, every single one of these plasma cells will have that IgH enhancer. And so now it's also going to trigger this to increase antibody production. And so now I'm going to end up with all these dang antibodies. What you see the point here is that you're stimulating these cells to proliferate, but you're also stimulating immunoglobulin G or immunoglobulin A production plus the light chains. That's the concept that I want you guys to understand here. So it's kind of cool when you think about this. And so this is the standard risk, meaning that they'll develop the common course. It's somewhat of a positive prognostic factor to that. And I'll talk about that a little bit later when I talk about the RISS, kind of like staging system. We actually look at chromosomal translocations. And 1114 is more of a favorable one. Other ones, they have less favorable outcomes. And so it's important to remember that. With Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, this is also potentially due to a mutation. One of these may be called the MYD88 mutation. I'm just mentioning it. I don't think that this is like super, super high yield. I just want you to understand that there's a mutation on a chromosome. And what happens is, is this actually causes the kind of the lymphoplasma sites, right, to kind of go into this hyperactive proliferative state and then prove their survival. The way it does is it actually causes a mutation that increases the expression of a transcription factor. Again, take this with a grain of salt with how important this is, but it causes an increase in what's called nuclear factor Kappa Beta. And this is a transcription factor that when it actually kind of gets into the nucleus, it really amps up the proliferative process. And so that's really, really important because it's going to go act on these lymphoplasma sites and really cause them to proliferate quite crazy. Right, so it'll definitely stimulate this proliferation, but not only that, it will lock these kind of cells into a state of antibody production. And it'll trigger these lymphoplasma sites to start producing lots of antibodies. And again, what are these antibodies that it's making? It is IgM predominant. Now, you're probably wondering, how do I tell if a patient is making like, you know, IgG versus IgM versus IgA. When you do the serum protein electrophoresis, it separates it out and says, okay, here's the gamma globulins. Any of these immunoglobulins are elevated. You just don't know which one. So then you take that sample and you do what's called immunophysicization. And that should tell you which one is actually elevated. All right, so we've talked about the patho, right, about how you separate them based upon antibody and organ damage. And then we talked about causes, particularly talking about MGUS, how it's pretty much a preliminary condition, but it does carry a risk of converting into multiple myeloma. We talked about how chromosomal translocations could be a source of really good or poor prognostic indicators for multiple myeloma. And then we talked about the mutation in Walden strums that causes hyperproliferation of lymphoplasma sites and IgM antibody production. Now let's talk about the complications of these disorders. All right, so let's talk about the complications of plasma cell disorders. So one of the big things that we already talked about with MGUS is that it's pretty much asymptomatic. So you're like, okay, well, how do I know if people have it? People talk about that. There's something called a protein gap, and it's actually kind of helpful in potentially having a degree of suspicion. But oftentimes MGUS is an incidental finding. So you do a lab and you're like, oh, wow, look at this. They have an elevated protein gap. You get an SPAP and you find out that they have an MSPYC less than or equal to three grams per DL. So with MGUS, there is that chance that it can convert to multiple myeloma, but you have to remember those antibodies aren't causing organ damage. With multiple myeloma, there is organ damage. And we remember that organ damage by the mnemonic crab criteria or just the crab. I like to add on another one, and I'm just going to do that to be extra. But I like to add in crab eye criteria. So if a patient has crab eye criteria, they really kind of show me that they have high risk of multiple myeloma. So let's go through this. So C is hypercalcemia. R is renal failure. A is anemia. B is bone pain. And then I is infections, especially recurrent ones. So hypercalcemia and lytic lesions. I want to talk about these together because they have similar kind of presentations, and these are often times the way that these patients may present. So in patients of hypercalcemia or lytic lesions, here you have your plasma cell. This is your plasma cell. Now one thing about these plasma cells is that when you have these being super malignant, right, so these are malignant plasma cells, they not only do they release tons of antibodies. Guess what else they release? They release other cytokines that are kind of detrimental. One of them could be what's called interleukin 1 and tumor necrotic factor alpha. These often times go together. Another one could be osteoclast activating factor. And another one could be what's called the rank ligand. So because they're malignant, they gain the capacity to produce these. And they produce them in kind of like abnormally large amounts. Now the why this is important is because these top two, they really hit osteoclasts in the bone. So these plasma cells will kind of get into the bone and they'll go to these osteoclasts. Look at these little puppies here. These are some big cells, dude. And what happens is these two primarily really go and act on these receptors. And what they do is, is they're normally supposed to stimulate these osteoclasts. The osteoclasts, when they're stimulated by rank ligand and osteoclasts activating factor, they release things like hydrochloric acid and they release, technically it's called collagenase. It's just, it's basically in all seriousness, it's a lysosomal enzyme. But one of the big components of bone is type one collagen. So we're going to release a lot of these things like hydrochloric acid and collagenase from these osteoclasts. And these go tear that bone up, right? It's going to get in here and it's going to start jacking things up. So it's going to rip through the bone and they're going to start chewing up the bone and generating a lot of different types of contents. Hydrochloric acid chews up hydroxyapatite. When you chew up hydroxyapatite, what does that liberate into the bloodstream? So you start getting high amounts of calcium that is liberated into the bloodstream. So this is called resorption. So it's called resorption. So there's going to be this like resorptive process where you chew away at the bone and this leads to high calcium. Now when a patient develops hypercalcium, they could be completely asymptomatic. You may not have any symptoms. But oftentimes this calcium can get pretty high, at least get up to like greater than 11. What happens with that is that calcium can do a lot of different detrimental things. One of those things is if it's bad enough, it could actually cross the kidney tubules. When it crosses the kidney tubules, it does have the ability if it's in the right circumstances to combine with oxalate or to combine with phosphate and then guess what could happen? They could form calcium stones. So that's a really, really important thing to remember is with high calcium comes high risk of kidney stones. And again, I'm not going to write it down, but I want you to remember the two big ones that are associated with hypercalcemia and that is calcium oxalate, calcium phosphate stones. That's one thing that you want to watch out for, definitely high risk. They could come in with kidney stones. The other thing is that calcium, dude, this guy is cool because what can happen is he can get over here and he can jack up the way ADH. You know ADH? ADH is supposed to bind on to what's called the V2 receptor. Let's do that here in this blue color. So it's supposed to bind on to this receptor, but whenever there's high calcium, that inhibits ADH from working on this receptor. And then what happens is your ADH is supposed to help you with water reabsorption. You're going to reabsorb water now? No. And so this process of water reabsorption is inhibited because of this. So ADH is supposed to drive this process of water reabsorption. But because you have high calcium and it inhibits this process, you don't reabsorb water and you lose tons of water in the urine. This is called nephrogenic DI. Nephrogenic DI. So you're going to have lots of water into the urine. So it's important to remember that they can have polyuria. They can have kidney stones. So remember that mnemonic stones, bones, groans, thorns, psychiatric overtones? These are the big ones to watch out for is kidney stones. But you also definitely want to watch out for nephrogenic DI that can cause polyuria. And then also, guess what? The other effect here is the lesions, the lytic lesions. You're going to have the bone problems. So let's talk about that now. As you rip apart the bone, you get these hydroxyapatites. You break up the collagen. You're going to start really breaking these bones down. And this is going to cause lytic lesions to form. You're going to stimulate the formation of these dangellitic lesions. These lytic lesions, they're pretty nasty, man. They can occur all over the place. The skull is a big one. The vertebrae is by far the most common one. So if it occurs in the vertebrae, and I would say this is definitely, definitely the most common, the next one is it can occur in the skull. This is definitely common. What does it look like? If you get these lesions, sometimes they may not present with any clinical symptoms. I will say that since this is the most common one, if you get these lytic lesions, you may find them on imaging, but sometimes it may be bad enough that it can cause fractures of the bones. So that's one thing you want to watch out for is, is there any development of pathogenesis pathological fractures, right? Because that can definitely cause a lot of back pain, or the lesions itself can cause back pain. So the complications that you want to watch out for is with these lytic lesions comes about fractures, or just comes generalized pain, especially back pain. And that's oftentimes the way that these patients present. Worst case scenario, and I've seen it, it's terribly sad, is that sometimes if you get enough of these lesions, right? So let's say here's the body of the vertebrae. Let's say you get a lesion right here. Look what it's right next to. So here's my lytic lesion. Look what it could be next to, the spinal cord. And dude, sometimes these lytic lesions can cause compression of the spinal cord. Sometimes plasma cells can infiltrate into the bone, almost called a plasmocytoma. They can cause like a solid tumor right there, and that can compress the spinal cord. And so the big thing that you got to watch out for here is the lytic lesions having enough encroachment on the spinal cord, especially since they occur in the vertebrae. So spinal cord compression is an emergency in this scenario. So definitely watch out for spinal cord compression. This could be due to a fracture that causes that displacement. It could be due to the lytic lesion being enough to compress on the area, or sometimes it could be due to a plasmocytoma. Definitely be wary of these. Now one other thing here, so we know that if a patient comes in with hypercalcemia or these lytic lesions, we have an idea of what we would be looking for radiographically, in worst case scenario. But how do I know that this hypercalcemia isn't from something else? Because hypercalcemia can cause kidney stones, nephrogenic DI, and it can cause a lot of these different lesions of the bone. How do I know it's not something else? Well remember, high calcium is going to suppress your parathyroid gland. So what's going to happen to your PTH levels? That should drop. So we know that it's not a problem with hyperparathyroidism. The other thing that you have to ask yourself is, could it be due to any other kind of malignancy? Could this be another source? And so remember, you always want to check other reasons. And so the big thing that you want to look for is these patients will have normal PTHRPs. Do you guys remember that? Come on, tell me you do. That was the squamous cell carcinoma. There's none of those. What about the granulomintous diseases like patients who have sarcoid or lymphoma? Do you remember what those could do? They could cause abnormal vitamin D. These patients will have normal vitamin D. So if they have normal vitamin D, normal PTHRP, and their PTH is low, it's not hyperparathyroidism. It's not a malignancy from the squamous cell. It's not some kind of sarcoidosis or lymphoma. This is a malignancy of a lytic lesion, multimyloma. That's really important to remember. Now, one of the things I want to talk about here, it's a small add-on, because we're going to talk about this more specifically when we get into amylidosis. But there is a type of amylidosis when these plasma cells, when they make these antibodies, right? They make these different antibodies, right? Some of these can get misfolded. And if they get misfolded, these can go and deposit into different organs. And that's where it gets kind of scary. And so one of these things that can happen is if it starts to cause misfolding of the proteins, so let's say misfolded proteins, and they start depositing, then we get something called amylidosis. It's called light chain amylidosis. This can cause deposition into the heart. And we'll talk about this later. You can get something called restrictive cardiomyopathy. That's one thing. It can also deposit into the glomerular base of membrane, into the podocytes. And you can get something called nephrodic syndrome.  these are the two big ones, there's other areas, but again, I don't want to talk about this too much, because we're going to talk about this in its own lecture, but do know that there is a high correlation of multiple myeloma with light chain amyloidosis, and we'll talk about that later, but there is other types of amyloidosis. Hypercalcemia, lytic lesions with multiple myeloma, we've already covered what part of the Crab criteria, C for hypercalcemia, and the lytic lesions, the bone pain. Usually it's the back, also watch out for the ribs, the ribs are another one, sometimes long bones, not too common, skull. All right, now we're going to take care of the other parts, renal failure, anemia, and infections. So let's come down, renal failure baby, not a good thing, really, really important to know multiple myeloma. So what happens here? When a patient develops multiple myeloma, they can make all those aminoglobin as we talked about, but these little puppies here, dude, the light chains, here's all those light chains, these are the problematic guys. All right, so here's my light chains, and again, these were the Kappa lambda light chains. When you're making a lot of these in a patient who has multiple myeloma, the problem with these is that they get into the circulation and they get filtered across the GBM. When they get filtered across the GBM, they can get taken up by the proximal tubular cells. Once in the proximal tubular cells, they can cause tissue death. They can cause a bunch of different types of chemical reactions, but eventually what they're going to do is they're going to cause necrosis. All right, so they're going to cause necrosis of this tissue. As these tissues start to undergo necrosis, what starts happening? They start shedding off their layers. So they start sloughing some of their tissue layers off here, and then here is going to be this cast, this muddy brown cast that can form here. You know what else? Sometimes these light chains can actually bind with other proteins and they may even cause like a cast nephropathy where they actually cause a little bit of obstruction there as well, but basically what you get here is you get an obstruction. You get an obstruction due to casts. When that obstruction forms, this basically prevents the normal flow of urine. So this ability to go here is now impeded. The problem with that is that now the pressure inside of the capsule goes up and you start inhibiting the filtration. If you inhibit the filtration, your GFR starts to go down. So now what happens is the patient's GFR drops. So let's say over here their GFR starts to drop as a result here. If the GFR drops, you lose the ability to excrete waste products. One of those waste products is creatinine. That can start to go up. So what happens is you're supposed to be excreting things that can be impaired. Your creatinine can start to go up. So watch out for an increase in the creatinine and a decrease in their GFR. The other thing is that sometimes if you're in an ability to actually secrete waste products occurs, you also run the risk of AKI complications. So the other thing that you want to watch out for is an elevated potassium and elevated protons, elevated volume, so hypervalemia and then elevated BUN, which can cause uremia. These are all things that you want to be careful. The patient does develop hyperkalemia, acidosis, hypervalemia, uremia. These are all potential complications. Now when a patient comes in, they have multiple uloma, oftentimes they'll have a degree of renal failure, but that's present due to this kind of what we call casnopropathy. They form cas, and they kind of get stuck there in the proximal tube, obstruct the flow, and lead to a drop in the filtration. That'll lead to a steady rise in the creatinine, and then over time you can get complications from AKIs or from severe NCKD. Big thing to remember here is that it's about the light chains. And so sometimes what we'll do is we'll measure these chains when they get into the urine. And what we can do is sometimes we'll do something called a upep. And so when you do a upep, what it detects is it detects the proteins that are in the urine, and it'll separate them out. You'll get an M spike just like you would in the serum, but that M pep, if there is the spike, what it tells me is that there's lots of these light chains that got stuck in the urine, and these are going to be elevated. So you get a positive upep, but all that tells you is you have lots of these light chains. It's important to know another name for this. Another name for these proteins that get into the urine that cause kidney damage is they're called Benz Jones. Proteins. And these are basically those Kappa and Lambda light chains that when they get into the kidney and they cause this nephrotoxic damage, they're called these Benz Jones proteins. So if you have a positive upep, the M spike, it may indicate the presence of these Benz Jones proteins in multiple myeloma. Now another thing here, anemia. This is a big one to talk about. The reason why is anemia can be due to a lot of different kinds of things. One of them is it could be due to the plasma cells just kind of infiltrating into the bone marrow. And as they infiltrate into the bone marrow, they make less space. So let's see here. I infiltrate the bone marrow. So this could be due to infiltration. What I mean by infiltration means that I take these dang plasma cells. Here's all my plasma cells and I got a lot of them. And I go ahead and say, hey, go into the bone marrow and really kind of get all on in there. Get in there, not some deep black. And when it gets in there, it starts crowding out that space. And so if I crowd out the bone marrow, I make less room. I take away the nutrients that are needed to make other cells. And it may cause cytopenias. Unfortunately, the one that we notice the most pronounced is the red cells. And so if I crowd out that bone marrow, what I do is I decrease my red blood cell production. And so I can end up with anemia due to that. And this is more of a normal cytokineemia. But there's another concept here. If I crowd out that bone marrow, that's one way. Another thing that also happens is that in anemia, these plasma cells, remember the cytokines that they were making? Sometimes, unfortunately, interleukin, one. Interleukin-6 is another one. Two-minicrotic factor alpha. All of these are inflammatory cytokines. When you have inflammatory cytokines that are present, what can they do? What do they tell the liver? They tell the liver, hey, lots of inflammation, bro. Do something about it. And the liver makes a molecule called hepsidin. And what does hepsidin do? It basically shuts down the macrophage and shuts down the intestines so that you can't release iron or absorb iron. And so this process gets inhibited. So you inhibit the macrophages, you inhibit the ferroportin channel, and you inhibit the release and absorption of iron. So what happens to the iron levels in the blood? They go down. If you have less iron in your circulation to be delivered to the bone marrow, can you make red blood cells? No. And so that's another factor here where you're going to inhibit the production of them. That's kind of an anemia of chronic disease. And so it's really kind of interesting when you think about this. Another thing that's really, really important is when you have all of these proteins and lots of inflammation, one of the things that happens is the red blood cells because of that inflammation, they like to stack. And so you end up kind of getting these stacks of red blood cells. And this is usually due to lots of proteins like immunoglobulins, as well as lots of inflammation. And this is really important to know. So when you get these stacked up red blood cells, it's called a Roulot formation. This is actually kind of helpful when we look at this on the peripheral blood smear. So when you look at the peripheral blood smear and you actually assess this, you're going to see these red blood cells that are all stacked up really, really nicely. All that tells me is that again, there's lots of inflammation, lots of proteins that are actually present there. And when you have that, sometimes the red blood cells start stacking up on one another. And what actually this could indicate, you know when you take a red blood cell, you put it in a tube and you see how fast it drops, it determines the erythrocyte sedimentation rate, ESRs will go up. ESRs are indicative of systemic inflammation. They don't tell you what's causing it, but they tell you there's some inflammation going on within So Roulot formation tells me that there's inflammatory processes that are going on, or there's lots of proteins that are increasing the viscosity to some degree in the blood. This is really important that you can pick this up on the peripheral blood smear. It actually looks a little bit like this. So anemia is another factor. Looking for a low hemoglobin, low hematocrit, a Roulot formation on peripheral blood smear, and usually these red blood cells, they're normal sized. And so that's actually important to remember that the MCV is normal. All right, so it's usually what we call normalcytic anemia. Whenever you have a normalcytic anemia, you always ask yourself the question, is it a lower tick index or higher tick index? You would check the retic index, it'd probably be to some degree low. And then you say, okay, is it something with a bone marrow, like an aplastic or an infiltrative process? Well, it's only my Loma does that. Or is it due to anemia of chronic disease? Well, it's my Loma does that. So it's both of them. All right, infections. This one's kind of interesting. And then the reason why is, it causes a relative hypogamma globulinemia. What I mean is, is that these plasma cells, they produce, let's say, decreased functional. These are less functional, immunoglobulin G or immunoglobulin A. So it's less functional immunoglobulins. They don't really do as good of a job as they should. All right, that's this is plasma cells are making these malignant plasma cells are making these. But the other thing is malignant plasma cells actually end up decreasing. So let's say here's a normal plasma cell. So here's your malignant ones. And this is going to be a normal plasma cell. The interesting concept here is that when you have all these like malignant plasma cells, what they do is, is they can actually suppress your normal plasma cells from producing true, good, healthy, normal polyclonal antibodies. And so this is actually kind of what happens as they these malignant ones can actually come over here, and they can take up space or crowd out or suppress your normal plasma cells. And so that causes this kind of drop in other immunoglobulin lines. And so you'll end up with a lot of these functional. So you end up with a lot of these less functional immunoglobulins. And you'll also end up with less of your functional immunoglobulins. The whole point of that is if I don't got good immunoglobulins, so I got less functional ones. All right, so I have let's actually put like this. Let's say I have more. I have lots of less functional immunoglobulins and then less of true functional immunoglobulins. That's the concept that I want you to think about. So less of functional immunoglobulins. Right. That's the thing that's important to remember. Because that unit, but what's called a relative hypogamma globulinemia. So you don't have true antibodies that can bind onto these bacteria and neutralize them or opsonize them or help with enhancing the phagocytosis process or causing them to be cleared by the spleen. Right. Or helping other cells to cause cytotoxic damage to these types of bacteria. And so what happens is you end up with an ability to allow certain types of bacteria to thrive. And those two bacteria that are really important to remember is streptococcus pneumonia. So you have a higher risk of infections due to streptococcus pneumonia and homophilus influenzae. These are going to be the two particular type of bacteria that are encapsulated that you can have a higher risk of infection with. All right. Watch out for that. And so if a patient gets these kinds of infections, oftentimes strep pneumo and homophilus influenza are sino pulmonary kind of areas. So they like to cause like sinusitis, like bacterial sinusitis and pneumonia. So patients who are developing recurrent episodes of pneumonia, that's an important thing. Right. So with this being said, we've really talked a lot about how multiple myeloma can cause a lot of different kinds of devastating effects. It's important to remember multiple myeloma, lots of immunoglobulin G or lots of immunoglobulin A plus a lot of light chains. The less functional immunoglobulins can cause problems with being able to fight off immunity. Plus these malignant plasma cells are suppressing normal plasma cells from producing true functional antibodies. A lot of these plasma cells infiltrate the bone marrow and they crowd out the space to be able to make red blood cells. They also suppress red blood cell production by lowering the true sufficiency of iron that's needed to go to the bone marrow. The light chains chalk up the actual kidney tube is in cause arena failure and plasma cells can actually signal the bone to start causing destructive processes. And in worst case scenarios, multiple myeloma can increase the risk of light chain amylidosis. So you see a lot of different things here. What I want you now to talk about or to learn about is Walden's drums. Walden's drums macrogobulinemia is again, it's a malignant condition. What happens in this one is these lympho plasma sites can do a bunch of different things. Let's say the first one son of a gun. The first one son is that these lympho plasma sites can come over and what they could do is they could deposit into different types of organs. Let's say that they come over here and you got lots of them and they decide to infiltrate. So there's a tumor infiltration process. They decide to infiltrate into the lymph nodes. If they cause lymph node infiltration, this will cause the lymph nodes to get bigger. And this can lead to lymph adenopathy, which is basically kind of an enlargement and swelling of the what lymph nodes. And usually this is like the cervical lymph nodes that get affected or the axillary lymph nodes that are get affected. So it's important to look for any kind of like painless and enlarged swelling of a lymph node. And when you palpate it, you'll be able to feel that kind of like rubbery feeling of that lymph node. That could be due to Walden's drums macrogobulinemia. The other thing is it likes to deposit into the liver and the spleen. And if it deposits into the liver and the spleen, it can cause liver and spleen infiltration. And that can cause hepatitis, splenomegaly. If this kind of event happens, how would this patient oftentimes present? Well with hepatitis splenomegaly, it'll cause enlargement of the liver. They may have kind of some potential like feeling there on that cost of vertebral angle. The spleen gets enlarged as well. But here's the big thing. As they get bigger, they take up space and they start pushing on the stomach. And so it makes less room for whenever you want to take in food. And guess what that leads to? It leads to an abdominal fullness and early satiety. So this can lead to abdominal fullness and distention sometimes too. Abdominal fullness. And it can also lead to distention. So these are things that definitely consider for that one. The other thing that can happen is that these lymphoplasma sites can also infiltrate the bone marrow. If they do infiltrate the bone marrow, again we already kind of have an idea of what that may do. If they do cause bone marrow infiltration, what may that do? That may make less space. If there is less space inside of the bone marrow that may crowd out that ability to make other types of cells. The most common one to be affected is the red blood cells. And so by crowding out that space crowds out the bone marrow. And by crowding out that bone marrow, you're going to lead to a decrease in red blood cell production. And again, this is going to be kind of a normal, acidic process. And so when I look at these patients' MCVs, you're going to notice that they will be normal. All right. The other thing here is that these lymphoplasma sites, they also can do some other things. This is only 10% of cases. So this is most common. In 10% of cases, let's say this there, in 10% of cases, they can make these auto antibodies. And these auto antibodies may go and bind on to different types of antigens that are present here. So let's say here we have a antigen. These auto antibodies may go and bind on to these antigens here. And what it may do is it may cause these red blood cells to be tagged and to be killed or to be ripped up, per se, in the spleen. And so this may cause these cells to get hemolyzed. All right. And that is called autoimmune hemolytic anemia. So this will go to the spleen and it'll get hemolyzed. This is called autoimmune hemolytic anemia. So sometimes you may have these patients who can develop an autoimmune hemolytic anemia. It's funny enough, one of the things here is that this can actually, you can see this increase in lymphoplasma sites. It's kind of like lymphoma, essentially. Honestly, it's a B cell neoplasma. And so because of that, B cell neoplasma, especially CLL, is associated with autoimmune hemolytic anemia. So that's why we could see this as well as the source of the patient's anemia. Only 10% of cases though. All right. So the patient has lymphotenopathy. It's because the lymphoplasma site's infiltrated. A pathospinal megalee, because the lymphoplasma site's infiltrated. And anemia, because of infiltration into the bone marrow, but also they could have anemia because in 10% of cases, you can develop autoantibodies. Which one is it? IGM. And these IgM antibodies may go and bind to the antigens here and trigger autoimmune hemolytic anemia. All right. Now, the next concept. It may cause hyperviscosity syndrome. This is the high yield. If you forget this, that's okay. This one you cannot forget. Now, in patients with hyperviscosity syndrome, these lymphoplasma sites are pumping out the IgM antibodies. So here's all my IgM antibodies. And again, you got to remember, I know I'm representing them like little y's, like they're monomers, but these are pentomers. They're huge, dude. And so because of that, you're going to get tons and tons of these IgMs. They're going to take up a lot of space and they're going to really thicken up the blood. So imagine here, I have good, normal blood, no viscous flow. So let's say here, decrease viscosity. And here you're going to have increased viscosity. Let's compare the flow. So here's normal viscosity. And here's super, super high viscous blood. What's going to happen to the flow? Well, normally it's going to be laminar, right? You're going to have that laminar flow. Here, it's going to be maybe laminar, but it's also going to be super sludgy. So you're going to have a very, very, very, very slow flow. It's going to be super, super slow. So you're going to have good blood flow here. And then decreased blood flow here. So increased blood flow. And here you're going to have decreased blood flow. You can imagine how that'd be problematic, right? So if you have super high viscous blood, that blood flow is going to be really, really low. And imagine having poor cerebral perfusion. If I have decreased cerebral perfusion, how could that potentially present? It may present with headaches. It may present with dizziness. It may present with an altered mental status, right? And this is because of decreased cerebral blood flow. So decreased cerebral perfusion. What if I congest the, so what if I have sluggish blood flow coming out of the retinal vein? So the blood leaving the retinal vein is impaired. Well, then the retinal veins can start getting super, super engorged and big. And so sometimes what can happen is you can have what's called retinal vein stasis or engorgement. And so what happens is you end up having decreased retinal drainage because it's super, super viscous blood there, bro. Right? So decreased retinal drainage leads to these retinal veins being gargantuous. So what's happening is you get these enlarged retinal veins, right? So this causes enlarged retinal veins, which if you do fundoscopy on these patients, you may see this. It actually can look a little bit like this. The other things that you may have seen on that potential image is that sometimes that back flow can actually cause like small hemorrhaging into the retina. It can cause like retinal hemorrhaging. The other thing that's also important to remember is that sometimes you can even get swelling of the optic disc and cause papillodema as well. So watch out for poor cerebral perfusion, which can cause these features. Watch out for poor retinal drainage, which can cause enlarged retinal veins, which may cause fundoscopic findings. But how would they present clinically? What would they may say? Well, what's the retina design to do? Help with your vision. That's what could happen. You can get blurred vision, right? So the other thing to watch out for is blurred vision. These are oftentimes the main ways that patients will present is a headache, blurred vision. Sometimes it's very rare, but imagine you have this super high viscous blood and you have to pump that blood out of the heart. It's going to be really hard. And so it's going to be difficult to get the amount of volume you want out. And so the stroke volume may go down. The cardiac output may go down. As a result of having this super, super viscous blood, if that happens and you end up aren't able to get your heart isn't strong enough to push this super high viscous blood out, you end up with a low cardiac output that may cause blood to back up. Right? So blood may back up into the left atrium and then into the lungs. How could that present with pulmonary edema in dyspnea? So these patients sometimes can develop congestive heart failure. I wouldn't say worry too much about this one, but consider it. All right, congestive heart failure may be a potential symptom here, but definitely blurred vision, the fundoscopic findings, and then features of headache, dizziness, and the altered mental status. The other thing is that these little jacked up fingers here that you see, I look, I can't draw a hand. I know, don't laugh at me, but you can get these real jacked up fingers. And the reason why is whenever you get in cold temperatures, this can actually cause against sluggish flow. And so you get poor perfusion with the digits. And they can actually end up with cyanosis of the digits. And so watch out for rainouts phenomenon. This is going to be that bluish discoloration of the digits due to poor flow. If you get them out of the cold temperatures, it should actually help. The other thing that's really important, I'd say this oftentimes is the way that I would be potentially worried to see this, is that whenever you have all these IgM antibodies, not only do they increase viscosity leading to these types of presentations, but the other thing is these antibodies, the IgMs, can actually bind to platelets and kind of coat the surface of the platelets. And when you do that, you basically inhibit the platelets. So you inhibit the platelet aggregation. When you inhibit platelet aggregation, are you going to be able to form a clot if needed? No. Guess what that leads to? Impairment and primary hemostasis. What's going to happen? The patients can bleed. And so bleeding is another way that these patients oftentimes present. What are the ways that you bleed when you have a superficial or we say platelet disorder related bleeding? Do you guys remember superficial bleeding? So how did that look? Petitier, Pepira, but the most common presentation is epistaxis. That's the one that you have to watch out for. Watch a patient who has gingival bleeding or epistaxis. Oral nasal bleeding is the most common way that patients with hyperviscocity syndrome will present. Now that we've done that, let's move on to the next step here. When a patient develops hyperviscocity syndrome, you have to watch out for these big complications. And it's super important because if you miss this, you're going to miss the proper treatment. For the next one is neuropathy. Neuropathy, so it was tumor infiltration that caused all these. It was circulating IgM that caused all these. What the heck about this one? All right, these lymphoplasma sites are pumping out these antibodies, right? These IgM antibodies. These IgM antibodies may attack certain types of areas. And sometimes this can cause an autoimmune like activity. So here, let's actually bring it over here. Let's say here I'm going from this guy to this guy. And what I'm going to show you, something happens to these myelins. Here, this myelin was normal. Here, where's my pink marker here? This myelin is jacked up beyond belief. Look, I got pieces flying everywhere of myelin. Myelin's all jacked up. Demyelination, going ham. So what you're going to notice here is that there is some demyelination that is occurring. And I think you have an idea as to why the demyelination is occurring. I'm taking this neuron, ripping apart that myelin. The reason why is these IgM antibodies come in here and trigger that process. They bind onto, they have like specific areas. It's called myelin-associated glycoprotein. I don't want you to go crazy. I'm going to put it here. I'm going to put like a little molecule right here. And I'm going to call this MAG, all right? Myelin-associated glycoprotein. This is an area where these IgM antibodies may bind and then activate the immune system and cause demyelination. If this causes demyelination, what happens to the neurons? Can they fire properly? No. And so you end up with this drop in the ability to send proper action potentials and conduct these things. All right? So now these usually occur to peripheral nerves. Peripheral nerves, dude. They're supposed to be supplying the peripheral, especially the lower extremities. Guess what ends up happening? Well, the first thing that happens is it's going to be a progressive. So I'm going to represent this in red. You're going to start off with some progressive, but symmetrical peristegias. So some numbness, some tingling, and this will get worse and worse and worse over time. So you're going to see symmetrical, progressive peristegias and sometimes worst case scenarios. These nerves, they don't just carry sensory information. Guess what else they carry? Motor information. So what else could happen? Weakness. So the one thing that you want to watch out for here is if this continues to happen, these patients can get what's called progressive, symmetrical peristegias. And worst case scenario, I'm not going to add here. That's the most common way, but in worst case scenarios, they may develop weakness. So if a patient comes in, you're trying to determine which kind of plasma cell disorder they have. You have to say, okay, are they symptomatic? All right, cool. Could be MGUS. Do they come in with crab criteria? Hypergalcemia? Do they come with lidoglesions? Do they come in with anemia? Do they come in with renal failure? Do they have any potential evidence of infections? Could be a multimyloma. Does the patient come in with hyperviscocity syndrome? What's the most common way? Headache, dizziness, ultra mental status and blurred vision and then the form of bleeding or nasal bleeding. If you've got the memory capacity, remember CHF, remember Reynard's phenomenon. What's another way? They can also have neuropathy and tumor infiltration with anemia, lymphoenopathy and a pathosplenomaglial. These are really important things to remember. The also big difference here is that MGUS and multimyloma are IgG or IgA with light chains. Walden strums is IgM predominant. So this is a lot of stuff that we talked about. How are we going to put this together? I got you. I'm a Fresnel. Let's move on to the diagnostic approach. Let's put all of this stuff together to see if we can come up with a way of being able to truly differentiate. Is this MGUS? Is this Walden strums? Is this multimyloma? I think I had a good way for you guys to think about this. We can do a lot of different tests. Whenever we suspect plasma cells, oftentimes, doing a really good history and physical can give you a ton of information. Thinking about this patient and saying, hey, do you have any kind of bone pain? Any kind of pain anywhere? Do you have any kind of symptoms where you're changing in your urination, your drinking process? Any kidney stones? Going through those kinds of things are really, really helpful to see if the symptoms are manifesting from the resulting issues, things like hypercalcemia, the lytic lesions, anemia, et cetera. A CBC is also  and alfalfa. This is going to be really good because it's going to be able to pick up anemia. A CMP will be great because it can actually tell me my protein gap, which I'll explain what that is, and it can also tell me what my calcium is and that that's elevated. A skeletal survey to go along with a good physical exam to say, hey, they have pain in their back and I find that this is a lesion here, or they have pain around their ribs or on their skull and I find these lesions here, that can be associated with a good combining of physical exam and also appropriate imaging. This can start really helping us to think about which one of these plasma cell disorders is presenting. Let's say, for example, we think about just general clinical presentation. MGUS really shouldn't present with anything. It's pretty much asymptomatic and so we don't have that classic crab criteria. Multiple myeloma should have at least in some way, should perform a crab criteria. That means that they should have hypercalcemia or renal failure or anemia or bone pain and lesions or recurrent infections is another additional thing to think about. Waldenstrom's the primary one I want you to remember is hyperviscosity syndrome, plus or minus the neuropathy is another one to consider. That's the really big one. Again, remember hyperviscosity was the, we're talking about the headaches, the dizziness, the altered mental status, the blurred vision from impaired cerebral refusion and impaired retinal drainage and then superficial bleeding from inhibiting platelet aggregation. That's the real thing I want you to think about here. Again, when we think about that in combination with one other thing is what's the protein gap? The protein gap I'll tell you a little bit later is the total protein minus the albumin. If that is elevated, it tells me that there's a bunch of different proteins in the blood stream that are elevated, we just don't know which ones and we got to dig in a little bit deeper. Elevated protein gap can be seen in all of these, but this is just a simple way to start developing a dichotomy to think about how can I truly organize these in my brain? Let's say that we got to get pieces of information on the clinical vignette and we see that, okay, their CBC shows me that they have some normal cytokinemia and they even give me a peripheral blood smear and it shows me this. This is indicative of a relo, and a relo is telling me that there's lots of erythrocyte sedimentation, that proteins are present in large amounts and the red blood cells are sticking to one another and they would easily be able to fall down the test tube super quick. Another thing is if I got a CMP and I told you that protein gap is elevated. Protein gap is really important to discuss. It's not something that we routinely do, but it is something I think it's always a good part of your process when you're evaluating blood work. When you evaluate blood work, you should look at the protein gap just as a quick little monitoring. You take the total protein and you subtract the albumin and all you want to know is where does that number fall? Usually if it's pretty high, like greater than four, we start getting a little bit more concern and thinking about potential possibilities. The protein gap isn't a perfect test and the reason why is it tells you that the total protein is elevated. That doesn't help you to determine if it's the alpha, the beta, or the gamma globulins that are elevated. I can't really tell you. All I know is that one of those, or maybe a bunch of them, are elevated. When you actually look at an electrophoresis, which looks at concentration on the y and the protein migration on the x, you have albumin, which is the most abundant. Then you have your alpha and then you also have your beta and then you have your gamma globulins. All of these can be various different types of proteins. Alpha one can be alpha one at the trypsin, alpha two you have seruroplasma and hapoglobin. These are made by the liver, beta globulins, six at transference, C through compliments, fibrinogen. Gamma globulins is where we're spending our time. This is where the antibodies are. I mean, globulin G-A-M-E-D. I just want to know if these are elevated, especially in plasma cell disorders. I don't really care about these other ones. How do I really determine that? I'd have to get an S-PAP. If my protein gap is elevated and I got some of these other problems, I would actually take the time to go ahead and order an S-PAP. That's what I want you guys to remember is it just tells me that proteins elevated, it just doesn't tell me which one. That's what I got to figure out because this could be the thing that's rising up my total protein. I just don't know that off of a protein gap on its own. Let's say that I keep evaluating the patient. I see that they have an elevated protein gap. They have some anemia. They're CMP shows that they have hypercalcemia. Their skeletal survey, going along with their physical exam, shows that they have lytic lesions. Maybe they have some scolitic lesions. Maybe they have some vertebral lesions. Maybe they even have some rib lesions. These things are present. That's what I really want you guys to think about. If a patient came and they had a protein gap that's elevated greater than four, and then on top of that, they presented with Crab criteria. They have hypercalcemia. They have renal failure. They have anemia. They have bone pain or lesions. Or maybe they even have hyperviscosity syndrome, which you can get from their exam. Maybe they present with a alter mental status, blurred vision. Maybe they're a headache. Maybe they're presenting with vision changes. On top of that, they have superficial bleeding. If they have a protein gap that's elevated, you should think about Waldenstrums. At this point, I'm definitely thinking they could have a plasma cell disorder. How do I really determine which plasma cell disorder it is? That's really the question. I have to determine if it's even antibodies or light chains that are even elevated. I'm going to get an S-pep. That's going to test for the proteins. I'm really looking at gamma-glybulins in the blood. The Bench-Jones proteins are your light chains in the urine and just your free light chains, how many of them are in the bloodstream. This is really going to be super helpful in something they can easily test you with on the exam. This is going to try and put everything together. S-pep is again testing the proteins in the blood. It's quantifying which one of these out of all of these is elevated. That's what I want to know. If I see this as an M-spike, that's a monoclonal protein spike indicating that this is prygamaglobulins of some sort that are elevated. That's all I want to know. If I detect light chains, it looks at the immunoglobulin G, the immunoglobulin A, the immunoglobulin M, E and D. Now, when we have an M-spike, all it tells me is that the gamma-glybulins are elevated. It doesn't tell me which one of those is elevated, like the IgG, A, M, E, D. I have to do immunofixation. That's going to tell me which one of those is elevated. If I see IgG and IgA, it could be multiloma, it could be M-guss. How do I determine that? It's looking at the degree of the M-spike. If it's less than three, that's M-guss, bro. But if it's greater than three, that's multiloma, especially if it's associated with crab criteria. We're putting this stuff together. If I'm immunofixating, it shows IgM, it's pretty much done, bro. We got Waldenstrumps. We good. That's the way I want you to think about that. This doesn't mean that it's definitely a disorder, but it definitely adds a lot of emphasis and support to it. That's when I would move to the next concept here, which is, again, S-pep less than three, no crab criteria, that's M-guss. S-pep greater than three, and there is crab criteria, multiloma. M-spike greater than three, and it's IgM on immunofixation. That is Waldenstrumps. Really important. Make sure you guys add that note. If it's IgM, Waldenstrumps, IgG, IgA are elevated, it could be these two. Just depends upon the degree of the spike that differentiates them. All right. Now let's move into the U-pep, the urine protein electrophoresis. This has really helped me to look for Bench-Jones proteins. I would be looking for those light chains to be enough on the urine that it's going to cause a spike. I would see this M-spike, just like you would see in the S-pep. When I look at that, I would actually be able to determine if it is the Bench-Jones proteins, those light chains that are building up in the urine, and that's the problem. That's the one that's causing all the acute tubular necrosis and the renal failure. That's what we see in multiloma. We don't see that in M-guss. We don't see that in Waldenstrumps. That's what you're really looking for is the U-pep to be negative on these two and positive for this one. Again, we're adding more layers of how to differentiate these. You differentiate all of these based upon the M-spike. The degree between these two and then the type based upon these two. Then U-pep is negative for these and it's positive for this one. Let's add one more layer. Then we talk about the free light chain ratio. The free light chain ratio is just telling me the amount of free light chains that are present in the bloodstream. The primary one that's going to be significantly elevated is going to be multiloma. You can have some free light chains that are elevated in M-guss. It produces IgG, IgA, and free light chains. It's just going to be nowhere near the degree of multiloma. You shouldn't have any light chains for Waldenstrumps. When I look at these, I'm going to look at the plasma cells. Once I have a high free light chain ratio, it could be M-guss or it could be multiple myeloma. It's the number that we look at. Usually we say that ratio is greater than 100. That's highly suggestive of multiple myeloma. A mildly elevated free light chain ratio could be seen in M-guss. When we put all of this together, if I say a mildly elevated one, cool. If I say this thing is huge, greater than 100, we highly associate that with multiple myeloma. Normal is Waldenstrumps. We've added layers to this. We talked about S-pep. If the M-spike is greater than 3, it could be multiple myeloma, could be Waldenstrumps. How do you differentiate? Which one's IgG, IgA? Multiple myeloma. Which one's IgM? Waldenstrumps. If I say M-spike is less than 3, no crab criteria, that is M-guss. If I said which one has the Bench-Jones proteins that are detected on UPEP, you would say multiple myeloma. If I say which two have an increased free light chain ratio, that means that they make a lot of light chains. That's M-guss and that's multiple myeloma. Which one's way higher? It's multiple myeloma. We really, I think, dove into this pretty good, but now we're not done because now we've got to take it one step further and confirm the diagnosis. You can't do that until you've done a bone marrow biopsy. Once you've done that and you need to determine the number of plasma cells or lympho plasma sites that are in the bone marrow, you can then confirm and definitively make that diagnosis. For example, if I took the bone marrow, took it out, drew up, aspirated all of that actual cells out of there, sent it to the lab and had them quantify the number of plasma cells or lympho plasma sites, I could go from there. If I said the plasma cells are less than 10%, that's M-guss. If it's greater than or equal to 10%, that is going to be multiple myeloma. If I see lympho plasma sites of greater than 10%, that is Walden-Trum's macroglobal anemia. We're really putting this together in layers where you start off with a protein gap as maybe a presentation or maybe the crab criteria is a presentation or maybe hyperfascosity is a presentation or maybe you have one of these two plus an elevated protein gap. You go to the links of getting an S-pep, a U-pep, a free light chain. That's really going to differentiate them. At that point, you confirm with a bone marrow biopsy. Out of all of these, there's one that I really do have to dig a little bit deeper. That's the multiple myeloma. The reason why is I need to know if they have the 1114 translocation or not because that's going to determine how I'm going to be with these patients. The other thing is that when we do this, we actually check the 1114 with the cytogenetics. We'll check an LDH level. We'll check a beta-2 microglobulin and we'll check an albumin level. All of these things really help me to determine the patient's risk and their prognosis and how well they're going to do and respond to therapy. If they have the 1114 translocation and normal beta-2 microglobulin and LDH albumin, this is actually a good thing. This means I can have a standard risk kind of patient. They may have a good prognosis. If I have the other one where they don't have the 1114, they have an elevated beta-2, an elevated LDH, and a low albumin. This is a very high-risk patient. This is going to be the one that's going to be a little bit more challenging. This is something that just takes you the extra step to really prognosticate for these patients. All right. We've gone through. We've talked about the different types of plasma cell disorders. We talked about the potential complications. We talked about the ways that we should diagnostically approach these disorders. How do we treat them? Well, elliptic lesions are pretty straightforward. You treat them kind of similarly to how you would treat a patient who has osteoporosis. A lot of the times with these plasma cells, again, they're pumping out rank ligand. They're pumping out osteoclasts activating factor and other cytokines. That's activating those osteoclasts. They're really hitting those osteoclasts and triggering them to release hydrochloric acid, collagenase that's ripping apart the bone, and that's causing these lytic lesions and even hypercalcemia. What I want to do is I want to come up with a drug that can target this. That's where things like bisphosphonates or dinosomab comes in. Bisphosphonates are great. The reason why these are great is because they would probably be your first line. This is going to be things like allondronase, zolondronate. What they're going to do is they're going to directly inhibit osteoclast proliferation. If you inhibit these cells from proliferating, you lose the ability of these cells to release hydrochloric acid and collagenase. That leads to less lytic lesions. That leads to less calcium release from the bone. Also, it kills these cells. It puts them into an apoptotic pathway. You have less of them in addition to that, not only killing them, but you're also triggering some of them to undergo that apoptosis process. You're inhibiting them from proliferating. You're killing them. You're really going to drop down this lytic lesion pathway. Dinosomab is another really good alternative. It's like a monoclonal antibody. It's a second line. What we would do with this one is it really is just going to be an antibody that binds to the actual rank ligand. Then it can't bind to the rank receptor. That means it can't trigger this pathway. It can't release hydrochloric acid. It can't release collagenase. It can't cause lytic lesions and calcium release from the bone. That's another alternative I want you to think about. Pretty cool to think about how that works there. Let's move on to the next thing. Infections. What do we want to do? These patients are super high risk for strep pneumonia, homophilus influenza type B, vaccinating them, making sure that they're up to date with their homophilus influenza, making sure that they're up to date with their streptococcus pneumonia is really, really key to reduce the risk of having these infections. If they keep developing these infections, that's when we would go to the links of saying, all right, now we need something a little bit stronger. Then I would go to IVIG because you're going to be giving them functional immunoglobulin. With vaccinations, you're helping them to develop their own antibodies against that type of infection pathogen. With IVIG, you're giving them immunoglobulins. You're giving them the amount to help them to opsonize, to help them to be able to neutralize the pathogen, help them to trigger the cytotoxic killing, to trigger the process by which we actually get rid of these pathogens. That can help to reduce the risk of pneumonia and cytositis. Again, we neutralize these pathogens. We'll be opsonize them to help them to get either destroyed by macrophages or getting taken up by the spleen. We help to allow for cytotoxic killing by natural killer cells or T cells that will kill these pathogens. We even help complement activation to lead to membrane attack complexes and putting holes in these pathogens. That's what the IVIG would help us with. That's all going to help to reduce the risk of those infections of the lungs as well as the sinuses. Acute renal failure. When you get this, a lot of the times you can do a couple of different things. Plesmophoresis or a special type of dialysis could be an option. Usually dialysis, and you can even combine that with plasma phoresis. You got to think about the problem with acute renal failure. It's all of these light chains. If you can clean the blood of these light chains, you can get rid of those. You'll reduce that nephrotoxic injury. That's the key thing to think about. Hyperviscocity syndrome is a similar concept. There's tons of IgM antibodies that are circulating through the bloodstream. They're causing an increase in viscosity. They're reducing cerebral fusion. They're reducing retinal drainage. They're helping to inhibit the aggregation of platelets. If I can remove some of those IgMs, I can potentially reduce the hyperviscocity types of presentations. That's something that plasma phoresis would be really, really good for is acute renal failure, multimyloma, and then hyperviscocity syndrome in Walden's trumps. You can think about this very simply. The multimyloma, again, it's making a lot of these antibodies. IgG, IgA, it's making a lot of light chains. The light chains are really where the capital lambda ones are causing the nephrotoxic injury. They're getting in there. They're destroying the actual proximal tubular cells. With Walden's trumps, it's pumping out IgM antibodies. The IgM antibodies are causing decreased platelet aggregation, and that's causing bleeding. It's also causing hyperviscocity syndrome, which is causing reduced retinal perfusion, cerebral fusion, reduced retinal drainage. These are all issues. What if I had a machine that could help to get rid of the light chains and get rid of the IgM antibodies and normalize that level? If I did that, I could potentially reduce the free light chain ratio. On top of that, reduce the IgM antibodies. That would be a great way to deal with this disease. That's what I want you guys to know there. All plasma phrases is you're taking the patient's blood, you're removing these antibodies and light chains, and you're just sifting them off. Waste those off, and then you're going to send back a substitution fluid and back all their plasma that's free of these circulating antibodies and light chains back into their circulation. Now, with Walden's trumps specifically, there is some things that we should talk about. We can consider things like a BTK inhibitor called a Brutinib. This is, I'd say, becoming the more prominent method that we use to treat patients who have Walden's trumps. We do this if they have lymphotonopathy or anemia or any kind of organi-megaly, so they have a Patosplenomegaly. These are things that we would treat these patients with a BTK inhibitor. It's actually going to kill a lot of these malignant cells, and that's going to reduce the IgM production. Rituximab plus or minus chemotherapy is going to be for the patients who are very, very symptomatic, but also they can't tolerate the BTK inhibitor because this is a pretty powerful drug. Or they have neuropathy. Rituximab may be a little bit better in those scenarios, but they do the same kind of thing. When you think about Rituximab, it's actually kind of interesting. Rituximab needs a CD20 molecule to bind onto on your lymphoplasma sites. It's going to go and bind onto the CD20. What that does is natural killer cells will use that as a way of being able to release things like Granzymes. Granzymes will then get released onto the lymphoplasma sites, trigger them to undergo an apoptotic process. When we give Rituximab, we need these patients to be CD20 positive, but then we can really give them this to help to really help to cause the destruction of the lymphoplasma sites. If we destroy these, guess what happens? They stop producing all of those IgM antibodies that are causing hyperviscocity syndrome and neuropathy and tumor infiltration, such as organomegaly. What happens though transiently, and we shouldn't stop it, we just have to monitor for it, is you can get an IgM flare-ups because you're killing these things and they're containing what? Antibodies, IgM. That can spill out a little bit and they can get a transient little IgM flare, but that doesn't mean that you have to stop it. You can just keep writing that out usually. Next thing is plasma cell disorders. We're talking about bone marrow transplants. I'd say this more particularly with multiple myeloma. In Gus, you're not going to need to know this. Waldenstrom's even to that degree, you probably won't even have to really apply this. It's mainly multiple myeloma. We want to know are these patients eligible for a transplant? If they are, we have a very specific process. We're going to start off with induction therapy. That's called your VRD. That's your Bortezimib, Linolytomide indexumethasone. That's going to be induction. Then after that, we're going to condition them. We're going to get them prepared for the bone marrow transplant with high-dose melphalam. Then after that, we'll do the bone marrow transplant. They're going to replace that with normal plasma cells. Then we're going to try to make sure that we keep them in remission. That's when we'll do just the Bortezimib and Linolytomide. If they are not eligible, unfortunately, we just do the VRD therapy and then we'll just continue after that, after we try to do induction with the remission therapy, which is Linolytomide plus or minus Bortezimib. Let's put all this together. It's a simple concept here. Let's say that a patient comes in, they're eligible for a metabolic stem cell transplant. What's going to be your first one? Induction therapy. Then after that, you condition them with Melphalam. After you condition them, you give them the bone marrow transplant. After they obtain remission, what do you do? You maintain Linolytomide plus or minus Bortezimib. If they're not eligible, you just do VRD. That's going to hopefully nuke a lot of these malignant cells. After that, what do you do? You just design is to maintain remission. If you have, then what are you going to do? You're going to do Linolytomide plus or minus Bortezimib. All right, my friends, that's plasma cell disorders. That was a lot. I hope that you liked it. I hope it made sense. I hope that you guys enjoyed it. Man, I just love you guys. Thank you guys so much for being so awesome. Hope you learned a lot. As always, love you. Thank you.