What's up, ninja ners? In this video today, we're going to be talking about platelet disorders. Again, this is part of our clinical medicine section. If you guys like these videos, they make sense to you. Please support us. You can do that a couple different ways. You can hit the like button, comment down the comment section, subscribe, do all of them, please, if you can. Really helps us to keep putting out these free educational videos for your enjoyment. But I also really think that it would be of benefit to you to go down in the description box below, click on the link that goes to our website. On our website, if you become a member, you'll have access to notes, illustrations, tons of quiz questions, all of these things that will help you to really understand this topic. Without further ado, let's get into platelet disorders. All right, my friends. So, we're going to talk about platelet disorders and we're going to talk about it in two different subtypes. One is we're going to talk about whenever there's very little platelets and this is called thrombocytoenia. Now, with thrombocytoenia, there's very little platelets. At what point do we define that the platelet count is too low that it causes thrombocytoenia? Well, on average, we say that this is whenever the platelet count is less than 150,000 cells. So, whenever you're about that point, we have a platelet count less than 150,000, we have thrombocyopenia, what you have to try to figure out is why is the platelet count low? And so pathophysiologically we're going to develop a framework that will go into each one and talk about the causes in detail. But I think it also gives us a diagnostic framework. So there's three categories or buckets that you can put them in. It's a decre decrease platelet production and increased platelet destruction or increase splenic sequestration. Now your bone marrow the red bone marrow is the site of hematopolesis. Right? So your red bone marrow is supposed to be the site where you produce platelets. But let's say that in this process you have an impairment in platelet production. Now we call this a decrease in platelet production is called thrombopoesis. But whenever you have an impairment of all cell lines, let's say it's not just of the platelets, but you don't produce other cells such as white blood cells as well as red blood cells, then now this is an impairment in the entire hematopois process. So there's decreased lucopoesis, decreased ariththropoesis, and decreased what's called thrombopoesis. All of this is defined as a decreased hematopolesis. That is what this whole process is here. Okay. Now, with that being said, we know that there's a lot of different reasons why the bone marrow isn't able to produce all of these cell lines, but often times it gets down to the stem cell. There could be things like drugs that suppress the stem cells. There could be nutrient deficiencies that you don't allow for those stem cells to proliferate and differentiate, but there also could just be pure destruction of those stem cells. And so that's really really important. So there's two different ways of looking at decreased pluction. One way is you have something where all of the signals to the bone marrow. So maybe there is drugs, right? Maybe there is a deficiency in nutrients like B12, folate. Maybe there's some type of infection, right? And all of these things can be causing direct suppression of the bone marrow. They could be suppressing the bone marrow. And if you suppress the bone marrow, maybe in some way, shape, or form, you're suppressing the stem cells that help with the production of these actual platelets, red cells, and uh white blood cells. Often times for our exams though the biggest thing is that when we actually zoom in on this area right here's your stem cell. So let's say here's your hematopoitic stem cell. You can have infections that suppress this, drugs that suppress this, B12 and folate deficiencies that can suppress this. But oftent times more than not we can talk about something called alastic anemia. And basically there's autoimmune attack of these stem cells. But in this scenario here you have destruction of these stem cells and these stem cells don't undergo proliferation and so this leads to a decrease. So this is our stem cell. This is our stem cell and this leads to decreased proliferation and differentiation into all the cell lines. So here's what's interesting. If you were to take a bone marrow biopsy of this particular bone marrow where there's nutrient deficiencies, infections, drugs, or some type of destruction of the stem cell, whether it be through autoimmune related problems, if you look, this stem cell is not proliferating, replicating. So when you look at this bone marrow and you tap into it, you're not going to have a lot of cellular material. Oftentimes, it's very rich in fat. And so this is called hypocellular bone marrow. And so it's really important to know that whenever you have a patient who has pansyenia, all their cell lines are dropped. They have a decrease in their white blood cells, a decrease in their red blood cells, and a decrease in their platelets. This is very concerning for pansyenia. And you want to know what's wrong with the bone marrow. Is that the bone marrow is not getting the signals or something's attacking the stem cell and it's not proliferating? that's the case, the bone marrow, if you tap into it, it's a hypocellular bone marrow. And that really helps us diagnostically to say, oo, it's probably one of these particular problems that's causing a drop in the white cells, a drop in the red blood cells, and a drop in the platelets. All right? So, all of these things are helping us to really kind of come to terms with what is the trigger of this thrombocytoenia. But in this case, all the cell lines are affected the panytoenia. What if you actually tapped into the bone marrow though and when you looked at it, you saw tons and tons and tons of cells, but there was so many cells that were present that it was crowding out the actual other cells like platelets and crowding out the space for the production of red cells and white cells. That's a different scenario. So now we can have what's called a hyperscellular bone marrow. And so in a hyper cellular bone marrow, what happens is is you'll have tons. If you were to look into this bone marrow and you actually examined it, there is an issue where the bone marrow is not producing all of these cells. But the problem that exists here is that you have all these different cells that are crowding out the bone marrow. And what it's doing is it's making very little space. So now I have all of these. It's crowding out the platelets and it's crowding out the uh presence for red cells to be produced and it's crowding out the presence of white blood cells. And so what you kind of get here is you get this crowding out effect. So we're going to kind of write that down. This a crowding of the bone marrow. And what happens in this scenario is if you crowd out the bone marrow, you don't make a lot of room for the proliferation and formation of red cells, platelets, and other types of white blood cells. And so that's the difference here. So when I take and I figure out that a patient has pansyenia, it is of utmost importance for me to figure out what's the kind of bone marrow looking like. Is it a hyperscellular one? So, in other words, there's tons and tons of cells that are crowding out the bone marrow and I don't have enough space and nutrients for me to make these other cells or is the stem cell destroyed? And by having that stem cell destroyed, that stem cell is supposed to make all of my cells, my platelets, my red cells, and my white cells. And if I don't have him, then my whole bone marrow will be hypocellular. That's super crucial for the diagnostic section. All right. So, big thing for pluction. What are you really looking for here? I have to stress this. All of this is called pansytoenia. So whenever there's a decrease in amatopois this is going to cause all cell lines to be affected. So this will precipitate the presence of what's called pan cytoenia which is a drop in all of these cell lines and it's due to a hypo or hyperscellular bone marrow. Done. We'll talk about what causes hypocellular and hyperellular bone marrows a little bit later. Another reason that platelets could be low is because you're just chewing them up. You're destroying them, right? So they're produced properly by the bone marrow. And one way that we can tell if a bone marrow is working well, especially in anemia, is we can look at the reticular site count. Right? So the reticular site count and this low platelet production would probably be low. Whereas in patients who have this increased plot destruction, depending if they're chewing up other red blood cells, their reticular count site counts could be high. But we'll get into that a little bit later. At this point now we know that the platelets are being produced properly but they're getting chewed up in the circulation or somewhere else. Why? One is it could be due to auto antibodies. So let's say here I have a patient who I'm generating these auto antibodies and these auto antibodies what they do is they can bind on to different phospholipids or proteins or glyoproteins that are present on the platelets. All right. when they bind on to the platelets, what they'll do is they can do a couple different things to the platelet. So, let's say here I combine these. And so, now what I end up getting here is I end up getting kind of a little platelet and on that platelet maybe it has a phospholipid, maybe it has a glyoprotein of sorts that's kind of on its surface, but that auto antibbody is bound to the platelet. Now one thing it can do is in the presence of both of these is it could tag the platelet. So now these platelets for lack of a better terms is tagged. What does that mean? That means whenever they get to the spleen, macrofasages will notice this and they'll engulf them and they'll start kind of going to chewing up the platelets in that area in the spleen because that's the the site of platelet kind of sequestration or destruction and red blood cell destruction. So what will happen is they'll go to the spleen and then in the spleen these platelets will be destroyed. So you'll end up with platelet destruction. So that's one way. So we can tag it and then send it to the spleen and the spleen will do the job for us and it'll chew up the platelets. That's one way. All right. Another way that we can chew up the platelets via these auto antibodies is they can bind to the platelets and then for lack of a better terms they will activate the platelet and when I say activate it may trigger these platelets to stick to the endothelium. It may trigger these pllets to increase the expression of other proteins that they can bind with platelets. It may trigger them to release granules that attract other pllets to the area. But what's going to happen? These platelets will start sticking to the endothelium. And when they stick to the endothelium, they'll just keep causing more platelet and more platelet aggregation. So in this process, when the auto antibodies bind to the platelet, they activate them and they trigger thrombosis. So they trigger thrombosis to occur kind of a bunch of platelets to kind of come there and get stuck and this will activate the coagulation cascade. But by doing this, what do you do to the platelets? You consume the platelets. So it's kind of like in a way it's a consumptive process to a degree, right? And so this basically leads to the consumption of platelets. So that's the real big difference here. So I'm going to consume the platelets to make a thrombus. So when we talk about immune mediated processes, you could either tag them and they get destroyed by the spleen or you could activate them and they trigger a platelet plug and cause thrombosis which then continues to increase the consumption of the platelets and that's how you lower your platelet count. So it's either I stimulate thrombosis or and that'll increase consumption or I tag them and then I increase the destruction of the platelets. Either way, the platelet count will go down because I'm either using them or destroying them by the spleen. All right, we'll talk about immune mediated processes a little bit later when we get into the causes, but you'll often times think of ITP and hit and anti-phospholipid syndrome. For the non-immune mediated processes in this scenario, it's not due to an auto antibbody directly acting on the platelet. In some way, shape or form. It could be indirect or it could be completely different mechanism in a whole. Often times what happens is these patients get some type of micro throi that form in their smaller kind of vessels, usually in the small arterials, could be in some of the bigger ones as well. But they get all these micro throi, right? Tons and tons of micro throi. And there's multiple different reasons for this. The micro throi can be formed by consuming platelets. So what happens is often times we'll talk about this in DIC you activate the clotting proteins and those clotting proteins lead to clots and then in order for you to make a clot guess what you need platelets in TTP you activate an indirect mechanism that causes auto antibodies that eventually lead to vonwilderon factor multimears to form and again it causes platelets to start clumping. In H US you have you know a lot of toxins that cause endothelial dysfunction and that causes pllets to stick to the endothelium. But either way these micro throi what do you need to make more of them or to at least make them in general? You need platelets. So here's our platelets the platelets uh get consumed to make more micro throi. And so in order for me to continue to keep making these micro throi these platelets will go and get consumed to make these micro throi. All right. So that's really the big thing here to remember is that platelets will run through this area and depending upon the particular process DIC H US TTP these plates will get consumed to make more micro throi. What happens then if you consume these? What happens to your platelet count as a result? You end up with a decreased platelet count. So now you're going to end up with a decreased platelets because they got consumed to make the micro throi. So decreased platelets because they were consumed to make micro throi. One more other critical thing that's really crucial to know with non-immune immune mediated types of um thrombocytoenas is that when platelets get consumed to make micro throi and that leads to a decrease in their platelet count. The other thing is is that red cells when they kind of move through this area, as the red cells move through the vascular system, they come into contact with these micro throi and as they move across it, they get sheared up. They get ripped to shreds. So, it's going to kind of run through here and it's going to and it's going to get jacked up and it's going to run through here and it's and it's going to get jacked up. And what happens is they get hemolyed. So this is going to be a hemolyzed or this is going to be homoysis of red blood cells will occur here and this is due to shearing forces. What does that do to the number of red blood cells in your circulation? This leads to a decrease in the red blood cells. So the difference here is when you look at this immune mediated process, it's really just you're destroying platelets. But in non-immune mediated processes, you're actually using micro throi to consume platelets and then by shearing forces, you're hemolyizing red blood cells and causing anemia. There is a special name for these. Whenever you hemolyze these red blood cells, these are called shistocytes. If I have a patient who has shistocytes, I have thrombocytoenia and a hemolytic anemia. I'm really concerned about a non-immune mediated process like DIC, HUS, TTP. Whereas when I think about immune mediated, it's usually just isolated thrombocytoenia. You think about ITP hit and a antifphospholipid. If I see panytoenia, I think about bone marrow problems, alastic anemia, myoisplastic syndrome, leukemia are weird scenarios. drugs, infections, nutrient deficiencies, which are relatively rare, but those are things I'm thinking about. When I come to the last scenario here, it's splenic sequestration. This actually tends to be one of the easier ones to remember. But what happens is something's going on with the liver. Usually in patients, they have some type of hpatic process and what happens is they end up having back pressures. So here let's say that a patient has some type of usually the trigger is cerosis and so they have fibrosis that compresses the portal vascule and oh look at that you see that it causes a backup of pressure via the portal veins right so you'll have backup via the portal vein into the superior mezentic the inferior mesenteric but what's this one over here the splenic and so you end up with patients who have some type of portal hypertension again most common cause, we'll talk about it later, but most often more than not, it's usually due to cerosis. So, a patient will have these portal pressures that are very high that'll cause a backflow into the superior mesenteric vein, backflow into the inferior mesenteric vein, and a backflow via the splenic vein. When you cause that backflow via the splenic vein, guess what it's going to do? It's going to congest the spleen. And as a result, this will trigger the spleen to get bigger and bigger and bigger because it's getting congested with blood. Blood is not able to again leave the spleen and so it stays in the spleen. The spleen gets bigger and the vascular spaces get bigger. What's this called? When you cause let's say you stimulate congestion of the spleen. So you stimulate congestion of the spleen, it's going to get big. What's that called? This is called spenomegali. So this is called spenomegali. When a spleen is really big, it can go into a hypersplenism like state. What the heck does that mean? It means that the spleen normally removes defective old age red blood cells and platelets. But if it's big, it has enhanced vascular spaces where it can sequester more red blood cells and sequester more platelets. as blood kind of flows through the spleen and it contains red cells as platelets run through the spleen and it it kind of starts getting taken out of the circulation and so now from this massive sequestration here. So what is this again? we're causing a increased sequestration. Basically, we're just kind of pulling the red cells, pulling the platelets, right? And so, just so for consistency sake, let's say that we write it here, too. Sequestration. So, we're going to get an increase in the sequestration of red cells and an increase in the sequestration of platelets in the spleen. When blood leaves the spleen, now what's going to happen to my level of red cells? my level of platelets, it's going to drop. So, I'm going to have a decrease in my platelets and a decrease in my red cells. Here's the question because you might be like, okay, wouldn't this be kind of similar to this one? No. And the reason why is am I hemolyizing? It may be a little bit of extravascular homalysis here, but am I going to be using micro throi to shear up the red cells and consume the platelets? No. So would I have any shistytes that would be present in splenic sequestration? No. Would I have massive amounts of intravascular homolysis where LDH and heptoglobin would be affected? No. And so that's the big difference here. This is not a hemolytic anemia where you'd have that type of massive effect. You may get some spinomegaly. You may get a little bit of a a jaw disc type of effect. But again the primary difference here is a patient will have splenomegali due to portal hypertension in scenarios of cerosis where their spleen's enlarged and it's able to trap more red blood cells and more platelets. So their shistytes should not be present in this one. All right with this being said we've created a framework that I think will expedite our understanding of thrombocyopenia when we get into the causes and the diagnostics. But when patients have thrombocytoenia and we'll talk about this a little bit later they can present with classic findings especially as the thrombocyopenia gets worse. So for example, if a a patient comes in with a platelet count less than 50,000, oftent times they can come in, they'll present with like pikia, pipura, maybe some gingerville bleeding, some epistaxis, some menasia, things like that. But sometimes you don't have to have low platelets to cause that superficial bleeding. Sometimes your platelets can be completely normal. And so in this one, when you look at platelet dysfunction, this one is super important to remember. They have a normal platelet count. Sometimes it can be a little bit low and we'll talk about one exception that could be like Bernard Solier syndrome, but often times more than not it's a normal platelet count. And the reason why these patients bleed has nothing to do with the amount of platelets. It has to do with the way that the platelets qualitatively function. And so there's a couple different reasons this can happen. One is there could be the platelets aren't adhering to the actual uh vascular endothelium where their injury is occurring. So let's say that I have a patient here and there's a tear in the tunica interna. Right underneath the tunica interna is a subindothelium layer that's rich in collagen. When you injure these vessels, they're supposed to secrete a chemical. And that chemical that they're supposed to secrete which we're going to represent here in green is called von wilderbrron factor. So that green is going to indicate von wilderbron factor son of a gun. So this is our von wilderbron factor. The other one is that once this von wilderbron factor is produced platelets they love von wilbron factor. So here's my platelets here, right? And as platelets are kind of circulating through this area, they have a protein that's present on their surface. And this protein, which I'm going to represent in red, is called GP 1B. GP1B on the platelets are supposed to stick with the von wilder factor. And so what will happen is is you'll get these platelets and they'll come to this area here and they'll start sticking to the von wilder factor via their GP1B and that starts kind of your primary kind of hemostatic plug and then eventually this will cause a nice platelet plug to occur. What if a patient doesn't have the von wilderon factor or what if the patient doesn't have the GP1B? So if you have a scenario where you have decreased or absent vonwilderbrron factor or decreased GP1B activity this can cause bleeding. So again decrease in von wilderbron factor or absence in von willilibbrron factor or decrease in GP1B. Now GP1B is just a glyoprotein GP1B actually uh is very very critical to bind the bon von will factor. So now think about this. If I have some type of process here where I don't allow the von Willilibbron factor to be able to produced. So now here am I able to produce the von Willillebrun factor? Let's say here there's injury and this guy's supposed to secrete this. What's going to happen if I don't have this there or there's deficient amounts? Are you going to be able to allow for it to stick here? No. And this will cause the patient to start to experience bleeding. In the same way in patients who have thrombocytoenia, pllets are needed in order for us to form pllet plugs. If you don't have enough of them, will you be able to close up that hole? No. It's the same thing. Even if you have a normal amount of pllets, but the platelets won't actually do what they're supposed to do, which is stick to the von wild factor, can you form a plug? No. So that's one process and we'll talk about later. This is called von wild disease when you have a deficiency or absence of this. Another one is called GP-1B when there's a deficiency of this one. So in this scenario, can you secrete an adequate amount of von will factor? Yeah. So that's present and you're able to get enough of this to bind with the subindothelium. So this is being adequately produced. But the platelets when they come and they try to stick to the von will factor do they have the GP1B? No. And so that's the issue here is that we can't allow for this connection to occur. They're not going to have that protein. And if they don't have that protein present, we can't allow for them to cross-link. And will I be able to form the platelet plug? No. And so as a result, what will happen to this patient? They will start to bleed because they won't be able to form a platelet plug. We'll talk about later. This is called Bernard Solier syndrome. All right. For now, I just want you to trust me. This is called von Wildderbrron disease and this is called Bernard Solier syndrome. All right, that's one part. So if there's a breakdown where the platelets can't adhere with the area of where the injured vessel occurs, that will cause these types of diseases. What if there's a condition here where the platelets can adhere but they can't aggregate? In other words, they can't cluster and stick with one another. That would be a potential problem, right? So let's say in this scenario you have injury to the vessel it secretes von willon factor right so this is intact you have the platelets expressing the GP1B and so they are able to stick with the vonilibbron factor so they're expressing this red protein here but you know how else this uh platelets are supposed to form a plug they have to stick with one another and so on their surface if you look at platelet, it should have this protein. So let's say here is one end where there's the GP1B right on the other end which will represent here let's say in black. So here's the GP1B on this end and on this side is your GP2B3A. You're like oh my gosh that sounds terrible. Yes it does. But this is the way physiology works my friend sometimes. So this is GP 2B3A and this one here the red one is called GP 1B and GP 1B is intact but in these patients who have abnormal platelet aggregation they don't have the GP2B3A so can the platelets stick to one another no and that alters the ability to continue to form your hemostatic plug and so in these patients they have a deficiency C and what's called GP2 B3 A and so they can stick to the von willilibbron factor but the problem here is they can't stick to one another because there's supposed to be a protein so when you actually look at this platelets will be right here a platelet will be right here then you'll have your GP 2B 3A and then connecting between them. We'll represent this in like we'll use this blue color here. You're supposed to have a protein called fibbrronogen and fibbrronogen should cross-link them. If you don't have the GP2B3A, can you cross link the fibbrronogen between the platelets? No. And so this interaction doesn't occur. This condition we'll talk about later is called glandsman thrombastthenia. And again, we'll write these out a little bit later. I just want you to trust me that this is the condition we're talking about. The last reason that a patient can have a platelet dysfunction with a normal platelet count, but it's just a problem is that they're either not having von will factor GP1B or GP2B3A. The other scenario here is that let's say von willilibbron factor is produced. So that's intact. you're able to make that endothelium secretes that normally then pllets are able to stick to the von willilibbron factor via their GP 1B. So that's fine. And then platelets are able to stick with one another via the fibbrinogen and the GP 2B 3A. Problem is is that when these h when this happens, platelets are supposed to signal another platelet. They're supposed to tell other platelets nearby. So platelets will have like little receptors on them that can respond to chemicals that are being released like ADP, thromboxane A2, uh five hydroxyryptamine which is your serotonin. All of these are released by platelets and these are supposed to go and signal the platelet to come to the area and stick. But what if these granules aren't releasing these? And so the problem is is that there is a decrease in granular release. There's a decrease in five hydroxyryptamine, a decrease in ADP, a decrease in thromboxane A2. If that happens, then can I actually cause other platelets to come and stick to this area? No. Will I be able to form a true primary platelet plug then? No. And so the problem here that will exist is as other platelets are kind of roaming through here, it's supposed to be receiving signals to come here and go ahead and stick to us. But guess what? Those signals are lost. Funny enough, there's a lot of different things that can do this and we'll talk about a little bit later. Aspirin tends to be a really, really powerful one. But another thing that's really important is uremic platelet dysfunction which we can see in patients who have underlying severe renal failure. But out of all of these platelet dysfunctions, I really want you to focus on the inherited types which are due to this deficiency and these particular proteins or an absence of them. So platelet dysfunction is a qualitative platelet disorder. Has nothing to do with the number of pllets. It's all about the ability of the platelet to truly function. You can have a normal platelet count but still bleed because these hemostatic mechanisms are impaired. Whereas in thrombocytoenia the hemostatic mechanisms are there you just don't have enough of the platelets to stop the actual bleeding. Now that we've targeted this discussion, let's get in and talk about what are the causes of this, this, this, all of these and then figure out what are the biggest clinical features that suggest pllet disorders and the big complications that I need to be thinking about when I read these in the vignettes. All right, so now let's talk about what are the causes here. So we said that there's either decreased production, there's increased destruction or there's splenic sequestration for thrombocyopenia. when we talk about these conditions and I think this is the easy one to remember and decreased pllet production right it kind of goes in line with other cells being affected for the most part right and so again what do we define this as this is called pan cytoenia and we're kind of getting into that differences of hypocellular bone marrow versus a hyperscellular bone marrow but the common theme between the two is that they both have a component here of pansyenia it's just the mechanism by which they get to this is a little bit different, right? But in all of these scenarios, there'll be this presence of pansytoenia. And again, remind yourself that is when there is a decrease in your white cells, red cells, platelets, right? What's the reason this is happening? Again, one is because the bone marrow is failing to be able to produce, right? This could be because of some type of stem cell destruction. So my hematopoetic stem cells could be getting destroyed by auto antibodies. And there could be a lot of different reasons for this, right? To kind of go back a little bit, what could be some of the reasons why this stem cell could be getting suppressed? And if the stem cell is being suppressed, it's the one that converts into a white cell, into a red cell, into a platelet. This is your hematopleic stem cell, right? Could be a lot of different things, right? Could be due to chemo radiation. So chemo radiation could be a common trigger here. Could be due to drugs. So many different types of drugs. You guys remember the pneummonic we talked about in anemia though? It's can't make new blood cells properly. That's a good one to remember here. So that was your, if you kind of go back through it, your carbomazipene, right? So can't make meththemol, which is an antiyroid drug. Uh, new incaids, um, blood cells, benzene, which is kind of in your glue factories and things like that. Uh, uh, blood cells, that's chlorophenol, which is antibiotic and tickborne illnesses. Um, and then properly propuril, which is an antiyroid drug. So these are very common offenders. Um, another one is infections. Infections are really profound triggers here. Hepatitis um is a big one. HIV, these are all triggers here. Um, and so the big thing to remember is that a lot of these things have the capability to cause this destruction of the bone marrow. And then in this way, you don't allow for these cells to be present to make these particular components. Now again, big thing here is that if this stem cell is destroyed, it can't make all the other cells. So what's the bone marrow going to look like if it's a plastic anemia or significant bone marrow suppression? Again, big thing to remember here is you get a hypocellular bone marrow. I know this is kind of like repeated, but I think it's critical. So that the way that we determine this is by getting a bone marrow biopsy. When you compare this one, you're actually, you know, you can make red cells, you can make white cells to a degree. The problem here is is that the bone marrow is only a certain degree of space. You can't really expand that space too much. And so in scenarios where a patient has like acute myogynous leukemia or acute lymphocyic leukemia where they have tons and tons and tons of these displastic cells which we can see in what's called myoisplastic syndrome and these scenarios what happens is you get a lot of these abnormal cells lots of them and when you get a lot of these blasts which you can see in AML or alllastic cells which you can see in MDS what they do is they kind of like infiltrate the bone marrow. And by infiltrating the bone marrow, they kind of reduce a lot of space in the bone marrow for your normal stem cells to be able to use nutrients and hormones to differentiate, proliferate, and make white cells, red cells, and platelets. And so this crowding out effect is a real thing. And we kind of talked about that, right? crowded out effect where you kind of don't have a lot of space, my friends, to to allow for this proliferation replication. You don't have enough nutrients to make these. And so that leads to this impairment. The big difference here is that now I have all of these uh blasts. So I have all of these different blast cells, tons and tons of these myoid um myoblasts and then tons of lymphoblasts and all that are crowding out that space or tons of displastic cells at MDS. So in order for me to really really determine this, I would have to get a bone marrow and it would show me that I have a super hyper cellular bone marrow. And then when I look at the bone marrow, I'd be able to tell is this lots of blast and AML or ALL or is this plastic abnormally appearing cells such as in myoisplastic syndrome. So you see how that can be kind of straightforward, right? All right. The next thing is what if it's due to platelet destruction? So this kind of goes back to the immune mediated process. There's auto antibodies that are being incorporated to some degree. So in this scenario here, we have a couple different conditions. One is called ITP. So this is called immune thrombocytoenic papura. We used to call idiopathic because oftentimes more than not the cause of ITP is idiopathic. We don't really have a good reason. We usually say that it could be due to like a you know a recent viral infection of sorts, but that's usually just kind of a hypothesis. Other reasons that ITP can occur where you produce these auto antibodies against platelets can happen in infections. So having HIV, hepatitis C virus infections, having malignancies like CLL can also trigger this. And then lastly, uh lupus, so having a history of SLE can also be associated with ITP. But either way, these patients are generating these auto antibodies. All right. So, here's my auto antibodies. Now, I told you that these auto antibodies are being directed in some way to either activate platelets or tag the platelets to get kind of destroyed by the spleen. In ITP, these auto antibodies are actually going and binding to the this probably sounds familiar, the GP2B 3A proteins that are present on platelets. And so now all these auto antibodies are going to do is they're going to go and they're going to tag these platelets. And as they're tagged, guess where they're going to go? They're going to go on their way to the spleen. And as they go to the spleen, the spleen will destroy those platelets. So you have auto antibodies that bind to the GP2B3A. They tag you tag the platelets effectively for them to get chewed up. by the spleen by macrofasages. And so this leads to a decreased platelet count because they're going to get destroyed in the spleen. That is ITP. ITP is a tough one because you would think, oh, these are just I could just test for, you know, anti-GP2B3A antibodies. No. And so, funny enough, ITP is a diagnosis of exclusion. We'll talk about what that means a little bit later, but this is a diagnosis of exclusion. Meaning I have to rule out alastic anemia. I have to rule out MDS, leukemia. I have to rule out HIT, anti-phospholipid syndrome, DIC, HUS, uh, TTP, all of them. I got to rule all of these out. And I even got to make sure that the patient doesn't have HIV or malignancy or SLE before I can even go forth and diagnose true primary ITP. So again, it's important to remember that most of the time when you're being tested, when we talk about idiopathic causes, this is what we refer to as your primary ITP diagnosis. when we talk about it that the patient has ITP but it's secondary to these types of infectious or malignant or autoimmune conditions then it's a secondary ITP so in order for a true patient to have primary ITP you need to rule out everything that we're going to talk about in this board plus rule out these things to come up with primary ITP that's a tough thing to do and so often times in your vignettes you'll look for a patient to have isolated thrombocytoenia without any alternative cause. That's the big thing here. So what we'll see with causes of increased platelet destruction due to immune mediated process is pretty much all of these will only have a decreased platelet count isolated. So that's actually really really important to remember. It's an isolated thrombocytoenia. All right, we talk about hit or hepin induced thrombocytoenia. You can probably guess what the trigger is. It's some type of heperin exposure and the heperin exposure usually has to occur within a particular time frame. So we say somewhere around 5 to 15 days after they've been exposed to heperin. Now here's our heperin which will represent via these hes and then on the platelet there is a phospholipid and this is called platelet factor 4. Hepin has a strong affinity to bind with platelet factor 4. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to have the hepin bind to platelet factor 4. And you now get a complex per se of these two. So now I have a complex of plactor 4 and hepin. What's funny about this is that in some patients their immune system kind of goes haywire and they develop anti-PF4 and heperin antibodies. And so now what's going to happen is I have these anti- PF4 antibodies that are going to go over here. PF4 antibodies that are going to go over here and they are going to bind to this. When these auto antibodies go and they bind to this whole complex, they activate the platelets. All right? So now what I do is I get this activation effect. And whenever this kind of occurs, these platelets, now that they're activated, they kind of start doing something very interesting where what happens to them is that you end up having the heperin again, you have the platelet factor 4, and then now you have the auto antibbody. This activates the platelets. And these activated platelets, guess what they decide to do? They decide to start sticking to the endothelium. And so now here I have these. Let's actually kind of like give the alarm bell here. Look at this. They're super super activated. So now I got some super activated platelets. These are my activated platelets. These activated platelets are going to now go and stick to the endothelium. And whenever they go and stick to the endothelium, guess what's going to happen? I'm going to start forming platelet plugs. And as I form these platelet plugs, this is going to lead to the activation of the coagulation cascade. And as I activate the coagulation cascade, I'm eventually going to need lead to clots. And these clots are going to occur in the arteries and they're going to occur in the veins. But in this process, as I activate these pllets, I'm going to do what to the platelets? I'm going to consume them to make the thrombi. So I'm going to end up with Venus and arterial thrombosis as a result of this platelet activation. But again, it's the consumption process that's key here. So now I'm going to have consumption of the platelets. And that consumption of the platelets is what's going to drive the formation of these thrombi. And as a result, as I consume the platelets, what happens to my platelet count to make the thrombi? It starts to drop. So these patients will get venus and arterial thrombosis plus as a result of consumption what will they get? They'll get a low platelet count and oftent times it'll be isolated like ITP you won't be involving other cell lines and so if I have a patient who has isolated thrombocytoenia and evidence of thrombosis after heperin exposure highly suggest hit. We talk about this a little bit later in the diagnostic section, but we use something called the 4T score, which looks at the timing of when the thrombocytoenia occurred, which looks at the degree of thrombocytoenia, which looks at thrombosis and looks for any alternative explanations. So if a patient has again hepin exposure and then the thrombocytoenia occurs, that's key. If it occurs within 5 to 15 days, that's key. And then again on top of that if they have thrombosis you pretty much can have a strong degree of suspicion for hit. What would you do? Send off these antibodies. Whereas here you really don't have antibodies to send off. So that's why it kind of makes this more of a diagnosis of exclusion. The next one is a tricky one and this one's called anti-phospholipid syndrome. Again this one can be idiopathic meaning it's probably like we don't have an exact reason why. And so we can call that a primary um anti-phospholipid syndrome. Oftent times more than not though patients who have anti-phospholipid syndrome they have a very very very strong association with what's called SLE and SLE or systemic lupus arithmatitosis can cause secondary antihphospholippid syndrome and this is much much more common. So you know how in antifphospholipid syndrome we say secondary is more common in uh ITP primary is the more common cause but only way we can get to this is to exclude everything and the secondary causes that's why it makes it a tough situation here in antifphosphoipid syndrome it again is most commonly associated with SLE and there's auto antibodies that are produced so in this can situ situation there's a couple different that are produced I'd say out of all of these The most important that are regarding the platelets is called anti- beta 2 glyoprotein antibodies. That's one. Another one is called anti-cardio lipen antibodies. And the last one which is actually where this kind of gets its name from um from the lupus is this is called lupus. There's another one called lupus anti-coagulant antibodies. And this one we'll talk about more when we get into the coagulopathies or the coagulopathy lecture. But this one's very very heavily involved with coagulopathies. These two are very heavily associated with the activation of platelets. And so if a patient has these antibodies, these antibodies especially anti beta 2 will target glyoproteins that are present on platelets. So let's say here I draw a little blue dot. There's my glyoprotein, right? And then anti-cardipin attacks phospholipids. So anti beta 2 glycoprotein attacks glyoproteins on phospholipids. Anti-cardioapin attacks phospholipids. Let's represent this with a red color. So now I got antibodies that see the platelets and they're like, "Oh baby, I'm going to bind to this." And these auto antibodies start binding to these different sites on the platelets. And what do they do? They end up activating the platelets just like in this scenario. So now what I end up getting here is I end up getting these activated platelets if you will. So again we can represent that by having here maybe I'll have one platelet here. So we'll have one platelet, two platelets and again what's going to be on their surface again? We'll have maybe some glyoproteins where the beta 2 glycoprotein will bind and then we'll have the phospholipid one and again this is where the auto antibodies the anti-ba uh 2 and the anti-cardiolipin will bind. Now what happens to these platelets they become activated as these platelets become activated? So I get some activated platelets. What happens to them? They go and they start adhering to the endothelium and they start causing a platelet plug. And so what is this going to do? This is going to cause consumption. So this is going to consume the platelets. And as we start to consume the platelets, what am I going to do? I'm going to lead to these thrombi to start to form. And so now I'm going to get this thrombus that can occur in the arteries. and thrombi that gonna start to occur in the veins. But either way, I'm gonna get a venus and arterial thrombus. And that's really important. So you're like, dude, this kind of sounds like hit. It kind of does, right? When you kind of look at it, it's like it's just a difference in auto antibodies is really what it's coming down to. But they're both activating them, consuming the platelets. And as you consume the platelets, you make the thrombus from those. But as a response of consuming the plate, let's actually do this kind of similar the way we did this one because it kind of worked out really nicely here. So let's put here we're going to consume the platelets here. So we're going to have consumption of platelets. What's going to happen to my platelet count as a result? So I have consumption of platelets. I will get a low platelet count. And it should be now this is where it's like you know the caveat here. It should be isolated oftent times more than not in antifphospholipid syndrome you should get isolated thrombocyopenia it's very mild there is some cases there is some cases 10% maybe four to 10% where they can get hemolytic anemia now with antifphospholipid syndrome we know that it's not just the pllets that are getting activated that cause these clots this hypercoagulable state which consumes consumes plots and causes thrombocytoenia. We also know that these antibodies can also work against certain types of clotting proteins. And we'll talk about this more in the coagulopathy lecture, but we know that this may have an effect on our anti-coagulants. And so what it may do is is it actually may lead to a decrease in the activity of our anti-coagulant proteins. And so we have a decrease in protein C, a decrease in protein S, and a decrease in anti thrombin 3. And if I decrease anti-coagulant activity, I allow for proco- coagulants to start kind of like superseding that. And what do I increase the risk of thrombosis? So by doing this, what we know is that some of these auto antibodies may lead to the destruction of protein C, protein S and anti-throen 3, which can decrease anti-coagulant activity and that can precipitate thrombosis. And by precipitating thrombosis, what do you need in order for thrombus to form? Platelets. And so sometimes in patients who have antifhospholippid syndrome, they can have significant coagulopathies and they can have thrombocycopenia that's usually mild. But this right here is another additional factor that we didn't really talk about with some of these. So again it can decrease the anti-coagulant activity and this can precipitate thrombosis. We'll talk later in the complications. There is a rare disease. 1% of patients with antifhosphippid syndrome actually develop it. called catastrophic anti-phospholipid syndrome and it is in that term catastrophic that they actually end up so so much thrombosis via activating platelets or decreasing anticoagulants that these throi can occur in multiple organs at least three or more organs and they can end up with a stroke they can end up with an MI they can end up with a DVT so if they have multiple organ or tissue beds that are being eskeemic plus severe thrombocytoenia we get concerned about CAPS or catastrophic anti phosphospholipid syndrome now Differences here between a lot of these is that antifphospholipid syndrome heavily heavily heavily associated with females. So epidemiologically this is more common in young females. Very very common. We don't see this often in males. And there's a reason why I'm kind of like trying to focus on that is because when you look at the vignettes these patients and we'll talk about this in the complications they get thrombosis of different tissue beds but one of the big prominent ones for females is the placental vessels. The placental vessels actually get thrombosed and they block the blood flow to the placenta. The placenta and the placenta can undergo repeated infarctions. If the placenta infar you lose the ability to provide nutrients to the baby and unfortunately that can lead to spontaneous abortions. So one of the big features in antifphospholipid syndrome is a female who's young and has three or more recurrent miscarriages in the first 10 weeks of their their kind of gestational time frame in combination with thrombocytoenia and recurrent thrombosis. That's really really critical to remember. All right, that gives way to this component of platelet destruction. Not producing it, destroying it via auto antibodies directly or now destroying it via consumptive process via micro throi. Let's talk about that. All right, my friends. So now we're going to move on to the types of platelet destruction that's due to non-immune mediated. Right? So this is the micro throi that's causing this. So there's DIC, HUS, and TTP. We got to be able to differentiate these to a degree. So with DIC, the primary reasons why this happens is is usually you have some type of severe process that's occurring. So these patients are sick as crap, man. So sepsis is usually, I'd say, one of the biggest triggers for this. Um, severe trauma is another one, but one that they love to ask about on the exam is obstetrical hemorrhages. Um, usually like placental abruption is a pretty big one. So definitely look for like placental um abruption. The um concept with these is that in all of these scenarios, all right, sepsis is causing lots of inflammation, massive cytoine storm. Trauma, lots of inflammation, cytoine storm. Placental abruption a little bit different. It causes amniotic fluid emblei to get into the bloodstream. And amniotic fluid contains a um a lot of what's called tissue factor, which is factor 3. and that activates the coagulation cascade. So in all of these scenarios, these triggers cause inflammation, right? So that's one way is there's massive inflammation or there's lots of uh what's called tissue factor or what's called factor 3 and that's from placental abruption like an amniotic fluid kind of embolism. So in these scenarios, what happens is when you have these particular triggers, they kind of tend to activate your procoagulants, right? All your different types of pro-coagulating proteins become super activated. So I end up with an increase in my procoagulant activity. Now when my procoagulants become super active, they start inducing thrombi. So then what happens is you start causing micro throi to form and in order to kind of really make these micro throi form not only do you need activation of procoagulants you need the guy who's going to stick to the endothelium and then lead to the activation of these procoagulants. What are those platelets? And so platelets have to be utilized to help to make micro throi. And so the platelets get consumed to help us to make more micro throi. So we get all of these micro throi. So here's our micro throi. And so by doing this the platelets get consumed and as a result what do you end up with? Well you end up with let's say here we have all the platelets that are kind of being utilized here and that's activating the coagulation cascade. All my procoagulants are going buck wild in here and then I'm getting all these micro throi forming right as a result what happens to the platelet count I end up dropping my platelet count so that's going to lead to platelet consumption so platelet consumption will lead to a drop in the platelet count right so that's one thing that'll start to happen right so I'll stimulate platelet consumption and that'll cause a drop my platelet count cuz I'm making these micro throi. The next thing is again I'm going to have these micro throi here and guess who's going to start running through these micro thrombi? My red cells. And so here I'm going to have my red blood cells and they're going to start meandering through this micro throi and they're going to get sheared apart. And when they get sheared apart, you end up ripping apart these red blood cells. And what do you end up getting? Hmolysis, right? And so as a result, I'm going to get homalysis of red blood cells. And when I cause homoleysis of my RBC's, what's that going to do to my red blood cell count? It's going to drop my red blood cell count. And again, to remind yourself, when you drop your red blood cells by shearing them apart, what are these things here called? Please do not forget. I'm kind of trying to really repeat this a lot. These are called your shistoytes. So, in a patient who comes in who is really really sick, maybe sepsis, right? maybe a trauma, maybe an obstetrical kind of complication like placental abruption. They get micro throi all over and then on top of that they consume platelets to make those micro throi and then they chew up red blood cells from those micro throi. This is problematic. But you know what else is really really terrible with this? When you cause an increase in your pro-coagulant activity, these cause micro throi. And guess what these do to your coagulation proteins? It consumes the clotting proteins and then you end up with very very little clotting proteins because you consume them and guess what that does to the patient increases the risk of bleeding. So it can cause a coagulopathy. So patients with DIC weirdly enough end up with multiple microvascular thrombosis and paradoxical bleeding. So this causes bleeding dude. So now these patients will have bleeding and usually it's from like IV sites like they have oozing from their catheters or they have gingal bleeding etc and that bleeding is due to the clotting proteins that are deficient as well as the consumption of platelets causing thrombocytoenia and on top of that they have hemolytic anemia. So DIC has a very very classic picture. All right. Sick as crap patient coming in with thrombocyopenia, hemolytic anemia, shisticytes and on top of that not only do they have throi but they bleed a lot. With hemolytic uremic syndrome this is a patient a young child who has a diarrheal illness due to uh two different types of bacteria that can cause a shigtoxin. Um so this is usually secondary to what's called ehek which is intererohemorrhagic ecoli or another one called chageela. Now these are gram negative bacteria. These gram negative bacteria especially eh heck which is ecoli0157H7. These can release a sugartoxin. So first off they cause gastroenterteritis that causes inflammation of the git. When they cause inflammation of the git, they disrupt the mucosal barrier. And then guess who starts to get released from these bacteria into the circulation. I'll represent it via these black dots. This is my sugartoxin. So all of this sugartoxin can get released into the bloodstream. Problem with sugartoxin is that this can cause massive endothelial injury. So now I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to destroy my endothelium. And you're probably like, "Okay, cool. What's that got to do with anything? What does that have to do with the platelets?" Dude, come on. What does endothelium normally make? Come on, tell me. You know, it normally is supposed to make things like PGI2 and nitric oxide. And guess what that's supposed to do to the platelets? It's supposed to suppress the platelets. And you know that, right? But if you have destruction of the endothelium, can you release PGI2 and nitric oxide? No. Can you suppress the platelets anymore? No. And so now these platelets become super activated. And guess what they start to do? They start to stick to the endothelium. And then now these platelets are going to start sticking to the endothelium and forming thrombi to form. They're going to cause all of these different thrombi to form. So because of this you're going to get thrombus formation. Now what's weird is is this sugartoxin likes to target kind of like weird areas in the body. And the most common area where this thrombus formation occurs is actually in the glomemeular capillaries. And so you get all these micro throi that occur in the glomemeular capillaries. So here's all my micro throi. Microthi and again what happens in order for me to make this thrombus what do I have to use platelets. So platelets are consumed. What happens to my platelet count? It drops. So the pllets are consumed to make a thrombus that drops my platelet count. The platelets are used to make a thrombus in the glomemeular capillaries that causes all of these micro throi to form. Red cells move through the circulation here where the micro throi are and get sheared to crap. What happens to your red cells? You get these fragments of them and then chewed up red blood cells. This is called homolysis. It should be like like literally a no-brainer at this point now, right? So homoleysis. What does it do to the red blood cell count? It drops it. So these patients will have anemia due to homolysis. They'll have thrombocytoenia due to platelet consumption to make the micro throi. And then on top of that you're chewing up what are these? You're chewing up your red cells and you end up with these fragments which are called shistotes every time. I always almost spell it wrong. So shisto sites. Now with that being said, how does one really differentiate these two then? Well, in hemolytic eremic syndrome, it's a diarrheal illness. They have some type of gastroenterteritis that's probably occurring, bloody diarrhea. And it's usually due to, you know, undercooked poultry or hamburger meat. They get diarrhea. They get the shigtoxin. They get thrombocytoenia. They get anemia. They get shistytes. But again, this one tends to target what? The glomemeular capillaries. This one, any kind of capillary over your entire body plus bleeding. That's a real big difference. We come to the next one though, the last type of like thrombotic microangiopathy which is called thrombotic thrombocytoenic papura. This is called TTP. TTP is usually due to it's an acquired cause and there could be a lot of different reasons but usually a patient has some type of exposure to like a antiplatlet like ticopodine uh clipidil maybe they have an autoimmune process. There's a lot of different reasons why this happens, but it's an acquired auto antibbody anti-body mediated process. Okay, you're probably like, "Zack, wait a second. Wait a second, Zach. You're telling me that this is autoimmune or antibbody mediator, immune mediated? Wouldn't that belong with these?" You would think. Give me a second to explain. These patients, they generate some type of immune response. Maybe they were taking, maybe they were taking clipidiger, which are antiplatlet drugs, maybe they have SLE, maybe they have a malignancy, whatever it is, they generate auto antibodies. And these are called Adam TS13 antibodies. So there is a protein and we're going to represent it via this little black Pac-Man. This is my atom TS13 enzymes. All right, I'm going to make antibodies against these. Now, you're probably like, "Okay, what does this have to do with anything?" These will attack. All right, they're going to come over and they're going to attack the atom TS-13. What atom TS13 is supposed to do is it's supposed to take this von Wilderbrron multimer. So, this right here is von Wilderbrron factor and that's just a protein. Imagine a bunch of them all stringed up. In order for us to really use vonbron factor, we need them to be in monomers. We can't use moltimer. We really want them to be in the monomeic form. And the reason why is if you get multimer platelets will stick all over to that and we don't want that. So what happens is is you get these vonil LeBron factor multimer and Adam TS13 enzyme is supposed to chew up the von will factor multimer and convert it into these smaller monomers. All right, that's the process that we want to happen is this guy is supposed to stimulate this process and help us to make these. Right? That's the normal. So I say this is your normal pathway. But if I have these antibodies, they'll attack the atom TS-13. So now I'm going to have these antibodies that are directed against the atom TS-13. That's going to decrease the presence of this enzyme because now you're going to have destruction of this enzyme or decreased activity of this enzyme. If these enzymes aren't working, can the normal pathway occur? No. And so now this process is inhibited. I inhibit this process and instead these multimemers stay the way that they are. They don't get chewed up. And so now I end up with tons and I mean tons of these von willilibbron factor multimer. The problem with these are that platelets love these dang things because platelets all they need to do now is they just got that protein. You guys remember if I put them on here like little the little red protein that was the GP1B. If these see these vonil factor multimer circulating through the bloodstream what are they going to do? They're going to bind all over this. So now imagine here for a second I have this multimer here and it's just kind of moving and I got a couple of these all over the place like one right here and I got one over here. Can you imagine how ter disastrous this could be? Every single site on that multimer is a site of platelet binding. A playlist can bind here. Pllets can bind here. platelets can all bind here because all they need to do is to connect with the von Willilibbron factor via their GP1B. And now I'm going to end up with this clumping of platelets. This is terrifying. So now what do you end up getting? A big thrombosis. So as a result here the platelets will combine with the von Willilibbron factor multimer. They'll end up getting consumed. So you'll consume the platelets but in the process make a thrombus. So you'll trigger thrombosis to occur and that'll cause these micro throi to form. Right? So you'll end up getting all those micro throi that will form as a result. But what's the other thing that's going to happen? Because the pllets are getting consumed in this process. What happens to my platelet count? They drop. So I'm going to the platelets get consumed to make the throi and this causes a decrease in my platelet count that causes thrombocytoenia to make the clot. But on top of that red cells that are present here are going to you guys know this already run through where these micro throi are. When they run through this area what will they come out as? They'll come as sheared apart red blood cells. Oh man, you guys should know this by now, right? If I get homoysis, so I'm going to have my homalysis, that's going to do what to my red blood cell count? I'm going to drop my red blood cell count because I'm chewing them up. And then what are these called? The ripped up red blood cells. Shistytes. I think by now we should understand a common theme between all of these. They all have low platelet count. Low platelet count. Low platelet count. They all have hemolytic anemia. Hemolytic anemia. Hemolytic anemia. They all have shisticytes. Shistytes. Shistytes. They all have micro throi that form. The differences that we'll talk about in a little bit is the triggers as we will see here. And if you're like, well, how the heck do I determine this one? If you can't figure out based upon the trigger in the history, you can figure it out based upon the antibodies or the levels that we can detect. Or if that's not enough, you can figure out if the patient's bleeding. And then lastly, if that's not enough, we can figure out about do these thrombosis have a predominant like area that they like to occur in. Yes. So these micro thrombi like to occur in certain areas different from this one. And this is the only one that has a coagulopathy and these don't have coagulopathies. So you'll see how we'll be able to figure this out all together in the next step. Before we do that, one more potential cause for the splenic sequestration. This one should actually be super quick because we've already kind of like talked about it. I don't want to go super crazy because if you remember I told you spinomegaly what was the biggest reason? It was portal hypertension right? But what causes portal hypertension more often than not? It's cerosis right? So if a patient has cerosis, they often times have portal hypertension. And that portal hypertension that we talked about here was when there was fibrosis of the liver compressing that portal architecture and that portal hypertension caused a backflow via the portal vein into the superior mesenteric vein, inferior mesenteric vein and the splenic vein. And that backflow, if you will, to the splenic vein causes splenic congestion. And as the spleen gets congested, it gets bigger. And as the spleen gets bigger, what happens to it? It starts to have enhanced vascular spaces. And as it gets enhanced vascular spaces, what can it do more so now than it couldn't do before with red cells and platelets? It will sequester the red cells and platelets. And that will lead to a drop in my platelets and a drop in my red cells. And that's all via this sequestering. So sequestration by the spleen and that's the splenomegaly effect right. So this right here going from this spleen to this spleen is the spenomegali. Now cerosis is interesting because oftent times splenic sequestration via portal hypertension is not the only way that cerosis can cause thrombocytoenia. Funny enough, the liver actually makes a hormone called thrombopoetin or TPO. And TPO is a very potent um kind of like stimulator or cytoine that goes to the bone marrow and tells it to make platelets. But if a patient has cerosis, not only can they cause compression of the portal vascule, they also lose the hpatocytes ability to make TPO and so TPO production goes down. Can you tell the bone marrow to make platelets as a result? No. And so decreased platelet production can actually occur as a result of cerosis in combination with splenomegaly causing splenic sequestration. Big thing for this one is that you will have both red cells and white uh red cells and pllets drop but you'll have no shistytes. You will have splenomegaly that can exist here but you shouldn't have any true intravascular homalysis. And then the clinical context is more obvious in this than in the other ones that we talked about. All right, that covers thrombocytoenia. Now we talked again about platelet dysfunction when the normal platelet count is apparent but there's a problem qualit qualitatively with the platelet. If you guys remember if it was a decrease in platelet adhesion, the problem here was that the platelets couldn't stick right and if you guys remember correctly here, if it couldn't stick to this hole, that's what caused the bleeding, right? Do you guys remember what was the two big triggers here? One is it was because of a decrease in von Wilbrun factor, right? So, funny enough, there's what's called von Willibbrand disease. And von will disease is a often times more than not an inherited condition. So, in other words, when you think about this patient, look for a family history. Look for a family history of bleeding or look for a you know for the most part a history of them having frequent bleeding. There's three different types of on willon disease. All right. So there's three different types. Type one is probably going to be by far the most common 85% of cases and this is when there is a deficiency in von will factor and another one called factor 7 I'm sorry eight factor 8. So in type one there is a deficiency in these clotting factors right for type two which accounts for the second most common so 85% of the cases are deficiency in von willilibbron factor and factor uh 8 in type two which is about I'd say 15% of cases there's dysfunctional so there is a decrease function or a dysfunction let's say so a dfunctional von Willibbrron factor. So the amount of von will factor is normal but the activity or the true function of von will factor is diminished. And then lastly there is the most rare type. I'm not even going to mention it because it's extremely rare. Somewhere around like maybe 2 to 3% of cases is you make no vonilibbron factor or no uh factor eight and that can cause significant bleeding with vonilibbron disease. The problem with this one is the von will factor. So in other words, this little green dudes again, you're not making these to bind to the GP1B on the platelets, right? We remember that you don't have the vonbron factor to bind with the GP1B. The other one is if it's not this part here, right? If it's not the vinyl bron, what if it's that little protein that's present on the platelets that you're not expressing of? Right? What was that one called? That was the GP1B. This one is seen in what's called Bernard Solier syndrome. And this one is when you have a deficiency or decreased expression of the GP1B protein. All right. So there is a decreased GP 1B. So again it's going back either one of the scenarios for von will you don't express enough of the von willilibbrron factor and another protein that von willilibbron factor actually carries with it is factor 8 prevents it from getting degraded and then the other one is bernard solar you don't express the gp-1b in these scenarios you can't adhere the platelets to the injured endothelium for decreased platelet aggregation if you guys remember correctly bon will brown factor was fine you were making an adequate amount of that the platelets were sticking to the von will run factor via the GP1B, but the platelets being able to stick to one another. That was the abnormality. And that was the black protein, right? That was the GP2B3A. So, they're sticking here, but they're not sticking to one another. Do you guys remember if we don't stick the GP2B3A protein, what was the condition we said? I said it was kind of a tough one to remember, but we abbreviated GT. It was called glandsman thrombastthenia. You're probably like, dude, how am I supposed to remember all of these? Often times, the most common one that you get tested on is von will at least don't forget this one. It's the most common type of platelet dysfunction. Bernard Solier, all you really need to know is that there's a decrease in this GP1B. So, it doesn't adhere in pllet aggregation for glands thrombocenia. And this one you don't have the proteins to cross-link the platelets and that was due to a deficiency in which protein GP 2B 3A. So there was a deficiency in the activity of this protein where the platelets can't cross link with the fibr fibbrronogen proteins. Now there is another thing that you could do here. You know um we give them a lot. We like to give these a lot. They're the uh P2 Y12 receptor antagonist. We give these drugs called antiplatlet drugs. So you guys have probably heard of these anti-platlet drugs. One of them is aspirin. But I'd say the the most common that we use nowadays is going to be uh clipidigil. This is one of our P2 Y12 receptor antagonist to clitigil to kagalore to clipodine. Those are going to be some of the big P2 Y12 receptor blockers. What they do is they basically decrease the expression of G2 GP2B3A. So you don't have a deficiency, you just decrease the expression of it. So now the platelets can't stick to one another. So in these they kind of do the same thing. These essentially decrease the expression of that protein so platelets can't stick to one another. So that's another way that we can get PL dysfunction. So if a patient comes in, they have normal platelets but they're bleeding and you suspect a platelet dysfunction. What should you always look at in their medication list before even assuming a weird inherited disease? Are they taking any kind of anti-platelet drugs? Bro, that's a good thing to know. All right, the last thing is what if I'm not releasing granul? So in this scenario, what if von will factor is actually released in normal amounts? What if the platelets are sticking via GP1B? What if they're sticking with one another via GP2B3A? So, they're sticking with one another and they're sticking with the von Willilibbron factor. Problem is is that they're not releasing the serotonin, the ADP, and I think the big one is thromboxane A2. These are the aggregating chemicals. You know, there's a drug, we give it a lot, probably out of all the types of medications that most people take, this is going to be one of the big ones, and that is aspirin. Aspirin is a COX inhibitor. Keep your minds clear. It inhibits the cyclox who helps with the synthesis of thrombox A2. So, what's aspirin going to do? It's going to decrease thromoxane A2. If I decrease the concentration of thromboxane A2, what's going to happen to me telling other platelets to come to the area and start trying to stick to this guy? It's not going to happen. So, this is the problem here is that there's an impairment in this process. Aspirin is a really, really big one. So, if pl dysfunction exists, look for aspirin. Look for antipllet drugs, especially these P2 Y12 receptor blockers, and assess for that. All right? Then from there if your medication history doesn't suggest that then you can think about inherited disorders. So look for family history of bleeding. If you see that think von will think bernard solier think thro glancemanth thrombastthenia because these are usually some type of autotosomal recessive disorder. All right this one's usually an autotosomal dominant disorder. The last one I would consider is a patient who has some type of severe renal failure. Aki, CKD, something to that effect, right? And when you have severe AKI or endstage renal disease, if the creatinine is very bad and the GFR is very bad, what happens is you can develop what's called uremia. And so when you get lots of these like uremic toxins, uremic toxins are terrible, man, because they can do every single thing that we just talked to about to platelets. They can and here uh they can actually decrease the platelets from releasing von water bond factor decrease platelet adhesion. They can decrease the expression of GP2B3A proteins decrease platelet aggregation and they can decrease pllets from releasing ADP and all of these scenarios with these uremic toxins they will shut down the platelets and this will cause platelet dysfunction. So it's really really important to remember that in patients who have what's called uremic platelet dysfunction. This is going to be one of those weird ones where you'll have a different patient. They won't be on any medications. They won't have a family history of bleeding. They'll have severe renal failure with bleeding. That's often times more than not uremic platelet dysfunction. So don't forget about that one. All right, that's our causes of decreased platelet dysfunction or the causes of platelet dysfunction. My last thing that we need to talk about before we finish off and go into the diagnostic approach is what are some good key classic findings that are you know pretty consistent in patients who have platelet disorders and then to round it all out what are some specific complications that helps us to differentiate some of the types of platelet disorders. All right my friends so now we're going to talk about some of the classic findings that we can see in platelet disorders. So often times if patients have plle dysfunction this occurs just again depending upon the type of condition. So in patients who have von will factor Bernard solier syndrome uremic pllet dysfunction glandsman thrombastthenia oftent times they'll present with superficial bleeding and patients who have thrombocytoenia it actually can get to the point where the platelets have to often times be like less than 50,000 for you to get superficial bleeding. So again if a patient has for example let's say you know some type of platelet dysfunction they can get superficial bleeding in general but in order for thrombocytoenia to cause superficial bleeding you would actually have to have at least a platelet count less than 50,000 before you start to see some type of superficial bleeding. All right. Now, it is pretty much unlikely that patients with platelet dysfunction can have severe severe bleeding. Maybe in von will disease type three where they pretty much make no vonilibbron factor or make no factor 8. They can get some echimosis, some hemththerosis, some deeper types of bleeding, but it's not as common, especially with Bernard Solier, glands and thrombosthenia. Those are very minor superficial bleeding. When platelet counts get to the point where a patient has thrombocytoenia and that platelet count drops to less than 10,000, they run the risk of very severe spontaneous hemorrhage. So then my concern is severe bleeding. Severe uh bleeding and it's usually spontaneous. And I'd say out of all of these, the most concerning that we kind of think about here is usually GI bleeds um and intracranial hemorrhages. So if a patient has a platelet count greater than A-50,000 unlikely they're probably going to be asymptomatic. If they have less than 50,000 or if they have a platelet dysfunction disorder, they'll probably present with superficial bleeding. If the platelet counts drops to 10K or less, they can get some pretty severe deep bleeding. The most concerning is GI bleeds and intraanial hemorrhage. Platelet dysfunction doesn't usually cause severe bleeding unless maybe von will disease if you have that type three. Now, with that being said, superficial bleeding is the thing that we want to be able to recognize. We don't ever want to get to this point. So let's focus our energy on this. Most of the time if you have decreasing platelets or less functioning platelets, the platelets won't be able to form good clots. And so blood can start to extravate out of the blood vessel into the tissue spaces. And so what can happen is you can get these skin manifestations. One is called petiki and that's when you have these tiny little pinpoint hemorrhages that don't really blanch. So when you push down it doesn't turn a different color. They're usually very tiny, less than 3 millimeters. Properic lesions on the other hand are usually about greater than three. So three to 10 millimeters in size. And again they're just bigger than piki. They look like bruising. And sometimes actually most people actually confuse this with a rash. All right. A peticial rash. Again tiny little pinpoint bruises less than 3 millimeters in size. This one about 3 to 10 millimeters just a little bit bigger but it literally looks like bruising. Another way is they can get gingal bleeding or epistaxis. So watch out also for not just gingerville bleeding but watch out for any evidence of epistaxis as well. All right watch out definitely for any types of epistaxis. So epistaxis gingvil bleeding and the last one is heavy menstrual bleeding in the form of menorasia. If a patient has pitigi papura, gingerville bleeding, epistaxis, menorasia or prolong bleeding after a surgery, have a high degree of suspicion for platelet dysfunction or thrombocytoenia. Now with that being said, what are some big complications that are not necessarily regarding platelet dysfunction or thrombocytoenia but more particularly pertain to the specific causes of platelet disorders and this may just help us to understand some of the differences and nuances here for HIT and anti-phospholipid antibbody syndrome. These are both autoimmune mediated processes, right? So you have auto antibodies and what we know is is that these auto antibodies are activating platelets and inducing thrombosis. So I can get venus thrombi and I can get arterial thrombi. Now what's kind of important here is in patients who have hit this can occur literally anywhere. You can get all of these man it's crazy. You could end up getting DVTs. You could get pees for arterial. You can get stroke, you can get an MI, you can get limb eskeemia. And so this can cause DVTs, pees, this can cause a stroke, this can cause an MI. And this can even cause acute limb eskemia. And so it is a very significant importance here that there's a lot of different complications that can arise. One big thing to remember is that with the arterial throi and we kind of talked about this. If this affects the placenta, this can lead to placental infarction and this is really only seen in anti-phospholipid syndrome. So an antifphospholipid syndrome they can get placental infarction and the problem with placental infarction is that this can lead to recurrent miscarriages or spontaneous abortions at least three or more within the first 10 weeks of pregnancy and so this can lead to recurrent and we oftent times say greater than or equal to three spontaneous abortions. So if you have a patient who has three or more spontaneous abortions in the first 10 weeks of their gestational period, you should definitely be considering some type of anti-phospholipid syndrome. Right? So again, anti-phospholipid syndrome only applies to this one. With that being said, often times what also happens here is that when you cause thrombosis of small cutaneous vessels in patients who have what's called hit or hepin induced thrombocytoenia, they can get skin necrosis. Right? So if they get skin necrosis, you definitely want to have a degree of suspicion for hepin induced thrombocytoenia. So again in both HIT and antifphospholipid syndrome they both have auto antibodies that are activating platelets and inducing thrombus which is causing platelet consumption which leads to low platelets in both of them. They both have venus and arterial throi. Venus throi can cause DVTs and pees. Arterial thrombi can cause strokes, MIS and limb eskemia. The differences between HIT and antifphospholipid is HIT likes to cause thrombosis of small cutaneous vessels causing skin necrosis whereas in antifphospholipid syndrome it likes to cause placental thrombosis the small placental vessels they infarct the placenta and that can lead to recurrent spontaneous abortions. One more thing that's important to remember an anti-phospholipid syndrome it can occur in males but it's definitely going to be more common in females. In females, in the female disposition, they have more venus thrombi than arterial thrombi. And then for males, they have more arterial thrombi over venus thrombi. So again, that's really important to remember that they get more venus over the arterial thrombus. And then for the male they get more arterial thrombosis than they do venus thrombosis. So again take away from this that in hit they will have either venus or arterial throi. They can also have skin necrosis and they can also have thrombocytoenia but they have to have hepin exposure within 5 to 15 days. Right. For antifphospholipid syndrome they can have venus thrombosis, arterial thrombosis, thrombocytoenia but with an addition they can have recurrent spontaneous abortions. The other thing is that when it comes to the venus and arterial thrombosis for females they have more predominant venus thrombosis. For males they have more predominant arterial thrombosis. That's the big difference for these. All right. When you look at DIC, HUS and TTP, you notice a common theme with all of these. They all cause micro throi. They all cause platelet consumption. They all cause shistytes. They all cause hemolytic anemia and all of these. That's the common theme with all of these. In this there was the procoagulants, the platelets. And so they end up with a low platelet count. they end up causing shistoytes and they end up dropping their red blood cell count. So all of this is pretty common and we've been able to pretty much assume this with all of this process here that platelets are being consumed that's causing a drop in the plateslets that red cells are getting ripped apart and that's causing shistytes which are dropping the red blood cells. The big difference here that's really really important with DIC is because you consume the clotting proteins and this is what's key here. You have all of these clotting factors. They're going to get consumed just like the platelets does to make the micro throi. What happens then is you end up decreasing your clotting factors. We talked about this a little bit ago. When you decrease your clotting factors, are you able to clot now? No. And then the unfortunate complication here is that these patients can experience bleeding. All right? And so they can experience bleeding and this is their coagulopathy. All right? Now, this bleeding can be very interesting, right? They could have bleeding that occurs all over the place, right? But the big one that we like to think about here is oozing from IV sites. That's often times the big one that most of the times we like to think about in the clinical vignettes. If you see a patient who has oozing from the IV sites, uh you should definitely have a degree of suspicion for DIC, right? especially if they have thrombocytoenia, hemolytic anemia. Now the other thing here is that when you get all these microvascular thrombosis, right? So you consume their clotting proteins. Let's actually bring this one down here. So you consume their clotting proteins. All right? But the other thing is that when you get all these thrombi, when you get all these like these micro throi, this can cause organia. And so just imagine for a second if I had all these thrombi all over the dang place. I could end up with acute kidney injury. I could end up with a stroke. I could end up with liver failure. Right? So you could end up with an acute kidney injury. You could end up with a stroke. You could end up with some type of acute messentic eskeeia. The list goes on, man. So it's really really of high importance to know that these micro throi can cause multi-systemm organ failure. On top of that when you get these thrombi as we said we consume clotting proteins and you consume platelets. Without having these clotting factors dude you can bleed man and in combination with that if you don't have the platelets you can bleed as well. But here's the big thing to remember. This coagulopathy is of significant importance to remember that as you consume clotting proteins, you decrease the activity of all of your coagulation studies. Um, in other words, you you actually affect the time that it takes to be able to clot. And the way that we determine the time it takes to clot is based upon PTT, which looks at your intrinsic pathway. And so, if I decrease my clotting proteins, I decrease almost all of them. And so, my PTT would take would be what? It would be altered. Will it take me a short time or long time to bleed? I mean to clot. It'll take me a long time to clot, right? Because I don't have as many of these clotting proteins. So my PTT, which is a measure of my intrinsic pathway, will be very, very long. It'll take me a long time to clot via that pathway. My PTINR, which is a measure of my extrinsic pathway, factors 2, 7, 9, 10, all of those guys, they're going to be depleted. Again, I'm not having the clotting proteins in that pathway. So will it take me a long time to clot via my extrinsic pathway? Yes. The other thing is that we look at the ability um to make clots and then what happens is when you make clots you actually get a lot of this product called the D-dimer. D-dimer is basically a breakdown of fibbrronogen. And so d- dimer are always pretty elevated when a patient is having a lot of thrombosis. So D- dimer is going to be high when there's lots of thrombosis kind of going on. The other thing is that we're using a lot of fibbrinogen to make these clots. So what happens to the fibbrinogen if I'm consuming the fibbrronogen? It will decrease. All right? And so these patients will have a decreased fibbrinogen. Now this isn't always the case. like there is certain types of subtypes of DIC where you don't always have low fibbrinogen but for the clinical vignettes this is the perfect case of where they have abnormal coagulation studies bleeding classic example is oozing from the IV sites and this bleeding is usually due to consumption of clotting proteins they have thrombocytoenia hemolytic anemia and multi-system organ failure due to micro throi all over the dang place When you compare that with HUS, they have a diarrheal illness. Again, they consume platelets to make these micro throi. So they get micro throi here. But these micro thrombi is in the glomemeilus. So this affects the glomemeilus. Now if I get these micro throi in the glomemeulus, not only do I impede the filtration, but I impede the blood flow. So I impede the oxygen supply to the actual tubular cells. And so what will happen is this patient will experience some type of destruction or deterioration in their renal function per se. And so what can happen is this can lead to a acute kidney injury. Okay? Because again with thrombotic microangopathies you're kind of blocking off the glomemeilus. blood flow is supposed to come through here and filter across the glomemeilus. And so you'll get a reduction in GFR, but on top of that, you'll also kind of block off the blood flow to leave the eerin arterial and supply oxygen to the kidneys. And so this is usually going to cause a little bit of a reduction in the GFR via filtration, right? And it's also going to cause a reduction in GFR because you may get some of these cells that die and block up the tubule. But either way, these patients will have a increase in the creatinine and a drop off and their urine output and that will suggest an acute kidney injury. So in patients who have hemolytic remake syndrome they'll have platelet consumption to make the micro throi and then on top of that they'll also consume their platelets and so their platelets will be down and on top of that the red cells are going to be moving through here and so the red cells will get chewed up and so you'll end up with these shistytes and that will end up causing a drop in the red blood cell count. So you'll get the presence of shisticytes and you'll get a drop in the patient's red cells. So if a patient has a diarrheal illness and they end up with primarily a predominant acute kidney injury, you definitely want to think about hus. When you compare that to TTP, it's the same exact thing, right? You get the platelets that are being consumed to make the micro throi, right? So you're going to get these micro throi in the glulus. micro throi in the glomemeilus. You're going to block up the glomemeilus and reduce the GFR and you're going to reduce the oxygen supply to the tubular capillaries and cause necrosis here. But what's going to happen here is if you impair the GFR, you're going to end up with a increase in creatinine and decrease in the urine output. Right? So your ability to make good urine and to clear waste products is going to be impeded and the patient will get an AKI. All right? And this is because of all those clots that they're forming there. All right? But this was due to the atom TS-13 auto antibodies. The other thing here is that you're going to be from these micro throi. You're going to chew up your red cells. When you chew up the red cells and you consume your platelets, you get a drop in the platelet count and you also cause the formation of shistoytes which leads to a decrease in the red cell count. So I consume the platelets to make the micro throi. I rip up my red cells making shistocytes and I drop the number of red blood cells when I make the shistocytes. So I end up with anemia, thrombocyopenia and acute kidney injury. Now what's the difference between that and HUS neurological symptoms? So often times they can get these micro throi in the cerebral vasculature. So you can get micro throi in the CNS vascule. And if this cuts off blood supply to different areas of the brain, what could this do? This could cause a lot of neurological symptoms, my friend. You could end up with a stroke. You could end up with a seizure. You could end up with encphylopathy or just confusion and altered mental status if you will. And so this can cause a lot of different types of neurological symptoms. And so what we often times will use as a way of being able to differentiate between HUS and TTP is clinical history, but also we use pneumonics. for HUS it's a triad of anemia thrombocytoenia and renal failure whereas with TTP you remember the pneummonic fat RN fever thrombocytoenia renal failure and neurological symptoms so that is a big way to take off some of the actual stress when trying to differentiate some of these types of thro Lambotic microangiopathies and causes of low platelets. All right, we've really dug into the platelet disorders. Let's put all of this to practice, which I think should be pretty good by now, and go through a diagnostic approach. Now, this is a lot of stuff to put together, right? Again, platelet disorders, you're going to have a patient come in in some way, shape, or form with bleeding. Usually, it's superficial bleeding, but that's going to be the key thing. You're going to look for pitikia. You're going to look for papria. You're going to look for gingal bleeding. Ask them to see if they have any heavy periods or do they bleed long after having a cut on their skin. That's a potential concerning feature. Then what you want to do is you actually want to see does the CBC suggest the platelet count is low suggesting a thrombocytoenia or is it normal and other bleeding factors are coming into play? You have platelet dysfunction that is occurring. So that's what I'm going to do. If the platelets come back, they're less than 150k. Oh, is this thrombocyopenia? But if the pllets come back and they're greater than 150k, so it's normal. Then I need to take into consideration, could this be a platelet dysfunction? How do I do that? Well, I get a bleeding time. We don't do this as much anymore, but you I'm not even kidding. You just make a little cut and you see how long it takes for them to bleed. If it takes a long time for them to bleed, it suggests that this could be due to a platelet dysfunction, right? And then we have to start going down the road of figuring out what's the cause of that. Let's take our time then and talk about thrombocytoenia. So thrombocyopenia I want to take and I want to look at that that CBC and I want to look to see are any other cell lines affected and then I want to look at the blood smear and I want to see do I see any shistytes or not those are the big things we we really built up a foundation to understand this now if I look at the CBC and I show you this I say I got clumping of playlist probably like oh dude we didn't even talk about this where the heck does this come from we always should check when you get a patient who um they have a lot of different potential causes maybe they had a a tourniquet that was like really really tight um that a hemalyze sample whatever it may be sometimes you can get clumping of platelets. So imagine here I take um a platelet uh I take a CBC I take and I look at the actual CBC and I look under the peripheral blood smear and I see a bunch of platelets just clumped together. If those are all clumped together this the machine reads it as though the amount of platelets that are freely available are really really low right so it doesn't actually give you a true calculation. So it's kind of like a pseudo thrombocyopenia if you will. So what we actually do is we get a platelet count and we do it with these citrate tubes which prevents the clumping of the platelets. All right. And if that comes back normal, okay, cool. Then it was a pseudo thromocytoenia. It wasn't real. All right. Usually what happens is when you look at this under the microscope, you'll see look at all these plates that are just clumped together. And so what happens is you end up with less free platelets and so it measures it as though it's actually low, but it's not. And so if you take another tube and you do it with these citrate tubes, it basically prevents the clumping. If the platelets come back normal, oh, this wasn't really suit. this really wasn't thrombocycopenia. It was a pseudo and they just stuck together. That's one thing you have to rule out all the time. So if you end up getting it back, sometimes what will happen is they'll put in the little note in the CBC, hey send off a citrate um tubes for the platelet count with EDTA to really determine if they have thrombocyopenia or not. And you send it back with usually with these citrate blue uh top tuto right away if it was truly um a thrombocytoenia or not. All right. Now, if you look at the CBC and you say, "Oh my gosh, the white cell lines down, the red cell lines down, and the plate are down. Oh, that's pansyenia. That's a bone marrow problem." Right? Then I got to get the bone marrow biopsy. If it comes back and it says hypoellular, what are you thinking? Oh, that's alastic anemia, bro. And you'll actually see this kind of like fatladen kind of like um lots of atapost tissue inside of the bone marrow. Not a lot of cells. If I see hyperscellular, oh, that was the MDS and leukemia. Lots of myoblast potentially or MDS. You'd have to determine that, right? So if you see a lot of these displastic appearing cells, you can say MDS. If you see lots of greater than or equal to 20% myoblast, it's AML, greater than equal to 20% lymphoblast, it's alll. And we can make that diagnosis. Now if I said anemia and thrombocytoenia, that was platelet destruction nonimmune mediated. All right, this is the hemolysis problems, right? This was the TTP, the DIC, the Hus. So I need to prove that there's homalysis. So one of the big ways to do this is to check LDH. Remember whenever a red cells popped open LDH leaks out. Another one that leaks out is hemoglobin. Who binds to hemoglobin? Heptolobin. So LDH should be elevated in hemolysis. Heptoglobin should be low in homalysis. And also Billy Rubin is a breakdown product of the actual um heem in the hemoglobin and so that should be elevated and on top of that shistytes which are the ripped up portions of the red cell should be seen. If I check this and I see this is high, this is low, this is high. Oh, this is hemolytic anemia. And here, look, here's our shistices. You see how this thing is torn to pieces? This is shisticytes. This suggests in a non-immune mediated destruction. There's three differentials. DIC, HUS, TTP. Now, the coagulation studies is the key thing along with a good history. Remember I told you the DIC panel was the key thing to remember. If I tell you that I have a high PTINR, a high PTT, a low fibbrronogen, a high D-dimer, what does that sound like? And they have sepsis, trauma, placental abruption, they have clots all over, they're bleeding and oozing from IV sites, they have low platelets, they have anemia, what would this sound like? DIC. But if I do the coagulation studies and the PTINR comes back normal, PTT normal, fibbrronogen normal, dimer normal, what would this thing H us or TTP? How do we really differentiate these? Remember fat RN for TTP, fever, anemia, thrombocytoenia, renal failure, and neurological symptoms. This one is usually renal failure and it's also associated with a diarrheal illness. So get that HMP. If you see renal failure, H us again, especially with the diarrheal illness. If I have renal failure, neurological symptoms, fever, anemia, thrombocyopenia, I'm thinking TTP. But how do I confirm TTP? What was the issue? Adam TS13. Check that assay. See if it's actually low. And if it is, you've confirmed the diagnosis of TTP. All right. At this point now, we say, okay, it's not a immune mediated a non-immune mediated destruction. Let's go over here. What if I say LDH is normal, hypoglobin is normal? There's no shistytes, but there is anemia and thrombocyopenia. Oh, wait. What if the spleen's really big? If the spleen's really big, it can actually sequester red cells and it can sequester platelets, but it's not a hemolytic process. Oh, this would suggest splenic sequestration my friends and that's the best thing to think about here. But often times we can just do uh a good exam or do an ultrasound or a CT just look for any evidence of splomegaly and underlying history of cerosis or portal hypertension. You'll probably get that splenic sequestration diagnosis. From here the next component is what if it's just isolated thrombocytoenia that's the that's the immune mediated that's ITP that's hit that's antifhospholippid syndrome. really look at their history and physical. If you hear heperin exposure, that's a really really big one. And what we want to do is we want to calculate their risk, their pre-est probability of having hit by ch calculating what's called a 4T score. And we want it to be pretty high to actually consider testing these patients because if you have to go through a lot of testing, that's really important because it takes time, but also you have to completely change their management. So it's really important to determine their risk of this. So if they have a high score, it could be hit. How do we determine this? Well, we actually take a look at a lot of these and I don't want you to memorize this. I want you to just really think about it. If they have a really significant platelet drop, greater than 50% from whatever their baseline was, that's really, really concerning. If it happens again within 5 to 10 days, sometimes even 15, so 5 to 15 days. If there's thrombosis, skin necrosis, they have a new DVT, a new PE, some kind of paradoxical presentation that makes you think about hit. And then if there's no other explainable cause, it's very very likely it's hit. Anything where it's greater than four, so you see six to eight, high probability. Anything greater than or equal to four, it's again intermediate probability. You need to do further testing. If it's less than four, then you should then say it's unlikely it's hit and move on and suspect something else. All right? So if we get that thing greater than or equal to four, we should do what's called a PF4 antibbody test. Now, this will tell me if I have hepin and PF4 antibodies that are actually present and in high amounts, and that would potentially suggest the likelihood um of hit. But there's often times it needs to be followed up with the gold standard test. And sometimes we'll actually just forgo this test and go right to this one. It just takes a long time. It's called the serotonin release assay. And what we'll do is we'll actually test these patients. And what we'll see is if we take these um platelets and we put them into a potential solution, will they actually end up causing activation? And so if we basically do this and we find that whenever heperin is present and it binds with the PF4 antibodies, it activates the platelets. What do platelets release when they're activated? Serotonin, ADP, thromboxin E2. Which one again? Serotonin. So if you expose this patient to hepin and they have the PF4 present and the antibbody binds with it, what will happen? Serotonin will be super high. So if they have an elevated serotonin, that could suggest a positive test and that's diagnosed to diagnostic of hit. Now if they have a history of SLE, this is a really really important one. recurrent miscarriages greater than equal to three spontaneous abortions and they have recurrent DVTP you really got to be thinking about antifphospholipid syndrome you got to check those antibodies so check the anti beta 2 glyoprotein one check the anti-cardiipen and check the lupus anti-coagulant but you need to have one at least one of these to be positive twice at least six weeks apart so you got to test all of these if you at least get one of these one of these positive two times 6 weeks apart, you can likely make that diagnosis and say it's APLS. All right. Now, if the workup is completely normal, I've ruled out all the other causes and I've also gone over here and it's isolated. I've ruled out HIT and I've ruled out um antifphospholippid, then you can possibly say this could be ITP. But then what you have to do is you have to rule out all the other secondary causes of ITP. Do they have an infection? Do they have malignancy? Do they have uh lupus? Do they have drug exposure? And if you can potentially rule every single one of those out, then it can be primary ITP. If you can't, then it's secondary ITP. Right? Now, that's covering the thrombocytoenia arm. What if the platelets are completely stone cold normal, but they're still bleeding? That could suggest platelet dysfunction. Is it von willon? Is it GP1B with the Bernard Solar glands thrombosthenia? Is it uremic plate dysfunction? Is it drugs? How do I know? Well, oftentimes with these patients, a good thorough HMP will go a long way. Are they taking aspirin? H okay that could be the reason why are they taking clipril oh that's probably why are they taking uh some type of GP2B3A inhibitor like abix okay that's probably why and if you can think about that that's probably the reason but then if you start digging a little bit deeper and you start hearing that they have a family history of bleeding or they have an underlying kidney disease then you're digging a little bit deeper and thinking about genetic disorders or uremic pl dysfunction. So again, antiplatlet use is the big one. If it's present, it's probably antiplately mediated and you don't need to go further down the rabbit hole. If they have a family history, you definitely should start thinking about doing what's called Arista and co-actor assay. So what this is is it's really interesting. You actually want to test platelet aggregation and if it's present, if the platelets don't aggregate, it could be von will disease or Bernard Solier syndrome. If they do aggregate, it could be glandsman's thrombastthenia that's present. Now let's explain this. What we do is we use rristaetin. Ristinet is basically kind of like this molecule that can help bind von willilibbron factor in GP1B. So if I give a patient who has vonwillibbrron disease, I give them rristtoin. Well, rristicetin is supposed to bind to what von willilibbron factor and glyoprotein 1b and facilitate that connection. But look, I have gp1b. I have gp2b3a, but I don't have my vonilibbrron factor which these kinds of ones that are missing. So what happens is risetin is supposed to bind but it has nothing to bind to. So it can't click the GP1B and the von will factor together because there's no von will so they don't aggregate. But what if I add a plasma I mix it with a plasma that's rich in bonibbrron factor. Will they then aggregate? Absolutely. Because then you have something for it to stick to and act as the glue between GP1B and von Willilibbron factor. Isn't that cool? Now, Bernard Solier syndrome is an absence or deficiency in GP1B. So, they have vonilibbron. They have GP2B3A, but they don't have this little blue protein as you can see that's absent GP1B. So, if I give them wristetin, it'll bind with the von willilibbron factor, but it won't be able to bind with the GP1B. So, they won't get good aggregation. If I add plasmarrich bonibbrron factor, will it make a difference? No. Because von will factor present. It's not going to do anything. I don't have the GP1B. So there'll still be no aggregation. This is a way that we actually like to utilize this test. Now this test isn't great but in glandsman thrombastthenia again the problem is the risotoin really only likes to bind GP1B and von willilibbron. So it doesn't really help us in glandsman's. So if you did this it wouldn't really make a difference because they have normal GP1B. They have normal von willilibbron factor right? They just don't have the GP2B3A. But the plates will still be able to stick to one another via the vonullibbrron and the GP1B and the wristetinant will help to stick to these guys. It'll really help to facilitate this process, right? But it's not a problem with this one. So it's not a great test. So actually what we like to do with glandsman thrombastthenia is we actually like to expose them to specific agents. So we'll give them ADP um adenosine dphosphate and that should help to express GP2B3A, right? and you look for normal platelet aggregation and that could potentially suggest oh von willeron disease or bernard sawier syndrome right but if you give them the ADP and they don't have any platelet aggregation that tells me that I just don't have the GP2B3A because what ADP is supposed to do is is increase the expression of GP2B3A so if I gave this person ADP guess what their pllets actually won't be able to express the GP2B3A and they won't start clicking with one another and so that's often times what we'll do is we'll do an ADP testing where we'll give a patient with glaminthine ADP and see if it helps them to stick their plates together. But guess what? ADP is supposed to do increase this. If you don't have enough of this or you don't have it at all, you increase in dookie. So, it's not going to work and they won't be able to aggregate. All right. Now, from here, once you've done this, you get a pretty good idea if they don't aggregate and how they respond to von Willilibbron factor or if they do aggregate and how they respond to ADP. But what we want to do is confirm. And so we're going to check the von willilibbron factor antigen the factor 8 levels because von willilibbron factor if it's deficient factor 8 levels also decrease and we're going to do flowcytometry to look for specific proteins and see if they're decreased gp1b and gp2b3a. So if I see this one's low and this one's low what do I have? Von will disease right? If I see that gp1b is low what do I have? Bernard solier syndrome. And if I have gb2b3a that's low I have plans thrombastthenmia. All right. Now, what if I have a patient who has just absolutely terrible kidneys, severe CKD, AKI, they have a lot of ura that's building up in the bloodstream. It's probably uremic plate dysfunction. What we actually can do is we can give the patient DD-AVP. And if you give them DDAVP, DD-AVP is actually supposed to help increase the production of ADP and von Willilibbron factor and help basically it's supposed to help uh pro promote platelet aggregation. All right? And so if I do this, I give them DD-AVP and I see an improvement in their bleeding, I may have improved their platelet dysfunction that could be potentially diagnostic of uremic platelet dysfunction. All right. So from here we see the problems with platelet dysfunction and we see the problems with thrombocytoenia and the overall concept of platelet disorders. How do we treat these things? So if a patient has a platelet disorder, what do I do? Well, the big thing is to know the problem if they if it's acute, are they bleeding? Because platelet disorders can cause bleeding. So, if a patient has platelets that are really, really low, less than 100,000, and they're getting ready to get a surgery on their brain or they're bleeding in their brain, you need to stop that bleeding. You need to have enough platelets to clot that area off. So, less than 100,000, you should give them platelet transfusion. Now, if they don't have a bleed in their brain or they're not getting a surgical procedure on their brain or spinal cord, then you can aim for less than 50. If they're bleeding like from like skin or from the gingivar or from the nose or from the from the actual um vaginal bleeding if it's less than 10,000 they're not bleeding at all you should still give them a transfusion because they're at high risk of those severe bleeds the GI bleed and the intraanial hemorrhage. All right. Now ITP is a really really important one that you will get tested on the exam. So with this you have to remember the body is producing antibodies right they're binding to the GP2B3A. They're activating the platelets. They're causing the spleen to then do what? sequester them and then to tear them apart and destroy them, right? And that's via the splenic macrofasages which help this process. In patients who have a platelet count less than 30,000 or they are bleeding with ITP, you give them corticosteroids first, but you can consider IVIG, but corticosteroids is often times going to be the first line. The concept here is anytime you give steroids or rettoximab, they actually inhibit the auto antibbody production and so therefore these platelets won't be sticky. they won't get destroyed by the spleen. All right? IVIG tends to basically block the auto antibodies from even binding to the platelets and so they can't even stick to the plateslets and therefore they can't get tagged and destroyed by the spleen. Right? Another one is IVIG also can bind onto the FCPs receptors that are present on the macroofage and inhibit them from destroying these platelets. Now another thing is retoximab or TPO receptor agonist. This is called ramen. Now these are utilized in refractory thrombocytoenia things that didn't respond to steroids or IVIG. So if the patient was you know less than 30,000 or they were bleeding they have ITP start off with steroids or IVIG see which one works. If it doesn't stop bleeding or if their platelet count continues to drop then you'll go to the next thing which is rettoximab or a TPO receptor agonist. All right now TPO receptor agonists are pretty cool. We already can see that the retoxinab shuts down the antibbody production. But for this one, TPO receptor agonist they basically have receptors that are present on the stem cell. Remember the stem cell wants to differentiate and make platelets and make other cells. If I give a drug like Ramlaste, it basically binds onto the TPO receptors and basically tells the TPO receptors, hey, I'm going to activate you. Start making more platelets. And so it tries to increase platelet production. And that's one way that we can do this because our goal is to try to keep the platelets big enough or high enough that they don't bleed. So again, less than 30,000 bleeding, steroids or IVIG. If they don't respond, their pllets are still low, they're still bleeding, then you can give them rammy plast. What if they don't respond and they continue to have resistance to treatment for at least greater than 12 months. In that scenario, we just cut the spleen out because the spleen is the bane of this problem here. If I get rid of the spleen, I won't destroy all of these pllets consistently. And so that's something that we could consider. All right. So first thing place less than 30 you give them corticosteroids or IVIG they don't respond they continue to remain low or they bleed. You do retoximab or ramlast. This one inhibits the antibodies. This one tells the actual bone marrow make more platelets. They continue to have treatment resistant ITP for greater than 12 months. You take that spleen out. All right. The next stuff is actually very easy. Thankfully, if you have a patient who's diagnosed with HIT, stop the Hepin. It is the first thing. So, if they ask you on the treatment um on the the exam, you have a patient with HIT, what is their first line treatment? Discontinue Hepin. That is the most important thing. Then you switch to a non-hepin anti-coagulant. Usually, our gatraan or fondarox or balerudin would be the first ones that I would go to as the first acute line. And then eventually, I would switch them over to Warframe long term if they need it. Usually it's about 3 to 6 months that I would continue that. So again, stop this. Switch to our gatriban or balerudin or fondarox for just a little bit of time while they're in the hospital and then eventually switch them over to warin for the next 3 to 6 months until the DVT PE or whatever the clot is resolves. When we talk about these is uh antifhospholippid syndrome. So antifhospholippid syndrome again with this one you're going to give them hepin while they're in the hospital. if they have a DVT, if they have a PE, if they have a stroke, if they have an MI, you're going to give them Hepin short term and then eventually you're going to bridge them over to Warfin for maybe potentially the rest of their life. It really kind of depends. There's a lot of different guidelines for that. Now, if a patient comes in with what's called catastrophic antifphospholipid syndrome, they have so many auto antibodies circulating throughout their bloodstream that are basically causing the platelets to become uh tagged and attacked and destroyed by the spleen um and also to be consumed to make clots. Then what do we got to do? We got to get rid of those auto antibodies. And so what we'll do is we'll actually take their blood which contains all of the antibodies. Imagine here I'm removing the antibodies from their bloodstream. I'm going to clear it out from this pump. I'm going to get rid of it. And then whatever remaining part of their actual plasma, I'm going to give it back to them. So I'm basically just removing the auto antibodies from the circulation to continue to prevent the constant uh platelet consumption as well as inhibit the platelets from becoming um potentially a source of splenic destruction. All right. So sometimes what we'll do is we'll give the patient plex to remove those and we'll give them steroids to really shut down the immune system and reduce the production of those auto antibodies. So again hit discontinue hepin give them fond of paranox I got you banan by valerudin and then switch to warfram antifphospholipid syndrome hepin short-term then transition to warfin potentially for the rest of their life if they're in a catastrophic state where they have multi-system organ damage from this disease you do plex and steroids all right what about dic it's really just supportive care if they're having a anemia you give them pack red blood cells based upon what their hemoglobin if it's less than seven asymptomatic give them a unit. If it's less than eight and they have coronary artery disease or paricardiac surgery, whatever it may be, then you can give them a unit. If they're in a potential scenario where they're losing blood and they're in hemorrhagic shock, you give them the MTP protocol. All right. Platelets, it's based upon the threshold. Less than 100,000 neurosurgical or CNS bleed. Less than 50,000 non- neurosurgical or non CNS bleed. Less than 10,000 if there's a potential asymptomatic scenario, but it's less than 10,000. FFP is if their INR is greater than 1.6 six or their PTT is also super therapeutic. And then cryoprecipitate we only give if the fibbrronogen is really really low despite FFP less than 100. H us a lot of this is just you just kind of let it ride. You don't really do anything about it. So for this one you just don't give them antibiotics. You can potentially worsen. That's the thing. If they ever say what would you not do it's never give antibiotics to these patients because you can potentially cause the E.coli to bust open and release more sugar toxin into the bloodstream. The also the other thing is you do not want to keep that bacteria in the colon. So if they're having diarrhea, I'm sorry. We just need to maybe give them bismouth subsalicate, but you cannot give them leperide or any antimatility because you keep the bacteria in the colon where it continues to release firoxin. All right. The only thing that we would consider for this patient is if the patient needs to get dialysis, if they have severe enough renal failure and they're having complications like the AEIOU, TTP, this one is very severe because of the risk of neurological symptoms. we actually need to get on this one right away and we're going to treat it just like we would um antifphospho lipid syndrome. It was catastrophic. We're going to get rid of those atom TS-13 antibodies and we're going to replace it with normal plasma and we're going to also suppress the immune system from producing those auto antibodies and so I'll give them cortosteroids and plex and if they don't respond to that then I'll do retoximab. Now von willilibbron disease which is the platelet dysfunction you can actually do this two ways. First, if it's very very minor bleeding, I'm talking about like they bleed a little bit from a cut, they have a little bit of epistaxis, they have some petite papura, in those scenarios, you can give them DDAVP. DDAVP is really interesting because what it's going to do is it's actually going to tell the endothelial cells to increase the production of bonibbrron factor. And von will factor act as that glue for platelets to stick to, which will help the patient to stop bleeding. But if they bleed a lot, they have major bleeding, so bleeding after a surgical procedure, they have other severe severe bleeding like heavy heavy minoria, you could consider vonilbron factor concentrate. And basically you're just giving them von will factor in a concentrated manner to help them to stop the bleeding. All right, for uremic platelet dysfunction, the key thing here is actually dialysis. That is the first line. So this is another treatment that they will ask you on the exam. Patient comes in, they have severe thrombocytoenia and I'm sorry, severe platelet dysfunction. They're bleeding and they have renal failure. What's the treatment? You dialize them because this is uremia. Uremia is an indication for dialysis. You can consider DD-AVP, but it's usually if they have very minor bleeding or you're about to do a procedure on them. Otherwise, it's dialysis. All right. Now, that really in a nutshell covers platelet disorders. I really hope that this made sense. I truly hope that you guys liked it and learned a lot. Love you. Thank you. And as always, until next time.