Welcome back for another episode of the Ninja Podcast. Today we're continuing through oncology. We're going to go, you know, system by system, cancer by cancer. And next up is prostate cancer. All right, another sneaky one. Another one that can really be missed and it's just uh it can be pretty devastating. Yeah, I think one of these cancers, I mean prostate cancer is not a great one, but I think one of the things that's makes it challenging is that there's a lot of like contradiction and there's a lot of controversial concepts on screening. And then on top of that, guess what makes it even more difficult? 80% of cancers that prostate cancer is usually asymptomatic. And so it makes it a little bit more challenging. And so I think we again like any kind of cancer deserves a very good thorough um history and physical exam as applicable. and just making sure that you're identifying with shared decision-m with your patient. Hey, I think that you're at a little bit of a higher risk for prostate cancer. Here's what I want to do and here's how we'll interpret these following things. So, I think that's the best way is being able to identify the patients who are at high risk, but also being able to identify if that is of the 15 to 20% chance that the patient presents with some symptoms or some concerns. How do I identify that that is prostate cancer as the likely diagnosis? And so, that's I think the two ways that we should talk about this today. All right. Well, we have two cases. We're going to be going through a high-risisk patient that's asymptomatic and then one that is symptomatic. Okay. All right. Here we go. We have a 53-year-old African-American male presents for an annual wellness exam. The patient reports no urinary issues such as hesitancy, we stream, dribbling. He denies hematia, bone pain, or fatigue. No weight loss or constitutional symptoms are present. For his past medical history, hypertension, hyper lipidmia, he's currently on amloopene andvastatin. For his family history, father is diagnosed with prostate cancer at age 67. So that's a first-degree relative with prostate cancer. Yeah. For his exam, vitals are all with normal abdomen, soft, non- tender, and a digital rectal exam. Smooth, symmetric prostate. Zach, we've got a 53-y old African-American male. No complaints, no issues. He's here for his annual wellness exam. He's being proactive. He's staying on top of his health. However, we got a good family history here. father diagnosed with prostate cancer age 67. What are you thinking? So, like you said, he's he's high risk. Um, and so one of the ways that we determine risk factors is by a couple things. One is a male uh with the age greater than 50. Um, so there's one. Second is an African-American male. Um, those are going to be people who are just a little bit of a higher risk. Um, another one is a family history. So, a family history with a first-degree relative who had prostate cancer. Um there's three blamos right away. So you just want three for three. Exactly. Um another one that's a risk factor is potentially like hereditary cancer syndromes. So you know there is other kinds of can like bracka mutations can also be associated with prostate cancer. There's a lot of different things like that but those are lower on the you know they're they're not as high of a like likely probability. It's usually just unfortunately male African-American and usually a family history. Those are the most associated. Even diets like a poor diet, diets that are very, very high in fats, they can really change your androgen and DHT levels. And so that can also potentially be associated with it. But there's three big ones and it's age, African-American, family history. This person's got all three of them putting them at a very high risk for prostate cancer. So this is one of those situations where yeah, they're not presenting symptomatically, but they they present with some concerning features here um or concerning risk factors that I would actually want to start screening this patient. Yeah, sure. They can't be ignored. No. So for our patient here, I'm wondering about the screening process. So if you could walk me through an average risk patient and a and a high-risisk. So you'll talk just as a you know just kind of making sure everyone understands average and then high risk. Yeah. So I'd say average is any patient who doesn't have any of these particular high-risisk factors. So if their age is less than 50, if they're not African-American, if they don't have a first-degree family history, I'd say that they're an average risk patient. And so we wouldn't So there there's a lot of and this is where the controversial aspects come in. If they're an average risk patient, the USPSTF says that you could recommend with shared decision-making. So you talk to the patient, you say, "Hey, um we you don't have to. You're 50. You don't have a personal uh history. You don't have a family history. Um you're not African-American. You don't have to get the PSA level, but we could if you want to and see if it's elevated and then we can kind of go from there." It's just one of those things which you could be proactive about if there is any concerns or thoughts about prostate cancer. You can even do a digital rectal exam as well. Um they don't really recommend that as much anymore. So that kind of changed in the guidelines. But that's how we could go. Now for the patient who is let's say age greater than 50, they have African-American uh ethnicity and on top of that they have a family history of a first-degree relative who was diagnosed with prostate cancer. That's a high-risisk patient. We should actually go a little bit earlier. So we should go a little bit sooner if we can. Yeah. And so that's when if a patient knows, especially if they know that they had a family member like a dad who had prostate cancer at a younger age, we should be scan, we should actually be screening those patients maybe 40 to 45 years of age, a little bit earlier because we don't want to catch prostate cancer a little bit more advanced than desired. So that's what the guidelines say. The USPSTF doesn't support the 50. Uh the AUA and the NCCN, they say start at age 40 to 45 and just start with a PSA. They don't really recommend anymore doing a digital rectal exam. However, I personally feel like a digital rectal exam is going to be beneficial to a patient. I think it just adds utility. So, for example, if I have a patient who is concerning like they have high risk, right? They're old, African-American, family history. I'm going to do a digital rectal exam and I'm going to do a PSA if we agree upon that. The reason why is the PSA could come back normal, but if I do a digital rectal and I find an abnormal, hard, asymmetric appearing nodule on their prostate, what am I going to do? Well, I'm actually going to go ahead and do some imaging now, even though their PSA is normal. So, that's what I think is really important is to consider the digital rectal exam always, but the guidelines say that you it's not really a part of it. It's just kind of like it's shared decision-m. Well, our patient already had a digital rectal exam, and at this point, if you're saying, "Oh, I just need a PSA." I mean, I would much rather have a PSA than a finger up my bum. So, yeah. Exactly. I I don't know. That's just me. If they had the digital rectal exam and it's normal, that's good. But it's still So, this is the kind of the tough thing, and I think we'll get into this as we go along, is when you're trying to screen a patient, obviously the goal, and this is why there's a lot of controversy is there's been evidence that screening them with PSAs and doing digital rectal exams never really changed the ultimate like mortality. So, in other words, it didn't help us to potentially identify prostate cancer any earlier. And so that's why it's like controversial and really it should be just upon a shared decision-making. So when I talk to the patient, I say, "Hey, you have a lot of risk factors for prostate cancer." I am concerned that you could develop it. I want to make sure that we catch it before it's early. I do a PSA and I would like to offer a digital rectal exam to see if I feel any nodules, anything abnormal. If I don't feel anything, I would still get a PSA because that's the thing that we want to check because PSA levels, which is prostate specific antigen, those are going to be elevated in prostate cancer. But here's the tough thing, and this what we'll talk about later. It's not exclusive to prostate cancers. And so that's really, really important. So I would say for this patient, I would start off I would have probably since they're super high risk, I would have started screening them with the PSA around 40 to 45. But we're already at this age of what are we at? 53. So I'd order a PSA right now. We already have the digital rectto exam, which actually gives me a normal DR, which is great. That means that there's no asymmetric, no weird appearing nodules, which is good. So that's the first thing I would do is I would get a PSA. Perfect. Like as we just um stated before, the DR was normal. It's good to go. Now, his PSA, we do get that result back and it's 5.2. Okay. What's the next step? Well, PSA greater than four is concerning. So, here's the thing. I told you already. If a patient is high risk, African-American, family history, greater than 50, male, those are concerning features for or high risk factors for having prostate cancer. DR is normal. Okay, good. There's no asymmetric appearing nodules. Nothing weird there. PSA is greater than four. That is still concerning for prostate cancer. So, here's what we got to do. There's a lot of things that can ride the PSA up. It can bump up because of a patient having BPH. Yep. So, if they have BPH, that makes things a little bit more difficult. Second thing is sex. Did they recently ejaculate, have any kind of sexual activity, that can also cause the PSA to go up. I'm not even kidding. Were they on an like a bike ride? Believe it or not, riding on a bike, that can actually spike your PSA levels up. any kind of recent digital rectal exam, which they say shouldn't actually affect it, that can also do it. Or any kind of like like uh usually aggressive procedures or procedures anywhere near the prostate can also shoot the PSA up. So, I would say, have you had any sexual activity? Have you had any aggressive like exercise or bike rides or anything like that? And do they have BPH? If those are some of those things that are there, I would repeat the t the PSA in a couple weeks, probably six weeks, just to make sure cuz if that PSA is elevated, again, I have enough argument to say, hey, I got two consecutive elevated PSAs in a patient who is high risk for prostate cancer. I think I need to do imaging. So, that would be the way that I would go about this is I would say, let's go ahead and get the PSA. Okay, it's greater than four, which it is. It's uh 5.2. I get it again in 6 weeks and see if it's persistently elevated. repeat PSA. So, we get it 5.4. Well, now what? Yeah. So, now at this point, so this is where there's debate. Um, I think the newer guidelines are suggesting doing MRIs first before going to a biopsy. So, used to be you would do a transerectal ultrasound. Sounds absolutely terrible to have a probe shoved up the rectum. Once again, give me something different. Yeah. So, they would do that, but they found that the transerectal ultrasound didn't give as great of an image as what they found with MRIs. And so now they do what's called MPMRI, so multiparametric MRIs. And these are great for two reasons. One is it gives a really good characteristic if they have a prostate mass. So it really shows do they have a prostate mass, a lesion, how kind of like extensive is it in the prostate, has it extended beyond the capsule. So it's really good for that. And what's also really cool about the MPMRI is you can take the MRI image and you can kind of overlay it over the U ultrasound for the biopsy. And it just helps you to make sure that when you do these targeted core biopsies of the area, it really helps to prevent like overdiagnosis. It really helps to make sure that we aim and we get the best possible lesions to make sure that when we take and do those biopsies and send them off to pathology, we truly get an accurate diagnosis. And so the newer like suggestions according to especially up to date is they say that you should do a multiparametric MRI and then from there if the PYAD score is really elevated you can use the MRI and you have a likely chance that this is helping to prevent overdiagnosis and unnecessary undo biopsies then you go get the biopsy and you can use the MRI to help you with your targeted kind of like core biopsies to really make sure that you're getting a good tissue analysis. So that's what I would do is I would do the multiparametric MRI. If the pyrat score is elevated, greater than equal to four, then I would go and say, okay, let's reach out to a urologist who's going to be doing the surgery and saying, can we do a a trus, a transctal ultrasound and do a biopsy. All right. Well, we get the biopsy and it confirms a gleon 6 adnocarcinoma in two of the 12 cores. Tell me a little bit about that. I'm hearing some new terms. The the gleon Yeah. And two of 12 of 12 cores. What does this all mean? Yeah. So you take a bunch of cores. So usually you're taking at least 12 like systematic cores and and you're kind of taking from those and you're looking at it to see what the pathology shows. The Gleon score grade uh group is it is very complicated. It's not something that usually you're going to get tested on. I'd say it looks at these different levels and so you really just need to know the Gleason score. That's probably the most important one because it guides your treatment. That's how we kind of look at it. Kind of guides your prognosis and what you're going to do. But I think the the biggest thing to take away from this is when I see a gleon score of six, that tells me it's a lower risk disease. Anything like less than or equal to six is low risk. Anything that's about seven, that's your like intermediate risk. And then anything that's greater than or equal to eight, that's very high risk. And so that just is the way that we kind of classify them is looking at the gleon score. And again, less than or equal to six, low risk, gleon 7, intermediate, gleon greater than equal to eight. That's very high risk disease. So that's right away. This is a low-risisk patient. We got cores. We got two out of those 12 that showed that there was an adnocarcinoma, but it's probably a lower risk prostate cancer. And so that's really really helpful because in this patient, I would probably say we should just go ahead and we can offer options, a couple different things. One is we could just leave it go. We don't have to do anything. We honestly could just leave this go and just keep an eye on their PSA. Do it every like six months and just making sure that that thing is not going up. If the PSA goes up, then I would say we should talk to them and say, "Hey, we got a couple options. We can either do radiation therapy directed at the tumor and try to knock that out or we can just cut that prostate out." So, we could do like a radical prostatectomy. So, those are the options. Usually, you talk to the patient about that. We could survey, keep an eye on it, see how it does. If the PSA goes up, we can talk about surgery. But that's what I would say for this patient. All right. Well, that was case one. Let's move into case two now. All right. So, this one is a symptomatic patient. And there's some red flags here. We have a 68-year-old male presents with urinary symptoms and worsening low back pain. He reports hesitancy, weak stream, dribbling for the past 3 months. Recently, he's had intermittent terminal hematia and dull low back pain. Over the past week, he's had difficulty walking and noted some numbness in the inner thighs. For his past medical history, it's pertinent for hyper lipidmia. Medications, he's on ruba statin. And for his exam, we have vitals. Heart rate is 92. Blood pressure is 132 over 76. Abdomen palpable distended bladder. We do a DR. It's firm, irregular, asymmetric. And for his neuroexam, we have bilateral leg weakness, decreased anal tone. We do some labs. So, we get a few different things here. PSA is 97. Creatinine is 2.1. His baseline was 1.0. ALP is 320 and we do a UA and we note hematia with no infection. We also get some imaging Zach. We do a bladder ultrasound noting that it's greater than 600 milliliters postvoid renal ultrasound bilateral hydronosis MRI of the spine T11 epidural mass and a bone scan we note for diffuse sclerotic lesions. Holy crap. This is a lot going on. Yeah, they got a thorough workup. I'll say that. Yeah, this was a really good workup. Um, probably one that you did, right? Well, we got a lot of stuff. We have a lot of information at least. There's a lot of things we have to kind of comb through here. Uh, the first thing I'll say is I'm wondering about what is all of this information telling you like where do you start with everything? Yeah. So, this is a patient obviously I'm concerned about a lot of different things. So when I hear um hesitancy, weak stream and dribbling, that's signs of like LUTs. So lower urinary tract symptoms and it's probably more the obstructive type. So uh prostate tumors, here's the thing. So remember I told you that with prostate cancer, the tumors, they can be pretty big, man. Pretty big. And they still don't cause urinary symptoms. It's when the So usually what happens, they form in the posterior lateral or the peripheral zone, and that's near the rectum. So that's why whenever you do a digital rectal exam, you'll likely be able to palpate a tumor before they even develop symptoms because this thing would have to kind of grow and grow internally towards like the terminal zone or the transitional zone where it could actually start compressing on the urethra. If it does occur there or it grows in that direction, it can start kind of like encroaching on the prostatic urethra and push down in that prostatic urethra and then you can't empty the bladder. And if the bladder is trying to contract and empty urine into the prostatic urethra, it's being obstructed by that tumor that's there. So then the urine starts building up in the bladder. If it builds up in the bladder, the bladder keeps contracting and it keeps contracting to try to empty, but it can't. And so if it can't, guess what they start feeling? They feel this hesitancy because they're trying their best. They're probably forcing it. They're probably working really hard to pee, but they're not getting anything out. And when they do, it's probably not a complete obstruction, but it's almost dang near obstructing. So you only get a little bit of urine that leaks out. That's probably why they get the weak stream. And unfortunately, some of the dribbling probably still occurs from residual flow past that tumor in the prostatic urethra. So that's that's concerning right there. So that's what I see for the LUTs. How do you differentiate with BPH? Oh, with this patient, I mean, right away, I don't think that this is BPH doesn't usually cause terminal hematia, and I won't think it would cause dull low back pain, and it wouldn't cause all of these like massive manifestations. So what would it cause? It could if you got a pretty good bad BPH, it can cause urinary tract symptoms. So you can still get like the hesitancy. You can get the weak stream, you can get the dribbling, but they also have other periods. So they usually have a combination of both obstructive LUTs and they also have LUTs that usually occur because of, you know, contraction. So usually as it starts to build up, they contract and they actually can get frequency. Uh they can get a sense of urgency that they have to go to the bathroom a lot too. So that's one thing. they can potentially get enough of this kind of enlargement of the bladder theoretically that it could cause an acute kidney injury, but it should definitely not be causing bilateral leg weakness, decreased anal tone. Um, and it if a DR shows firm, irregular asymmetric prostate, that's unlikely because usually with BPH, it's more symmetric. It's kind of enlarged, but it's usually it's more like I'd say like a little bit more spongy. It's not firm. It's not asymmetric hard nodules. So that's those are some things that I'm telling you right off the bat. And then also BPH doesn't cause hematia. No. So I'd say having terminal hematia almost always tells you that there's bleeding somewhere near the bladder neck or the urethra. So right away I know okay somewhere in that vicinity plus they're having obstructive luts. There's something around that vicinity of the bladder neck. So that's the things right off the get-go is the hematia telling me that at the end of urination it's a bleeding somewhere theoretically in the bladder neck urethra. Having obstructive LUTs tells me that there's something going on at the bladder neck region, which is where this is. It's right of the prostatic urethra. The next thing that's concerning is the back pain and then the neurode deficits. So, when I hear that they're having low back pain, and they're having weakness in their legs, some numbness, they have decreased anal tone, that's really concerning because the first place that prostate cancer spreads is to the bones. So it's the most common sight of metastasis is going to be usually to the pelvis or to the spine. All right? So the usually the ver the vertebrae there and it can even spread in extra early. So just outside of the dura it can actually incorporate it can get a mass right there. And these are usually osteoblastic mets which is different from your osteoplastic mets or your litic lesions. These are not litic lesions. These are osteoblastic lesions and they cause a ton of pain. So he probably my worry is that the patient has some mets that are in their vertebral column probably somewhere around the pelvis and I think that they probably even have a mass well they do they have an epidural mass around T11 and that's probably compressing their spinal cord. Yeah, I was going to say abnormally high PSA, abnormal DR, spinal mass, sclerotic lesions. Yeah, you at this point you have to say it's metastatic prostate cancer. Yeah, that's what I'm definitely concerned about. Plus another thing with these patient is so they have a lot of complications. They have the the lower urct symptoms. They have terminal hematia but on top of that they have so much obstructing obstructive kind of process there at the prostatic urethra that the bladder is getting filled and it's backflowing up through the urittors and it's backflowing all the way into the kidneys that it's it's actually obstructing the flow across the glomemeilus and so they're getting an acute kidney injury as well. Their creatinine's up to 2.1 which is definitely almost a doubling of their baseline. Yep. And on top of that their bladder ultrasound and renal ultrasound show that there's an obstructive process. So they have a post-renal AKI and on top of that they have hematia. Hematia whenever it's a mass or some kind of thing like that usually we say hematia would have no evidence of infection that would suggest pylonritis. So no nitrites, no luccoite eststerase and you always got to look at protein. There'd be no protein and there would be no red blood cell cast that rules out like a glomemeular disease. So then from here I'm very very concerned that this patient has metastatic prostate cancer given a couple different findings. The super high PSA, the abnormal DR, the back pain and spinal cord compression which I'm guessing that they have probably quadquinus syndrome from an epidural mass and then on top of that their bone scan shows that they have these sclerotic lesions and they have so much obstruction at the prostatic urethra that they're having an acute kidney injury as a result. So, they got a lot of things going on. As we we've been discussing, this patient has a lot of complications and it's kind of almost a little daunting of knowing where to start. So, if you had to and there's a lot of complications that we're trying to deal with, what do you what do you do first? Well, the first thing I would say is I'm scared about spinal cord compression. That's probably the most emergent thing. Uh the acute kidney injury, I think right for right now, I would say put a Foley in them. put a fully catheter in them, decompress the bladder, and then we can put them on like Flowmax or Tamsloin afterwards. Um, but that's the first thing I would say is I got to pop a Foley in them and let's deal with this spinal cord compression. So, the spinal cord compression, I'm going to give them steroids. So, steroids are usually the best thing to give to reduce a lot of the vasogenic edema around that mass and so it's not compressing on the spinal cord as much. I'd probably get an MRI of the spinal cord to see how much kind of compression there is as quickly as I can. And then while they're getting the MRI, I'd reach out to two people. I'd reach reach out to radiation oncology or I'd reach out reach out to a neurosurgeon and say, "Hey, I got a patient, they're having codinus syndrome from a a mass that's compressing on their spinal cord. I gave them 10 milligrams of IV dexamethasone. What should we do? Should we do some radiation therapy or should we go in and actually debulk this tumor and then kind of like decompress?" And it would be kind of based up to the surgeon's decision of whether we're going to do that or not. And there's a lot of factors that go into that, but that probably be the first thing that I would do. Um, and then again, I would also while you're kind of doing this, tell your nurses, hey, can you insert a fully catheter into this patient? Let's immerse them. Uh, at least when it comes to the bladder, get some of that urine flowing. Also, be very careful. This patient's got greater than 600 mls. They got bilateral hydronosis. They're going to dump a ton of urine and they're going to develop what's called post-obstructive kind of like usually acute kidney injuries. So, they can dump so much urine that they become dehydrated. So whenever you give them that foley catheter, make sure that you give them some fluids back because they can they can become pretty dehydrated. Um and then start them on tamsyloin which is going to help to relax that kind of urer area so we can get urine to start flowing again. Um that'd be the first things that I would probably do and then for the pain uh from this thing being in the spine that would be another reason to reach out to radiation therapy to see if we can target those particular areas. Uh but yeah, that's that's the first things that I'm going to be doing right away. Once this patient's stable, what's his treatment plan? Yeah. So, this is metastatic, right? So, usually if it's like, you know, like we had that first patient who was like asymptomatic, they got screened and they had like we would consider them to have almost a stage one like kind of it's we don't call it stage one, but it's like a a lowrisk gleon less than or equal to six. So, those ones we just survey, we don't we don't do anything about unless they really want to. we can do a prostatctomy or radiation therapy state. If we get to the intermediate risk, those ones we actually do push for radiation therapy or a radical prostatctomy. And then we get to the high risk, we we actually push radiation therapy plus something called androgen deprivation therapy. And then if they're metastatic, we just continue the androgen deprivation therapy, but we may kind of modify some things. So what I would say is at this point, we got to put this patient, if they aren't already, on androgen deprivation therapy. So usually it's either luplide or um uh degarlicelics. And so those are the two. So they basically do kind of the same thing just in a different mechanism. So lupralide works as kind of like a um a gr G&R I'd say agonist. And so basically it's kind of weird. it kind of binds on to the receptors um like G&RH does and it helps to increase the production of LH and FSH which creates a transient rise in testosterone and then eventually that creates a feedback loop which shuts down further FSH and LH and then drops the testosterone. The reason why you want to do that is guess what testosterone fuels prostate cancer. So we want to try to theoretically bring their testosterone levels lower so we can slow the growth of that tumor. Unfortunately, it's going to be hard to shrink it. it's going to be hard to cut it out. So the only thing that we can really do is just prevent the progressive enlargement of that tumor. And so the only way that we can do that is to lower testosterone. Lupralite is one that we can do and dearelix is a GNR antagonist. So all it does is it just blocks G&RH and then you suppress FSH and LH release which then suppresses testosterone release. So those are two of the options. And then what you would do is is let's say that they start to do that. You have to monitor their PSA as they're doing that. if their PSA starts continuing to go up despite and their testosterone levels, they don't go down. So, you want to be checking their testosterone, checking their PSA. If their testosterone levels keep staying high and their PSA levels keep keep going up, that means that they're starting to get resistant to the lupide or the degarel and you have to add on another drug. So, then we add on like an androgen receptor antagonist and that would be like um enzolumatide. That would be one that I could actually consider or you can do a chemotherapy agent like dossataxel. So that's what I would say in these patients is right off if they are early like low risk survey talk about surgery or radiation. Intermediate risk either radiate or cut the cut the prostate uh out. If they are high risk you can either do one of two. You can just really do radiation therapy plus androgen deprivation therapy. That's luplide or degarellics. If they're metastatic, you can only do really androgen deprivation therapy and then you're going to add on something else usually. So, lupralide or degarelics plus something else androgen receptor antagonist like anzelamide or dosataxel. The only other thing I can say that you could do for this patient is you could oh you cut their their nads off. You you you do like a bilateral orchtomy. Yeah. Uh and that would basically you're getting rid of any testosterone. So you're either trying to chemically castrate these patients with um luplide or degarellics plus an enzyomide or you're physically castrating them. And so that would be doing a bilateral orctomy and that would remove the testicles and so they would not be able to produce any more testosterone. You only really do that if they're completely non-compliant, like they're like, I can't or they can't tolerate the androgen deprivation therapy. You could do a bilateral orctomy. Uh, but it's usually either androgen deprivation therapy, chemical or physical by bilateral orctomy. Wow. Well, that was a lot. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's the important thing is when And here's the other thing. When you do all this stuff, man, think about it. when you're either suppressing their testosterone or you're cutting their nudes off so they can't make testosterone. Testosterone is really really important for a lot of things. Obviously, you know, erection erections, libido, uh all the sexual function, but also it's really important for bone mineral density. And so, one thing that these patients start to undergo is a lot of decrease in bone mineral density. And so, they can get early osteoporosis, path pathological fractures, and they already have METs potentially to the bone that makes things worse. So you actually have to do a lot of like dexa scans on these patients and probably put them on things like bisphosphinates or tenosmab to kind of prevent that. So that's another unfortunate thing that happens with this. But yeah, this is a sad case and you got to watch out for this when you get to prostate cancer. Well, that was case two. Um before we finish this episode up, I have a couple just kind of a progression scenario just kind of like what would happen. Yeah. Um in in different scenarios. Let's do it. So the first one I have is let's just say back to case one. our patient started low risk. Okay. But then what happens if they progress to intermediate and let's say a PSA of 14 gleon 7 how do we escalate? So it's like like you said it started off with just you survey them kind of goes up uh they now transformed to Gleason 7. So they probably got another biopsy and it showed that intermediate risk we we don't wait anymore. It's like hey your options are radiation therapy or radical prostatctomy. And that's kind of the way that we would go about that. Okay. Now let's say by age 63, okay, he develops back pain. PSA now is 35. Gleason is nine. Bone mets appear. Yeah. At that point, they're pretty much metastatic. So at this point, you're going to continue to do what you were really doing. All you're going to do is you're just going to add on and deprivation therapy. Yeah. So that's when you'll add on something like luplide or decorlics. And then you're probably going to even add on a chemotherapeutic agent or an androgen receptor antagonist like insulomide. So that's the way I would do go about that one because all you're trying to do is you're sadly you're chemically castrated. You're trying to suppress testosterone and so I would do an add-on of androgen deprivation therapy plus another drug like an androen receptor antagonist or chemotherapeutic agent to really try to get that down. And if they start to become resistant or non-compliant, I can do like a bilateral orctomy. And and does this commonly happen where you can start out very mild and then kind of work your way intermediate and then you can Yeah. Especially if you choose to survey. I mean, obviously, if you choose to start off with that low risk and you like, "Ah, I'll just let it go." Yeah. And you come back six months later and it's like, "Oh my gosh, it's it's escalated to, you know, metastatic." You hope that usually prostate cancer is not one of those or it's like super super aggressive that it's that quick. But that's something that you you know, if you get lost in the screening process, that can definitely happen. Perfect. And then before we finish up, I would say just a quick high yield recap going over what we've gone over as a whole here and then we can wrap this one up. Yeah. Yeah, I think again same thing with prostate cancer. A lot of the times these patients don't have classic findings. They're they're usually asymptomatic. They're silent. We don't know about them 80% of the time. So, it's important to do good histories and does the patient are they older? Age greater than 50. Do they have African-American ethnicity? Do they have a the big thing family history of prostate cancer in a first-degree relative? These are all high-risisk factors. Yeah, western diets that are very very high in like saturated fats are bad and having hereditary cancer syndromes also like BA and Lynch, but they're not going to be as like likely to see it's going to be the family history, it's going to be the age and it's going to be the African-American descent that puts them at high risk. If they have these things that put them at high risk, screen them. So, screen them a little bit earlier than you should for any other average patient, which is at the age of 50, which you can talk to them. Do you want us to get screened for prostate cancer? Do you want to get a PSA? It's up to both of us to talk about that. If they're high-risisk, you should really urge them to say, "Hey, I really think that we should screen you sooner, not waiting till 50. We should go 40, 45, anywhere in there, and we should check a PSA." Clinical guidelines don't suggest a DR. I think a DR adds a little bit of justice to the overall evaluation to make sure that you don't find something that's asymmetric or irregular, a nodule of sorts that should progress you to go straight to maybe going to an MRI or a biopsy. Once you've determined, okay, I got a screening, PSA is persistently elevated in this patient. What do I do? Get the MPMRI. Based upon that, you can determine, do I need to get a biopsy or not? Once you biopsy, you get a Gleason score. Where's that Gleason score fall? Is it less than or equal to six? That's low risk. You can survey or go to surgery. Is it seven? All right, that's intermediate risk. We should probably elevate them to radiation therapy or surgery. Is it greater than or equal to eight? I should do at this point. I should fight for them to get radiation therapy and androgen deprivation therapy. If it's metastatic, which means that I got a bone scan. I got a CT of the abdomen and pelvis and I found that there was METs all over in the bones and in the pelvis. All at that point, it's really just targeted therapy. And with that, it's going to be androgen deprivation therapy plus adding on a second agent of sort like inolyomide or dositaxel. And then if they don't remain compliant to it, we go with the bilateral workctomy. But I think that's the biggest way of kind of doing that and then working up complications that come up along the way. These patients are super super high risk for bony mets. You got to watch out for spinal cord compression. You got to watch out for bone pain. And then if they get a big enough mass that's squeezing around the prostatic urethra, they can get obstructive, you know, uh, processes which it causes a post-renal AKI. So monitoring renal function is critical. Biggest thing to remember is PSA is not always an indicator that a patient has prostate cancer. If it's elevated, it doesn't mean with a guarantee it's prostate cancer. It just means it could be. Always make sure that you consider that with the patient's underlying history with a potential Dr. and then reordering that in a couple weeks, six weeks usually, and making sure that you get rid of any other kind of like factors that could be falsely elevating it. And that's what I would say for this. One last thing I will say and it's actually kind of interesting and it's becoming a bad one with a lot of male pattern baldness. You know what people use for male pattern baldness? Yeah. Propecia. Yeah. Finasteride. You know what finasteride does to your testosterone levels, your DHT levels? It lowers it. Yeah. And so if it lowers it, guess what it would do to your PSA level? It lower it. And so sometimes people who are actually on finasteride, theoretically, you could have lower PSA levels and it can actually skew a potential PSA for a patient who maybe has a mass, who maybe has prostate cancer, but they have a lower PSA level. And that's what I think adds to the utility of doing a good history and also adding in incorporating a DR. But I think that's the last thing I would say for this one to really wrap it all up. Well, that was a great episode on prostate cancer. a lot of information just, you know, really well presented. Thank you. Thanks, man. I appreciate it. And I and I hope that you guys like this episode. I hope it made sense. I really hope that you guys enjoyed it. And I hope that you can walk away from this feeling like you know a little bit more about prostate cancer. If you get tested on it, you get quizzed about it, you get pimped on it, you know, while you're in the hospital from a from an attending. I hope that you're ready to be able to answer those questions and do a good job with it. But thank you guys so much for listening and for sticking around. And I love you guys. Thank you guys. And as always, until next time.