 alfalfa, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, naryl-5-phosphate, prostate cancer is kind of asymptomatic or silent. So let's go through these different zones. So this is the anterior zone here in red. Now, when we talk about prostate cancer, it can occur in any of these zone. It's just less likely. It's going to be more often, and I'll talk about which one it's going to be in this pink zone. Before we do that, though, what's this next one? This is this green one. This one's called the transitional zone. Now, some people will actually consider another little zone in the transitional zone, which is just around the urethra. It's called the periurethra zone, but I'm just going to consider a part of the transitional zone. This one here in blue is called the central zone, and the last one is going to be which one? This here is going to be the peripheral zone. Now, when patients develop usually some type of prostate cancer, it usually develops in the peripheral zone. Now, the peripheral zone, as you can see here, goes all the way posterior and even can come a little bit more anterior. Most of the times whenever it develops, it develops in the posterior and lateral portion of the peripheral zone. If I were to draw here a tumor, let's say that I draw a tumor here, most often this would be the location of where prostate cancer or prostate adenocarcinoma would usually arise. Again, what is the most common location? It's going to be the posterior lateral peripheral zone. Now, the reason why I tell you this is this is going to be the most common location. It can occur in any of these, but this is going to be the most common. Now, here's what's interesting. If you think about this, think about how far this tumor is from the urethra. Most of the time, if a patient develops like a really, really large tumor that gets close enough, it can compress on the urethra, or if it gets close enough, it can bleed into the urethra. But this is pretty far, and so it often doesn't cause a lot of clinical manifestations. And based upon the location, this usually explains as to why it's relatively asymptomatic or silent. This explains why it's usually, and what do I say about usually? I mean, 80% of cases, usually asymptomatic, or as we would say, a silent presentation. Now, that's really important. Now, if the tumor did get big enough or it occurred in other locations, like if it occurred near the transitional zone, or if it occurred there in the central zone, you may get more potential complications or presentations. But oftentimes, from this posterior lateral peripheral zone, we're too far away unless the tumor's really, really grown and invaded for it to cause compressive symptoms or to cause bleeding. Now, here is one really interesting thing. Let me get my marker here. What do we know is right here. So posterior, here's the bladder, here's the prostate. What do you think runs just behind here in males? The rectum. So what we do know here is that if the rectum is actually located right here, if a patient has a mass and you pop up there and you try to palpate and feel around, what could you potentially feel? You could feel this mass. And so that's where we talk about things like digital rectal exams is as we are trying to go up there and feel we may feel this nodule or asymmetric hard nodule on the prostate. So that may be one way that they present. It kind of just gives you an idea that when you look at the anatomy here, it makes sense why it doesn't cause a lot of presentation. And maybe sometimes you find this on DRE or during screening. All right. One other thing to talk about is when we talk about prostate adenocarcinoma, again, it does develop in this posterior lateral peripheral zone. If you were to actually take a piece of this tissue and you really look at it, it's a specific type of tissue. There's a basement membrane. They have all these different types of cells, but there's a very specific type of cells. And we call these luminal A-cells. Luminal A-cells. These are just like, it's like a glandular tissue. I'm not even kidding. It's just like a glandular tissue. So if we were to actually zoom in and look at normal prostate tissue, there's like basal cells. There's neuroendocrine cells and there's luminal cells. Luminal cells are really important because they produce a lot of different enzymes. One of those is called prostate-specific antigen. All prostate-specific antigen does is it kind of like liquefies the sperms. It makes it easier for it to be able to navigate its way into the female vagina to help to trigger the, you know, when it reaches the actual egg so it can actually help with that process. So it's really, really important that we know that these are the cells that really make up most of the prostate tissue, especially here in the posterior lateral peripheral zone. What happens here is that unfortunately at some point in time in life, for whatever that trigger may be, these cells undergo a mutation. Right? I think that's pretty common with all the things that we've talked about with cancer is that there's mutations. These mutations arise and then that tissue becomes more malignant. Right? So now we can develop potentially a malignant prostate tissue where it replicates, replicates, replicates, replicates. Then from there, if this thing replicates enough, it can actually cause this prostate adenocarcinoma. What I want you to know here is something kind of interesting. On prostate tissue, it has receptors for DHT. That's a type of steroid hormone, right? It's usually a male sex hormone. And whenever a patient has a malignant prostate tissue, guess what they express more of? They increase their DHT receptor expression. And all that means is if I increase the number of receptors, guess what that can do? Guess what that stat hormone DHT can do? If it does that, it accelerates the growth. And then this malignant prostate tissue can easily, it can accelerate the growth and cause this carcinoma. So it can increase the growth of this malignant prostate tissue. And that is where we get this carcinoma. Right? That can form. So it can start off like a normal tissue to help some mutation. If you have lots of this DHT around and you have lots of receptors that are expressing where it can bind to it, guess what? It can then grow very rapidly and become a nasty cancer. So that deserves just a little bit of discussion. The reason why I want to talk about it is it's going to come up in the treatment section. I think this is actually really, really helpful. So we have this hypothalamic pituitary testicular ovarian axis. Your hypothalamus makes something called GnRH, gonadotropin releasing hormone. Right? So that's made by the hypothalamus. From here, this GnRH travels down via the portal system and it gets to the antipituitary. Stimulates the antipituitary and antipituitary makes two hormones. One we're not going to talk about because it's not super relevant to this and that's called FSH. We'll just have that capped off there. The other one that we do care about is called LH. All right? So whenever the hypothalamus makes GnRH, then stimulates the antipituitary to make LH and FSH. LH then goes down to the testes and when it goes down to the testes, it stimulates particular cells, right? To make, like your light excels, to make testosterone. So now I have testosterone. Right? Testosterone, what we know about this is that there's another enzyme called 5-alpha reductase. And this enzyme is super critical and it's definitely found all over the place, but what it does is it takes testosterone and converts it into what's called DHT. So we have this enzyme here which helps to stimulate this step. All right? And then DHT, what it does is it goes all over the body, but one of the areas which we care about in this particular discussion here is it gets to the prostate luminal cells. Now these cells are mutated. All right? They start kind of growing and then if DHT is there, guess what it can do? It can bind on to these intracellular receptors and stimulate an increase in cell growth. So an increase in cell growth leads to, what do we know? This type of carcinoma formation. The reason why I tell you this is if I could come up with a drug that could potentially shut down aspects of this, that'd be very helpful, right? Because DHT has to bind on, I'll give you an example, it also has to bind on to these little like blue things here. These are called androgen receptors. These are called androgen, which is specific for DHT or any kind of steroid hormone and they're usually intracellular androgen receptor. These bind on to the actual nucleus as a transcription factor and trigger this cell growth. Imagine I came up with drugs. I have a patient who has prostate cancer. Can't get rid of it. They're stage four, they're metastatic. We actually don't technically call it stage four. We just say it's metastatic, hormone-sensitive, prostate cancer. If I gave a drug that blocked G and R H, oh, then I could potentially lower L H, lower testosterone, lower DHT, lower the cell growth. If I gave a drug that theoretically could block DHT or any kind of androgen binding here, that could also decrease cell growth. Well, that's kind of cool. There is another pathway. It's very small amounts and I don't want to go too crazy, but you're adrenal gland. Your adrenal gland also does contribute to some of this pathway. So if you guys remember a little bit, G and R H is not that stimulus, but the antropotuitary also makes another hormone called ACTH. ACTH is supposed to stimulate cortisol release, but ACTH also helps to stimulate the production of androgens, so adrenal androgens. One of them is called DHEA and eventually DHEA and Androstine Dione eventually can get converted into testosterone. And so there's a lot of different enzymes that play a role there. So I can give drugs that can inhibit that spot right there. We'll talk about these later. We have a drug who actually is working against G, it works with G and R H, just called Luperlide. It's a G and R H agonist. We have another drug called Degorelix, which works against G and R H, a G and R H antagonist. We have drugs that inhibit the synthesis of DHEA from the adrenal gland. It's called Everotorone. We also have drugs that help to block DHT at the androgen receptors and these are your Lutomides. So we have all these different ways. We also could cut out the actual testes and do a bilateral orcheectomy and that would drop to testosterone levels. So the reason why I'm trying to really, really give you this information is, is this hormone pathway really plays a role in the growth of these prostate cancers. And if we understand this pathway, we can understand how we use drugs or surgical procedures to shut down this pathway. That's why I'm trying to stress that. All right, so to recap, different zones of the prostate. What's the most common location? The posterior lateral peripheral zone. Would you have any symptoms? No, because it's super far away. If it is, it's got to be really big. If you have a presentation, what would it be? Most likely palpable on digital rectal exam, given its location to the rectum. When we think about how this thing develops, it's mutations. There's a lot of things that cause mutations. Could be hereditary, could be simple as diet. There could be a lot of different things like ethnicity. Either way, it happens. The problem is not necessarily that. It's that if hormones like DHT are higher in amount and you have lots of receptors available for it, it'll make the cancer grow. That's why I need you to understand this pathway because we're going to target this pathway a little bit later. Now again, it kind of comes into play. What's kind of really causing these mutations? There's a lot of different things. There really is. You have to think about this. What we know is that a family history, and I think that comes into play with really all of it, a family history of prostate cancer, especially in a first degree relative, that definitely should start sending off alarm bells to think about this patient having a risk of prostate cancer. Another one is a patient who is African American. Now, the reasons why with the African American descent is kind of interesting. With family history, there could be a germline mutation. We just don't know why they have an unfortunate germline mutation. With African American, there is this thought that they have higher androgen levels. We'll actually write that down. It's kind of interesting that they may have higher androgen levels. If they have theoretically these higher androgen levels, that may be the very reason why they have this DHT receptor growth process. That's something to potentially consider. Another one is we may see this in kind of like cancer genetics. Sometimes patients who have BRCA1, we always associate this more likely with breast cancer or variant cancer, BRCA2. Another one is and Lynch syndrome. We talked about this in colorectal cancer. These can also be associated potentially as a germline mutation that we can see in patients who have prostate cancer. Another one could be what do we think about? What population would you see prostate cancer in? Males. Usually, it's advanced age males. When I say advanced age, we just consider this as not me being, I don't put the number here, I just say greater than 50 years of age. These are patients who are a little bit more high risk. As you get older, you get more time dependent mutations. Time dependent mutations increases the risk for you to develop this cancer. The last one's diet and this is usually your western diets. Believe it or not, they say a very high fat diet. Very, very, very high fat diet may increase the risk of these types of inflammatory conditions occurring. I don't know. I think that's somewhat controversial, but a very poor diet may be contributed to prostate cancer. Either way, out of all of these, which is the ones that you really, really want to remember, you want to remember this one. This is probably the biggest risk factor. It's a family history of prostate cancer in a first degree relative who's like maybe less than 60 years of age. African American descent puts you at a very high risk category and then, if you're an advanced age male, at least greater than 50. These are the three that are going to put you at the highest risk of prostate cancer. When a patient comes in and you look at their chart and you see that their father passed away or was diagnosed with prostate cancer, that's one thing. If they're African American, you add that risk and if they're a male that's greater than 50, you should start discussing with them, hey, I'm concerned because prostate cancer could be missed because it doesn't present with symptoms. The only way we may find it is a digital rectal exam, but you have a lot of the risk factors. I would like to screen you for prostate cancer. We used to consider DREs a part of the screening. They nixed that now. Now we look at things like PSA levels, but we'll talk about that. That's the reason why I'm trying to tell you this is to understand location, what that explains, also what you could potentially find it on, also the mutations could be due to these three factors, these risk factors, but the big thing that maybe drives the growth is the androgen levels and that's something that we'll talk about when it comes to the treatment process. All right, now that we've done that, let's talk in a theoretical scenario. If this tumor did get big enough or it occurred in other zones, which is less common and it started to compress around the urethra, get close to the urethra, what are some potential presentations? And then the scariest thing is oftentimes unfortunately the way that we find this disease is when it metastasizes the other areas, what are those metastatic sites and how will they present? All right, so what are the potential ways that they could present worst case scenario? This is not very common. Again, 80% of cases are asymptomatic. You don't know. And so you just have to think about what are the risks? If they're, again, if they're African-American, if they have a family history, if they're male, that's a little bit older, 50 or older, they're at risk. If you happen to do a digital rectal exam and you find an asymmetric appearing nodule, that puts you in kind of a scare to say, could this be prostate cancer? Now, when a patient comes in with other complications, it may not be top of your differential, but it's something to consider if they come in with signs of urinary retention. Let's explain this. All right, for example, let's say that you have a tumor and again, this is usually near like the transitional zone, but if you get a tumor that does appear in the transitional zone or it starts in the peripheral zone and it really, really enlarges and gets towards the urethra, it can compress on the prosthetic urethra. If you compress on the prosthetic urethra, can urine get out? No. So then you end up with a buildup of urine. All right, so now you're going to have a increased urine that's appearing in the bladder. Now, with increased urine comes distention of the bladder, right? And now what happens here is, so then you can actually have some clinical presentations, right? You're going to get increased distention. So you're going to get increased stretching of the bladder. It's going to get enlarged, right? Increased stretching of the bladder. So what we sometimes do is, is we can actually say, okay, if they had this increased stretching, what if I, you know, said that, hey, can you do me a favor? Can you go pee quick? And then after I have them pee, I take and I do an ultrasound right over the bladder and say, how much pee is actually there? Because if this thing is obstructing, so here's the tumor. So there's a tumor compressing the prosthetic urethra. Because that's what it's doing. It's compressing at the prosthetic urethra and that is right at the neck of the bladder. So if this thing's trying to go through and it's hitting the roadblock, it's not going to move. And so it's hitting this roadblock right here and it's going to back up. Well, if it stretches, one of the things that's going to happen is, if you did what's called a post void residual, you try to have them pee and you check the bladder afterwards, guess what? They're going to have filled with urine and they're going to have a struggle to get any urine out. So this presents with two symptoms. One is because of the obstruction and causing stretching, they have lower urinary tract symptoms. They feel like they have to go to the bathroom, but every time they go to the bathroom, it's like they're having to force it or it's a very poor stream, right? Or they have hesitancy or dribbling. And so these are called obstructive luts. So lower urinary tract symptoms. What are those? One, hesitancy. They're trying to go, but they can't get it past the bladder neck. A weak stream because very little is getting past that compressed area. Dribbling because maybe a little bit is getting passed after you're trying to push through there. And those are oftentimes the way that they may feel and they feel like they just can't completely empty their bladder. Those are all very common signs. The other one is a very high post void residual. And so if I had them try to pee and they don't get a lot out and I check the size of the bladder afterwards and it's gargantuous, that could suggest an obstruction. Now, the first thing in your differential is probably not going to be prostate cancer. It's probably going to be things like do they have BPH or do they have some type of like neurogenic bladder? That's what you would potentially think about. You wouldn't go right away to pancreatic cancer. I'm sorry, prostate cancer, but it is something to potentially think about in the differential. Something is going on at the bladder or bladder neck that includes prostate and the bladder. And so this would be coming apart of the differential. The other thing that can happen here is when you think about this, when urine builds up, one of the things is it can backflow. If it does backflow and it gets some backflows into the kidney, what's going to happen here? Well, an increased backflow into the kidney is going to cause the pressure to build up. And if you have an increased pressure at the level of the glomerulus, what's that going to do? Do you guys remember? It's going to make it harder for filtration because you want fluid plasma to filter across the glomerulus into the capsule. The capsular hydrostatic pressure is going to build up. Your GFR is going to drop. So what's going to happen is they're going to have a drop in the GFR and that's going to cause an acute kidney injury. So whenever you have this backflow so much that it causes the GFR to drop abruptly and there's two things. GFR drops abruptly. And the other thing that can happen is the creatinine usually as a result will shoot up. So the creatinine will go up. That's going to be indicative of an acute kidney injury. What kind of acute kidney injury? Is it occurring at the kidney, before the kidney, or after the kidney? After the kidney. So this is what we refer to as a post-renal AKI. Now the other thing is if you get backflow into the kidney, think about this. Oh shoot, look at this. Now you backflow into the kidney, it gets filled with fluid. What's it going to start doing? It's going to start enlarging. And if it gets enlarged, you'll be able to pick that up on ultrasound. What kind of presentation would that give you? Not just a potential acute kidney injury. If I did an ultrasound, a renal ultrasound, what would I find? Hydro nephrosis. So I could potentially have hydro nephrosis that would be present on imaging, like a renal ultrasound or a CT scan. And so these are all things to think about. If a patient is having difficulty getting urine out, their post-void residual shows that they have a lot of urine in their bladder after trying to pee. You think something is wrong with the bladder or the bladder neck. If their creatinine is going up, and they also have an enlarged kidney filled with fluid, then you know something is going on where this is obstructing the entire flow. The other thing that's scary here is if urine builds up, guess what sits in urine. Let's actually do this and yeah, let's do it in the green color. What's something that actually is part of your kind of like your normal flora, bacteria. But if urine stays and it can't get out, it can't exit, what's it going to do? It's going to potentially colonize and sometimes it can go back. And you can get this build-up of bacteria somewhere within the bladder, or you can get bacteria that build up and colonize in the kidneys. What's this going to be potentially leading to? If I get a build-up of bacteria, so increased bacterial stasis is what we like to say, increased bacterial stasis, too much bacteria sitting in the kidney, too much bacteria sitting in the actual bladder, what can this lead to? This can lead to urinary tract infections. And the way that we determine urinary tract infections is what? Well, we would get a urinalysis and we would find that they potentially have an increased leukocytesterase, an increased white count in their actual urine, they would have nitrites. These would be potential signs and they may even have symptoms of dysuria and having to go to the bathroom a lot, combined with their obstructive luts. So the problem with urinary retention is it can present a vast amount of ways. And prostatic carcinoma is not the first thing that you'll probably be thinking about. But it is something to think about in the differential, especially if you have these symptoms, this, this, and maybe recurrent UTIs, especially since this is a tumor that could be there for a long time, if a patient keeps getting recurrent, so frequent UTIs, that should also be a part of your differential, something as obstructing causing stasis. All right, another way that they could present, not a common one, but it's something to be on your differential. Whenever you have a patient who has hematuria, you have to think the blood could be coming from the kidney, could be coming from the ureter, could be coming from the bladder, could be coming from the urethra. And so we look at that kind of hematurias, is it hematuria throughout? Is it hematuria initially? Is it hematuria terminally? And so what happens is if you have a tumor that's big enough and it's near the actual prostatic urethra, yes, it can potentially cause bleeding. But that bleeding usually comes at the end of urination. So if I have a tumor that is near urethra, it could bleed, right? It could potentially bleed into the lumen. And then you could end up with what's called hematuria. Now, when a patient gets hematuria, we go through a lot of different thought processes, right? First thing we like to think about is, okay, could this be glomerular? So what do you do when you do a workup? First thing you do is you order a urinalysis to make sure that it's actually blood and you do it with microscopy. And so the UA would come up when you would do this with a microscopy. And what would that show? Well, the first thing it would probably show is that you're going to have true blood. So you'll actually have blood in the urine. So you're going to have red blood cells. That's the first thing. So that'll be present. Second thing is when you look at the microscopy, you want to see if there's any cas. Will there be any cas in this? No, because that's glomerular. That's a glomerular problem. So there'll be no evidence of cas, red blood cell cas. The other thing is, would you have lots of protein area? No, you're not going to have any protein area. That's glomerular disease. So you shouldn't really have any protein area, right? And then the other thing is you want to make sure that there's no evidence of an infection, right? And so you want to make sure that you clear out that there's no evidence. So a negative UA for infection. So what does that look like? That there's no like pyuria that there's no leukocyte esterase or nitrites or anything like that, right? Now they could still have an infection because of stasis, but generally in a perfect world, this hematuria should be hematuria that has no evidence of glomerular disease or pylonephritis. And then the other thing you'll have to do is you'll have to go imaging. But here's the other thing that could add a little bit. When we talk about the hematuria, we think about it being initially or throughout. Usually, if this was up at the kidney or the ureter level or even kind of around the bladder, those would usually not be at the end of urination. The type of bleeding that these patients would have would be at the end of urination. That would suggest something at the bladder neck or in the urethra. So whenever you read the questions and they state in here that the patient has terminal hematuria, so blood that appears in their urine at the end of urination, I'm going to write this down, terminal hematuria. And they also have all of these other signs that are listed in their UA if they give you that. Then you want to think about potentially prostatic cancer that's eroded in and causes a bleeding into the prostatic urethra. Not something that you're going to see too often, but something to consider if it presents like that. The way that you probably will see a patient present with prostate cancer, especially in your vignettes, is they're coming in with bone manifestations. That's the most common location of metastasis. So here a patient has a prostate cancer, right? And usually what happens is when you have prostate cancer, it can kind of like stay localized, it can extend beyond the capsule. And if it extends beyond the capsule, it can get into like what's called Batson's plexus. It's a venous plexus. And when it gets into this kind of like plexus, this circulation, it now can start circulating all over the place. Like I told you, the areas that it likes to go to is the bones. So it likes to go to your vertebrae, loves the vertebrae, and it likes to go to the pelvic bones, right? So part of the sacrum, the coxa, the ilium, all those different types of bones, it's going to want to go there. Now what it does is that when it gets to these areas here, it doesn't kind of cause problems with osteoclasts. It actually gets in here and it kind of causes a lot of osteoblastic lesions. And so you actually get what's called osteoblastic lesions. So again, we actually really, really have to remember this. These get in there and they cause osteoblastic lesions. So what does that mean? That means that whenever you look at these, these don't cause like those true lytic lesions. These are diffuse sclerotic. That's the best way of describing them. These are kind of like sclerotic lesions. Now they're very painful and that's what really sucks about these, is these osteoblastic lesions are super painful. They don't cause the classic hypercalcemia though. So one of the things that you won't really see with this kind of problem here is you won't see a lot of hypercalcemia. So usually with this, because of these osteoblastic lesions, let's actually write this down here. With this, let's actually bring these guys over here. So we have some room. With these osteoblastic lesions, you don't have, so there's  there's no problems with calcium, so there's no hypercalcemia. That's very helpful. The other thing is that there's no lytic lesions, there's sclerotic lesions. What you may see, what you may see is that because of these sclerotic lesions, there's a lot of bone turnover, the alkaline phosphatase level may go up. They may have an increased alkaline phosphatase level, but here's the true presentation. Because of these osteoblastic lesions, they occur in the vertebrae and they occur in the pelvis, they're very, very, very painful. This is going to cause painful, very, very important here, painful sclerotic lesions. What would they potentially complain of? They would complain of back pain or pelvic pain. When a patient comes in and they have a history of prostate cancer and all they're presented with back pain, like low back pain, pelvic pain, hip pain, you really want to be scared. They actually metastasize to the bone. You could get a workup, you're not going to see any calcium that's going to be elevated, but you could see an elevated alkaline phosphatase. Oftentimes you may have to scan this patient, especially with a bone scan, to look to see, hey, did it spread to the pelvis or did it spread to the vertebrae? You'll see these lesions, they'll show up very, very well on a bone scan. The other location here, and this goes along with the bones a little bit, but it can spread, again, it goes back to the vertebrae. It's kind of like a double whammy here. It's kind of interesting. Let's say that this spreads to the vertebrae. We're kind of just going on a little bit more, but when it spreads there, it can do two things. One is, let's say that here on this side, I get an osteoblastic type of lesion. Here's an osteoblastic lesion. If it does occur here and the bone starts to fracture, so they get like a fracture, if this bone starts to fracture a little bit and then you get some movement, that fracture theoretically could cause shifting and compress the spinal cord. If they did get a fracture causing spinal cord compression, that could potentially happen. What's more likely to happen, sadly, so here you have a met, and the met caused unfortunately a little bit of erosion that caused fracturing, and that fracturing compressed. Here we're going to show some compression. We're compressing the spinal cord because the fracture causes some movement. That could cause spinal cord compression. The more likely problem though is that a tumor. Here you have the spinal cord. Here's going to be the actual spinal canal. Right here, we're going to say that there's the dura mater. Right outside the dura mater, I could have this tumor. This is called an extra dural tumor. Extra dural tumors, extra dural here, let's actually erase this up a little bit. Extra dural tumors, extra dural tumor, that can also cause spinal cord compression. So causing spinal cord compression. This is what you usually get absolutely terrified of, is that they get a tumor and that thing is compressing right on the spinal cord. Whether it's an extra dural tumor or whether it's a met that caused a pathological fracture, we should actually write that down. A pathological fracture as a result of that osteoblastic met. The symptoms, no matter what, could be relatively the same. If you compress the spinal cord, because again this is going to be around the body portion, if this compresses the spinal cord, what kind of problems would you get? Well if it's enough that it compresses it, it could cause a presentation of cauda coina syndrome. So what would that potentially look like? If you get compression, this could give you cauda, the coina syndrome. They're going to get bilateral weakness. They're going to develop saddle anesthesia and they can also develop urinary changes. So this could be retention or it could be incontinence. This is what we get potentially scared of. Is urinary changes, saddle anesthesia, bilateral weakness? This right here could be indicative of cauda coina syndrome due to a spinal cord compression. And that spinal cord compression could be due to an osteoblastic met that caused fracturing and then shifted and compressed and then exposed into the actual spinal canal or it could be a tumor that formed there because it spread and it's causing compression and compulsion there. So you have to think about these kinds of things. If a patient has prostate cancer, you know that all of a sudden they present with low back pain, pelvic pain, no hypercalcemia but an elevated alkyphos, you've got to get a bone scan. If they come in, they have prostate cancer and all of a sudden they can't pee or they peed themselves. They can't, they have saddle anesthesia so they have no sensation around the perineal region. They have extremity weakness and their lower extremities. You better be concerned that this could be spinal cord compression due to that tumor. The last one I'd say it's the least likely but it is something to consider is if these get into the lymph nodes. They do like the pelvic lymph nodes especially around the obturator nodes. So if they get near the pelvic node, they can really enlarge the pelvic nodes and if they enlarge the pelvic nodes enough, that could actually cause some reduction in lymph flow. And if these get enlarged, then the lymph flow is actually going to become kind of stagnant and then this lymph is going to build up and build up and build up and it's going to be harder for us to drain lymph from the lower extremities. That's that called whenever you develop swelling of the legs due to a lymphatic obstruction. So this is going to lead to a decreased lymph flow and this is going to lead to what's called lymph edema. That's what's really important. So if these things get into the nodes, they enlarge the nodes, they obstruct the lymphatic flow that can lead to lymph edema. And if you see something like that, what's prior natural assumptions? Sometimes you would think, oh, it could be a DVT. You would think so but and I think you should always work them up and do an ultrasound to make sure that you don't have a potential DVT. But with these patients, sometimes it actually tends to be bilateral and they have usually bilateral swelling that usually will present in this scenario. But again, definitely something to consider to rule out a DVT first before actually going to that route. So again, whenever a patient has prostate cancer, they can be asymptomatic or silent most of the time. Rare cases they could present with some types of urinary tension, maybe hematuria. Oftentimes the way that you'll find them is they have a known diagnosis of prostate cancer or they don't and they present with low back pain, pelvic pain, high alfos, no hypercalcemia or they come in with an emergent situation like caudal coiness syndrome due to spinal cord compression. And then you find unfortunately the tumors there. Less commonly you could find lymph edema. Usually you can actually find this if they do like a radical prostatectomy and they get rid of some of the nodes and stuff like that. That's when we can actually start seeing lymph edema usually it's postoperatively rather than preoperatively. But that really gives you what I think you need to know about prostate cancer. So at this point what have we really talked about? Where it occurs? How they present? What are the patients that are at risk? Why hormones are really important in controlling its growth? What are the weird potential presentations if it happens to grow big enough or in certain locations? What's the most common presentation unfortunately? Now let's talk about the scenario where we have a patient who is either they don't really have any risk. What do we do? What about the patient who is very high risk or what about the patient who presents with symptoms? How do we go about determining if this is prostate cancer or something else? Let's do that now. Hi my friends let's start talking about the diagnostic approach. So when we have a patient who comes in with prostate cancer, I think one of the biggest things is that it's oftentimes asymptomatic. And that's because it's in that posterior lateral portion of the prostate which is kind of far away from the urethra. It doesn't usually get to the point unless it's like gargantuous that it's kind of compressing on the rethra you can get some blood symptoms. But the problem is with this location that you could identify it on a DRE or you may find it a little bit too late when it's actually spread. And usually what happens is when it spreads it spreads to the bones. Usually you can get in the pelvis, you can get in the vertebrae. So you get lots of bone pain and you can also get potentially super elevated alkyl phos levels. And sometimes if the tumor is kind of like you know decent size it can get near the spinal cord and cause compression of the spinal cord too. So you can get some pretty scary stuff with that one but oftentimes we don't see it a lot of the times and it's relatively asymptomatic. So then what do we do? Well then you have to assess the patient's risk of developing prostate cancer. And that's oftentimes something that we try to look at in consideration with the patient doing a good history, doing a good physical exam. And oftentimes with these patients it's based on shared decision making if they want to go through surveillance. All right, so do we want to take the time to say, hey, let's do a PSA level. Hey it's not really a part of the guidelines anymore but I think it should be implemented. This is my personal opinion of digital rectal exams. I think it should be a combination of the two. Because the PSA can be elevated as we'll talk about for multiple different reasons. And a DRE if you find something that appears abnormal, irregular, hard, I definitely should go a little bit further, evaluate that PSA, consider doing more imaging. So I think it's really, really important to combine these things but I think the decision to go that route to prevent over diagnosis, to prevent over treatment, to prevent a lot of different downfalls without an improvement in mortality and morbidity with prostate cancer because you oftentimes will not die from prostate cancer. You will usually die as a result of other things. Usually they say you don't die from prostate cancer, you die with prostate cancer because you're probably going to die from something else regardless of that one. But I think the big thing to remember with this is when it comes to average risk patients, we can if the patient agrees upon it, we can do a PSA. If they're greater than 50 years of age or we think that they have a greater than 10 in your life expectancy, then it's worth contendering screening these patients. Now the high risk ones are the ones that we should probably do earlier than 50 years of age. We should probably go 40, maybe even 45 and we should do a PSA level especially if they have African American ethnicity or a family history of prostate cancer in our first year relative. The whole point of talking about this is that if they have no specific risk factors, family history, African American ethnicity, you can talk to them, hey, when we get to 50 or greater, do you want to check a PSA level and would you mind us doing a DRE and checking to see if there's anything abnormal there. And then you can go that route. It's just obviously you have to discuss with them. If we do that, we find something abnormal, we may have to recheck it. If it's still abnormal, we may need to go the route of doing an MRI, maybe doing a biopsy. So there's all these different things and it may not provide a true benefit and it may not find anything. So that's why it's really, really important to talk to them about that. If they do have high risk features, African American, greater than 50, family history, you should consider getting it earlier than 50. So 40, 45 years of age, you should be screening them and getting that PSA considering the digital rectal exam. All right. Again, the PSA is really the one that we screen with not as much the digital rectal exam anymore and that's based upon the USPSDF. All right. So you're going to get the PSA level. And that PSA process specific antigen is made by a lot of the the luminal cells that are present within the prostig gland. And these cells, they make it because it helps to kind of like liquefy the sperm helps basically an aiding and fertilization for that sperm. And so that's really, really an important factor of it, but we can use it as a measurement of likely potentially prostate cancer, but it can be elevated in a lot of different diseases. It doesn't just have to be prostate cancer. So again, PSA is something we're going to order. The DRE is we're going to obviously check, we're going to stick our finger up there and we're going to see if we feel for any regular kind of like nodular peering masses. And that's why it's kind of important to consider that because sometimes you can have a PSA that's normal ish and you get a DRE and it comes back very abnormal. And you should be a little bit more considerate of things. So if the PSA levels are high, and we say greater than four, then that could mean that they have something going on with the prostate, but it doesn't necessarily mean cancer. So the best thing to do at that point is to repeat it because things like just sexual activity that day can cause it. Going on a bike ride and just popping up and down that can actually I'm not even kidding that can increase your PSA levels. BPH can increase your PSA levels. There's a lot of different things. If they got a digital erectile exam, they say it shouldn't, but any kind of manipulation near that area does theoretically bring the risk of bumping the PSA. So we should repeat it in six weeks and see if it's still elevated by removing all of those factors out of the equation the best we can. If the PSA were to come back elevated, then we can go a different route. Now, if we have a symptomatic patient, meaning that they come in with potentially hematuria, which is a possibility if the tumor gets near the periurethral zone, it's usually also associated with luts. So lower urinary tract symptoms. So they may have some compression there. So they feel this sense of where they have incomplete inking of the bladder. They feel like they have to go to the bladder, but they are really straining. There's lots of dribbling. These are usually consistent signs that you can see and it may be associated with hematuria. Worst case you might find this patient has severe bone pain and elevated alfalfa, suggesting that you're already finding it too late and they got potentially some bone metastasis. So these are things I think that are pretty scary and at that point, again, I would get a PSA and I would do a DRE. Look to see if you feel any mass and then check the PSA to see if it's elevated. Again, I think the important thing to remember is at this point that if the PSA levels are elevated or you have an asymmetric hard nodule that's usually not painful, that really is concerning for prostate cancer. Just because you have an elevated PSA level initially and you have no symptoms does not mean that you have the risk of prostate cancer. You should check it and if you have recurrent elevation in the PSA, it brings about the concern of prostate cancer. So you need two recurrent levels of PSA to be elevated and an asymptomatic patient, but if they have symptoms in an elevated PSA or symptoms in a positive DRE, then you should go straight to the next step. So what we would do here is we would get what's called a multi-parametric MRI. Now this is going to just be favored recently. We used to just go straight from here to a biopsy. So in other words, you should just go straight, transrectal ultrasound and biopsy that area. We try, I think a lot of clinicians now are favoring the multi-parametric MRI because one that's going to prevent the overdiagnosis is going to prevent this from actually going straight to get a biopsy if not needed. And it actually helps that if you are planning to do a biopsy, this really helps you to target your cores of where you're going to biopsy. And so that's why it's shown to be very beneficial. So again, if they have symptoms in an elevated PSA levels, symptoms in an asymmetric appearing nodule on the prostate gland, get the MPMRI, some textbooks will suggest going straight to a transrectal ultrasound with a biopsy. If they have no symptoms, you screen them, PSA elevated, repeat it, PSA elevated, boom, you should do an MPMRI or some textbooks say go straight to the transrectal ultrasound with biopsy. Now, I do think that this is a great, great test because as you can see here, we have so many sequences. And you can appreciate here, this is kind of like a hypointensity here on their 2D. You can appreciate here, there's like a hyperintensity, this is actually a hypotensity right there. This is a hyperintensity. You can appreciate a hyperintensity. So all of these things are telling me I got a prostate mass. And one of the benefits of this is that it can really help in really targeting the cores and where I want to go and actually biopsy. And that's one of the benefits of this is that they can literally, I'm not kidding, they can superimpose this onto the ultrasound as they're doing it and doing the biopsy. So it really helps to prevent overdiagnosis, to really get an accurate biopsy result. And I think it's one of the better ways of doing things now. Again, some clinicians will go straight to the transrectal ultrasound with the biopsy without even doing the MPMRI. But again, it's starting to become more favorite to do this prior to that transrectal ultrasound. The whole full goal of doing this is that whenever you go in and you do this procedure, you're going to reduce false negatives. If you go in, you biopsy an area and it comes back that it's actually negative, guess what? This is really, really helpful to make sure that whenever you take those samples, you're targeting the best areas to take the cores from. All right? Now, if you do that, you get the MPMRI, it's just like breast cancer. You get a radiology report and it reports the Pyrad score instead of the Byrad score. And so anything greater than or equal to four is pretty concerning. It's a suspicious lesion. It could be malignant. At that point, again, you're going to be going to get that transrectal ultrasound with the biopsy. So they're going to take an ultrasound probe. They're going to run it up here, unfortunately. And then it's going to help to find the mass. Usually it'll appear as kind of a hypo-coagulation. They usually just say, go straight to a transrectal ultrasound with MRIs instead of that one. But it's not as great. It's not as sensitive when it comes to finding these kinds of lesions and ruling out other ones. But you could say if you have the known image from an MRI and you do the transrectal ultrasound, it will help you with the procedure to say, okay, I see that kind of hypo-coagulation. Let me bring the MPMRI and map over it. And that's going to help me that when I stick my needle in, I'm taking the best possible cores for my sample. All right? So that's kind of how we would do this. When it's really, it's more utilizing it for the biopsy procedure. Now, once we take the biopsy, we'll send it off to the pathologist. They'll read through it. They'll calculate something called a Gleason score and a Gleason grade. And all this does is this prognosticates the patient. We're not going to go into the Gleason score and Gleason grade. It's not necessary. I think the biggest thing that you need to know overall is the Gleason score as it kind of guides to a degree. What we're going to be doing for their treatment. But overall, all it does is prognosticate. And it really helps us to say this patient has prostatic adenocarcinoma. And their Gleason score is this or their Gleason grade is this. And usually it's either less than or equal to six, seven, or greater than or equal to eight that we kind of go off of for that kind of scoring system. Now, once we've diagnosed prostate cancer, it's pretty critical to know should we be investigating if it did spread. Well, if the patient has like pretty bad bone pain, or we check an outfoss and it's really, really heavy turnover, that's really, really concerning. I'd say that's probably one of the biggest reasons of the patient having a high risk disease, meaning that it prime a tacit size. The PSA level in itself does not diagnose prostate cancer. One thing we can say somewhat with the relationship is that the higher the PSA level, the likelier, the more advanced the disease is. And so as the PSA level starts approaching greater than 20, that's when we start getting a little bit more concerned. Okay, he definitely could have an advanced disease. We should consider scanning for other areas where this could have spread to. Another one is the Gleason score. Whenever that Gleason score and Gleason grade is greater than or equal to eight, we definitely a little bit more concerned. They're more of a high risk disease. They're more of a high risk prostate cancer. And that would warrant, I would say, to make sure that it hasn't spread somewhere else, like the bones, as it involved the pelvic lymph nodes. And those are something I would definitely consider. So if you have a lot of bone pain, suggestive of metastatic disease, if you have a super elevated PSA level, or if your Gleason score and grade is at the highest point, you should probably get a CT MRI of the pelvis. One of the two, it doesn't really matter. It's the MRI is always going to be the best bet, is it's going to give real good looks at soft tissue. And I would do a bone scan. The bone scan is really going to be critical. CT MRI pelvis is also going to be pretty good, because the MRI of the pelvis is really going to show bone structure as well. So that's definitely something I would also consider. But if you need to, you can definitely get a bone scan. Here, we can see in green is this rounded lymph node. And then over here, we got this mass. And this is definitely pretty concerning. And so I definitely have a pretty decent sized problem here, where I'm pretty concerned that this patient has got likely a tumor, where it spread to a nearby lymph node. And so that's kind of concerning. That's a very common area is the pelvic lymph node metastasis. But this is the pretty common one. So you may be able to see the lesions, and these are not lytic lesions. These are osteoblastic lesions, as we talked about. You may be able to pick that up in the MRI of the pelvis, and even the CT. But a bone scan would definitely be able to show any kind of metastatic disease, as you can see here. It's riddled. All there's heavy amounts of radio tracer uptake and the vertebrae on the anterior and posterior views of this patient's spine. So that's pretty nasty stuff. And that would definitely tell me that they got metastatic prostate cancer. Transrectal ultrasound and biopsy will diagnose it, give me the score, the grade, determine the prognosis, for the most part. If that score grade is high, their PSI, PSA is super high, or they got symptoms of metastasis, get the scans to look for the metastasis. If it's present, you now have metastatic prostate cancer. Now, one other thing to also consider is that we are trying to, I think, in the future, get away from doing a CT MRI of the pelvis and the bone scan. And the reason why is PET CTs may offer way more superiority to really, really find these metastatic lesions. And so that's something that we're starting to see. And I think the MBME is actually starting to adopt that concept that the PET CT scan, if it actually is ever on the exam between a CT MRI pelvis and a bone scan, I would pick the PET CT. It's going to be a superior test. And they're actually starting to integrate that in more, that it's going to be more sensitive for detecting metastatic disease as compared to these two combined. All right. So that's something I would definitely consider. Woo, that's a lot for the diagnosis, but I think we got it. So again, asymptomatic screen, screen them based upon average risk, high risk. So 40 to 45 for the high risk is the really big one. 50 or greater, this is all shared decision making, get the PSA. If it's repeated, get the MP MRI. MP MRI is the newer thing, but we're saying it's better because it's going to help to reduce over diagnosis, reduce false negatives. It's going to give a lot of help whenever you get the actual procedure going on for the biopsy. If that comes back abnormal, get the trans rectal ultrasound with the biopsy. If they got symptoms and they got an elevated PSA or symptoms and an abnormal DRE, do the MP MRI from there, you may get the trans rectal ultrasound with the biopsy. You can diagnose prostate cancer, PSA is elevated, they got symptoms of bone disease, or their Gleason score grade is really, really high. Get the actual metastatic imaging. PET CT is going to become the more superior one that we would do to look for metastatic disease, but you still can do an MRI, the pelvis with bone scan. All right. That covers that. Now, how do we treat this? This is really, really, really important. Complication-wise, these patients can get urinary retention if it's really, really bad. You got the tumor that's starting to compress on the urethra, right? If that happens, the first thing is if they have urinary retention, they got urinary tract obstruction that's causing post-renal AKIs, you got to fully them. Right away, pop a fully in, start draining the bladder, especially they got a really, really high post-void residual. After that, start them on alpha blockers. Get them on something like Tamsylosin. The reason why is this will give some time to allow for the medication to work while they have the fully catheter in, and then you can pull the fully catheter afterwards, because you don't want to keep those in for too long. Tamsylosin, doxazosin, prasicin, terasicin, these are going to be great drugs. They're going to target inhibiting the alpha one receptor, which is on the internal urethra sphincter. It's going to relax that puppy. When that thing relaxes, it's going to help to open up that prostatic urethra just a little bit more to allow for less obstruction, and then maybe allow for you to urinate a little bit better. Oftentimes, with these, the best thing to do is just cut out a chunk of that prostate, because you're going to try to cut out the chunk of the prostate that's really impeding and obstructing on that. That's what we'll do, a transurethra reception of the prostate, if it's pretty bad. What about if it's spread to the bone? So you've got that painful bone metastasis. Oftentimes, with this, radiation therapy is going to be great, because it's going to target those areas, and it's going to help to reduce some of the actual pain that's associated with that osteoblastic mets. Now, spinal cord compression is definitely common with prostate cancer, especially in combination with painful bone metastasis. So if you get that tumor that's actually compressed, if it actually does give a tumor, or you get some osteoblastic mets that causes pathological fractures and retropulsion of the vertebrae into the spinal cord, the best thing is getting steroids. Steroids is going to reduce a lot of the associated vasogenic edema, but you're also going to want to pair that with radiation therapy, because that's also going to help to kind of decrease the size of the tumor, bring it down a little bit, kind of make it less angry, so it's not compressing on the spinal cord as much. Sometimes, you may have to debulk the thing, though. And so that's an option. Usually, what we do is when we have a patient comes in with spinal cord compression, that's an oncologic emergency, especially if it's from a tumor. We'll hit them with IV steroids, usually dexamethasone, 10 milligrams right up front, and continue it on a scheduled basis. Reach out to radiation oncology, reach out to neurosurgery, and based upon that, they will make a guided decision, and interdisciplinary decisions. Should we go radiation therapy to really hit this and shrink it down, or should we go and debulk this thing the best that we can to relieve the spinal cord compression? So those are all decisions that are usually made from those specialties. And it's not likely something that you'll have to decide on the exam. So if they do have these metastatic lesions of the bone, and they're getting androgen deprivation therapy, this is really important. Remember, androgen deprivation therapy is going to lower your testosterone levels. So when you lower testosterone levels, and you have osteoblastic meds, you're increasing the risk of this degenerative disease of the bone. So these patients need to get dexascans. And oftentimes, we have to combine this, because they have a malignancy, we'll put them on things like bisphosphonates to help to reduce the osteoclastic activity, or denosomab to reduce the osteoclastic activity. Because we're trying to help to, even though it's osteoblastic meds, there is bone disease, there's bone breakdown. And so with that, we want to try to mitigate to the best of our ability. So dexascans to watch their bone mineral density, and considering adding on things like denosomab or bisphosphonates to really, really reduce that bone breakdown. Treating prostate cancer, now you got the tumor. You tested it, it came back, Gleason score said it was less than or equal to six. This is a low risk patient. You honestly, you could do nothing. You could just do surveillance. You could just keep doing the PSA every six months. You could offer them a radical prostatectomy. That's definitely something that is an option for them. So that's something I would bring up was I would say, hey, let's hold off on doing any surgery now. Let's check the PSA in six months, see if it goes up, see if it stabilizes. If it really, really goes up, hey, I really think that we should go to the route of a radical prostatectomy. If not, then you can continue to keep surveying. All right, my friends, the next part is intermediate risk. The Gleason score is about seven now. So we're definitely in the intermediate risk now at this point. Us seeing actor surveillance is really not wise. There is a risk of this thing getting worse. It's a risk of it metastasizing, and we don't want that. We don't want it to get bigger. We don't want it to cause more symptoms. We don't want it to metastasize. So offering a radical prostatectomy would probably be the way to go. An alternative that we have seen to be pretty beneficial in this stage is radiation therapy. So you can do radiation therapy as an alternative, but radical prostatectomy is you're removing the prostate gland with its tumor and the seminal vesicles and the common ejaculatory duct. So that's going to be one of the ways that we can go about this. But you can consider radiation therapy, but oftentimes if we go that route, we consider should we go the route of using androgen deprivation therapy. And you're probably like, okay, what in the saying hack is androgen deprivation therapy? It's pretty straightforward. Is it kind of cool this mechanism? So there's a couple different drug targets. So your hypothalamus makes something called GnRH. This is called the hypothalamus pituitary gonadilaxis. So hypothalamus makes GnRH tells the pituitary, antipituitary to pump out things like LH and FSH. LH is really the big one that we want to talk about. Now, the pituitary gland also makes ACTH. It's not dependent upon GnRH. CRH actually is what tells the antipituitary to make ACTH, but ACTH is also made by the antipituitary. And that will then go to the adrenal glands, and it's supposed to tell the zone of acetylata to make cortisol, but it also tells the zone of acetylaris to make androgens. You're going to add a cotycoids, which is androcynodione and DHEA. DHEA is an androgen that can be converted into testosterone. So LH can tell the light excels in the testes to make testosterone. DHEA can actually be converted in those into testosterone. So testosterone then goes to the prostate. It's like, hey, bruh, I got to do my job, but I got to convert it into something called DHT, and that's dependent upon a 5-alpha reductase enzyme. Now DHT then says, okay, you got less of this. You got some of this DHT. DHT is the active. It's really the active testosterone molecule, because then it's going to bind onto the angina receptor, get into the nucleus, and it's going to start causing the growth of these prostate luminal cells. I don't want that. I got to shut this down. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to give something very interesting. I'm going to give something called genaree jaggedness. You're like, wait, what? Because that's going to act like this dude. That's going to amplify this. It does, but watch what happens. It's kind of cool. You stimulate the angiotipituitary to pump out LH a little bit, right? You're going to get a surge. Then you're going to get a surge of testosterone, but guess what happens when you get a little bit of too much of a surge in testosterone? We got to keep things in balance, bruh. So guess what it does? It then goes back and does a negative feedback mechanism, shuts down the genaree, shuts down the LH, shuts down the testosterone, shuts down the DHT, and you don't cause the cell to grow. That's pretty cool, man. Genaree jaggedness is just straight to the, right down to the crux of the issue. It's blocking genaree. That's blocking LH, testosterone, DHT, and the cell growth, my friend. So that's the concept that I want you guys to understand is that we're either going to be doing this to trigger a little surge to negative feedback or we're just shutting down the pathway in general with these. So looper-lite is definitely one. Degorelix is an alternative. Now usually it's one of these two in combination with radiation therapy we would consider. It's not until we get to the later stages, usually high risk, metastatic, that we start adding on other ones. And so there is another one called an angiogen receptor antagonist. And it's going to do this. It's going to block the receptor. DHT can't buy him, bruh. This is insolutomide. Now insolutomide will block this receptor. You can't get the DHT to bind. If the DHT can't bind to this, you're not going to get any cell growth. And so that cell growth is going to shut down. So these are the benefits. And this is usually something that you would add on to looper-lite or add on to Degorelix if they got a little bit later on. And we'll talk about that. All right, now we move into the high risk patients. So when we have a high risk patient, this is again, you can do a radical prostatectomy. That would be the way to go in this one. I'd say that would probably be the best bet.  given that it's at a pretty extensive stage. Again, you still have the option, but at this point, I would say radiation therapy alone is a little bit dangerous, and you should really try to combine this with the antigen deprivation therapy. So again, we start off with surveillance in that low risk, right? Consider bringing out the radical prostatectomy if it gets worse, or radiation therapy if it gets worse. When you get to the intermediate risk, radical prostatectomy is gonna be the best way to go, but you can consider offering radiation therapy. And after they do the radiation therapy, you could offer a very short course. You can consider adding a short course of antigen deprivation therapy. Once you're at the high risk, it's radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy, and it's definitive. It's a very high dose long course of antigen deprivation therapy. And so that's definitely the way that we go about that. And again, so it's gonna be usually either looper-lied or degorellics, all right? Now, what happens is when we get to the metastatic, a metastatic prostate cancer, you're not gonna be going the route of doing a prostatectomy, all right? It's gonna be medical castration is oftentimes the most common way that we go about this. So we're gonna do an antigen deprivation therapy like looper-lied or degorellic, and then we'll add on another agent. This could be a chemotherapeutic agent like doctataxyl, or it could be insolutamide, which is that antigen receptor antagonist. So there's definitely ways that we could go about this, but oftentimes when we're at this stage, it's not offering radiation, it's not offering any radical prostatectomy. It's just medical therapy with ADT, plus likely this agent. That's what I would want you guys to remember. Now, there is options. We can consider a surgical castration, a bilateral orcheectomy, and this is literally what it sounds like. You're gonna get rid of. So the hopeful goal here is to minimize testosterone chemically. But if you can't, then you gotta surgically remove the source of testosterone, which is the testicles, right? And so you would literally cut and remove the testicles bilaterally, now you don't have the ability to make testosterone anymore. Once you've done that, your testosterone sources are going to go away, and you're not gonna allow for that prostate gland to continue to keep growing aggressively. So that's what we would consider, and it's really only something that we do if they truly can't tolerate the antigen deprivation therapy, or they absolutely are non-compliant with it. They just will not do it. That would be an option if they really wanna take care of their prostate cancer, all right? Now, again, just kind of reminding you that when we give antigen deprivation therapy, it's dropping testosterone. So you run the risk of things like erectile dysfunction, reduced libido, gynecomastia. But the big thing is the osteoporosis, right? The pathological fractures that oftentimes goes hand in hand with the osteoblastic mets. And so again, doing the DEXA scans, considering denosomatobisphosphonate is very, very beneficial for these patients. All right, that covers prostate cancers, my dudes. I really hope that you enjoyed it. I hope that you learned a lot. I hope that whenever you see this on the exam, you'll be like, bro, nothing, rip it, boom, roast it. I hope that you guys got this seriously. And I love you guys, and thank you guys so much for being awesome engineers. And as always, until next time.