Alright guys, so if you look here we're going to take a look at the radius and the ulna. So right here this is going to be our ulna, which is on the pinky side. This is going to be the radius, which is on the thumb side. What we're going to do is, we're going to take a look at each bone individually. So we're going to start ahead with the ulna. So if you look here at the ulna, we have this little notch right here on the ulna, that's actually called the radial notch, because we're the head of the radius causes that depression. Actually, where that depression is, is actually what we call the proximal radioulnar joint. Which is a synovial pivot joint and it allows for pronation and supination. I'm going to show you guys here, I take the head of the radius right here and fit that in right there, that's actually going to show us the proximal radioulnar joint, all right. So let's keep going, so look up here at the top part here, you see this like nice little process, this pointy part of it, that's called the olecranon process. It fits right into the olecranon fossa of the humerus and forms a synovial hinge joint. So does this, this is also synovial hinge joint, where the coronoid process of the ulna fits into the coronoid fossa of the humerus and forms a synovial hinge joint. And I'm going to turn it a little bit right here, this part right here little scoop thing, that is the trochlear notch. That's what articulates with the trochlea. Okay, if you remember it's the medial condyle of the humerus. Okay that's also going to form synovial hinge joint. Then what I'm going to do is, we're going to come down the ulna right here, and then we're going to be right here. If you see this little pointy thing right there, that's the styloid process of the ulna. And what's interesting is this whole thing at the bottom is actually going to be the head of the ulna. So the head of the ulna and then the styloid process with the ulna. Okay so now we're going to take a look deeper, look at the radius. So if we look here at the radius, this is going to be the head of the radius right there. That's again what causes that depression and the ulna which we talked about was the proximal radioulnar joint. Another thing is the radius actually causes that depression and the humerus is called the radial fossa. This is a radial tuberosity. Radial tuberosity right there. And then there's some ligaments that actually wrap right around this region called the annular ligament. And actually what allows for pronation and supination. Now we're going to go ahead and bring this guy this way that you guys can see this part right here. This part right here, I want to show this, this is actually called the ulnar notch. And if you look guys, you can see here that this right here, where the head of the ulna is it attaches right there. That is going to be the ulnar notch that's causing that. But now, if you look here that this is another joint, this is actually the distal radioulnar joint. And then again, this is actually going to be a synovial pivot joint which allows for pronation and supination. All right. So now, we're going to get this ulna out of there. We're going to come back over here, and we're going to take a look at the radius here I want to look at one more part here and this is actually going to be called the styloid process. And again remember that the styloid process, styloid processes are going to be at the distal end, and these are what allow for articulation to the carpal bones, as well as the other styloid process on the ulna which a lot for articulation with the carpal bones. Alright pretty much gives us everything we know about the radius and the ulna.