All right, ninja nerds. In this video, we're going to talk about the loop of Henley. Now, if you guys haven't already seen it, I want you guys to go into the actual uh specifically the kidney playlist and take a look and watch the glomeme filtration and the proximal convoluted tubial video before you guys come and watch the loop of Henley video so that you guys can tie it all together. Okay. So, loop of Henley, there's two parts of loop of Henley. So loop of henley consists of the descending limb which is this part here and then coming up the ascending limb. So again let's actually define that again. So the loop of henley is broken into two parts. one is the descending limb and we're going to talk about this one first and then the second one the other component of the loop of Henley is the ascending limb. Now before I do this I want to introduce another term that you guys might not have been familiar with or you might be familiar with. This term is called nefron. So I want to talk about this term called nefron. So nephron, what is a nephron? Okay, so nephron, you remember we talked about this within the actual glomemeular filtration video. It's consisting of a renal core pusle. So what's a renal corpusle consisting of? This right here, the glomemeilus and the associated Bowman's capsule. Right? So so far, what's the nephron made up of? Let's put it in like a little like a maybe like a little a mathematical equation here. We'll say glomemeilus plus bowman's capsule plus we already talked about the proximal convoluted tubial. So this is another component the proximal convoluted tubial. So we'll put PCT. It's also going to be the loop of henley. So the descending and the ascending limb. So we're also going to add loop of henley to this. And then the last part is the distal convoluted tubule and that's this part that we'll talk about in the next video. This is what's making up our nephron. Now our nephron again one more time is made up of the glomemeulus which is the capillaries the bowman's capsule the proximal convoluted tubial the loop of henley and the distal convoluted tubial. You know within one kidney you have about 1.2 million nephrons but you know usually you have two kidneys. So if you have two kidneys, how many total nephrons does that make then? 2.4 million of these nephrons within your two kidneys. That's unbelievable. Okay, so now let's get back to the loop of Henley. So the loop of Henley is a component of the nephron, right? So let's talk about the descending limb first. So if you guys remember what did we c let's catch up, we had filtration, the glome filtration process, right? After that we had this process of tubular reabsorption of certain types of chemicals right and we had the process in which we discussed tubular secretion of certain chemicals right so again this is called tubular secretion and this right here is called tubular reabsorption now I got to get some numbers in here again sorry guys I really wish I didn't have to do all these numbers but if you remember what was the osmolality with inside of the glomeus it was approximately 300 millosm moles. What was it when it went into the Bowman's capsule? It was approximately 300 millos moles. Here's the next question. What is it when it leaves the proximal convoluted tubule? Some of you might be like blown away by this. Some of you might understand it. It's 300 millos moles. Now, you're probably like, "Holy crap, Zach. You reabsorbed a lot of different salts and by carb and nutrients and all that kind of stuff. Why would it be 300 millosmals? Shouldn't it be less?" No. Why? I'm going to tell you why. Out of the substances that you reabsorbed, remember that we had 65% of that was actually sodium. And how much of it was water? Exactly the same amount? 65% of it was also water. If you reabsorb the same amount of water and sodium ions into the blood, don't you have the same amount being reabsorbed? So if that same amount is being reabsorbed then the what's coming into this actual loop of Henley that's descending should now be the same as the actual plasma osmolality. So it's 300 millosm moles. So it's also it's what we refer to it as isotonic with the blood plasma. So this is isotonic with the blood plasma and then the actual filtrate in the actual Bowman's capsule is also isotonic with the blood plasma meaning it's equal. But watch what happens here as we're actually coming down this actual uh specifically about renal medulla because whenever you get to the nefron loop this loop of henley it's dipping down into the actual renal medulla. So as it's dipping down into the renal medulla look what happens to the actual concentration of the actual osmolality as we move down. So right here it's about 300 millosm moles. Then as you move down it gets to about 500 millosm moles. If I move down even more it gets to about 700 millosm moles. If I move down here it's about 900 millosm moles. And then all the way down here it's about 1,200 millios moles. If you're looking what's happening to the actual the plasma osmolality or just I'm sorry this actual medularary interstitial osmolality. What's happening? It's getting saltier or more hypertonic as you go down the renal medulla. So as I'm moving down this renal medulla, the actual concentration of this actual salty ions are actually increasing. It's getting becoming more salty as I move down. All right. So now let's talk about osmo lality. Osmolality. Okay. If you remember, we said that if there's a high osmolality, that refers to specifically high amounts of sodium and chloride in the blood, right? Or just a lot of solutes in the blood. So, we can refer to this as solutes. And then we said that it was a very low amount of water. This is referred to as when you have high amounts of salt and low water, this is referred to as hypertonic. Now let's do this another way. Let's say we do it like this. Now what if the sodium chloride or the sodium and the chloride and the different types of solutes in the blood let's say that this is less and then the amount of water is more. When this is the case, this is referred to as hypotonic. And what would this person's osmolality be? This person's osmolality would be osmolality would be very very low. But now let's say the last scenario. So let's take the last scenario and let's say that the sodium chloride or just our solutes in general is equal to the amount of water. What's that referred to? This is referred to as isotonic. Okay. So now we have to take this into consideration now that we understand what these terms of osmolality and hypertonic hypotonic isotonic means. Let's look at this as we're moving from the actual cortex all the way down deep to the renal medulla dot into the renal pyramids all the way down to that pillow. What's happening to the osmolality? It's increasing. So what does that mean? If osmolality is increasing that means there's a lot of sodium and a lot of chloride ions in that area and very little water. Okay. How in the heck am I getting this salty? I'm glad you asked. You see this googlyeyed freaking guy right there? You see that googly eye guy? That googly eye guy is a very special transporter. This googly eye guy is called a sodium potassium 2 chloride coransporter. Holy crap. That was a lot. Right. That was a mouthful. But again, that's what this guy is. This googly eye guys are going to be sodium potassium two I two two chloride co-ansporters. Look what they transport. They take sodium, they take potassium, and they take chloride ions, and they transport it all from the actual lumen of the actual filtrate into this actual tubial cell of the ascending limb. And then there's special transporters or special types of channels here on the basolateral membrane. And each one is specific to these guys. So there's B right here. Let's say that's a sodium channel. Let's say that this one right here is going to be a potassium channel. And let's say that this one right here is actually going to be a chloride channel. What happens? Chloride is going to get pushed out. What's going to happen to the sodium? He's going to get pushed out. Now the potassium, some of it, a small amount of it will actually leak out, but some of it will actually stay in this area. We'll discuss that in just a second here. But now what's getting really really concentrated out in this area then we're having a lot of sodium concentration is increasing. So a lot of sodium is going to get pushed out here. So let's show a lot of sodium ions increasing out in this area. And that's why it's getting salt here. What else is increasing in this area? There's also going to be a lot of chloride ions in this area. So there's going to be a lot of chloride ions in this area because they're also getting pumped out here too. So what is this? What did I just say? As we're going down, it's getting salt here. Why is it getting salt here? Because these sodium potassium two glycotansporters are active are actually pumping this not actively they're pumping this sodium this chloride and some of that potassium out here. So what is it going to be doing here? Same thing. So what will this be pushing out? Sodium. It'll be pumping out potassium. Some of that potassium will actually stay out here though. We'll talk about why in a second. And then chloride is also going to be pushed out. So what's happening to the concentration here? Chloride concentration is increasing. The sodium concentration is increasing and the potassium concentration is increasing just a tiny bit. Nothing significant. We'll put like a tiny little arrow there. Okay. But either way, nonetheless, what's happening to the concentration out here? It's getting salty and saltier and saltier as you're going down. All right. Now, this so this as you're going this way, it's pumping out sodium, potassium, and chloride. But as this is going down, what's going to be one of the components in here? You're going to have a lot of water in this area. So, water loves to follow sodium chloride. I told you that, right? Well, where's that sodium and where's that chloride at? It's out here in that meillary interstitial space. So, out here in this meillary interstitial space, what's happening? We're having a lot of sodium ions out here and we're having a lot of chloride ions pushed out here. And if all of these guys are accumulating out in this area, what's happening to this area? It's becoming very salty. What's water going to want to do? He's going to want to go to the areas of where salt is. So, where's water going to start flowing? It's going to start flowing out into this area here by a type of obligatory water reabsorption. Right now, you might be wondering, how does this water get out? What are these blue channels? Because I didn't just draw them for no reason. They have to have a specific type of name. They do. These channels here are called aquaporin type one. And the only reason I'm mentioning that because we'll talk about the collecting duct and we'll talk about aquaporn 2 and three and four. But aquapor one is these channels that are always open in the descending limb of the loop of henley. And as this actual filtrate is going down consisting of a lot of water. What happens is as it's going down the ascending limb as it's going up it's pumping out so sodium potassium and chloride ions and the concentration of the salt is increasing in this area. So as this is going down and this is going up it's making the medulla really really salty. So what happens to the water? It wants to move out of the descending limb and into this medularary interstial space. So you start losing water passively. What does that call? Whenever as the ascending limb is going up this way and it's pumping out sodium, potassium and chloride as it's going up it's doing that. And while water is going down, water's following the salt out into that medularary interstitial space. That mechanism is called it's right over here. It's called the counter current multiplier mechanism. Okay. So, one more time, let's explain the counter current multiplier As this actual filtrate is moving through this area, I should mention something also. You're probably wondering, well, can't salt and stuff leave? No, because the actual descending limb of the loop of Henley is completely impermeable to solutes. What does that mean? That means salts can't go out and they don't really come in either. Okay, so again, one more time, as this is actually flowing down, the only thing that it's permeable to is water. It's impermeable to solutes. On the ascending limb, it's the exact opposite. It is completely impermeable to water, but only permeable to solutes. So what is it doing in this area here in the ascending limb? It's pumping out sodium, potassium, and technically two chloride ions, right? Two chloride ions. And as that's doing that, it's pumping this sodium, potassium, and two chloride ions in this area and making it really, really salty and concentrated and very, very hypertonic. As the actual descending limb of loop of Henley is going down, what happens to the water? It wants to be where the salt is. So it leaves the descending limb and goes out into the medularary interstitium. And what happens then if we're losing a lot of water, what would it be? Let's say it takes this turn. The filtrate takes the turn here and it's going to get ready to go into the ascending limb. What do you think the uh osmolality will be in this area here? It started off at 300, but then it gets saltier as you go down. So technically, if water was flowing out here, let's say that it was uh let's say it was 300, right? And it's almost about 300 there. The water is going to want to flow out into this area where the salt is until it's about 500 millosm moles. Same thing here. It's about 700. So water is going to want to flow out of the actual kidney tubule, the descending limb, out into this area until the kidney tubules plasma osmolality is about 700 millos moles. Right? Let's keep going down over here in this area. It's going to be about 900 millos moles. Water's going to want to keep flowing out into this area until his osmolality in the kidney tubule is equal to about what? 900 millosmles. What do you think will continue to keep happening? Water will continue to keep going out into this medularary interstial space until whenever it takes that turn and gets ready to go up, it is now 1,200 millos moles. What is 1,200 millosmals? Is that a pretty high number? I would say that's a lot. So if it's a lot, if it's a high osmolality, what does that mean? It's really, really rich in. It's rich in a lot of solutes like sodium and chloride and very very low in water. So we're going to say then that this plasma osmolality of the filtrate is now hypertonic to what? Hypertonic to the plasma osmolality of 300 millos. Okay. Now, as we go up, it's really, really concentrated. But then what does it do when it's in the ascending limb? It's pumping out sodium, potassium, and chloride ions. And it continues to pump out sodium and potassium and chloride ions. When it goes away, what was it pretty much pumping out? It was only pumping out salt, right? Sodium, potassium, two chloride annions. No water was leaving. It actually goes until when it actually moves up to this area, it's almost equal to 300 millos moles. It's approximately around like 200 millosmals about when it gets into the distal convoluted tubial. So now again one more time as it's going down it becomes at the end of it becomes hypertonic. Why? Because you're losing a lot of water out into the medularary interstitial space. Why are you losing it? Because as the ascending limb is taking the filtrate up, it's pumping sodium, potassium, and two chloride ions out here through this co-ansporter, making the medulla really salty. That's why you get the countercurren multiplier mechanism. As it's going up though, it's pumping the salt out. So, it loses a lot of salt or solutes. So the osmolality when it gets up to this point here which is called the distal convoluted tubule it's a little bit less than 300 millosmals about like 200. Okay what does that call whenever your osmolality is really low? Let's look if the osmolality is really low that means that you've don't have a lot of solutes and you have a little bit more water in that area than you do solutes. So we have a low osmolality. That's referred to as hypotonic. So now as the fluid leaves the ascending limb of loop of Henley, it now is considered to be hypotonic with comparison to what the plasma osmolality of 300 millosmles. Okay. And again it can range. I could say really the range is about from 12 to about 200 millosmals really. Okay. and I can then the filtrate will go into the DCT which we'll talk about next but I got to talk about this guy now the vaserecta so the vaserecta is really important okay the vaserecta is a branch of the paratubular cap it's actually a paratubular capillary in the medulla and so it's a branch of the uh eerant arterial now we refer to the vaserecta as what's called the countercurren exchanger er counter current exchanger. Okay, so let's go back to the osmolality. What was it as we were moving down? Let's assume that it was about 300 right here. Then as we move down it went to about 500. Then as we go down a little bit more went to 700. Then it went to 900. And then it goes to about 1,200. Right? So that's our renal medull. That's the the medularary interstatial gradient, right? The plasma osmolality gradient. So you know blood flow through the vaserectctor is really really sluggish. It's really really slow. It's moving really really slow. And as this blood is flowing through this area what's happening to the concentration. It's getting really really salty. So what's really really high in concentration out here? You're going to have a lot of sodium ions in here. You're going to have a lot of chloride ions in here. Right? So as it goes down it picks up a lot of sodium chloride. So, it picks up a lot of sodium chloride and more and more sodium chloride as it's going down. But at the same time, if it's really really salty in this area and you know there's water coming from that area. So, there's going to be water, where's water going to want to flow? We've already talked about this. It's going to want to flow from areas of low plasma osmolality, right? Or low osmolality to high osmolality where there's a lot of salt. So water is going to come out here to where it's salty. And if it's moving out here to where it's salty, look what it's doing. It's moving the water out and it's bringing the sodium chloride in. But then look what happens. It makes this turn and it comes back up. Now, as the plasma osmolality starts decreasing, what are you going to want to do then? You're going to want to get rid of the sodium chloride. So now you're going to start pushing that sodium chloride out. And when it leaves you, so it's about 300 going in. So it's about 300 millosmals going in. It's approximately about 325 millosmals leaving almost exactly equal. So again, you're pushing out the sodium chloride. But look what else happens. As you're going up, the sodium chloride is actually going to get pushed out, right? So it's actually going to get pushed out. The water is going to move back in. Okay. So the water is going to move back in. What is the significance of this? The whole purpose of having the sodium going in the so salt going in and the water going out going down the vasorcta and then the exact opposite occurring going you're going up the vaserecta where it's pushing the salt out and bringing the water in is because imagine this let's imagine all this area right here it's really really salty a lot of sodium a lot of chloride if we have a lot of like fluid coming through here and let's say it washes away that sodium chloride you're not going to be able to maintain that nice medul ary interstatial gradient. So all this vaserecta or the countercurren exchanger is doing is it's preventing the rapid removal of sodium chloride. So it's not actually developing this medularary interstatial gradient or this countercurren multiplier mechanism, right? It's not the one generating it, it's maintaining it. So again, one more time, what is the function of the countercurren exchanger? As it's going down, it's picking up salt and getting rid of water. as it turns the corner and goes up, it gets rid of the salt and brings in water and it takes a little bit more salt away. What's the significance of this? To prevent the rapid removal of sodium chloride from the meillary interstitium so that you can maintain a nice gradient, a nice salinity gradient. Okay, that's one function. You know what else? It carries oxygen. You know, these cells, they depend upon oxygen. So he's also going to be delivering oxygen and certain types of nutrients to these tissue cells also. So that's another function. So two functions of the vasorcta. One is helps to maintain the medularary interstatial gradient by chloride from this medularary interstatium. And the second one is it provides oxygen to the tissue cells. And again remember that the vaserect has a very very sluggish blood flow. All right. So let's go ahead and sum everything up then. So let's get this out of the way. So let's go ahead and start with what's happening in the descending and what's happening in the ascending. So if you remember descending limb, what was actually what was the whole purpose here? Remember that it was water permeable meaning that water can move in or it can move out, right? And it was solute impermeable. So no salts can leave, right? So no salts can leave here. So it's actually going to be water permeable solute impermeable. Now what were those proteins that were present within the actual membrane? Those were called aquaporin one. So aquaporn one, right? And what was aquaporn one allowing for? It was allowing for the water to move out where out into the medularary interstitium. Right? So interstitium why was it moving out into the medularary interstatium? Because remember what was happening in the ascending limb. In the ascending limb you had what? You had that sodium potassium 2 chloride coransporter. And what was that sodium potassium 2 chloride coransporter doing? It was pumping sodium out. It was pumping potassium out. And it was pumping two chloride ions out. Out where? Out into the meillary interstitium. If it pumps it out into the meillary interstitium, what's it going to do to the medularary intersticium? It's going to make it really salty. If it's really really salty on that medularary interstitium as it's going up what's it going to do? It's going to want to pull the water out into that area. What does that call whenever the water moves out into the area of the medularary intersticium? As it's going down while as the ascending limb is moving up it's actively pumping out that sodium, potassium and chloride. That whole event is called the countercurren multiplier mechanism. And who was maintaining this salinity gradient, this salty gradient within the actual medularary interstitial preventing the rapid removal of the salt and providing oxygen to the tissue cells. It was the vaserecta, our countercurren exchanger. Oh, and oh, I actually told you I was going to tell you something about the potassium, didn't I? Remember I told you that some of that potassium stays out here? What happens is some of that potassium gets released out, but what happens is some of that potassium actually gets pushed in to the lumen of the filtrate. When it gets pushed in, it creates a depolarization of the inner side of the membrane. this ascending limb. What's present in this area is calcium and magnesium because there's a lot of positively charged or depolarization of this inner lining of the actual luminal membrane. They can't move out. They can't actually get out of this area. Usually, they want to be able to get out of this area, right? What happens is because they're actually they're actually trying to get out into this area, they get bounced around because of these positive charges, right? Because they're repelled. What eventually happens is they get bounced around. Boom boom boom and move right through this area right here. They actually move right in between these cells. What is that called? Whenever the uh calcium and the magnesium moves in between the cells, that's called parasellular transport. So the calcium and the magnesium could also undergo reabsorption into this actual medularary interstatial space by parasellular route. All right. So we covered a lot of information guys, a lot of stuff with respect to the loop of Henley. We covered the counterurren multiplier mechanism, the countercurren exchanger. A lot of different information. I really hope all of it made sense. I hope you guys enjoyed it. Uh if you guys liked it, hit that like button, subscribe, leave any comments. We'd appreciate it. We really want to be able to help help you guys out and make a difference. All right, engine nerds. Until next time.