All right, ninja nerds. In this video, we're going to talk about force spyometry. You know why force spyometry is so important? Because it's useful for pulmonary function tests to determine if someone has an obstructive or restrictive pulmonary disorder. So, what we're going to do is we're going to take a look at this curve. Now, before we do this, let me explain to you what's actually happening for this actual graph to be registered. Okay? So when when someone's doing force spyometry, you take this apparatus called a spyometer and what you do is you take in as much air as you forcefully can right. So you and then at that point you start breathing into the force spyometer all the spyometer with the most as as much forceful expiration as possible. So you're taking in as much air as you possibly can forcefully and you're expiring as much air as you possibly can forcefully. So in other words, And then what you do is going to be registered on this graph. Okay. Now, since we're doing this, the point that we need to look at for certain types of obstructive and restrictive pulmonary disorders is two points on this curve. One point is how much air will we able to forcefully expire within the first second of that expiration. So during the first second of expiration, how much air were we able to forcefully expire? So let's say we take this graph here and I move up from this right here because this is our time. You know, on this graph here, time is in the x- axis, it's in seconds. Here on the y- axis is volume and it's in liters, right? So I come up from this one point here. So I'm going to come up and it's going to be approximate, guys. It's not going to be perfect. It's just going to be approximate. And I'm going to come up over here a little bit and it's going to be around four. Okay. So if I come up from that one point, hit it, come over. Okay, it's right around four lers. Okay, give or take. We're going to round it off to four. Okay, what do you call that point in which you monitor how much air you're forcibly expiring in 1 second? It's called the FEV of 1 second. So what do we call this point right here? This point right here is called the forced expiratory volume. So should make all of this capital here. Forced expiratory volume at 1 second. Okay. So it's the forced expiratory volume. The amount of air that you can forcibly expire within the first second of that force expiration. The next point that we care about is we care about what is the maximum the the most amount of air that we can forcefully inspire and expire. So you'll find that by the highest point of the curve. So, where is the curve at its highest point? So, if I look at it, it's not going to be perfect, but I'm going to say it's about right here. So, I'm gonna say that's the point at which the curve is about at its highest point. Okay. If that's the case, then I'm going to move this over to the left and I'm going to hit what it is on the volume. And if you want, we can figure out, okay, what was the time about? It's not necessarily that significant for the time because we don't care what time it was. So we just want to know at what point was the actual amount of volume that that individual forcefully inspired and expired. What was the point at which it was the highest on the graph? That point in which it was the highest on the graph tells us how much air this person can forcefully inspire and how much the person can forcefully expire. That's called forced vital capacity. So forced vital capacity is the total volume of air that you can forcefully inspire and expire. It's the highest point on the graph. So this would be called the FVC force vital capacity. Now why is all of this significant? Okay, so let me explain to you. We're going to take these some people they the intelligent individuals out there they said what if we take this force expiratory volume at 1 second and we make a ratio of it. We compare this to this. So look what they did. They made this formula and what they did is they said if we take the forced expiratory volume right at one second and I put that over the force vital capacity. So I'm going to put that over the forced vital capacity. So my FVC I can determine something because whenever I get this number I'm going to get a decimal. But then what I'm going to do is there's no they're all in the same units, right? Because this is going to be liters. This is going to be liters. So I can put that here on the side. This is in liters and this unit right here will be in liters. What they said is, okay, well I I'm going to get a decimal out of this. Let's take and multiply whatever answer we get out of this by 100. All right. So whatever answer we get out of this, let's multiply it by 100 and we'll get a nice percentage. Okay, pretty sweet. So look what they did and this is taking into consideration normal. Okay? So they did a normal calculation. So let's say that this person that's exhibiting this spyometer is exhibiting a normal breathing pattern. Normal fee, normal FVC. So if we look at this, it's about four for this FEV, right? Because we come up from that 1 second. We have to look here. It has to be at 1 second. We have to find the point at which it's at 1 second. We son of a gun. Let me follow this up here. from one second we go up and we go to the four point. That is the FEV of one second. So now what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna take that number and I'm gonna plug it in up there. So again, what would this number be here? This would be four lers. So it's going to be here. I'll put it here in the bottom. Four lers and it's going to be over the force vital capacity. What is my force vital capacity? Okay, let's come back over here. It's the highest point in the curve. Well, if I come here, it doesn't matter what time it is. It just says, okay, it took you 4 seconds during the expiratory process to reach your force vital capacity. That's all it's saying. But if I come over here to the left, this will tell me how much volume, how much air actually expelled. Okay, that is actually five lers. Okay, cool. Let me write that down. So, if I take four lers over five lers, um this is approximately about 08, right? So, this is approximately about uh 0.8 And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to multiply this 08 by 100. What does that give me? That gives me 80%. Okay, gives me 80%. This is taking into consideration if this is the number that you get. This is considering that this person has normal pulmonary function. Okay, normal pulmonary function. Obviously within a standard deviation of a little bit, right? because every person might not have exactly 80% on their actual pulmonary function test. But this gives you that there has normal pulmonary function. Okay. But like anything, it's good to know what things are normally, but it's more important to know how these things are, you know, failing. What happens if there's actually less than 80? What happens if there's greater than 80? Okay. So, let's say for a second, all right, we look at someone who's actually going to have what's called an obstructive pulmonary disorder. So, there's two types of disorders that can affect this. So, one, so we look at these pulmonary disorders. Out of these pulmonary disorders, there's going to be two main types here, right? One is going to be obstructive and the other one is going to be restrictive. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this. What I just want to get across here is how is this actually related to this force spyometry? When people who have obstructive pulmonary disorders, these individuals when you look at obstructive like what is an example of an obstructive pulmonary disorder? This would be like um emphyma. This would be like chronic bronchitis. Um, even asthma is categorized as technically it's actually categorized as an obstructive pulmonary disorder. A lot of debate on this one. Some people say it's restrictive. Uh, generally though it's actually categorized as obstructive pulmonary disorder. But these are obstructive pulmonary disorders. In this situation, I'm going to write it down. I'm going to explain it, but I'm going to write it down for right now. And people who have obstructive pulmonary disorders, their percentage is usually less than 80%. They usually have less than an 80% on their pulmonary function test. Less than 80% generally. Let me explain why. If we take that formula over there for the actual FEV over the FVC, think about this mathematically. If the FEV okay I'll keep this consistent I had all these capitalized right if this is FEV at one second over what over FVC right over my FVC. Watch this. Think about this in mathematical terms. If this number is larger the percentage goes up. If this number is smaller the percentage goes up. Let me make this just real easy for you guys. Both the FEV and the FEC in these type of situations, they don't go up. They generally go down. So in other words, FEV of one second is going to go down and it's going to cause one of these two disorders. Restrictive FC or F fe is going to go down in one of these two disorders. We're going to determine which one. So if both of them go down, well, if the FEV goes down, that'll make the percentage Oh, that'll make it smaller. If the FVC goes down, oh, that's going to make the percentage bigger. So in this situation, these individuals have a very very low FEV of 1 second. So in other words, if you were to look at the graph, where would theirs be? They might, if we were to potentially make like uh another curve here. Let's say I do it with actually with this purple here. We would expect the curve to do be to look a little bit like this. Then I'm going to come here, right? They might have the same their FBC might drop a little bit. But what the the main purpose of this is trying to see this. What would it be like right there? Okay. So, we don't even really need this. Let's get this out of the way so we don't actually confuse this. What would you expect the curve to look like in general at this point right there? So, if we come up to this point here, this is their new FEV. And if I follow this over, what is it? It's a lot less than four. Okay. Okay, so these individuals, you're going to see that they're going to have a decrease in the FEV at 1 second and this is categorized during obstructive pulmonary disorders. Whereas someone who has a restrictive pulmonary disorder. So if you think about restrictive pulmonary disorder, uh what are the types of restrictive? There's so many different types. I'm not going to go over all of them, but generally it's anything like, you know, tuberculosis. Um, even any type of interstitial lung disease regardless of the eeteology, whether it be inflammation, infection, whatever. We're just going to put here interstitial lung diseases like pneumonitis and different types of situations like that. Okay? So, things like that. Let me actually put this volume over here so we can stay consistent here. So, we can keep coming down here. So again over here on this y- axis just so you know this is going to be volume specifically in liters. So interstatial lung diseases and there's other things pulmonary fibrosis just scarring too. So you can even say as people get older like just the general pulmonary fibrosis. Okay. But either way what happens with these individuals they usually have a pulmonary function test that's greater than 80%. So their pulmonary function test is usually greater than 80%. Why? Look at the formula. Let's say here's the formula. If we go here and we say that there's the FEV at what? 1 second over what? Over the FVC. So it's over the FVC. And we said only one of these. Okay. And each one of these, one of them is going to drop. Neither of them are really going up in this case. All right. In this situation. So this one went down. So obviously this one's going to have to go down. And this should make sense because if this number goes down, if your FVC goes down, what happens to the overall number? It goes up. So the percentage goes up. And that's why they have a greater than 80% polinary function test. Before I show this, let me actually show what it would look like in the graph again. What would you see for these individuals? Well, if we were to follow another curve, just uh let's do this one in this green color here. I were to come here. I'm gonna come just right next to right along with the actual FEV. Sometimes these individuals FEV can drop, but we're not looking at it for that reason. We're looking at it for the F VC. So again, come to this point here, the highest point in the actual curve. Where would you find the highest point in the curve? Looks like it's somewhere around here. And I would follow it over again. And as I follow this over, I would notice what the FEC went down. Okay? So that's what you see inside the actual graph. You would see this abnormality where this went down. Whereas in this obstructive, this would go down. Last thing to finish it off. Why is this F fe decreasing? And why is this FC decreasing? Okay, think about this son of a gun. Think about this simply here. Let's take we take this obstructive pulmonary disorder. The best example, the easiest example for this one is emphyma. Okay? So the easiest one for this example is emphyma. We're going to use that as our example. Okay. So, in emphyma, we're not going to go over the entire mechanism, but if you guys remember, we talked about it a couple times that it's going to be this situation where you're destroying a lot of the elastic tissue. And that elastic tissue is really, really important, right? Because it controls a little bit of the the natural lung elasticity, the lung wanting to recoil. So, we're going to represent that by this uh blue color here. So let's say all of this blue structure here is representing elastic tissue. All of this is elastic tissue. Well, what happens in individuals who have emphyma? And again, what does this elastic tissue do? Just so that we're clear here, the elastic tissue is trying to recoil the lungs to make the lungs want to snap back. And why is that important? Because that helps for being able to get air out. So that's one thing. So it's recoil inward recoil of the lungs passively right in emphyma you're losing a lot of this elastic tissue because you're actually breaking up the alvolar walls and making the alvolar chambers larger as that happens what starts happening to the lung. Well now it doesn't have as much inward recoil. So now look what happens. If you imagine for a second it loses its elastic tissue. If you inflate the lungs it's going to inflate really easily now because there's not much elasticity. So the elasticity is actually going to be really low in this case. So in this situation in someone who has obstructive pulmonary disorder the elasticity of the lungs elasticity decreases and the compliance of the increases. If the compliance of the lungs increases then what's going to happen then? These lungs are going to be really stretchy but they're not going to be able to recoil. If they can't recoil, what's the problem there? They can't get air out. It's that simple. With restrictive with these individuals, it's the exact opposite situation. So, let's say we take the lung again over here for this individual. We'll do it in a different color. Let's do this one in red. Say here I draw this lung, right? And in this lung if we have here we have the actual airway coming in and supplying the alvoli again in this lung it has its normal amount of elastic tissue to you know allow for the lung to have an inward recoil right but then guess what happens in these individuals let's take some type of pulmonary fibrosis as example here what we're going to do is we're going to add in some fibrous tissue let's show that with this uh maroonish color here so this maroonish color here is representing fibrous tissue accumulation As this fibrous tissue is accumulating, what is it now doing to the actual lungs? It's making them way more elastic. So now the elasticity in this case is increasing, but the actual compliance is what? Decreasing. So if their compliance is decreasing, the lungs are not going to want to expand. And that's what happens because force, what is the definition of force vital capacity? It's the amount of air that you can forcefully inspire and the amount of air that you can forcefully expire. If these individuals have a very low compliance, their lungs don't want to expand. So, they don't even really ventilate their lungs properly. So, there's not really much air coming out generally, right? So, because there's not a lot of air actually generally coming in, there's not going to be a lot of air actually going out. So, in these individuals, that's why they have this forced bladder capacity that is lower than normal. All right, engineers. In this video, we covered a uh force spyometry. We talked about the clinical correlations with it. We even went through some calculations and related it with the graph. I hope all of this made sense. I hope you guys really did enjoy it. If you did, please hit the like button, comment down in the comment section, and please hit that subscribe button. All right, Ninja Nerds, as always, until next time.