All right, ninj. In this video, we're going to go over external respiration. Now, what we're going to try to discuss throughout a series of these videos is we're going to go over specifically ventilation profusion. That's going to be the topic of this video. In the next video, we'll talk about thickness and surface area of the respiratory membrane. And in the last video, we'll talk about partial pressure gradients and solubilities, which will be that'll be a big beast right there, but we'll we'll get through them. All right. So in this video we're going to specifically focus on ventilation and profusion. Now the question is what is meant by ventilation and what is meant by perfusion. Okay let's first decipher ventilation. You know when they talk about ventilation profusion they use like a ratio. They actually say ventilation perfusion. So if I could actually write this one over the other. It's a ratio. Ventilation over perfusion is the ratio that we're going to talk about. Okay. Now let's define what ventilation is and then let's define what perfusion is. So ventilation first. Ventilation I like to think about it according to like a calculation. If we were to utilize the very very specific type of way that we can define ventilation besides the amount of air going in and out but specifically we should say it's the amount of air going in that's contributing to gas exchange and the amount of air that's coming out. So let me explain what I mean by that. So when we talk about ventilation, we should be very very particular when we're talking about ventilation profusion and we should be specifically talking about alvolar ventilation rate. So AVR alvolar ventilation rate is equal to your title volume. You know your title volume is the amount of air that you're just normally breathing in and out. Generally in an average human being it's about 500 milliliters. So that's your title volume. Okay. Here's the thing though. Out of that 500 milliliters, not all of it contributes to gas exchange. A tiny amount of it is actually lost within the conducting passageways or in the alvoli and it doesn't contribute to the gas exchange process. That's called dead space. On average in a normal individual, it usually remains constant. It's about 150 milliliters. Okay? So this is your dead space. I'm going to take the the actual title volume and I'm going to subtract it from my dead space. Now there's two types of dead space. We'll talk about this more in spyometry, but for right now, just know that there's anatomical, which is in the conducting zone pathway, doesn't contribute to gas exchange, and then specifically there's alvolar dead space. It's the air in the actual alvi that doesn't contribute to gas exchange. That's generally about 150 mls. Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to take the resulting number between these and I'm going to multiply it by my respiration rate. Okay? Okay. So, the frequency of respirations and generally my respiration rate is on average about we'll say 12 to 16 breaths per minute. But let's just go and say for right now it's about 12. Okay. So 12 particularly breaths per minute. Whereas these is milliliters per what? Per breath. Okay. And this is milliliters per breath. Now and again this is my respiration rate. So this is the formula that we're utilizing to solve for alvolar ventilation rate which is again tital volume 500 milliliters per breath minus 150 milliliters per breath which is our alvolar and anatomical dead space times the respiration rate which we're just going to take an average of about 12. If we do that we get about this alvolar ventilation rate is equal to about 350 okay milliliters per breath times what 12 breaths per minute. What does that give us? If we do this if we do this little math here 12 breaths per minute you know breaths cancel out. What are we left with? Milliliters per minute. That is our alvolar ventilation rate. And if we do this, this gives us around approximately 4200. So 4200 milliliters per minute. That is our alvolar ventilation rate. Okay, that's where we get ventilation from. Amount of air coming in contributing to gas exchange and the amount of air that's going out. Now we got to define perfusion. So how do we define perfusion? Perfusion is specifically the amount of blood flow that's going through the actual pulmonary capillaries. So in this case, it's the amount of blood that's flowing through the actual pulmonary capillaries within that one minute time span because this is going off one minute. So if I do this, perfusion we define as our actual cardiac output. If you guys have watched our cardiovascular videos, you'll understand that. So here's our cardiac output. What's normal cardiac output? It's technically about So this is we're going to denote this as CO. Cardiac output is about five lers per minute. And we can technically if we want to have the same units, this is approximately 5,000 milliliters per minute. Okay, that's our actual cardiac output. Now, what is cardiac output dependent upon? You guys already know that cardiac output is dependent upon your heart rate and your stroke volume. Any fluctuations in your heart rate can affect your actual cardiac output. Any fluctuations in the stroke volume can affect cardiac output. That is the definition of our profusion. So now we have the understanding of perfusion. We also have the understanding of ventilation. Now let's take these two and combine them. Now so now I'm going to take the alvular ventilation rate which is about 4200 but to make the math easier I'm going to round it to 4,000. And then we're going to take the profusion which is 5,000 milliliters per minute. So now let's plug this in to this equation up here. So now if I take this, let's see this guy right here. Ventilation profusion, it's equal to, let's put ventilation. What is it? 40. We're going to put 4,000 to make the math easy because I'm I'm not a big fan of math sometimes. So minute over 5,000 milliliters per minute. Since the units are the same, they cancel out and it gives us a ratio number. It gives us some type of constant basically, but it can fluctuate. So it's not technically a constant. It just gives us some whole number. So what does this give us about? This is going to be about uh 0.8. So 08. So 0.8. No units on this one. That is our normal ventilation profusion ratio. Sometimes you might even see ventilation profusion instead of writing it like that. Sometimes you'll see it as uh V over Q. Okay. So now that we understand what is meant by ventilation, what is meant by perfusion? What is the normal ratio? Where does all that gibberish come from? Now, let's get into how we actually have to maintain a perfect or almost perfect matching between the ventilation and profusion because you know it's never perfect and we'll explain why it's never perfect. Okay, so let's say that we take four different alvoli. So these are alvoli. In other words, I'm taking a piece of the lung. You know in the lung I they have lobules. I'm going to take a piece of the lung and I'm going to zoom in on a specific small unit called an alvoli. You know alvola is consisting of simple squamus epithelial cells about 97% of it and the other 3% is like type two cells which are going to be secretreting surfactant. If we look here let's say that we take in this alvoli here let's say that it's getting good ventilation. So let's say it's getting a lot of ventilation. So what does that mean? That means it's getting a lot of oxygen coming in and it has a lot of CO2 going out. There's good ventilation there. So if there's a good amount of ventilation, what does that mean for the partial pressure of these guys? Okay, well I got a lot of oxygen coming in. So his pressure must be increasing. His partial pressure according to Dalton's law. So the partial pressure of oxygen should be higher than normal. If we're saying that it's more ventilation, so really really good ventilation, but like really high. Okay, more than normal. What's going to happen to the partial pressure of oxygen? It's going to go up. When the partial pressure of oxygen goes up, then what's going to happen? Okay, that can change a little bit with the profusion. We'll see how. But then we're getting rid of a lot of CO2 through exhalation because this is inhalation exhalation. So what's going to happen to our partial pressure of CO2? The partial pressure of CO2 is going to decrease. Okay. Now, what does that have to do anything with this whole profusion thing? You know, there's a special mechanism that oxygen works through and we'll explain it when we get to the other alvoli. For right now, I just want you guys to understand actually no, let's do it now. Let's say I take here, you know, here we have our blood vessel, our pulmonary capillary, and let's say feeding we have an arterial. Well, surrounding the arterial, you have smooth muscle cells. I'm going to zoom in on one smooth muscle cell, and I want to see, let's take a look at how this mechanism is happening. So, here's a smooth muscle cell, and right up above it, I'm going to do it in a different color. Say I do this one in black. This is going to be my endothelial cell. So here's my endothelial cell and here's my smooth muscle cell. Okay, oxygen has a special way of working. What oxygen likes to do is if there's a lot of oxygen, oxygen works through special mechanisms. He comes into this endothelial cell and he activates a specific mechanism in the endothelial cell to where the endothelial cell will produce what's called nitric oxide. You know, nitric oxide is really, really cool because it can actually get inside of this smooth muscle cell and activate specific uh second messenger systems. You know what it's going to do to this smooth muscle cell? It's going to cause it to relax by by causing potassium ions to leave. You know, potassium whenever potassium leaves the cell, potassium will cause the cell to actually what? Hyperpolarize, right? And what's the overall result of this hyperpolarization? It'll cause the smooth muscle to relax. That's called vaso dilation. So whenever the blood vessels are have whenever you're having a lot of oxygen a significant amount of oxygen you can imagine then you're going to produce a lot more nitric oxide. So you're going to have an increase in vasoddilation. So in other words the ventilation is high. So what would that do to the equation? Let's take our equation over here. Let's say here's ventilation. So VQ ratio is normally 08 right? But then you take this new scenario which we're going to show here in blue. Here's our new scenario. What happened to the ventilation? It went up. If the ventilation went up, what's going to happen to the overall number? It's going to be greater than 08. Okay. Well, that's not good. I I I said we need to keep it right at perfect around 08 approximately. What do I do? Let's match it with our actual profusion. So, let's increase the profusion because if I increase the profusion, what's that going to do? That's going to decrease the overall number and try to bring it back to 08. Okay. So, now what's going to happen then to this actual blood vessel? So, let's say that the blood is coming through here. Here's the blood. It's coming through here. So here's the profusion and let's say before it was normal, right? Let's say that there was just blood coming in here normally, but then this vent this alvoli gets highly ventilated. If that's the case, oxygen is going to be really really high and what's it going to do? It's going to cause nitric oxide release and excessive vasoddilation. So now look what happens to this blood vessel. I'm going to represent it here with these arrows. Look, this arrow is coming out. When these arrows are going out, what is that representing? It's representing that the blood vessel is dilating. So if the blood vessels dilated, what's going to happen to the blood flow through this area? It's going to increase. If you increase the blood flow through this area, it's going to increase profusion. If you increase profusion, that's going to try to bring the actual ventilation perfusion ratio back to normal value. So again, what's going to happen then? You're going to have a increase in perfusion to try to match it. Okay, cool. So now that we understand that, the other one's going to make a lot more sense, too. Okay, so now let's go over to this alvoli and let's see what happens when we have the exact opposite situation occurring. So now let's come to this alvoli and let's say that the opposite of this situation is occurring. Let's say for some region there's poor ventilation to this alvoli. So this alvoli is getting very very poor ventilation. So poor ventilation meaning what? Okay, if I have oxygen very little oxygen is coming in and very little CO2 is going out. Whereas in the opposite situation over here, what was happening here? There was a lot of oxygen coming in and a lot of CO2 going out. When this happens in which there's a lot of oxygen coming in and a lot of CO2, I'm sorry, a little oxygen coming in, little CO2 going out. If there's very little of this exchange, what's going to happen to the partial pressure of oxygen out? Well, now there's not going to be a lot. So, it's going to be the exact opposite. So, now the partial pressure of oxygen is going to what? It's going to decrease. It's going to go down. Whereas if the partial pressure of CO2 is going to be opposite, not as much of it's going to get exhaled out. It's going to be contained within this area. So what's going to happen to the partial pressure of CO2? It's going to go up. Okay. How does that change the profusion? Let's draw another endothelial cell with a smooth muscle cell. So say here's our endothelial cell and let's say here's another smooth muscle cell. Okay? And same situation. Let's say that we take the oxygen, but now look, there's very little oxygen. If there's very little oxygen, are these uh endothelial cells going to make as much nitric oxide? No. There's going to be a decrease in nitric oxide production. If there's a decrease in nitric oxide production, what's going to happen to the potassium ions? Not as many of the potassium ions are going to leave the cell. If the potassium ions aren't leaving the cell, then what's going to happen to the inside of the cell? Well, think about resting membrane potential for a second. Let's say here's your resting membrane potential. Here's your threshold. If you're trying to get to threshold potential and this potassium ions are staying in this area, the cell is becoming more positive. It's going to go up and then eventually initiate an action potential. When that action potential occurs of some form, it's going to cause the muscle cell to contract. So, this will initiate what? What's the overall effect here? This will initiate vaso constriction because this smooth muscle cell is going to contract. When this smooth muscle cell contracts because of the potassium ions accumulating and not leaving, this will then do what to the blood vessels? Squeeze it and restrict the blood flow through. Because what was the problem? Let's go back to our equation here. Ventilation perfusion is normally 08. But if the ventilation is poor, so you have a decrease in ventilation. So let's say here's our normal. Let's not do it for that one. Let's say we have this is our normal our baseline. Then we have below it here ventilation is doing what? It's decreasing. So what's going to happen to this actual value now? Now it's going to be what? Less than 08 because this number is getting smaller. So the overall number is going to get smaller. So what do I got to do to my Q? I got to decrease it so that I can match it. So now the goal is let me decrease my profusion. How do I do that? Well, this decrease in oxygen automatically autoregulates these blood vessels and causes them to constrict when there's very little. When that happens, let's say here's the blood flow again, you know, let's say originally there was normal profusion through this blood vessel originally, right? But as the partial pressure of oxygen in this alvoli decreases, you don't want to waste that oxygen. So what happens to the actual blood vessels? They constrict. And when they constrict, which I'm showing as these arrows going in, what's going to happen to the actual blood going through this area? It's going to get diverted. We're going to divert the actual blood away so that we can go take it to other different areas. And so what's going to happen to the profusion now? It's going to be very scant, very minimal. So there's going to be a decrease in profusion. Okay? And this decrease in profusion will help to match the ventilation. Okay? You know what's really weird? When you look at uh if you guys have watched our microirculation video, you guys would have noticed something different where oxygen generally in our systemic circulation likes to whenever it's really really low oxygen generally it likes to dilate the blood vessels. Whenever there's high amounts of oxygen usually it's going to be a little bit opposite where in this situation decreasing oxygen levels causes vasoc constriction. So remember this the autoregulation that is caused by oxygen in the systemic blood vessels is exactly opposite of that of the pulmonary blood vessels. Okay. All right. So, we went over what happens when ventilation's all up. Now, let's go over what happens whenever their perfusion is messed up. Okay. So, let's say I come down here and let's say in this this actual guy here, let's say that you are exercising. So, let's say that you're exercising. So if you are exercising, what's going to happen to the amount of blood that you know when your heart you know because when you're exercising your oxygen demand is going to increase. When your oxygen demand increases your your heart's going to start pumping blood like harder, right? You're going to have an increase in cardiac output. So when there is an increase in exercise or vigorous activity, what's going to happen to the cardiac output? There's going to be an increase in the cardiac output. What does that mean for the profusion then? Well, we said that cardiac output is the kind of the definition of our profusion. In this case, there's going to be an increase in profusion. Well, here's the thing. Whenever there's an increase in profusion, there's more blood flowing through this area. If there's an increase in profusion, that means that there's a lot of blood flowing through here. If there's a lot of blood flowing through, there's going to be a lot of exchange, a lot of gas exchange. What do I mean? Okay, you know how whenever oxygen is going to be moving generally by its partial pressure gradients? We'll talk about that. it goes from the alvoli into the blood. Whereas the exact opposite is CO2. CO2 will go from the blood into the alvoli. Now this is the normal exchange. But whenever there's more blood flow, your body has to compensate for that. So there's going to be an increase in ventilation. So now there's going to be an increase in CO2 going from the blood to the alvoli and increase of oxygen going from the alvoli to the blood. In this situation, look what happens to the partial pressure gradients. Now, now oxygen is usually always having a constant demand. So, he rarely ever changes. It's the CO2 that really changes. So, now look what happens to the partial pressure of CO2. And again, oxygen doesn't really have much fluctuation because the oxygen in the atmosphere is so plentiful that it can just continue to keep dumbing down. But look what happens. You're going to see how we regulate this CO2. If there's a lot of CO2 moving over here, what happens to the partial pressure of the CO2 inside of the alvoli? It goes up. When the partial pressure of CO2 in the alvoli goes up, CO2 is a very special mechanism. Here's what's going to happen. Think about this logically. When you're exercising, what happens to your breathing? Usually increase in breathing, right? There's an increase in that ventilation or respiration rate. Well, then what's going to happen to the bronchios? You're going to want your bronchioles to get bigger because if you have your bronchios get bigger, you want more oxygen to go to the tissues and you want more CO2 to get exhaled. So look what the CO2 does. The CO2 comes over here and it acts on this actual smooth muscle. So it acts on this, you know, this is your bronchios, these little bronchial tubes here. The bronchial tube is serving the alvoli. And whenever the bronchial tubes are serving this alvoli, there's this smooth muscle, this broncholar smooth muscle surrounding it. Whenever the CO2 is actually increasing the partial pressure, it's going to come act on that bronchial smooth muscle and look what it's going to do. It's going to cause these bad boys to dilate. When these bronchules dilate, what happens to the actual resistance? Okay. Well, let's think about this formula. You know, there's flow. Flow is equal to the change in pressure over resistance. Now, diameter is inversely proportional to resistance. So we say that whenever you increase your diameter, what does that do to your resistance? It decreases the resistance. Whereas whenever you decrease your diameter, what does that do to the resistance? It increases the resistance. Well, what did I just do? I did broncholar dilation. So when I dilate them, what happens to my diameter? It gets bigger. When your diameter gets bigger, then there's going to be less resistance. If there's a less resistance, then what happens to the flow? It increases. And if the flow increases, then what's going to happen? You're going to have an increased amount of oxygen coming into the alvoli to go into the blood. And you're going to have an increase in the amount of CO2 going out. So a lot of that CO2 is going to leave. And when a lot of CO2 leaves, you're going to exhale that CO2 off. Okay? So that's one mechanism. So again in this situation in which there's exercising which can increase your cardiac output which can increase the profusion there's more blood going through there's more exchange more CO2 is building up in the alvoli when there's a lot of CO2 it causes the bronchules to dilate so that you can get more CO2 out and more oxygen in so there can be an increase in ventilation because you think about the formula again come back to that formula if we say the formula is V over Q and it's equal to 08 and you increase your profusion. So you increase Q. So now let's say whenever you increase Q, what happens to your actual profusion then? Well, this numbers, this whole number is going to get smaller. So it's going to be less than 08. Well, what do I got to do? I have to increase my ventilation so I can bring it back to normal. I got to match it. Okay. All right. Let's go over to this last scenario. In this last scenario, let's say that we take the opposite situation. No. So now there's going to be very little blood flow. So if there's very little blood flow, okay, very little blood flow. So there's low profusion. What could be a cause of of low profusion? Let's say for some reason, terrible reason, you have a imbalis. You have a pulmonary embolism. And I wish I known one, right? So this is a pulmonary embolism and it's oluding blood flow to this area. If there's a pulmonary embism and you're oluding blood flow to this area, what's going to happen to the profusion? Then there's going to be a decrease in the profusion and you can also say this in someone who maybe has heart failure like right side heart failure. They're not able to pump enough blood to the lungs whatever there's just not enough perusion going through this area. If there's not a lot a lot of blood flow going through this area then what happens to the gas exchange? It's very minimal. So in other words, if you have your oxygen here, very little oxygen is going to get exchanged from the alvoli to the blood. And here's your CO2. Very little CO2 is going to get exchanged from the blood to the alvoli. So now let's go back to the CO2. If very little CO2 is actually moving over here, what happens to the partial pressure of CO2? The partial pressure of CO2 in this area is actually going to be a little low, lower than normal, right? So if the partial pressure of CO2 is a little lower than normal, then what's going to happen? Okay, in this situation, your desire is to prevent blood from going through this area anymore, right? Because you're you're you're wasting this blood. So if this blood is being wasted because you can't get this blood through here, you're not going to want air to come to this area. So another let me just explain it another way. If you have blood, you're having a decreased flow of blood through this vessel. Would you want oxygen to keep coming to this alvoli to to actually allow for that exchange when there isn't efficient exchange occurring? No. Let's say that I have two alvoli here. Here's an alvoli and here's another alvoli and I have a blood vessel. Okay, let's say I have one blood vessel here serving this guy. One blood vessel over here serving this guy. Let's say that this one has the occlusion and this one does not. The profusion is going to be really low in this area. I'm not going to want the oxygen to keep coming into this area. I'm going to want it to go to areas where there is no occlusion, where there's good perfusion. So, what am I going to try to do? I'm going to try to squeeze this bronchial so that I can redirect more of the air coming down this way into this bronchiel into this alvolar sack because I don't want it going this way because there's not good perfusion. We're going to waste the ventilation. We don't want to waste it. So, what is this CO2 going to do? Again, it's going to come over here to the bronchial smooth muscle. It's going to act on the bronchial smooth muscle. And look what happens to the bronchial smooth muscle. It constricts, right? And when the bronchial smooth muscle constricts, what happens to the airway? Go back to that formula. Flow is equal to the change in pressure over resistance. What do we do to the diameter when we have broncholar constriction? We decrease the diameter. If we decrease diameter, what does that do to the restriction or the resistance? It increases the resistance. If you increase resistance, what does that do to the gas flow? It decreases the gas flow. So, what does that mean? That means very little oxygen is going to be coming in. And what else? That means that very little CO2 is going to go out. So very little CO2 will be going out and this is how we try to control that. We try to redirect the oxygen to different alvoli that are going to have proper ventilation and profusion coupling. Right? And so again if you apply that concept last thing to this concept let's say here we have V over Q is equal to 08. If the actual profusion is low, what happens to this situation then? Whenever you have it's normally supposed to be 08, right? So let's say here's here's your profusion ventilation over profusion. And then in this situation, I decrease my Q. Okay? Because that's what happened. I decreased the profusion. What's it going to do to the overall number now? Now it's going to be greater than 0.8. If it's greater than 08, what do I have to do to my ventilation? I have to decrease ventilation so that I can match my perfusion. And that's it. Okay. All right. To finish it all up, I want to explain something to you guys. I'll go into more detail when we go over partial pressures and solubilities. But even though we have these mechanisms to try to maintain perfect matching of ventilation and profusion, it's never completely perfect. It's never perfect. And you have to assume certain normal physiological situations. So last thing I want to talk about here is let's say that I have this lung and I have blood coming through here. So here's the blood and it's coming through this. This is your pulmonary arterials right here. This is your pulmonary venules. If blood is coming through here, which one of these vessels is going to have the most resistance due to gravity? Because you know gravity is pushing down at 9.8 meters per second squared. It's pushing down. when it's pushing down, wouldn't this have an easier time going through this one? Yeah, not as bad of a time going through this one and a heck of a time going through this one because there's more gravity. It's having to go against the gravity. So, because gravity is pushing down, the blood going up is going to be less going up here. So, there'll be decrease. I'm going to put P for profusion. There'll be kind of moderate profusion at this middle point and the highest amount of profusion at this lowest point. Okay. exact opposite. Think about this. Because of changes in pressure and because of the intraplural pressure and also because of gravity whenever you're stretching the lungs due to the stretching of the lungs, this alvoli up to the top is more ventilated, moderately ventilated and the lowest ventilation. Okay. So again, what about the ventilation for this one? This one has the highest ventilation, the one the alvoli closest to the top of the lung, the apex of the lung. the the actual ventilation here is moderate and the ventilation at this point is the lowest which is towards the base of the lung. So if you think about that look our ventilation profusion ratio is never really perfect. Also just think about this think I have an alvoli here and I have an alvoli here and I have a mucus plug. Here's a mucus just plugging this. Let's say you're not feeling well. You got some mucus build up. If the actual ventilation in this alvoli is going to be different from this alvoli, wouldn't that affect the ventilation profusion also? So just normal mucus buildup can also throw off our normal ventilation profusion ratios. And the last thing we'll talk about in a lot more detail, partial pressure gradients, solubilities is the shunting of blood from particularly the bronchial veins into the pulmonary um arteries actually because it can actually decrease the actual normal partial pressure of oxygen. All right, engineers. In this video, we covered a lot of information on ventilation and profusion. I really hope you guys enjoyed. I hope it made sense. If it did, please hit the like button, subscribe, comment down in the comment section. In the next video, we'll go over thickness of the respiratory membrane and the surface area. See you sooners.