What's up, ninja nerds? In this video today, we're going to be talking about rhino sinusitis. This is part of a clinical medicine series. And if you guys are liking these videos, they make sense, they help you support us. You can do that by hitting the like button, commenting down the comment section, subscribing. Also, I really think that we have some amazing resources on our website that I really think would benefit you. I think it helps a lot with space repetition, which is really key to the kind of application concept of knowledge. So if you guys are interested in that things like notes, illustrations, quizzes, flashcards, go check it out. You have a link down in our description box that goes to our website where you guys can check all that out there. All right, let's talk about rhinositis. So a lot of times people will actually just say, "Oh, it's well it's sinusitis technically, Zach, right? It's an infection. It's inflammation of the paranasal sinuses." And that that that is true, but oftent times more than not, I'd say when patients have sinusitis, it's almost always they have concominant rhinitis. And so we should actually define that very very simply. So in rhinitis it's really just inflammation of the nasal cavity right and in this case it's usually due to an infectious process. So inflammation of said nasal cavity whereas when we talk about sinusitis it's the inflammation of the paranasal sinuses and technically when we talk about paranasal sinuses some will include the mastoid. I like to say that as more of an exception in this kind of scenario where we're not going to talk about the the mastoid sinus that was more in the ear infections lectures but parinasal sinuses and again these this inflammation is usually due to an infectious eeologies which we'll get into. Now in chronic rhinositis that may not always be the case where it's it is more kind of like a chronic inflammatory process that we'll get into that's usually due to either polyps or no polyps. I promise we'll get there. When we talk about rhinitis, it's really when you look at the nasal cavity, all of this is lined with a mucosal tissue. That's pseudoratified siliated columnar epithelial tissue. That's a mouthful, right? Heck of a word. But really, that's all this is. It's all of this kind of tissue everywhere in here. This is all inflamed. So that's really what we have. And it's even these kind of what we call the conch. So you have your superior, middle, your inferior nasal cone, the miatuses. All of those are inflamed. So that's rhinitis. Now the sinuses are really important to remember that they are connected to your nasal cavity. They're not just this hollow cavity in your skull that doesn't connect with the nasal cavity. There's like little holes. And I don't want to go too crazy on the anatomy component, but you know here we have this is our superior nasal conche. This one here. And then this one here in the middle. I bet you can't guess it. Yeah, it's the middle nasal conche. And this one is the inferior nasal conche. Well, the grooves in between them are called the miatus. So you have here the superior I'm sorry um the superior miatus the middle miatus and the inferior miatus. Now when patients who have sinusitis it's important to remember that the most common exit point for the sinuses in the middle miatus. And so for example here is this frontal sinus. There's an anterior ethmoidal sinus and a middle ethmoidal. Those all really and I'm just going to represent with this blue arrow. They drain where? Well again think about it. This is your superior mus, middle mius. These usually have a little kind of exit point where they empty. I'm going to kind of bring it underneath here right here. So there's a little kind of like exit point called the middle miatus. And that's really where the frontal sinus and the anterior middle ethmoidal sinuses empty in. The sppheninoid sinus has another like little hole here. There's this tiny little hole and it empties it into this recess called the sppheninoethmoidal recess. Again, I don't want you guys to get too bogged down with that. All I want you to know is that this has an exit point here. And so, what I'm what I'm trying to get at here is that this sinus is continuous with the nasal cavity. So, it's almost impossible for you to have a rhino almost impossible for you to have a sinocitis without involving to some degree the nasal cavity mucos. That's why patients often we call it rhinocitis. So, it's me just be getting into more semantics, but let's kind of remind ourselves of again what these sinuses are. So, this sinus right here is going to be called the frontal paranasal sinus, right? This one here is the ethmoid. And technically, the ethmoid, if you want to be particular, is broken into anterior, middle, and posterior ethmoidal sinuses or that's more for anatomy. And then this right here is going to be your sppheninoid sinus. So, you're probably thinking, "Okay, Zach, there's another one. I know it. You told me that don't worry about the mastoid. There is one. You can't really see it in this diagram very well, but it's the maxillary. But here we have the spphenoid, we have the ethmoid, and we have the frontal sinuses. And what I already told you is that the frontal and the anter middle ethmoidal, they empty into the middle mus. The sppheninoid empties out into the spphenino ethmoidal recess. If I wanted to be particular, I'm not going to be, but I'm going to mention it verbally. The posterior ethmoidal sinus does empty into the superior miatus. I'm not going to go that far. I'm just going to let you guys know that. But this is what I want you to understand that since a patient develops inflammation of their nasal cavity, if it can find these little entryways, it can travel up into the sinuses. And if it travels up into those sinuses, what are you going to get? You're going to get an inflamed paranasal sinus. So that's what I want you to understand. They can find their ways into these paranasal sinuses. Now, here's another view. So this is looking at a sagittal view which is involving inflammation of the nasal cavity and these visible paranasal sinuses through there little holes. We'll talk about a little bit later but that little hole is called an oa and it's in the miatus and so we call it an osteommeatal complex. We'll get into it. I promise we'll get into it as we get deeper into this. But the next component here is just to take another look. So another view that we often times see here is this view which is kind of looking at the patient from the front on but I'm kind of making them look like a weirdo but I'm cutting off their nose. But we can see into the nasal cavity nice and clearly. If you could imagine here this is going to be there septum which is formed by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone the vulmer and then on the sides here we have the again superior middle inferior nasal conche superior miatus middle miatus and then you'll have below this the inferior miatus. What you'll notice is what that these sinuses which ones are this is the maxillary sinus this is the ethmoid sinus and this is the frontal sinuses. All of those they come down and they dump into that what component? The middle miatus. And so again it's just giving you another view. Now we actually should bring this down though right here to below right below that conje. But you get the point. So the view from here is kind of interesting because you can kind of see this as well. If you have inflammation of this nasal cavity and there's this little hole, this little oa, what can it do? It can travel and it can involve these sinuses here. It can travel and involve these sinuses. You get the point. Now, whenever you kind of involve these sinuses, you're going to end up with some symptoms. But again, real quick here, just so we can kind of appreciate this anatomy here. We already talked about this. This is your frontal, right? This one is your ethmoid and this one is your maxillary. And again, we can appreciate the spphenoid better over there. But what I'm trying to get at here is that whenever a patient has rhinitis, they almost always have an associated sinusitis. And you can kind of say that vice versa with the sinusitis. Now in this scenario, if a patient has inflammation of their nasal cavity and their sinuses, what would that present? How if a patient came to the hospital, they came to the clinic, they came to you to see you, what would be their initial complaints that would make you even think that it could be rhinocyitis? Because then once you determine that it's a it's possibly a rhinocyitis, I got to determine if it's viral, bacterial, fungal, or if it's chronic. And that's what we're going to get into. But for right now, what I want you to understand is often times this is going to be usually some type of nasal discharge. There's going to be a pretty common type of complaint. So a patient will present with some degree of nasal discharge. This discharge is because of a lot of the mucus production. So whenever you have inflammation of the nasal cavity, inflammation of the sinuses, your natural reaction is to start kind of bringing blood flow and and white blood cells to the area to fight off whatever that infectious ethology is. And that causes sometimes more of that discharge to become present. Usually we use the term perent to describe more of that bacterial component, but for right now I just want you to think about nasal discharge. The second kind of symptom here is going to be congestion. So there'll be some degree of congestion. Now the congestion is because as a patient gets a lot of rhinitis, they get tons and tons and tons of inflammation of this nasal cavity. Think about having to breathe through your nose when everything is super super small and tiny. You got a tiny little lumen. Now that's the key behind this. So the congestion is more of that nasal obstruction just due to nasal cavity inflammation. The next symptom here is going to be interesting. All right. So, we got nasal discharge is usually inflammation causing fluid and mucus to come out of the sinuses, out of the nasal cavity, out of the nose. Congestion, inflammation of that nasal cavity, obstructing air flow. The third one is facial pain and pressure. So, facial pain and pressure. I want you to just think about this for a second. If a patient has inflammation of these sinuses, the maxillary sinuses or the ethmoid and the frontal sinuses, these are normally very hollow cavities. They decrease the weight of the skull. You fill it with mucus and potentially pus and a lot of liquid. What's going to happen? It's going to get heavy and you're going to feel that, man. It's going to really hurt. And so that facial pain and pressure is very common. Usually maxillary is going to be here around that kind of cheek area, right? Sometimes it can even cause dental pain. When you get things like particularly ethmoid and maybe spphenoid, those are a little bit deeper, but they might cause pain really more retroorbbitally. And then whenever you have pain and pressure of the forehead, that could be the frontal sinuses. But it's all because those sinuses are filled with mucus and fluid and potentially pus and that's causing those to distend. What you know, nerves, cranial nerves actually innervate these. And so if you have things like your your uh nerves actually innervating those and they get pushed from stretch, that's going to cause those signals is that's going to give that kind of pain and pressure sensation. And often times we kind of add on to this on the vignette. If you see a patient who comes in congestion, discharge, facial pain and pressure that's worse whenever they lean forward, it's because all of that mucus is shifting. It's creating that weight and that's going to cause that symptom to become more escalated. The fourth one is kind of like a possibility and it screams more of the chronic picture. But there's one other thing about the nasal cavity beside it having that pseudoratified siliated columnar which does what? The basic definition is that when air comes in you want it to warm the air, moisten the air and and you also want to trap any kind of particles that are coming in the air. But there's one other thing. When you have air coming in, if you want to smell something like a bag of dog poo or some type of like really good steak or food, that smell is in the nasal cavity. So because of that, in patients who have significant amounts of inflammation and mucus, what if you block those smells from hitting the alactory epithelium? That can cause a decrease in smell. What do we call that whenever there's a decrease in smell? We call it hyposmia. And in worst case scenario, sometimes it can even cause anosmia which is no smell. Right? So sometimes you may even have anosmia. This is due to the olfactory nerves and epithelium being affected. All right. What I got out of this here is rhinitis, inflammation of the nasal cavity, sinusitis, inflammation of the paranasal sinuses. Which part of the paranasal? Frontal, ethmoid, sppheninoid and maxillary, not mastoid. How do the sinuses get inflamed if a patient has rhinitis? Because they run through the oste. The oste is the little hole that connect with those sinuses. They get filled with fluid and mucus. How will they present? They'll have nasal discharge, congestion, facial pain, pressure, hyposmia. Now there is a difference between acute onset and chronic onset rhinocyitis. What I want you to know here is for acute, this is usually something that developed within, we often define less than four weeks. So we really want to have like a timeline between these two. This one is usually it's been going on for not really a long time, less than four weeks. And oftent times the patients are presenting very very soon. It's usually a couple days. People don't like have to I'm not going to live with this pain and pressure and all this stuff, this discharge. They're not going to be doing that. Chronic rhinocyitis. This is a patient coming in who's been dealing with this for a really long time. Oftentimes we say greater than 12 weeks. And so that's a timeline that more likely establishes how long they've been dealing with these symptoms. The really really important point is when they come in very very soon. It hasn't been something they've been dealing with for more than four or 12 weeks. It's easier for us to figure it out. So usually there's a couple different subtypes here. There's what's called acute viral rhinocyusitis. All right. So acute viral rhino sinocitis. This is by far the most common cause of a patient presenting with acute rhinocerositis overall. Another one is acute bacterial and this would be the second most common cause. And then the last one is going to be fungal. So acute viral definitely the most common and we'll talk about this in a second but acute viral oftent times sets the stage for a person to develop bacterial rhino uh sinocitis. The last one is extremely rare and usually it's only common in certain types of patients which we'll get into but it's called acute and we like to really add this in invasive meaning this thing is super super rough dude. fungal rhino sinocitis. So the the the benefit of this is that it's extremely rare. The downside is for those people who do end up getting it, it causes significant damage. And that's why it's really important for us to understand that chronic rhinocyitis, you've been dealing with this for a while. This isn't a patient who just all of a sudden came about and had this. This is something they've been dealing with for a long time. The thing that you need to start to determine and really the best way of doing that is if they come in with symptoms, you then need to figure out is the patient having nasal polyps or not? That's really it. So whenever a patient comes in with these symptoms, you then have to determine is it acute, chronic. I look at the timelines from there. I then have to determine if it's viral, bacterial, and fungal, and what we'll get into and we'll try to figure and navigate out that component. For chronic, it's been going on for a while. How do I determine the differences between the two? We kind of define this in two different subtypes. So it's chronic. So we'll put CRS CRS without nasal polyps. And then we have, you guessed it, CRS with nasal polyps. And that's really all it comes down to. So what I want to do is I kind of want to highlight this component here is that is the differentiating factor between these two. And we'll get into this because simply all I would need to know is is if I looked into the nose and I evaluated, if I saw nasal polyps, I could talk about this one. If I didn't see it, I would think about this one. And I start getting into what's causing it and how to treat it. So now that we've done that, we got a patient who comes in, they're presenting with again facial pain and pressure, perent, maybe just nasal discharge, we'll say for now. They present with congestion, maybe they present with a decrease in smell. You need to then figure out okay it's less than four weeks which one of these three is it for acute viral rhinositis we already know it's the most common and we know that it's a virus so but the question is is what kind of viruses oftent times more than not these viruses are usually going to be like your common cold viruses rhino virus is extremely common adno virus is extremely common but in those scenarios where patients we know there is some nasty ones that can really really hurt and cause not just that kind of natural presentation of sinusitis but they cause diffuse symptoms. What are those really really rough ones that we're going to have a dedicated lecture as to influenza and SARS Kovv2. So influenza can also cause this and there's also going to be your SARS Kovv2 which is going to cause COVID 19. So, the whole point I'm trying to make for you guys is that this is your most often cause. Out of these, which ones are probably going to be the ones that you want to associate it with? More often than not, guys, I'm not kidding. It's usually rhino virus and it's the common cold one. And that's really it. We're not going to have a patient presenting with anything kind of like significant. Oftent times, it's that one. And they will get better. The reason why I mentioned these two is because these two they actually will be really important for us to differentiate because we could change our management if it is those two. But let's say for example patient has how would you get these? H how would these pathogens work their way into the nasal cavity? And the problem with these things is that they cause damage along their path. They don't just move in one direction. They often times will damage tissues along their path. This is via respiratory droplets. So via these respiratory droplets. So someone is talking to you, they cough, they spit, I don't either way, these things are flopping around in the air and they make their way into your airway. When they get into the airway, this is where they're going to inflict damage. So what I want to do is I want to zoom in on this area and take a look see. Let's do that. As we zoom in, these viruses, they're sneaky little sons of guns. They have special receptors, and I'm not expecting you to memorize this part, but they do have Oh, there goes the purple. We'll use this one here. We have special receptors that are present on the epithelium and it can bind to it. And these receptors are called your ICAM receptors. You don't have to remember that. I wouldn't. I'm just being kind of extra. So, you have these ICAM receptors. When the virus binds to this, what it does is it gets taken into these cells, right? It gets taken into these cells and it starts to replicate. When it does that, it can cause two different issues. So, let's say that this thing gets taken into these cells. When it gets taken into these cells, there's two results that will happen. One is that the virus will replicate and replicate and replicate in these cells. And what we know is that eventually these cells will undergo licis. They will die. So you'll end up with some cell death, right? So you're going to end up with some cell death. So that's one thing. So you're going to be damaging mucosal cells via cell death. All right? So we'll say that we're going to get some type of viral cells. That's one thing that's going to happen is we're going to get some cell death via lis because that virus is going to be replicating and growing within the cell and eventually it's going to pop out so it can spread. The other component here is these viruses, dude, they're interesting. So what they can do is is they can actually as they kind of grow in they kind of develop inside of these cells, they tell the psyia to stop functioning. So, in in essence, what it does is it causes something called psilio stasis. You're like, "Nah, you're you're being silly." No, I promise I'm not. No pun intended. What happens is these little dudes here, you stop functioning. The psyia stop working. And that's really critical because our goblet cells, what do they do? What do goblet cells do? Goblet cells naturally produce mucus. And this mucus is supposed to kind of coat the airway and it's also supposed to trap particles. But in this patient who has this viral infection, the psyia are not going to be able to move the mucus. And because of that, mucus will start to build up. So the cilioasis leads to mucus buildup. And that's really, really important. All right? So we're going to get a lot of mucus buildup. and that's going to contribute to some of this kind of overall issue. So, you're going to get mucus buildup and you're just going to get some generalized inflammation from this cell death. So, all of this is going to cause your inflammation. It's going to really just it's going to jack things up, dude. It's going to make everything kind of inflamed. All that mucosa. So, let's actually define that you're going to get mucosal inflammation. And that's really where all of this comes down to is the cells die. So, you're damaging the mucosal tissue. you're causing a lot of mucus to build up because the psyia ain't working now and that inflammation is going to become problematic. Now, where is this inflammation occurring? That's where I I really want you guys to think about this inflammation is occurring in the respiratory mucosa. Again, if you guys remember this tissue, what is this tissue here? So, this is your pseudoratified ciliated columnar epithelial tissue. So, these are the pseudoratified epithelial cells, which are the blue ones. And what are these like green ones? These are called your goblet cells. So, the goblet cells produce the mucus. the psyia, the siliated cells, those are the ones that have the cyia help to beat the mucus, right? And that's really important. So when you get this viral infection and it gets its way into the cell, it can stop the psyia from working and kill the mucosal cells. So the goblet cells are producing mucus, but you don't have the ability to move them. That's going to cause problems. Now that inflammation is really where we see issues. So let's pretend here that this is the epithelial cells here. And now what's going to happen is you guys remember I just I took one sinus. Let's just pretend this is the frontal. This that's all it is. This is just the frontal paranasal sinus and it's going to come down and it's going to empty into the middle neiatus. Right? If we get inflammation, which I'm going to represent the thickening of this mucosal tissue, maybe there's some mucus there as well right here. Look at this. You see how this is happening? You should understand now why all of this occurs. I have inflammation. What did it just do? It caused a narrowing of the osteomiatal complex. I told you we would come back to that, right? I done told you. So now we have this narrowing of the osteomiatal complex and that's where we start to see some problems. So narrowing of and I'm going to abbreviate it the osteomiatal complex. Now, when that happens, the sinuses produce kind of a mucousy fluid. That fluid is supposed to be able to move out into the nasal cavity, and air is supposed to run from the nasal cavity into these sinuses. All that's going to happen is all this mucus and fluid is going to start building up and building up and building up. And this cavity is going to start becoming filled with mucus. And what happens when you fill a cavity that can't actually drain? It starts to distend and stretch. And then you start to get some degree of some sinus kind of like pressure. And that's where we start to see some worsening issues. So now I have this sinus filling. I have this sinus cavity is going to be under high pressure and it's going to have a lot of mucus buildup. And that's the two problems here that set us up for the stage for the next component here. So now this sinus cavity is filled with mucus and it's really going to start building up some pressure and that's where we start to see some of the issues. All right. So you probably are we're getting to a little critical component here. We talked about acute viral rhinocinusitis. I've led you to kind of see how it causes all of this pathophysiological response which inflames the nasal cavity, inflames the sinuses, gives you all the symptoms. But Zach, you said that it was going to be something that would really help me to think about it. I would be able to differentiate viral from bacterial. Here's what's interesting about this one. And patients who have this viral rhinocinusitis, one of the key things is that oftent times their symptoms aren't just usually defined to the nasal cavity themselves. Remember I told you that these can move throughout the respiratory tract. So this isn't the key thing, but I want you to understand that it can cause you know things like a sore throat. You know it can cause things like fngitis for example. It may cause things like a cough or it may because it can cause things like laryngitis. It may cause cough or horarsseness. Those are definitely possibilities. But here here's the critical thing which I think is really important because again along the way it is going to be damaging not just the nasal cavity. It can damage other tissues. So you can get like a sore throat from fingitis. You can get some laryngitis and cause a cough and horarsseness. The key thing is that this goes away very quickly. That's what I want you to take away from acute viral. So, I know that that seems like Zach, you kind of spent all this time for what? Well, it's leading you up to the bacterial part. I promise. But what I want you to trust me for now is that with acute viral, usually this is self-limited. It goes away. And so oftent times this will improve in less than 10 days is kind of our cut off. If it doesn't then we start to think it may not be viral. If a patient has some sinus symptoms and they also have things like a sore throat, maybe they have a cough, horseness of their voice, it could be an unspecified kind of upper respiratory tract infection which just so happened to involve the sinuses as well. And that definitely does suggest more of a viral case. If you see other areas of the upper respiratory tract, but this is really the critical point, more important than the other kind of tissue involvement is the time for improvement. Viral infections are self-limited and they will go away on their own. Bacterial on the other hand, they don't behave the same way like that. bacterial decide to say I I do what I won't and what I mean by this is usually when a patient gets bacterial rhinositis there's a viral infection that pushes them into it so in other words a patient had a viral rhinoscinitis maybe they got a rhino virus infection and then what happened is you created the perfect culture medium with all of this mucus and no ox how does how do you know bacteria Some of them need oxygen. If I plug this dang osteomal complex, how's any air going to get up there to the bacteria? The bacteria going to be in a perfect culture medium, dark, lots of fluid. The pH is probably going to be changed and they ain't got no dang oxygen. So these things in those scenarios, it just allows for the perfect kind of culture medium for them. Perfect culture medium. So essentially what I want you to take away from this is viral the viral infection basically sets up bacterial because at this point when a person had this all set up all they did was they already did all the narrowing for the person and I promise I'm going to get into all of this but now all of this inflammation is here from that viral infection. All that narrowing of the osteomatal complex is there. All right? All of this is still present. And now you got the perfect culture medium. You got hypoxic conditions. You got all this mucus building up. And now any bacteria that are a part of our normal flora in here can grow. So that's the question. What are those bacteria? So, the key thing here is is we have a couple different types of pathogens that I want you guys to know. And you can remember it by, man, I'm shaking my dang head. All right, shake my head. So, this is going to be Let's actually write these out. There's actually shake my head. We'll put shake my head. So, the first one is going to be by far the most common. This is going to be strepto caucus pneumonia. All right. The next one is called Moraxella catateralis. And the next one is called hmophilus influenza. And this is the non-typable version. These are going to be the most common bacterial pathogens. Now, here's the thing which is really interesting. These bacteria, they don't just like, oh, oh, I'm I'm coughing, I'm sneezing, I'm spreading this pathogen. These bacteria are natural colonizers. Let me I have right here. This is a natural colonizer. So, this is going to be found naturally in the nasal cavity. This is this is kind of a normal bacteria. And if it's in the nasal cavity, how else could it get into the sinuses? The osteo. And so, this thing's here. It's sitting right there, right? And if you create an opportunity to shut off any kind of air flow, you have it sitting a lot of fluid and mucus, it's going to grow. So, now that pathogen is sitting right there, dude. Now, what I want to do is I I know I drew these green, but I got all this mucus here in green. So, let's change the color of the bacteria. But for a second, I just want you to trust me that this bacteria is sitting here. And now, because you created the perfect environment for it, it's going to start growing and growing and this is going to cause some particular issues. So, what happens is the viral infection sets up the perfect environment. What is that environment? This is going to be a sinus cavity is going to be under pressure. It's going to have lots of mucus buildup. And on top of that, it's going to be hypoxic conditions. There's not going to be as much air flow through there. This allows for the bacteria that are sitting in there, the bacteria to actually undergo excessive growth because these are naturally going to be there. But because these things now are in the perfect culture medium, oh baby, these things are going to grow like like wildfire. They're going to replicate like bunnies. And because of that, guess what? the bacteria eventually going to do. They're going to start causing some nasty damage. And so they release obviously different types of toxins. They cause tissue damage and that's going to start really really ramping up this inflammation much more so than this viral case, right? The viral case, you'll definitely get a little bit of inflammation, right? You're definitely going to have inflammation, but viruses aren't going to be as like toxic as we should say as something compared to a bacterial infection. These are going to produce more of a toxic appearance. The bacterial growth in itself is kind of interesting how this kind of all works. Let's say here I'm just taking this and I'm zooming in on it. That's all I'm doing. I'm taking this area and I'm zooming in on it. So now I have the bacteria sitting in this perfect culture medium. Right here's some of these bacteria and they're sitting in this perfect culture medium and they're they're just they're ripping things up, dude. They're kind of they're maybe releasing toxins. They may be causing different types of destruction of these cells. Whenever that happens, these cells signal your immune system, right? And they signal the immune system in two different ways. They're going to release different types of cytoines. And two things that these cytoines will do, right? when it releases these cytoines and I don't need you guys to know all this dang stuff is it's going to cause vasoddilation and it's going to cause a capillary leak. In other words, this thing is going to be filled to the gills and it's going to be leaking like a seieve. And because of that, you're going to get lots of blood flow to the area and that's going to cause what? Well, if you got lots of blood flow coming to this area, what that's going to do is you're going to allow for things like fluid and proteins and stuff like that to start leaking out. So now I'll represent that fluid with the kind of this bluish color. You're going to start causing all of this fluid to really occur here. And what's that going to do around this kind of sinus area? It's going to cause swelling, right? So, as a result, you're going to start getting a lot of swelling and that's going to worsen the pain, dude. That's going to definitely worsen the pain in these patients. But there's another component here as well, the cytoines. And that reaction over here with the viral, it's natural inflammatory reactions that your immune system will kind of just process and it'll get eventually get over, but they don't bring in tons of neutrfils on viral infections. bacterial infections, there's some serious cytoines that any kind of neutrfils that are called to the area in an area that's really leaky and it's getting a lot of blood flow, they're going to respond to. And so now these neutrfils that are kind of just rocking through the bloodstream, it's going to say, "Oh, dang sister, we got some inflammation over here." And it's going to start leaking out. The problem with neutrfils is that they are great immune system cells, but they often times can cause destruction to the tissue that they're also trying to protect. And that's kind of the downside. So now these cytoines are going to pull these neutrfils out into this area. And what happens is the neutrfils will kind of find their way out here to fight. All right? So again, cytoines cause vasoddilation, capillary leak that kind of worsens the overall swelling within the sinuses and the nasal cavity. So again that swelling is in which tissues the sinuses and the nasal cavity they get super super swollen. The other component here is that the cytoines trigger the neutrfils to come to the area. So again these cytoines also pull neutrfils out into this area to come and fight. They say all right time to fight guys. When the neutrifils get out here the neutrfils they basically release a bunch of different types of like proteases and all different types of things. And these neutrfils are basically going to turn this mucus when they start fighting and kind of trying to destroy these bacteria. Basically what happens is it turns that mucus into more of a dead pus exa exudative type of like debris. Essentially what happens is after all of this starts to take place it converts this mucus into more of a mucco perent discharge. And some would argue that that's not always the case, but this is kind of just explaining the pathophysiological mechanism is if you bring in lots of neutrfils into a tissue, this is going to cause more of that exudative type of effect. And so the reason why I say that is that then this mucopirulent discharge is going to cause them to really drain out of the sinuses and the nasal cavity. So the perulent discharge is really maybe screaming more of the bacterial picture than the viral picture, but that's not always perfect. The other thing is that they'll have significantly more swelling than the viral picture will. And so technically you would say the pain and the pressure would be worse as well. So the reason why I'm telling you this is that if you have the mucopulent discharge in this particular scenario for bacterial that's one thing the swelling we could theoretically argue that it increases the pain and the pressure factor increases the pain and the pressure factor and if I increase the pain and the pressure that may scream more of a bacterial picture not perfect but it could there's one other thing that I will say in all of these inflammatory reactions cytoines are released and usually bacterial rhinocyitis when these cytoines get out into the bloodstream there's another thing that happens what do we know about cytoines theoretically these cytoines not only kind of alert the immune system not only do they cause vasoddilation but they also precipitate a fever And so that is one really important thing about these cytoines is that when these cytoines get into the bloodstream especially things like interlucan one tumor necrotic factor alpha they go to the we've done this lecture so many times you guys know this already the hypothalamus they turn up the thermostat and the patient starts to present with a fever. You can still get this in the viral picture. It's just not going to be as severe. So that's why patients who have more of that higher kind of like fever, they have significant pain and pressure and that mucoperulin discharge is another potential factor. It screams more of the bacterial thing. But here's the thing, a lot of people would argue that is not really the way that we think about acute bacterial. The way that we think about acute bacterial is the timeline. Yeah, guess what? In viral you could have mucoperin discharge. In viral you could have a lot of pain and pressure. In viral you could have a fever especially things like influenza and COVID. So is that a good argument? Not really. The best argument is that viral is self-limited and it should go away. With bacterial it may not go away and so it does not improve in less than 10 days. Oftent times it extends. There's another argument though too. So, not only is it just in less than 10 days, but you know, I often said that viral infection sets the stage. Well, viral infection usually it gets better pretty quick, probably in a couple days. So, if a patient had an initial viral infection that then caused a superimposed bacterial infection and let's say that this was it's getting ready to go away by day four and five, what would you see? You'd see an improvement because the viral infection is resolving. And then you you would think, oh, it was viral. And then what would happen is the bacteria would eventually start to cause things to get worse to catapult up to catapult up and you would see them get worse again. So what we see is is not just in a lack of improvement in 10 days some patients especially with this viral co- infection another option is so we'll say this or or they have what's called a double worsening. All that means is is they originally they had symptoms initially they got better and then they had a spike in their symptoms again. Right? So within that 10day time frame essentially if I were to do like a graph let's say here here is kind of like here's time right and here's their symptoms. What we would notice is is that you would see that their symptoms would start off and then it would get better and then all that would happen is it would get worse. Right? That's that double worsening type of presentation is they would have the symptoms, they would get better and all of a sudden they would again get worse. That's classic for acute bacterial rhinocyitis. Okay, I think we really like hit this one pretty hard. So let's let's move on now and talk about the next component. The next component here is fungal. Fungal is uh it's it's a son of a gun. Like I told you, it's pretty rare. So when a patient comes in, they present with facial pain, pressure, they present with nasal discharge, they present with congestion, um maybe some hyposmia. And the way that you really have learned to differentiate viral from bacterial is really more particularly on the lining of symptom duration, right? Less than 10 days. If it's not improving in 10 days or they're double worsening or they theoretically have a high fever, pain and pressure that's not going away, you could make that argument. Fungal, dude, this is this is the one where you'll be able to see it. It's it's blaringly obvious in this scenario when it's invasive. There is two different types of fungal species. Um but I would argue that the um the risopus is going to be the more aggressive one. So there there is two. I'll I'll write it out. can have things like um for example, you can have aspergillis. This this can cause it. I'd say it's not going to be as aggressive and it can even occur in patients. They can have what's called an allergic like a fungal rhinocinitis due to aspiggil spores. The more common one is the riseus and riseus essentially I'm going to write this out. It causes something called mucor micosis. So, this might start ringing a bell. You guys might have heard about this in class. Mukor micosis. This stuff is This stuff is just absolutely insane. These fungi right here, they're pretty aggressive, right? So, aspiggillos can definitely cause some type of an invasive picture, but it's not going to be as is the one I really want you to associate it with. The one I really want you to associate it with is going to be more the risopus. Now, there's one other thing. This doesn't happen in everybody. People become exposed to fungal spores all the time. So these these fungal spores I need uh my orange marker. All right, I have an orange marker here. >> I got you. >> Thanks, man. The next component here is whenever you have patients who have rises mucor micosis, we're exposed to fungal spores all the time, right? So these things basically could be within the airways, they could be within the sinuses, you could have them there, right? But immunompetent individuals clear these things. All right, that's the key. So you got to find this in a person who has a specific risk factor. Acute viral can happen in anybody who just got exposed to someone sneezing a coffin on them. Acute bacterial can happen if they got a viral infection. They don't have to be immuno compromised, anything like that. This patient has to have something that puts them at risk. And that's what I want you to look for in the clinical vignette or in their history. And so there's two scenarios for this one. The risk factors that really put a patient into this bucket is two. One is diabetic keto acidosis. And that's the one that I really want you to associate this with. The other one is any type of amuno suppression. And oftent times on the exams they use things like neutropenia as an example. So this is another one to look for. So don't forget that one. But again, the particular risk factors that make a patient get something like this because again, you are exposed to this. This is a natural thing. It can find its way into the nasal cavity, find its way into the sinuses. It's there. It's just if you give it the perfect opportunity. Yeah, you heard that term opportunity. So they're more likely to be opportunistic infections. If you give it the opportunity with this, the risk factors, it will do what it needs to do. So let me explain why this happens in DKA which is the most important one. This is really the thing that is going to drive this right. So this is the the particular thing. So let's actually take this into consideration. What uh happens here is um let's actually just bring DKA over here. In patients who have DKA the big thing I want you to remember is that it obviously causes acidosis. So it's going to cause acidosis, but you're also going to have a patient have high glucose levels. So this is going to be the things you have acidosis, and that's usually due to the ketone bodies, and you have high amounts of glucose. So this high amounts of glucose and acidosis, they really they create some dang problems. One of the things that happens here is acidosis. Essentially, what it does is is you have a protein, it's called transferin, right? There's a protein here called transferin. That's really the the thing I want. I'll put a little hole in there. What do you think that hole that transfer holds on to? Don't don't say trans or something like that. It holds on to iron, right? So transferin holds on to that iron. Now, whenever a person has and I want you to remember this person has an acidotic scenario, that iron is going to be liberated. The transfer kind of like disassociates from it. And so you're probably like, "Zack, do I really need to know this?" Probably not, but I think it's cool. It's going to release the iron. And now I have these high levels of free iron. When iron is free, guess who loves iron? Come on. I'm I'm I'm setting you up here to spike this thing risopus. And so now this creates an opportunity to do what to that actual this fungus. This thing starts growing like crazy. And so now you take this thing and it starts bop bop bop bop. And now all I did was I just made this thing proliferate. And that's what iron really does is it creates the perfect kind of like medium for fungal growth. And now I got a fungus growing like crazy. Now here's the next component. Not only does the acidosis make the opportunity for the fungus to become more intense by growing, but the glucose and the acidosis increase the expression of different receptors, which is crazy. So whenever you have high glucose and acidosis, it increases the expression of receptors on epithelial cells and endothelial cells. So that's what's the next thing is you're going to have increased. So I have this increased glucose, it increases expression of receptors. So now here you're going to have increased expression of epithelial receptors and you're going to have increased expression of indo and you're probably like dude I don't why is all of this that important to talk about? I promise we're going to get there. When we have all of this increased expression, you then create an opportunity because on that fungus, it's got a little receptor, a little protein that it needs to click into these. If you give it a gateway, a door, it will come in. So the glucose, that high glucose increases the expression of these things. So now I have two of these things and I'm opening up two doors. One is for the fungus to bind here, then travel, and then get here, and then guess what it does? it travels into the blood vessel. So this thing is going to be getting into the blood vessel. Why is that a problem? Because now we have something called angio invasion. Now when I have all of this fungi in the blood vessel and we triggered something called angio invasion, guess what this fungus does? The fungus then starts triggering clotting cascades. And now what happens is this fungus gets here it under goes what is this called again? When it gets into the blood vessel this is called angio invasion. Let's actually write that out. So what happened here? We triggered something called angio invasion. It invaded the blood vessels. That's all it means. Use these receptors to get to the blood vessels. Right? Then once in here it then triggers the clotting cascade and then you get clots that start to form here. So then we're going to cause this fungus will then lead to an increase in we'll just call thrombosis. We'll say it causes thrombosis of these vessels. And where where is all of this occurring dude? In the nasal cavity and in the sinuses. All of this is happening in the vessels that are surrounding the nasal cavity and the sinuses. If I have thrombosis now so this thing causes a clotting cascade, right? Which leads to thrombosis. The next thing here is that blood is supposed to move to particular tissues. And as blood kind of runs through here, it's going to come into contact with this this clot and it's going to make it harder for oxygen to get to the tissues beyond it. And so what's going to happen is this patient is going to have decreased O2 delivery. That's going to lead to eskeeia. And eskeeia is going to lead to necrosis. Now, here's why I'm mentioning all of this. This fungus led to thrombosis. So, it stimulates thrombosis. That then drops O2 delivery. That then increases eskeeia. That then increases necrosis. Necrosis of what tissues? The sinus cavities and the nasal cavities. So now I'm going to have necrosis of again which tissues of sinuses and the nasal cavity. And boy oh boy that sounds absolutely horrific. So now let's pretend here for a second we're going to have all of this happening in these blood vessels. So here here's all these blood vessels that are going to the the actual nasal cavity like your turbineates for example and then going to the sinuses. All of these, the fungus got its way through the mucosa into the actual blood vessels and caused them to claw off. Let's draw like little dots here. Here's a little dot there, a little dot there. We'll see. There's one here, one there, one there, one there, one there. You're blocking all of these off. If that happens, you can't get oxygen. All of these start to undergo necrosis. And I'm going to draw that with this black tissue. So now all of this is going to undergo gangrous necrosis and it's going to be all over the turbineates. It might get over the septum. It's going to be in the nasal cavities. I mean I'm sorry in the sinus cavities. Dude, this is absolutely horrific. Right. The problem with this is two things. One is can you imagine if I have all of this necrotic tissue, I would definitely be able to see this, right? 100%. When you look into someone's nasal cavity, the first thing that you'll notice is these things called black escars. So you'll see these like black necrotic escars and that's all because of this process. It's going to be over the turbineates. It's going to be over the septum. You're going to see that. The other thing is there's blood vessels. Dude, imagine I cause all this necrosis and I eat away at some of these vessels. What could I potentially have an opportunity for? If I erode into a nearby vessel, that erosion will then cause this vessel to startot toots and you're going to end up with epistaxis. That's why I wanted you guys to understand this. So the necrosis can then cause necrotic escars over the turbinates the septum all over the dang place but also they may come in presenting with epistaxis that's why I really wanted you guys to understand this right so when I talk about a patient coming in who says I got man I got the facial pain pressure I got congestion man can't smell nothing I got discharge and then all of a sudden you look in their nasal cavity. They say, "I've been having some nose bleeds." And then you look up, you say, "Uhoh, there's necrotic escars." You look at their history, it says, "Oh my gosh, they're diabetic or they're immunos compromised." That is an emergency. This patient will get very, very sick and have disfigurement if you don't get to the bottom of this. The crazy thing, and I don't I can't imagine how these fungi get this ability. This thrombosis is protective. Think about this. If I have all these thrombi, basically what happens is all these thrombi kind of wall off. that kind of blocks drugs from getting to the fungi. They're smart. And that's why sometimes guess why the only way that we can kind of like stop this necrosis from spreading we got to cut it out and debride it. That's why this is so aggressive. And the reason other thing component here is that since this necrosis is so aggressive, guess what it can do? This is one of the most likely types of infections for it to spread beyond the sinuses, spread beyond the nasal cavity. So this one can easily easily spread. So what I want you to remember is this has the highest risk of we call it syonesal spread and we'll get into that when we get into the complications. And so that's what I really want you to think about is because this thing can cause so much aggressive necrosis, this thing can very very quickly spread outside of the nasal cavity, outside of the sinuses to your orbit, to your brain, to your bones, and that's what makes this one uh not delicious, dangerous. All right, you guys get the point for this one. That's what I want you to take away with this one. Usually you're going to have need this presence, which I kind of explained how that comes into play. The biggest thing if you don't remember all that is that it gets into the vessels, clots them, causes necrosis and you get these necrotic escars. It can erode into the vessels and cause epistaxis and it can spread very very quickly. All right, we hit the acute ones. You're like, dude, I I I I just wanted to know about sinus infections. I didn't need to know all this this stuff. I promise it'll come into play. We make better clinicians when we understand things, I believe. So, chronic rhinocyitis, we're now at the other end. This is a patient who's been dealing with this for a while. They've been dealing with those symptoms that we talked about for a bit. We said that in these patients really what it comes down to is knowing if they have polyps or not. That really helps you to distinguish potentially the underlying cause. It also helps you to distinguish like really what would be the best treatment. So for those who don't have polyps, usually the cause of this is it's usually twofold. And what do I mean by this? Chronic rhino sinusitis in its own entity is not an infectious eeteology which you're probably like wait what why are we talking about this an infectious disease bro it's not only an infectious eeology usually it's a chronic inflammatory condition and so in this scenario we have patients who have certain types of abnormalities one is maybe they have something which is like super rare but it's called cona Bossa and I told you guys something. There was the most important turbineate or the most important concha where a lot of those sinuses empty in. Do you guys remember which one it was? It was just beneath the middle turbineate or the middle conce. So that's what we call conchoa. It's like it's like pumatization essentially of it. It's it's pretty rare. It's not super con. And I know you're probably like, "Oh, why am I talking about it?" But you get a very interesting component here. And patients who have this concha blossa. You see here that they have this large middle conche. And what is it doing at that osteomal complex? It's leading to blockage. So, it's blocking the osteomal complex, which is going to do all that stuff that we talked about. It's going to lead to a buildup of mucus. And then what happens is the buildup of mucus allows for bacteria that do live in those areas to start to grow, but they cause these things called bofilms. So, you get what's called bacterial bofilms, and usually it's things like staff orius, and that's also the contributors. So that kind of just worsens the overall inflammation. But you get the point. The contraosa does what? It kind of narrows this opening. And if you narrow the opening, you kind of affect the drainage pathway, right? So this drainage pathway is blocked. By doing that, we already talked about this. You block that, you build up the mucus and you can cause bacterial bofilms, which then leads to inflammation. And that's where we get the chronic rhinocinitis. Right? So that's one component here. So it's usually a combination of some type of anatomical obstruction and a bacterial biophilm which is most often which one if you had to remember one it's usually staflacccusarius but I don't I don't want you guys to go too crazy on this because I really want you to more associate because you'll find something interesting chronic rhinocitis if it was an infection what would we treat it with antibiotics chronic rhinocitis we don't really treat with antibiotics we treat with steroids oftent times or surgical procedures or saline irrigation we don't give them antibiotics unless they have acute exacerbation on top of their disease. That's why it's important. Another one is going to be a deviated septum. So, a deviated septum. Now, over time, when you have chronic inflammation, what's a natural reaction? Just a just out of adding a little component here. If you have chronic inflammation, what does it lead to? Fibrosis. And sometimes over time, these patients will develop some kind of fibrodic reactions. with deviated septum. Think about this. Let's say that I have this, and again, I'm kind of skewing my my my diagram here for a reason, but let's say that I had someone, you know, they got conked in the nose. They caught like a, you know, a good old hook from Floyd Mayweather or, you know, I don't know, Mike Tyson, they took one right to the right to the noggin, right on the nose, and they popped that septum. They deviated the septum. And now this thing's more curved than most people's toenails. In that scenario, what is it doing? It's blocking the osteomiatal complex. If you block the osteomiatal complex, are you going to allow for the drainage? No. If you don't allow for the drainage, what happens? Mucus builds up. Bacterial bofilms that contain staff orius builds up. You cause inflammation over time. That leads to fibrosis. And that's what makes it hard for you to ever come back from. So you guys are getting the point here, right? That with this one, it's the same thing. It's an anatomical obstruction. But both of them are going to be possibilities. But usually this is associated with these two things. So we'll do this. We'll put or plus bacterial bofilms. The last component here is you get a deviated septum or you get concoalosa. You block the oatal complex, build up mucus, you cause bacterial bofilms. That combination leads to inflammation. The biggest thing here is that over time that inflammation can possibly lead to fibrosis and that will then make this a little bit more hard for a patient to ever kind of get better from. All right, so that's the plus or minus is that over time you may start to experience some fibrosis and that fibrosis that's what really makes this a little bit more of a challenging picture. If I start to get really really fibrodic tissue here, it makes it to where a lot of things are going to be hard and we're going to possibly need surgical interventions. These are ones that would respond very well to a surgical intervention. If a patient has a deviated septum and they have a conco, you could go in and actually surgically fix these things. But you want to get to it before they get to that fibrodic process. All right. Chronic rhinocyitis with polyps. This one's it's very interesting. Usually in this scenario, this is patients who have the best way of saying it is they got like immune systems that are a little bit ADHD. All right. So, for example, couple scenarios here is I would think about this in what's called AERD. This is basically aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease. Another term for this um we call it the SERS triad if you really want to remember this one. And I think it is actually helpful because it's kind of it's kind of cool. So, the Sampers Triad, do you guys remember this? Let's see if you guys remember this. So Sanders triad is consisting of three particular points. What is that? One is you have a patient who has asthma, you have a patient who has aspirin sensitivity and I'll explain what this means in a second. And the last thing is you have a patient who has polyps and usually these are nasal polyps. That's called your Stor triad. A lot of this triad is built upon the pound built upon the foundation of like a metabolic defect and an overactive immune system. Another eeology besides this one is usually some type of fungus. So usually this is where we talk about aspiggilis. So aspergillis it actually does have fungal spores and it basically creates these kind of like essentially like an immune reaction. Let me let me explain what happens here. in these patients who have uh this kind of samp aspirin does let's go back and remind ourselves aspirin basically does what? So we have these pathways right? So you have what's called um we can actually remember it like this we have arachidonic acid and eventually you get something called lucatryins and you get something called prostaglandins right and this is kind of the basic simple reaction. So going to lucatryins is the lipooxygenase going to the prostaglandins is the cylo oxygenase right? So here is the cox enzymes and here is the lipo oxygenase enzymes. When you give someone aspirin, right, and they also have an underlying history of things like asthma, you also increase the risk of polyps, the concept behind this is that aspirin basically is going to kind of like inhibit these patients COX enzyme. When you inhibit the COX enzyme, basically you shut down this pathway. And then what happens is arachidonic acid, if it can't get pushed into this pathway, it gets pushed hard into this pathway. And lucatrien are some nasty little son of a guns that in patients who have any kind of like sensitive immune system especially if they have things like underlying asthma whatever it may be they are super super sensitive and so here's what I want you to remember patients who have things like for example the aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease they get exposed to things like aspergillis uh fungal spores we have immune system cells one is called your tea helpper er two cells and the other one are called your innate lympoid cells type two. I don't go crazy. All I want you to know is they got some super sensitive immune system cells. All that happens here is that these things are really like a pretty intense trigger. And this basically through things like lucatryins or things like aspiggillospores, you create kind of immune reactions that activate these cells. When these cells are activated, they do two things. One is they both pump out something called interlucan 5 and interlucan 5 is a very powerful stimulator of who are these cool dudes with their ray bands? These are your eocinophils. These are eocinophils, right? So what the interlucan 5 does is it really helps to activate eosinaphils. eosinaphils, dude, these things are like they don't they don't play no games. They ain't around here to play no games. And they come to these cells basically and they they just release things like major basic protein and all of that and it causes basically a lot of an inflammatory reaction. All right. So you're going to get a lot of inflammatory reactions. The concept behind this is that you want eosinaphils to fight against things like fungus and and patients who have like some type of like hyperimmune uh inflammatory responses, things like aspirin, exacerbated respiratory diseases, eosinaphils are very very heavily involved. Usually these patients have high eosinaphil levels that causes a lot of destruction to the actual mucosal tissue. So what do I get? I get mucosal tissue injury. The other component here is it also releases something another cytoine called interlucan 13. And interlucan 13 does two things. One I'm not going to get too crazy about but you know we have these things called goblet cells and goblet cells they respond very very nicely to interlucan 13 and one of the things that it will do is it'll increase your your mucus production right so whenever you have lots of interlucan 13 it will increase mucus production but that's not the big thing I want you guys to focus on the thing it also does besides this here I will you know what heck I'll add it in it will stimulate mucus production but the other thing I really want you to know is its comes here and it makes the vessels that are going to that damaged mucosal tissue really leaky. When it gets leaky, all this fluid and exudate and eocinophils start leaking out of the vessels into this sub mucosal space. So, I'm going to have fluid. And what other kind of cells am I going to have here? I'm going to draw them in red. What other kind of cells? I'm going to have eocinophils. They're going to be all up in this dang thing, right? What's going to happen is that this sub mucosa starts kind of getting bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and eventually you start lifting this thing up and up and up and it's just it's just boop boop and eventually this is what ends up forming. You kind of bubble off the mucosa and then it kind of forms this like little bubble. All of this is that fluid and eocinophils. Isn't that cool? Ain't that cool? Come on. You know it is. So all of this is all that fluid. And what else is in there? The eosinaphils. And they're kind of they're poking out. It's like a hemorrhoid in the nose. What is this thing? That's a nasal polip. So you get the point here. The big thing I want you to remember is that in patients who have things like maybe they have allergies or ex this really critical thing for the exam is the samp triad or they have aspiggilis fungal spore exposure. The big thing here is that usually polyps are most often associated with kind of an eocinophilic allergic type of reaction and that pushes these cytoines to bring fluid mucus and on top of that eocinophils into the tissue and bubble out to the mucosa creating polyps. If that polip bulges out there, think about this. Come on. What is it doing? I want you to think for a second. This polip is bulging out, right? What's it doing? What is it blocking the osteomiatal complex? You guys, this is this is like I think the foundation of it, right? Is that it's going to block the osteomatal complex and and I don't need to go through it. I've done it like 3,000 times already that at this point we understand that by blocking that osteomatal complex you create mucus buildup you create inflammatory bofilms and you create an an opportunity for chronic rhinocinitis. The reason why I say all of this is that because in these conditions they're going to respond really well to shutting down inflammation like with what steroids. Steroids are going to be really good for these sometimes if they get too big where they're literally ball valving this thing. What you have to do sometimes though you may have to cut those polyps out because we don't want to block the otoal complex but if you can get steroids to shrink the inflammation down you may be okay that's why this is not really an infectious disease in its own it's kind of like a superimposed bacterial bofilm on chronic inflammatory conditions I don't want to go too crazy but I don't want you guys to forget that chronic rhinocyitis also especially for the exams I want to add this last little tidbit don't forget that this can be it just doesn't fit into the definitions that we talked about it with. It is also associated and I think it's really cool to understand this. It's associated with a condition called cystic fibrosis. And this should make perfect sense. What does cystic fibrosis do? It makes mucus thick. If you get lots of thick mucus that block off the osteomatal complex, what's going to happen? It's the same concept. Another one is primary siliary diskynasia. What is primary silary diskynesia? It's basically you see these thingies here, these pseudoratified epithelial cells, they have celia. They don't work. If they don't got cyia that work, can you beat mucus out of the sinuses? No. The whole point I want you to associate with these is that these cause blockages of the otoal complex, but it's not through a polip. And it's not well that's not true. Cystic fibrosis can cause polyps if I want to be particular but it's not via a polip and it's not via some type of anatomical obstruction. It's usually a lot of mucus blockage. So that's the one thing I want to add is that these do that particularly through which type of concept is that cystic fibrosis or primary diskynesia? They cause a mucus blockage. And I think always on the exam if you want to remember this primary silary diskynesia they'll present it one particular way. They'll say that you have a young child who has a bunch of um uh who has chronic rhinocyitis and on top of that their heart is flipped to the other side. So they have situs inversis and they have bronchiacttois. That's the things I want you to remember for primary silary diskynesia. There's something a triad called cardigan's triad which is you'll have a patient a young child who presents with chronic rhinositis bronchiacttois and a flipped heart. All you have to see is the flipped heart and it'll make you think about this one. Oftent times with a lot of these if it's viral usually it's self-limited goes away. In certain scenarios like pretty like heavy bacterial rhinositis or an especially acute invasive fungal rhinositis. stuff can spread outside of the sinus, outside of the nasal cavity and that's where we start seeing some problems. So for example when we talk about these osteomiitis it's not something I would always see but I would see it for the exams with um especially frontal sinusitis. So, think about this here. Let's say that you have a patient who has some infection, some inflammation of their frontal sinuses. And again, it's supposed to kind of basically drain out right into the nasal cavity. You get a lot of inflammation, you get mucus build up, you get bacteria. All right, cool. What can happen? Well, one of the things here is that this can spread. I mean, think about this. The sinus is just a hollow cavity sitting in a bone. What bone? The frontal bone. this a hollow cavity sitting inside of a bone. It's the sppheninoid bone. So when patients get infection of that sinus, all it has to do is literally just spread to the bone. And whenever you spread to the bone, that's when you start getting an infection and inflammation of the bone tissue. And so that's really the difference is all that's really happened is you had pathogens that spread from where? From the sinus to the bone tissue. Now here's here's the thing I would add. oftentimes when you get infections that really are spreading into the bone. The downside to this is that this will definitely intensify the pain. Right? So, a couple different kinds of clinical signs that I would be looking out for. So, if I were to be looking out for what kind of clinical kind of presentation would really make me even think about this? Well, the first thing I would add is I would see that the patient would have an increase in pain. Right? Whenever you cause that kind of involvement of the bone, the bone is, you know, it's innervated and it's also going to be one of those that it doesn't allow for a lot of expansion very much. And so, you're going to definitely see an increase in the pain. That's definitely going to be pretty obvious, right? The other component here is that this is a bacterial infection. Whenever you get bacterial infections, what do they do? Well, they cause tissue damage. What's the response to that tissue damage? Well, one of the things is that this will then lead to cytoine release. And what kind of cytoines? Well, whenever you have an infection of a tissue, you really amplify things like interlucan one. You amplify things like tumor necrotic factor alpha much more than in the sinuses. And so, what would you also start to expect? You might start to see things like an increase in their white count and a fever. And so, that high amount of that cytoine storm, it can really push up what kind of things? it can push up their white blood cell count and it can also drive up a fever. So if I have a patient whose pain is more intense in the localized area especially the frontal bone and then I look at their kind of lab work and I find that they have an increase in their white blood cell count an increase in their fever that may make me a little bit more concerned. There's one other thing though and this is I think the the telltale signs obviously the pain right and it's going to be painful at rest it's going to be painful when you palpate it but in some scenarios you can actually cause this infection it kind of starts to kind of get around it's just beneath the perryioium and sometimes let's actually draw it like this you can actually have AI guess the best way of saying it is you can kind of form like a sub perryostial abscess. And all this means is that when you look at this patient, you will see a a little bit of a bump right there on their forehead. That's really what will happen. And so with this scenario, if I were to kind of imagine this, let's say that I kind of drew this out here, you'll see here from this that they'll have that sinus or that bone. It'll kind of like start pushing out. So, here was the the sinus back here. All right. Here's the sinus. And you'll notice that the sinus was the source, right? The sinus was the source. And then the infection spread and spread and it got just beneath the perryostium and it caused this kind of like big bumpy little appearance to occur. And so it'll be kind of like a large indurated area that as you push on it, it'll it'll have like a little bit of fluctuance to it. We give that subperostial abscess a very specific name for the exams. And we call this a pot puffy tumor. It's just something to think about for the exam is a pot puffy tumor. It's not a tumor. It is an abscess that's formed from an actual frontal sinus that spread to that area and it's just beneath. If I were to draw this in like a pinkish color here, this is the perryioium. So just right here, just beneath the perryostium, we're seeing this fluctuant type of abscess forming, which is just basically an absess that walled itself off inside of the bone just beneath the perryioium. So that's something I would think about here. So osteomiitis usually it's an infection that spreads to the bone. So the pain's going to be worse. They may have some evidence of systemic inflammation which is that they may have a increase in their white count and they may have a fever. So increased white blood cell may be a potential trigger and they may have a fever and that fever may be persistent and in certain scenarios which really is going to give it away is that you'll feel kind of like a um indurated but fluctuant type of like a tissue right off on that actual frontal bone where the sinuses usually lie. All right? And that would be a pot puffy tumor. So, this is something that you would have to actually get like a CT scan, um, sometimes MRIs to see the actual extent into the bone. And these patients are oftentimes going to have to be on antibiotics for a pretty decent amount of time. So, that's something I want you guys to think about. Orbital cellulitis is another complication. And really, it's any kind of orbital complication. It doesn't have to be orbital cellulitis. It could be preceptal, right? Which is just in front of the actual orbital septum. So, that would usually cause the eyelid edema and arythemma and they would get a good amount of swelling. orbital cellulitis is behind the orbital septum and that's going to cause a significant amount of swelling where the eye just going to bulge out and then you can't move the eye as much. Sometimes you can get abscesses inside of the orbital cavity. So it's not just one thing. There's actually a thing called a chandler classification that really digs into that more. We're not going to get into that. So orbital cellulitis the most common trigger here is going to be from ethmoid sinusitis. So you see how here we have the ethmoid bone and here we have these ethmoid sinuses. These little suckers, dude, they got a thin little bone that they can just spread right across and get into the orbital cavity. Thin little bone. Do you guys know what that's called? It's the lamina paparatier. So whenever a patient gets ethmoid sinocitis, it travels. So it moves across. What is the structure called? the lamina paparati and it gets into the orbital cavity. That is really kind of the overall mechanism here. So a patient has ethmoid sinocitis. That ethmoid sinusitis allows for the infection to spread across the bone. Very thin bone gets into the orbital cavity starts just wrecking things dude. So all we have to do here is draw here is the inflamed sinus. this thing gets in here, bye-bye. And that's really what we got to be scared about. So, if a patient came in and they had maybe some again nasal congestion, they had some facial pain and pressure, maybe it was kind of situated around the eye, maybe they had um also some nasal discharge and all of a sudden they can't move their eye, their eyes really swollen, you should be concerned about something like orbital cellulitis. So, clinically, whenever the orbital cavity gets inflamed, so this is going to cause orbital cavity inflammation. Obviously, like I said, this could form as just cellulitis. It could even become an abscess, but it starts to damage particular structures. So, the structures that we got to worry about is it causes enlargement of two things. One is the enlargement of the um orbital fat. There a lot of orbital fat tissue. And the other one is it's going to cause enlargement, but usually that enlargement is going to cause meioitis or enttrapment. Either way, there's going to be, let's actually say, um, enttrapment is one thing or myioitis, which is just basically inflammation of the extra ocular muscles. All right, those are the two things that are going to be in the orbital cavity there. If that happens, the clinical presentation will be pretty straightforward. So, what would that clinical presentation be? The clinical presentation comes down to usually this would be proptosis. So you would have the eye bulging forward and that would be pretty problematic. So that would really make you think about one thing, right? The other thing here is that it's often times going to be in combination with an entrapment or inflammation of the muscles that move the eye. And so what would that be associated with? It would also be restricted and painful extracular movements. The combination of these two is what really should make you think about orbital cellulitis. You'd have to get some imaging here, like a CT scan to really see if it's just the cellulitis or if there is an abscess or anything else that's really going on here because that would need to be addressed. These patients would need to be on IV antibiotics. These patients may have to be on IV antibiotics initially, but then eventually gets transitioned over to oral. But you're you're getting the difference here that often times patients who have things like sinusitis, we treat them with oral antibiotics, especially if it's bacterial. we don't need to do IV. We don't need to do any kind of surgical interventions usually. But in the scenario where it does spread to the orbit or it spreads to the bone or it spreads to other scary areas, we may have to reach for those IV antibiotics and do some other types of interventions. So that's what I want you to take away from this one. Cavernous sinus thrombosis is kind of like a similar concept. Usually cavernous sinus is interesting. So here's here's what I want you to remember. You have some veins here and and this is not going to be perfect the way you would view it, but I want you guys to just I guess trust me for now that there is opthalmic veins and the opthalmic veins are essentially kind of like uh you have the superior and inferior and again it probably looks like that's the case but but it's medial lateral just trust me for right now that you have some superior and some inferior abdomic veins and what they do is they drain from the orbit into the cavernous sinus. If a patient started off with ethmoid sinusitis and that ethmoid sinusitis did what? Spread. Where does it spread? Spreads across the laminina and it gets into the orbital cavity. So now I have all of this inflammation here. Obviously we just talked about what that would be orbital cellulitis. But these veins, they're valless, which means that things can kind of flow in different directions. It's not always one directional flow. The pathogens can hop in to these veins and travel their way into the retrograde into the cavernous sinus. When they get to the cavernous sinus, they can cause inflammation. they can clot off the vessels and that's when we start seeing some issues. So here's what I want you to remember to kind of follow this process. First thing is you have ethmoid and then what happens it spreads to the orbital cavity from here it flows via what the opalic veins. So then infection spreads via the opthalmic veins and where do they dump into the cavernous sinus and then they empty into cavernous sinus. So here's what we've done so far. We have an infection in the ethmoids. They cross the laminoperation get to the orbital cavity. They hijacked the actual opthalmic veins and then spread to the actual cavernous sinus in the cavernous sinus. What happens? You get inflammation of the cavernous sinus but also the cavernous sinus is sneaky dude. This infection it kind of causes clots to form especially where these opthalmic veins want to dump in. So two things really happen here. One thing is once they empty in one is you get septic thrombi. So you get basically a septic thrombi in the cavernous sinus and that's where we call this cavernous sinus thrombosis. Now think about this for a second. If you clot this off blood is supposed to be coming from the eyes and emptying into the cavernous sinus. But you got clots there. What's going to happen to these dang optodomic veins? They're going to blow up, right? They're going to look like they've been, you know, on steroids and drinking water for a while and they're going to blow up and they're going to get super super engorged. And because of that, what's going to happen? All of this engorgment of the veins are going to cause you're going to get all that swelling in the eye. And so what ends up happening here is that these patients usually have very specific clinical presentations. They get things like we talked about. They get perorbital edema. Their eyes are like they look like they're super swollen. That's one thing. They get proptosis. They also get chemosis, which is basically swelling of the conjunctiva, right? It looks like a blister on their conjunctiva. I'm not kidding. So, these are the the actual big things that I want you to remember because of this. It's backflowing into the opthalmic veins and it's causing all that congestion in the orbital cavity. And so, again, it'll cause perorbital edema. It'll cause proptosis and it'll cause chemosis. All of that is because of the movement, the redirection of it back this way and that's going to cause all this swelling in the orbital cavity. That should make sense, right? The other thing is when you cause inflammation because that that infection when it gets into the cavernous sinus jacks it all up. You're going to get inflammation of the cavernous sinus. Well, it's really really critical to remember what in the heck runs in the cavernous sinus and information of the cavernous sinus. Basically, it kind of um let's say presses on specific structures that run through here. Do you guys know which structures run through here? Let me actually get this. There's a couple different things. One is you have cranial nerve three. Another one is cranial nerve four. Another one is the V1 division of the facial ner trigeminal. Then there's the V2 division. And then there's another one right in here which is cranial nerve six. And then on top of that you also have like a sympathetic plexus and you have an artery. What's that artery? I'm going to kind of inflame this whole thing here. This whole thing is getting inflamed because of the infection, right? And you got the clot there. But there's another structure that runs right next to this this um this nerve. What is that structure? That's called the internal corateed artery. Right? So you have a couple different cranial nerves here. I'll I'll list them again. This is cranial nerve three, cranial nerve four. This is cranial nerve five here. These two, but you have two divisions, V1 and V2. And this one here is cranial nerve six. All right. This one right there. And then you have the artery right there, which is the internal corateed artery. All right. The point I make of all of this is when you get inflammation of the cavernous sinus, it's going to naturally start pressing on those nerves. And because of that, we're not going to go through all of these. We talked about this a lot in other lectures. So, this is just more of a consistent recap that you guys have noticed. You're going to get cranial nerve palsy. So, you'll get things like a cranial nerve three, four, and six pausy. What will that do? Just think about it. Come on. It's going to cause restricted extracular movements. You're not going to be able to maybe uh medially um you're not going to be able to add abduct, maybe look up, maybe look down. All of those things are going to be impeded because you've affected all of these extracular muscles that are supplied by these nerves. You can even have double vision. So that's one thing. The second thing is the facial nerve. So you're going to have cranial nerve five pausy especially for the two divisions the V1 and the V2 division. So you may have decreased sensation, paristhesas, numbness, tingling of the face. And on top of that, you know, the cranial number five also controls the coral reflex. There may be a diminished coral reflex. And if we really had to be particular, there is a plexus that wraps around the what's that called? The sympathetic plexus. What happens if you damage the sympathetic plexus? You can get Horner syndrome. So, another possibility, but we're going to put it as a plus and minus because we don't often see it that often is Horners. But I think it just kind of helps us to be good clinicians if we think about that. So, in patients who have cavernous sinus thrombosis, the big thing is that you start off with an infection of a sinus. Most often this bad boy gets to the orbital cavity, gets into the opdomic veins, gets to the cavernous sinus, clots off the cavernous sinus entry points. Also, cavernous sinus are interconnected. These little suckers, dude, they're smart, man. They interconnect because of that symptoms whenever this develops comes up bilaterally within like 24 to 48 hours. So you get bilateral perorbital edema, bilateral proptosis, chemosis and bilateral cranial nerve palsies. That's why this is important to because it helps you to differentiate a little bit between the orbital cellulitis which is often usually unilateral. Okay, this one really really bad. Really really bad. We have to treat this one with ivy antibiotics. Often times we have to give hepin and we this one's a tough one to kind of treat. You don't want this one. With that being said, you don't want this one either because intraraanial infections are also pretty pretty dang scary, right? With intraraanial infections, there's there's things like meningitis. There's there's there's brain abscesses. You can even get infections in between the different parts of the meningis like subdural empas and epidural abscesses. The thing I want you to understand here is it's it's pretty straightforward. These things they spread they spread two different ways. So let's say that here it spreads into the menes. You can get things like menitis here. It can spread into the brain. You can get things like an abscess. Same thing here. I can spread into the meningis or I can spread into the brain. So the different ways that a patient may present is they may present with where is my green marker here. One way is they may get what is this called? Whenever you have it starts off as cerebritis, but then that cerebritis gets a really really walled off infection here. And we used uh I think orange in the past and it gets filled with all this pus-like material. What is this called? This is a brain abscess. Right? So one presentation. So the different kind of intranial infections here could be things like a brain abscess. That's one. Right? Another way that this could present is that the infection could spread to the different parts of the meninges and you can get infections sometimes in between the in the epidural space and you can get infections into the subdural space. So let's pretend here for a second that I have an infection that's really really deep right here and maybe I have another one that's really really deep right here. Well here I could get things like a subdural impaema and an epidural abscess. So these are also possible. They're definitely way more common with frontal sinusitis though. All right. So again, brain abscess, you can get things like a subdural empa which is obviously an infection that's in the subdural space, empa. And then the other one is an epidural abscess. So an abscess that forms in the epidural space. And then the last one is sometimes it can just be into the subacoid space or affect different parts of the meningis and it's not really an abscess. It's an infection that's kind of like spread throughout the meningis and that can cause something called menitis. Menitis. So these are the different ways that this could all occur is menitis different types of abscesses. And that's what I really really kind of want you to understand here. Now the ways that these infections do this is they spread from the sinuses by something called contiguous spread. So the mechanism the mechanism is something called contiguous spread. And I don't need for us to get all kinds of like crazy on this. It's it's really straightforward. One and two. The infection starts in the sinus, moves through the bone and then gets into the actual meninges. That's it. So the infection infection spreads through the bone. All right? So you get something like an osteomiitis and then as it works its way tracks its way back and get into the epidural space. Get an epidural empa. epidural abscess can track into the subdural space get a subdural empa track into the meninges especially the subacttoid space and you get some menitis you get the point that's one way the infections spread via valveless veins which we kind of already talked about above the athic veins are a perfect example of that so there's two different ones that I want you to think about here. One is that cavernous sinus that's really common for infections like ethmoid, sppheninoid, basically to get to the cavernous sinus and cause these types of infections, right? So, one of those is you kind of have things like we talked about the athalmic veins is a perfect example of how that infection spreads, right? And that was with the ethmoid. That was the perfect example for that one. There's other ones which are in the bone and they kind of interact very interestingly to like deep deep veins. I don't want to go too crazy into it but they're called diploic veins. They're in the bone especially this is very common for frontal. Very common for frontal sinusitis. Essentially what happens is you have a bone here right here's your bone and then you have different layers. So we'll just use the colors here. So we'll say here's the uh you have two different parts of the dura matter here. And then we'll say here is another layer which we'll just we'll just keep the same color here for right now. So there's the perryosta layer and then you have the meningial layer right and then obviously we'll have the arachnoid mo. But here's the big thing. There's these big veins. They call them the dural venus sinuses, right? Here's your dural venus sinuses. Here's the bone. Let's say that this is the frontal bone. And let's say here, here's that sinus that we were kind of talking about. And there's the infection in it. There's small little veins in the bone that basically kind of like capture that and can travel through their way here through the bone and access this space. Tell me that isn't crazy. So now if I have an infection right here of this sinus and the infection spreads through the diploic veins it can access things like the superior sagittal sinus and then from here it can eventually get into your brain tissue. It can get into the meningis you get the point. It's it's almost exactly like we talked about with the cavernous sinus. You're just giving it a gateway. So that's the two ways that these things happen. What I need you to understand is clinically, how would I know that a patient started off with a sinus infection and all of a sudden they came in with something like this? Well, think about this. For example, if a patient cames in clinically, they're going to be sick as crap, man. The clinical presentation really comes down to the area or the type of infection we're discussing. So, for the most part, when I talk about these, the two most common ones are going to be things like menitis and like brain abscesses that they'll probably present. But either way, you're going to see things that are probably like relatively common. I'd say you'll see a patient who's going to have a severe headache. So, a severe headache, it will be definitely one. They may have a fever and there may be neurological deficits and especially when it comes to things like menitis, what else would I potentially see? Not only cortical signs like neurological deficits, but I may see menism. And that menismas is the sign potentially to make you think about menitis. Right? This was a lot. This was a lot. And again, the thing I want you to take away from these types of infections is they are uncommon, but we don't want to miss them. Usually the ones that I get really, really concerned about, especially with orbital involvement and brain involvement, is which one of those acute ones? Acute invasive fungal rhinocyitis. That is the one that can spread rapidly and can kill a patient. It is very very common for that thing to spread to the orbit and then into the brain. Bacteria would be the next one. We talked about a lot of this but now what I want you guys to do is to put it into action. Let's make an application of this knowledge and talk about how to think about these patients clinical presentation and get to a diagnostic certainty. Let's do that now. All right. Let's now talk about the diagnostic approach to sinus infection. So when we talk about this, I think the first thing to kind of ask yourself is when we think about sinus infections, what are the ways that these patients usually present? because a lot of these are diagnosises based upon clinical kind of um gestalt and overall it's a clinical diagnosis essentially. So we have to be good with understanding what that really kind of entails. So let's talk about particularly what is the clinical criteria for an acute rhinoscinoitis and and does the patient meet this or not. So what this looks at is a time frame of this has been going on for definitely less than four weeks, right? A lot of the times the patients had symptoms for probably a couple days, right? But the question is okay, it's been an acute onset and also what are the symptoms? So the symptoms really look like this. Has the patient had perulent nasal discharge? That's one thing. All right. And or has the patient had one of the following. All right. So nasal obstructive symptoms. All that means is they got some congestion, bro. All right. So, they got perent nasal discharge plus they have nasal obstructive symptoms and or facial pain and pressure. So, if you have a nasal discharge, you have facial pain and pressure and usually that facial pain and pressure is usually worse when you palpate on it or whenever they lean forward, you got the diagnosis or perent nasal discharge plus congestive symptoms. That screams an acute rhinocyitis, but it doesn't tell you if it's viral or bacterial. It just tells you you got a acute rhinocerositis picture. If that's the case, how do I determine if it's viral or bacterial? Do I like swab? No. A lot of the times it comes down to watching and waiting, which a lot of people don't want to do, right? So most of the time acute rhinocyitis is viral. Very rarely is it bacterial. It's actually funny enough it may start off as a viral infection that then progresses and you lead to a super infection with bacteria. So the question that you need to ask is okay, I have the diagnosis. Does the patient get better within a certain time frame on their own? Because guess what? Viral infections, they get better on their own. That's the key way to know it. And so, usually that's what you would do is you would say, did their symptoms improve or not? And so, if they did improve and that and we kind of use 10 days as an arbitrary number to say that it it did, then it's probably a cute viral and that's it. It's done because you're not going to really do anything about it. You're not going to test them for any specific viruses. maybe COVID, maybe influenza, but again in this case it's most often more than not things like rhino, adno, parinfluenza, things like that. So with that being said, that's a viral picture. With the usually the bacterial picture, the symptoms do not improve in 10 days. Um or if anything, they get a little bit better maybe like initially and then all of a sudden they get worse. That's pretty much characteristic of like an acute bacterial rhinositis. Now, other people may say, "Have they had, you know, severe facial pain pressure and nasal discharge and and a fever that's been going on for like a couple days?" Because you can get fever with both of these. But if the fever has been going on, it's a little high and there a lot of pain and it's been going on for maybe a couple days, you might want to say it's bacterial. So, that's another way that I would also add to this. Again, this is truly what a lot of the textbooks will say. if it's symptoms improve or not or if they initially improve and double worsen we call that then it's acute bacterial but again you should also add in the consideration is do they have like a high fever that's more likely to be bacterial and is they do they have symptoms like fever facial pain and all of those things that are severe and it's been going on for more than 3 days at least it's probably more likely bacterial and that's what I want you guys to think about and that's it as a clinical diagnosis that's all you need to do the only time that you go a little bit further is if they're having other signs that makes you a people who were concerned that their infection extended beyond the sinuses or they have really high risk factors for it to extend beyond the sinuses. Um, and we'll talk about what those are. So, what are those? So, a severe severe headache, right? So, if a patient has sinusitis, it's a no-brainer they're probably going to have a headache. It's just because of the location of the sinuses. It's common to have a headache. But if the headache is really persistent, it's severe, started off maybe as a baseline headache and it got a lot worse, that's when you think about a potential complication, CNS infection, which will come with other symptoms, cavernous sinus thrombosis, osteomiitis, right? Just because you got a headache don't mean that you got these things. But if it's accompanied with other features like a focal neurological deficit, all right, now I'm concerned about a CNS infection. If it's cons assoc associated with an altered mental status, I'm really concerned about a CNS infection. Do they got opthalmologic complications? Does that mean it's spread to the orbital cavity? So, do they have a reduction in vision? Do they have reduced extraocular movements? Do they have proptosis? I'm really concerned that they got like an orbital cellulitis or like a cavernous sinus thrombosis. Do they have a really really high fever? Or is the fever been greater than 3 days? That's really any of these complications. And again, that also concerns me that it's a bacterial origin. And that bacterial origin in itself would indicate the need for antibiotics. Right? The other thing that I would say here is did you give them antibiotics and they didn't get better at all? That makes me think about maybe a really bad complication but also I get worried about a resistant pathogen and that again pushes me to start thinking about some worsening things. Now one other thing I will add is if the patient has sinusitis features and they're a diabetic especially uncontrolled or amunosuppressed they're super high risk for fungal infections especially things like mucoralis or risopus and aspiggillis. So definitely things I would consider in that potential population. If they got none of these red flag signs or risk factors you're good. It's probably just uncomplicated acute bacterial rhinoscinitis. And again, depending upon that, you're going to treat them with antibiotics in certain clinical scenarios. In other words, did they improve um within 10 days? No. Did they initially improve and get worse? Okay. Yeah. Or do they have a really high fever? Do they have fever with severe nasal discharge that's been going on? All right. I'm probably just going to treat them with antibiotics. All right. But those who have red flag signs with these symptoms, that's when we start asking the question, is there something else going wrong? That's when you may kind of reach to imaging because imaging is not used to diagnose these things. It's used to diagnose it if it's inconclusive, you're unsure, or that you're worried about complications. So, a CT or MRI really it's contingent upon a bunch of different factors uh like the actual complications you're associated with and also the age. CT comes with radiation, MRI, no radiation. So, that's important in a pediatric population. So if you get a CT scan, which is probably the most often one that you'll get, you'll see a lot of sinus opacification, right? And that's just diagnosing the sinocitis. Again, you don't use this to diagnose it. You'll just find it probably as a result of getting that CT scan. So you'll see here this opacified sinus here in this patient on the left one. That thing is like super super opacified compared to this one. All right. Another one here is a patient with a maxillary sinusitis. Look at this thing. It's filled with all this perent material. They got a lot of like edema and congestion. Look at this swollen turbine and things like that. This is a pretty good maxillary sinusitis that you can see here. You can see that this is a sphenoid sinus. Here's this there's a spphenoid sinus all filled with up with pus right and an infected material. So that's again a sppheninoid sinusitis. And then we can see uh let's see here. Okay, we got the ethmoid sinus which is pretty kind of inflamed and opacified nice and dark here. And actually look look this is the the true reason why you get it. Patient has ethmoid sinusitis and all of a sudden look they got this orbital complications. This is an orbital abscess right here. You can actually see it and it's got kind of this capsule around it and they probably got orbital cellulitis with an abscess funny enough. So you can see here there's the amthmoid sinusitis and here is a nasty looking abscess there. All right. So that's something that you would actually find potentially as a complication. Sometimes they can get fungal infections and they get like these big fungal balls in the maxillary sin. It's pretty common with like aspergillis is a pretty common one. Um another one is extra sinoasal spread. All that means is it spread beyond the sinus and nasal cavity. Uh you can see this one's probably acute fungal u acute invasive fungal sanicitis. So they probably had like a nasty aspergillis or probably more likely mucoralis like a mucosis that's in the maxillary sinus and then this is an uncontrolled diabetic and imunosuppressed patient probably had some epistaxis probably had some necrotic ascars and all of a sudden you see that this thing has spread through the orbital bone and gone into the orbital cavity. Now this patient's got some really really nasty orbital invasion. Um, so this can be like an orbital apex kind of syndrome that you can see with these acute invasive fungal sinusitis. That's a pretty nasty one there. All right. And that would definitely be a concerning one. Other things that you might see is if you really really look for it, you may find like an abscess, especially in these scenarios, probably the frontal lobe is probably a big one. All right, you probably see that, but again, usually you need an MRI to better kind of differentiate these to take a look at them. Um, and then again, you may see orbital salitis. You'll see that this patient's got a lot of like swelling here. So, a lot of that, you know, eyelid edema. And on top of that, you may see some fat stranding if you go through your different slices on that axial cut. But that's pretty concerning for like an orbital cellulitis because you'll see here they have a lot of like that proptosis if you compare the two. And at this one, you can't see a lot of fat stranding, but there's definitely a lot of spatning that usually is going to be present with an orbital cellulitis. All right. If you see any of these things, it's definitely going to be especially the signs of sinusitis with the complications like it's spread beyond the sinus and the nasal cavity. That's when it's complicated acute bacterial rhinositis. Right? So this is kind of just recapping what we talked about with this. What about the patient who again this one is really rapid. So they have sinusitis symptoms. Right? But in this scenario my patient is immunosuppressed. They're uncontrolled diabetic and now they're presenting with epistaxis. That's usually the key thing to think about. and a rapid involvement of other extra sinos uh you know areas. In other words, they present with orbital symptoms, they present with really high fevers, they present with maybe CNS involvement, etc. I'm really really concerned in those scenarios about fungal infections. And so endoscopy is going to be the best way to go and biopsy. So when you do the nasal endoscopy, what you'll see is when you'll take a look here, you notice that they have a lot of epistaxis, so probably blood, but you're also going to notice some escars. So you're going to see a lot of these necrotic kind of like ulcers here that are going to be present on like things like the turbineates. Maybe it's on the septum, maybe it's on the pallet. That's really really consistent with acute invasive fungal rhinositis. When you see this, you got to biopsy it. And then also you may get a culture. The culture is not completely needed. It may help if you have come back with like another kind of pathogen, but in this case, the biopsy is truly what you want to see if there's any hyphel invasion that suggests more of a a mucoralis kind of infection because usually what happens is you get the hyphel invasion and it causes a nearby infarcted tissue. Um, so that's really really characteristic. But let's say that you have a patient comes in sinusitis symptoms they uh uncontrolled diabetic they have our amunosuppressive state they got epistaxis rapid invasion of uh extraconasal areas and then on top of that you have endoscopy and you see that they have this you need to start them on IV amphotarasin B reach out to get this patient a debridement as soon as possible and get a biopsy right that is the critical thing that you need to think about here all right if a patient didn't meet any of these criter criteria for an acute rhinoscinusitis the question that I ask myself is is it chronic right that's an important thing to think about so what are those kind of clinical criteria well then the time frame goes to 12 plus weeks and you have to have at least two of a lot of the same symptoms that we talked about right and what are those symptoms it's really facial pain pressure mucopulent nasal discharge um and nasal obstructive symptoms like congestion and on top of that anosmia or hyponosmia so basically a decreased or no smell. Those are symptoms of a chronic rhinocyicisitis. But then you need to have inflammatory evidence. In other words, I need either a CT scan to show me that there's wall thickening, sinus opacification, polyps, retention cyst, or I need to visualize it directly. So if I do that and I have these symptoms, then I will follow up and say, "All right, cool. Let's get a CT scan of the sinuses. Let's directly visualize this stuff and see if we can find some evidence of inflammation. If I got the CT scan and I saw something like this where the sinuses are opacified and then there's a lot of thickening of the mucosa. We got some retention cysts here. They probably even I don't see any kind of obvious polyps, but you can get nasal polyps are really common with chronic rhinositis. That would really make me be concerned um about a patient having some kind of like chronic rhinositis. If I did a direct visualization, this can be with like an anterior rhinoscopy where you actually kind of take a quick look in there, see what is the sinuses, the osteo look like, is there any perulent debris, is there any polyps, etc. Or I can do a um an endoscopy. Um so I can kind of do a nasal endoscopy and take a really really good look, really investigate the sinostial complexes, the the actual nasal cavity, etc., and really get a good look and see what's going on. And that's the way that we diagnose chronic rhinositis. You need symptoms and imaging. In acute rhinocyicisitis, you just need symptoms. All right? Imaging only if refractory really really concerning features that they have complications. Then you'll get CT imaging. All right. Now, we've covered this pretty thoroughly. Let's now talk about how do we treat it? Well, acute viral, you don't do anything. It's supportive care, man. So, you're treating them accordingly. Maybe some saline irrigation to help to kind of move some of the actual a lot of that perent material to discharge out. analesia for any kind of pain especially with the facial pain and pressure and if they have any fever that will also help the acute bacterial rhinositis it usually comes down to antibiotics we have to just ask ourselves the question you know do they need it do they fit the criteria and then which antibiotic do I pick so which antibiotic do I pick is a good question so all patients are going to get supportive care but not all patients will get antibiotics the candidacy for antibiotics comes to you trial them to see if they improve and if they don't improve within 10 days or they initially improve and then they get worse or they have a high fever maybe some other severe symptoms that have persisted for more than three days. So high fever or fever with severe symptoms for more than three days, you go ahead and you treat them with antibiotics. Right? So that's important to remember. So no improvement, initial improvement but then worsen again or they got a severe onset high fever, perilasal discharge, facial pain and pressure and that's consisting for more than three to four days. That's a bacterial concern especially with the high fever. All right. And it not getting any better. In those scenarios you ask yourself the question does the patient have a penicellin allergy? Because if they do then what? I probably can't give them things like amoxicylin or augmentthin. I got to go with other alternatives. If they do um have a penicellin allergy, then what do I do? All right. Well, the next question I want to ask is what kind of allergy you got? Is it severe? You going to anaphylactic shock? If it's yes, well, doxy is probably a good one. I think sometimes we even consider a zithroy, but we're really trying to do away with that because of the high resistance rates. Um if they don't, you can probably go with an oral sephilosporin. So peds really do well with the septanir. Sephidoxine is another one that you can use in peds and sephiximium is in adults right a lot of the times a lot of the literature especially up to date I think it suggests that you know even if they have a type one hyper sensitivity in their pediatric patient you can still give them oral sephilosis but I would probably just again think about this a little bit more clearly. So again that's just kind of highlighting that overall cross reactivity risk. Again, I would take that with a grain of salt, but there is a lot of evidence, especially from up to date, that says, again, you can actually just give an oral sephilisporn. If they don't have a penicellin allergy, it's actually pretty straightforward. Now, you can probably get into the weeds a little bit here and they can start asking about risk factors for resistant pneumacco infections. I think this is where we get a little bit further and it's it can be in depth. I think the biggest thing that you would want to ask the patient is, have they had any antibiotics in the past 30 days? I think that's probably the most common one that you'll see on the exam, the most common one to think about. All the other ones like the extremes of age, daycare attendance, severe symptoms, immunosuppression, multiple coorbidities. Yeah, those are things to think about. But oftent times it's just knowing that they use have antibiotics in the past 30 days. If the answer to that is no, then the concept behind this is that they probably don't need a really high dose of augment which is the it's really the preferred first line acong across these. I think there is some literature that will suggest amoxicylin but we'll talk about that in a second. But if they if this is the case you can probably get away with two options. In some pedes cases we'll prefer to try to go with amoxicylin first but you would not be wrong if you picked augmentin. Augmentin really is the preferred go-to, especially in adult cases. All right? But it's a standard dose. You're not going with these heavy doses to nail these patients, right? If they do have risk factors, in other words, they've had antibiotics recently or they fit the extremes of age, the multiple coorbidities, the immunosuppressive scenarios, all right, we probably got to go a little higher. And in those scenarios, I would hit them with a higher dose. If you don't want to remember all of this and if it says penicellin allergy no just remember augmented amoxicil and clavilonic acid that is the biggest thing to take away from this. All right. Now, and the patient has acute invasive fungal sinusitis. It's actually really, really important that you get this patient a debridement and IV amphoteras B as soon as possible. You don't wait for the biopsy. If you have the suspicion, you start it. You get the biopsy first and then you go ahead and start that. You don't wait for the biopsy results to come back. You start them on IV, amphotaris, and B if your suspicion is high and you get debri going. All right. Really important to remember. So, what you're doing is essentially here's all of this necrotic kind of tissue. you need to remove that because it'll continue to cause problems and it'll continue to actually extend and so we're going to cut all of that out and then potentially use graphs. So this is really really really important to remember. All right, chronic rhinocinitis you're probably like oh dude you do any kind of like antibiotics? No, it's technically not an infectious disease believe it or not. It's more regarded as like an inflammatory condition. So saline irrigation is going to be helpful but we also see that intraasal corticosteroids can be given because again you're reducing inflammation. Um so that's one of the key things especially in these patients oral steroids can be added as a very short course if they have like polyps or severe symptoms but oftentimes nasal cine irrigation intraasal steroids you're probably going to cover most of the patients rarely unless they have really bad polyps or they're just not getting better with these therapies you can do an endoscopic sinus surgery. So again, it's just recapping that is the key thing. We'll we'll do that in a second. But one last thing to take away is that we talked about how we'll treat acute bacterial rhinocinositis, right, which is oral antibiotics. The only time that you would escalate to IV antibiotics is because it is now extended beyond the sinus and we're going to treat them accordingly with the specific antibiotic regimen. So you're probably giving them things like IV venkcomy, right? To cover things like MRSA, maybe you'll even give sept trioxone. Same thing for this one. Uh you get the point. when the infection is extended beyond you're switching up your antibiotics to IV to get better penetration and you may change up the antibiotic choice depending upon where it is and again that guides some antibiotics have better penetration into the CNS than others and again we'll talk about those and we do talk about those in individual lectures we talk about the antibiotics and orbitalitis and the antibiotics and CNS infections all right now going back to the approach to chronic rhinositis you all patients are probably going to get at least nasal irrigation and intraasal steroids. The only time I told you that you add on the oral steroid as a short course if it's severe symptoms and nasal palyps and if they don't get better with all of this then you refer to potentially a need for an endoscopic sinus surgery to help to really open up those oatal complexes and treat this underlying condition. All right. All right, my dudes. I hope that you guys really really liked this lecture. I hope that it made sense. I hope that you feel confident now with sinus infections and that you can navigate this in the words and the boards. But my friends, I love you guys. I thank you guys and as always until next time.