This is going to be the rib. Right so we're gonna basically look at a rib here. So if we look here at the ribs, this part right here is actually going to be kind of like the actual anterior component of the ribs. This is the part that attaches to the sternum and then this part here is actually the vertebral part that attaches with the thoracic vertebrae here. So if you look here, this piece right here, that I'm actually going to tap right there, this top piece right there this is actually called the superior facet of the rib. And then this one down here is the inferior facet of the rib. This is pretty much the shaft of the rib right there, the whole thing is the shaft of the rib okay. If you look here, I'm going to kind of move my finger along this part right there, this is actually called the costal groove. That's really important the reason why it's really important is because the costal groove always points down. And so what that means is, I can tell which type of rib this is, I can tell whether it's a right rib or a left rib. How would I tell it? This is the posterior surface, this is the anterior surface, and I know the costal groove always points down, so this is a right rib. That's kind of helpful for me alright. And if I look over here, I got a little tubercle of the ribs, there's my tubercle of the rib. If I got a tubercle of the rib and then I got this little neck part of it and then again I got the the head, which is the superior facet and the inferior facet. Why is this important? I wanted to show you here, I'm going to bring the thoracic vertebrae here, so if we look here, here's going to be our thoracic vertebrae. So here's the thoracic vertebrae and a thoracic vertebrae are important because, if you remember they had those demi facets or those costal facets, well they were right here on the side. So what happens is they actually articulate very interestingly ,they fit right in here. And for example the superior facet up here of the rib will articulate with the inferior demi facet of the upper thoracic vertebrae. Okay, so that's kind of interesting and then the inferior facet of the rib with articulate with the superior demi facet of the lower thoracic vertebrae and then this tubercle will articulate with the transverse process. So if I stick it right there, it would go right there perfectly okay. So that's going to show that connection all right. So we're going to go ahead and look here at this part of the actual.. look here is going to be our sternum. Right, so there's gonna be the manubrium right here. This is going to be the jugular notch right there, there's the clavicular notches over there, and if you look here we have the sternal angle, right there. And then this is going to be the body of the sternum. There's a little joint there called the xiphisternal joint and then this part down here is going to be called a xiphoid process. It's really important whenever you're actually doing CPR, you should feel for the xiphoid process, because if not you can break it off and stab someone in the liver. Alright so if you look over here, these are going to be your ribs here. So this is you know ribs one, ribs two, ribs three, ribs four, ribs five, ribs six, ribs seven ribs eight, ribs nine and ribs ten. Now that's important, the reason why I'm going to mention all those is that you have actually two more down here. Two pairs which is going to be 11 and 12 and those are your floating ribs. Okay and we'll show you those later on on this whole skeletal guy all right. But here's what's important one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, are all your vertebral sternal ribs, meaning they're your true ribs okay. So these ones down here which is eight, nine and ten those are the vertebral chondral ribs, those are your false ribs. And you see all this stuff right there, that's just basically the costal cartilage right there. Okay alright so that's going to cover pretty much everything we need for this guy here.