Alright Ninja Nerds, we're going to take a look at the scapula here. So if we look at the scapula, this part up here this portion up here is going to be the superior part of it and this is the inferior part of the scapula. So if I look here, if I kind of scrape right around this part here, kind of like I'm making U, it's just called the inferior angle of the scapula. Then if I take and I scrape this side right her,e against this edge, this is going to be referred to as the medial, okay this is actually going to be the medial border of the scapula. And then this one over here will be the lateral border of the scapula. Then if I scrape this surface, I'm scraping this, this all this surface I'm scraping is called the infraspinous fossa, that's where the infraspinatus muscle originates. Then if I come up here like this, you guys can see here that this part right here, this is actually referred to as the scapular spine. That's our scapular spine right there, then what I'm going to do is, I'm going to turn this a little bit here, so we get a better angle on it and this right here that I'm kind of scraping, that is the acromion process right there. That's the acromion process. I'll turn a little bit more against we can get a better view here, this right there is the glenoid cavity. The glenoid cavity turn a little bit more there, there's going to be the coracoid process. The coracoid process is basically where the biceps muscle attaches to the acromion process is what joins with acromion under the clavicle to form the acromioclavicular joint. And then the head of the humerus fits in here, into the glenoid cavity to form the synovial ball-and-socket joint. So now what I'm going to do is going to kind of flip over here and come back here and now we're going to kind of look at the anterior portion. So what we looked at was the posterior portion of the scapula before, now we're going to look at the anterior portion. So this is the anterior portion of the scapula. And then if I have, if I scrape this surface right here, this is this surface that I'm scraping is actually called the subscapular fossa. So this is where the subscapularis muscle originates okay. And again this is the coracoid process, if I kind of turn a little bit here you guys might be able to see that this little divot right there, that I'm pushing through that's called the superscapular notch. That's where the suprascapular nerve runs through, okay. And then this is actually referred to as the superior border of the scapula. That's a superior border and then technically I could say that this angle right here is actually considered to be the superior angle. And then, as we said down here, this is the inferior angle and then technically it's hard to see the lateral angle, but it's technically moving like I'm coming from the top here right underneath the coracoid process and I'm moving this way, because it takes two points to make an angle. That's going to be the lateral angle. Now what I'm going to do is, I'm going to kind of bring this up one more area here and I want to show you this part right here. This is actually called the supraspinous fossa, supraspinois fossa then again this is where the superspinatus muscle originates and the one muscles that I mentioned are part of the rotator cuff. There is another one that we didn't talk about but that's okay and it actually attaches down here the teres minor. But that basically covers the scapula.