Welcome back to the Ninja Nerd podcast. Today's episode is all about sinus infections. We're going to go through them methodically, systematically, one by one, and by the end, you'll be a master. >> I hope so. Good. You got the sniffles. We got to figure out why. >> All right. You got the snipples. Okay. >> Got sniffles. Let's figure out why. >> All right. Let's start simple, Zach. And then we'll escalate from there. >> Okay. >> All right. So, our first case we have here is a 26-year-old man. Comes in with 5 days of nasal congestion, rhinora, facial pressure, and post-nasal drip. No focal neurologic symptoms, no fever, and he says it's feels worse when he's leaning forward. This is like a classic sinus infection when you think about it. >> I love the way you really came to that conclusion. You're just like, seems an awful lot like a sinus infection. It's like we're talking about that. >> Oh man. Oh boy. All right. A a little bit more advanced than that. It's we it's a sinus infection, but what type are you leaning toward? >> All right. Cool. But yeah, I mean you you you said it right. Like it's it fits the bill for an acute rhino sinusitis. >> There we go. That's what I'm looking for. >> We And when I say acute, it's it's less than four weeks. And this was like what, like five days? >> Five days. >> Yeah. So if they have symptoms which is and the reason why it's important to know that time frame is it differentiates acute from chronic. So chronic is you have more than 12 weeks of these kinds of symptoms whereas it's less than four weeks. It fits more into that acute picture. But the presence of facial pain and pressure that is especially worse when maybe palpated or whenever leaning forward really suggests a sinusitis. And then on top of that if they have nasal obstructive symptoms in other words congestion is a very common one that's a good enough for the diagnosis or they have nasal discharge or you can have all of them. Yeah. So if you have >> this person does >> Yeah. So that kind of like perent nasal discharge or mucoperolent nasal discharge and or a you know nasal obstructive symptoms like congestion in combination with that facial pain and pressure that's worse when palpated or worse when leaning forward that really in a less than a four-week time frame fits the diagnosis for acute rhinositis. The next thing that you have to then ask yourself is is it viral or bacterial? that then tells you what you're going to the reason why that's important is it tells you if you're going to treat them or not treat them. And so what I mean by that is often times when these patients come in and you you make a diagnosis of acute rhinositis, you then often then ask yourself the question, okay, what I would want to do is is I'd want to consider is it viral or is it bacterial? Well, it's kind of all it's kind of hard to pick between those two. They both can look the same. So what you do is you look at are they generally getting better? If you give them some time to observe them, are they getting better or improving within a certain time frame? So, if their symptoms do get better within less than 10 days of like their initial presentation, then you can say it's probably viral and we're good. We don't need to do anything about that. It usually gets better on its own and there's nothing that you need to do about that. If the viral infection then led to a super infection, which is oftentimes what happens, you get a viral upper respiratory tract infection. It inflames the osteia of the sinuses. All of that mucus builds up. Bacteria then start to kind of colonize and grow and grow and grow and then they super infect that fluid and then you get a bacterial rhinositis. That one will not get better within a 10day period. It oftent times will get worse or it will stay the same. But another thing is if you ever see that they get better quickly and then all of a sudden they double worse and we call it they get worse after that. So a quick little improvement and all of a sudden they get worse again over that 10day period. That also screams a bacterial rhinositis picture. So making these is a clinical di I can't stress that enough. It is a clinical diagnosis. You don't get imaging for a sinusitis. If you do that it's because you don't know what the heck is going on or you think that there's a it's complicated. It spreads somewhere. There's something else that's not kind of like clear in this picture. Otherwise it is a clinical diagnosis. So for this patient their presentation tells me it's acute rhinocinusitis. I think based upon their overall kind of look most of the time I think it's 70% it's usually viral and then maybe in the other small percentage it's bacterial you know and I think in this case it's probably going to be viral but again I would probably go with a monitoring time frame see how they do see if they get better. There is certain things that push me more towards the bacterial picture besides them improving or double worsening. It's if they have a really high fever and that facial pain and pressure is pretty bad. So if it's more of like a severe presentation and they have a pretty good fever, I may lean more to the bacterial picture than I will the viral picture. A lot of the times you have to and this is the hardest part of probably about a primary or an ED or an urgent care is you need to emphasize followup. I bet you you've had sinus infections. You go to >> I was just going to say I can say with 100% certainty I've had many sinus infections in my life. >> Guess what I did? I got a antibiotic immediately. >> I'm not even kidding. I can say with 100% certainty I've never once had a monitoring phase. >> And that's usually the problem is because one is most people want a quick fix. Second is they're probably not going to have a good followup. And also it's kind of like a you you have to you have to tell them, hey, let's just watch you for now. And that's hard to do. >> Not going to happen. I'll say hand over the >> I'm not a good patient. >> So it's probably hard to be a doctor when you're dealing with me because I'm like no, no, no, no, no. I'm I'm going to tell you how this works. we're going to we're going to do an antibiotic. >> And that's why it's it's close. It's important to kind of like have good follow-up or if you know that they're not going to follow up. There's ways that you can go about that. Often times you can write an antibiotic and then really instruct the patient, hey, I wrote you a script. If you're not getting any better within this time frame, if you notice that your symptoms are getting worse, then I want you to go ahead and fill that prescription. >> Oh, I'm filling that immediately. No, I I I I would I would like to say that I want to try and be like, you know, air on the side of caution. Give them the benefit of the doubt. But it's true though. I mean, it's probably what a lot of people do and that's why we have >> antibiotic resistance. >> Resistance. There you go. >> So that's why I think it's really important to emphasize that this is a clinical diagnosis which makes it tough. But then you have to use clinical gestalt and reasoning and think about it and say what do I do with this whenever a person's probably most likely going to want an you know antibiotic and I also don't have a guaranteed answer if it's bacterial or if it's viral if it's obvious that they have a really good fever and it's a pretty significant like facial pain and discharge and it's pretty severe. Yeah, okay. I may be able to push more for that. But oftentimes it's really going off of like symptoms and do they improve or not. And so that's a that's a really important thing that you have to consider. >> You mentioned the double worsening patient and that's exactly what I want to talk about now in case two. >> Okay. >> So we have a 48-y old a 41year-old male had cold symptoms that improved by day six but now it's day nine and they've developed worsening facial pain thick perent discharge and a high fever. >> Okay. Yeah. That's a that's acute bacterial. And so that seems like it's definitely acute bacterial and it maybe it started. So what often happens and this is why it's funny is oftent times it starts off as a mixed it's it's usually mixed. So it starts off as a viral infection that then leads to a bacterial super infection. And usually those bacteria are things like streptococcus pneumonia, hmophilus influenza, maybe even morexelicateratareralis. So there's a virus that infects it, causes inflammation, leads to obstruction of the sinus, the osteomiatal complex, fluid builds up, bacteria builds up, boom, you get that super infection. And so that's why you see not improving or the double worsening type of thing. And so that patient, yeah, 100% they need to be on antibiotics. >> Which ones? >> All right. So that's a really good question. With these patients, when you put them on antibiotics, you really want to kind of consider a couple things. generally for the most part since this is those bacteria that I talked about which is the homophus since it is usually the moracella or it's the shrep numo sometimes you can't see anorobes sometimes you can't see anorobes as well so we do want to consider those usually you can get away with either two options one is you can get away with a moxicylin or you can get away with augmentin I think it really comes down to in these patients You have to a lot of the times we'll probably push augmentin first. If it's a pediatric patient, they don't have any risk factors for a resistant pumaccoal infection. It's, you know, they haven't had antibiotics recently within the past 30 days. They don't have any very specific risk factors, then I could say I could probably get away with amoxicone for a ped patient. But a lot of the times for adults or for those who have higher risk factors for a resistant um caucus, you're probably going to go with amoxicylin clavilonic acid which is augmentin. And so that's probably going to be your first line. Usually if it's like your you know your your non no like risk factors you probably go with a standard dose of augmentin. If it's a pedes patient you can consider amoxicylin. if they have a lot of risk factors for a resistant numacus, you'll give them augment, but you you bump the dose up. And so that's the thing that I would say for this one is if you just wanted a simple answer, I think first line most preferred across the board is going to be amoxicylon clavilonic acid and that is going to be augmentin. That's the that's the primary antibiotic of choice in these scenarios. >> And with this patient with the bacterial cause, do we bother imaging them? No, I wouldn't image them unless I have very very specific concerns. Now, another thing I will say is augmentin is the the antibiotic of choice, right? >> But there's always this question that comes up. Oh, and even you you you have a penicellin allergy, right? >> I do. Yeah. >> So, we then have to also make sure that we consider that. So, augmentin is is it's technically has a amopenic base with a betalacttoase inhibitor in it. And so if a patient says, "I have a penicellin allergy," you then have to ask the next question. Well, what kind of what kind of allergy is it? >> Mild, moderate, severe. >> Yeah. Do you get like a rash? Do you get hives? Do you go full-blown anaphilaxis? Ah, you know, that's important. Yeah. >> If it's a rash, >> sometimes you can get away with alternatives like oral sephilosporins are a pretty good one. And that kind of depends. You can do things like septanir and sephidox and seph. There's all of those are really one of the options. But if it's severe, isn't that where you get into zithramycin? >> You can do a zithro. Yeah, a zithro. >> That's a high resistant one. >> Yeah. So that's why you want to save it for like like the last case because again that's what people were getting. They were just popping Zpacks all the time. Zithroy. So >> yeah, >> macrolytes, zithramy, ariththramy. Those would be your kind of your go-tos. In the worst case, hey, I yeah, I go into anaphylactic shock, >> right? We want to we want to go ahead and avoid that. >> Yeah. So then you that's that helps to kind of reduce its use, which then reduce its further resistance. And so that's the benefit of that. So yeah, when I say first line, augmentin is your first line as long as they don't have a penicellin allergy. If they do, just define it. If it's mild, there's about a three to 10% chance of cross reactivity. And even in pedes patients, we say it's even, you know, impedes even if they have a and I would be scared. I probably I'm not going to lie, I would be nervous. Even though it is a very very very small risk, even the literature says that even if they have a type one hypersensitivity reaction impedes, you still give them a sephilos porn. >> Yeah, it's crazy. But I'd probably be like I'd probably be too scared. So I'd probably reach for the aithro. But >> that's another thing that you need to establish is another important thing for the bacterial cases. >> Okay. All right. Case three. >> Okay. >> This is now when the orbit gets involved. >> So we have a 12-year-old female presents with fever, severe headache, unilateral perorbital swelling, pain with eye movement, and decreased vision. This is no longer routine sinocitis. I'm pretty sure I'm hearing some fairly bad red flags here. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. >> What do you worry about? >> So, in this patient, so the the first two patients didn't have any red flag signs, right? Right. >> This patient's got a couple. So, here's the thing with sinus infections, especially your classic like acute viral, it's pretty it's it's it's supportive because it's it it runs its course. It doesn't usually develop any kind of like complications. The only complication you get is that it does run the risk of it converting into a bacterial infection. Bacterial infections on the other hand can spread. They can spread beyond the sinuses. So they can spread to a couple different places. I'd say the most concerning depends upon kind of the most likely sinus that's affected. So for example, if I have the ethmoid and the sppheninoid sinuses, they're very close in proximity. And even the frontal sinus to a degree, they're really close to the orbit. Yeah, I'd say all of them are pretty close to the orbital cavity actually now when you say it like that. So all of them, but I'd say the most risk one is ethmoid. >> It's just there's a thin thin little wall called the lamina paparatia. >> That infection can spread across that into the orbital cavity. And so when that happens, you can get orbital sight. And so that's one legitimate concern, especially if they get like a swollen eye. So perorbital edema and it's red. If you look at their eye and they can't like move their eye in certain directions, so they have restricted extracular movements or it's painful. Another thing is if there's proptosis, so the eye is bulging out of the head. And then on top of that, it can be enough swelling that it compresses the optic nerve and they can get reduction in vision. There's another area that it can spread to especially if it moves in that path. So if it goes let's say ethmoid spreads to the orbit and then moves along the opthalmic veins into the cavernous sinus when it gets into the cavernous sinus that can cause cavernous sinus thrombosis and then inflammation. >> But wouldn't that normally be bilateral? >> Yeah. So then they would kind of get like a bilateral swelling and then on top of that they'd have some cranial nerve pausy. So they probably would have both eyes would have some restricted extracular movements, some double vision and they may even have some sensations that are kind of like reduced or amplified in the face. Her syndrome is very rare with this but if you ever see a Horner's picture with that that's also another thing to think about cavernous sinus thrombosis. So those are two things right away. Another one is it can spread to the bone especially like frontal I I think that's probably the big one to think about a frontal sinusitis. It can spread to the bone and it can cause osteomiitis and you can also get osteo with some of the other ones. Usually that's a pretty bad they get a higher fever. So their fever gets worse, their pain gets worse and sometimes it can form an abscess and you I'm not it's called a pot puffy tumor. I'm not even kidding. That's what it's called a pot puffy tumor where that you feel here it's like swollen. It's a it's indrated. It's fluctuant and you'd be able to feel that there's like a pocket of pus there underneath the within the perryio under the bone. So that's something to think about. The last one that is the most terrifying, the one that you get really concerned about is like spread to the brain. >> Yeah. >> So, did it go to the meningis? They get menial signs. They'd get headache. They get fevers. Did it go to the brain? Did they get an abscess? Do they have any kind of like focal neuro deficits, seizures, things like that? So, that's what I really would be asking myself in these questions. And if I have any of those concerns, any of those kind of clinical pictures, I'm going to get imaging. For this one, I at least have some red flag signs where it seems like it's invaded the orbit. So, because of that, if I'm concerned that it invaded the orbit, I'm going to get a CT scan. I'm going to look at the sinuses. And guess what? The s the CT of the sinus will show me sinusitis. But I'm also maybe going to include the orbits in that as well. And the benefit of that and I may even get some of the head. So, I may get like CT of the sinuses, the orbits, and just get a head while I'm there. It's all easy to just do all of that while you're there. And what's going to happen is it's going to show me the sinusitis. It's going to show me any invasion of the orbits, any invasion into the brain. And that's going to help me because with this picture, I do worry about the patient with the orbital findings of having something like maybe like an orbital cellulitis of some sort. So that's kind of the the the way that I would go about this in the first go. >> And this is a true medical emergency. We're no longer outpatient. This is admission. >> Yeah. If a patient comes in to the ED like this, you're you're definitely going to be reaching out to your opthalmology or in this case probably ENT op. You're going to get some interdisciplinary involvement for sure. >> Yep. Okay. Well, we have one more case left. We have a 58-year-old man with poorly controlled diabetes, presents with sinus pain, epistaxis fever, and dark necrotic lesions on the nasal septum and pallet. Stop everything. What is this? This does not sound good. >> No. So this is so you can get so sinusitis is often viral. Next is bacterial. It is rarely fungal. The only time that you want to consider a fungal infection of the sinuses is if they have the specific risk factors that make them immunompromised. >> Oh, so the diabetes. >> Yeah. Very uncontrolled diabetes. any immunosuppressive state like they're on steroids, they're on amunosuppressants, they have HIV, AIDS, something they got to transplant and they're on, you know, transplant rejection meds, etc. You get the point. In those scenarios, they don't have that immune system capability to fight off those maybe fungi, especially the ones that are invasive, acutely invasive like aspiggillis and mucoralis, which is a risopus species that can cause mucosis. Those ones are nasty. So they can they can get up in inflame those osteomatal complexes. They can form fungal balls in the sinuses and really inflame them and then they spread rapidly. So that's the scary thing is that when they spread rapidly, they spread to the orbit. They spread to the brain. They they spread also they cause necrosis of a lot of the tissue in the the actual nasal cavity. And that's why if you're causing necrosis of tissue in the nasal cavity, what are you going to do? If you if you cause necrosis enough that it invades near a small ve artery or vein, you're going to get some epistaxis. And then when you look in there, you're going to say, "Oh my gosh, there's all this necrotic tissue in their nasal cavity, on their turbineates, on their septum, and maybe in the pallet portion." So that screams fungus to me. And those scenarios where you have a patient with the risk factors, they have the clinical presentation. I'm probably going to go I I want to visualize this a little bit more. And while we're there, I'm going to tell I'm gonna call ENT first off. I'm gonna say, "Hey, hey, please help me." And then I'm going to have them take a look, visualize it, and then from there, while they're there, they can kind of do biopsies, and if there's any kind of concerns, they can schedule like a debridement if they need to remove a lot of that necrotic tissue. But the goal is going to be probably surgical debridement of the necrotic tissue and then put them on a antifungal amphoter. No, I'm kidding. It's called amphoterasin IV amphotarasin B. And that's probably going to be the go-to in this scenario. And that should cover the fungus. And then you need to get the debridement to remove any kind of areas that just it's not going to be strong enough to penetrate. It's not going to cover and you need to get that necrotic infected tissue out of there. So surgical debridement, IV infotarasin B, but guided based upon a usually an endoscopy. So they need to do like a nasal endoscopy, go in there, take a look, biopsy it if they can or coordinate it another time, they need to debride that area. >> Basically antifungals alone will not be enough. >> No, you got it. >> You need to have that surgical component. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's that and I think that's the big thing here is that you're noticing is that a lot of the times with sinus infections acute ones like viral you don't you don't do much you just kind of let it run its course and if it gets worse you start thinking is it bacterial and then you treat bacterial accordingly with the antibiotics and then if it's a bacterial one the only time that you start making the decision to say do I need imaging is if there's some worsening complications or they're not getting better. Yeah, >> that's when I worry, okay, is this a resistant bacteria or is this thing starting to kind of spread outside of the nasal cavity? That's when you get imaging and you find those complications that and that's called a complicated acute bacterial rhinositis. And the one that's they look like complicated, they have complications. You'll probably end up getting imaging as a result, but they have this weird presentation and they're immunosuppressed, then you start thinking about acute invasive like fungal. >> Okay, well that was all the cases I have. Okay, on that note, let me go ahead and say do a recap right now. >> Oh, okay. All right. Well, I think it kind of just goes off of what we just said. When you got a patient who comes in, the first thing I would all I would really really focus on is asking yourself the question, how long has these symptoms been going on? Right? If it's less than four weeks, cool. That fits an acute picture. If it's greater than 12 weeks that these symptoms have been going on, it fits a chronic picture. And I want to add to that because I forgot to say this. If it's greater than 12 weeks and they have symptoms like we said, facial pain, pressure, nasal discharge, congestion, they decrease smell because that's effective when the sinuses are super inflamed. You need to then say, is there inflammation of the sinuses? How do I determine that? You need to get imaging like a CT scan or you need to visualize the sinuses in the nasal cavity. And if you have symptoms like that for greater than 12 weeks and imaging to confirm that there's inflammation of the sinuses, you can diagnose chronic rhinositis, which a lot of the times we say isn't really it's not completely infectious in its nature. It's an inflammatory condition. But either way, that's how you diagnose this one. If it's less than four weeks that they fit into this facial pain, pressure worse with palpating, worse when they lean forward, it's accompanied by and or nasal obstructive symptoms like congestion and or the discharge nasal discharge. You then can fit into the acute rhinocinitis picture. From there, you look at them, you say, "All right, do they look like they have a really high fever? Is the facial pain and pressure really bad? Is the discharge pretty significant? If that is the case, I want to really put on the limit that that really screams more of a bacterial picture. Right? I can still take a chance and say, "Let me monitor you." And then send them home maybe with a prescription, but you tell them, "Don't fill it until you have what? Worsening symptoms." If you improve within a less than a 10day time frame, it fits a viral. You don't need the antibiotic. If it gets worse, so you notice that they're they're have a quick little improvement and then they have it a double worse and that they worsen within a 10day frame or they just do not improve within a 10day frame whatsoever. That maybe screams more of a bacterial picture. In those scenarios, you give them antibiotics. First line, augmenting. A lot of times they'll say, can you do Amoxicil? You can. It's just we try to get away from it just because of the resistant factors with Numacus. >> And the only one that you could consider is PES, but oftent times it's going to be augmentin. And it's going to be standard dose for most patients. And if they have risk factors, high dose. Once you've done augmenting, you should be good. But you should definitely tell them to watch out for any worsening symptoms. If they're not getting any better within the next two to three days with the antibiotic, that's that's concerning. or if they develop complications which we talked about orbital involvement really is a big one really bad headaches negiveness any kind of like neurological signs and then I think from there that begs the question are they worsening that can determine that they have a complicated acute bacterial rhinositis so they develop things like again osteomiitis they develop things like menitis brain abscess orbital cellulitis you can go down that list cavernousinus thrombosis right that warrants imaging depending upon the way that they present determines is the type of imaging you can probably get away with at least starting off with a CT of the sinuses, a CT of the orbits, a CT of the head. Anytime you think that they have cavernous sinus, that involves a lot more. You need to probably do more venography studies. So, CTVs, MRVs, and so that's a little bit more beyond, but at least for that, you're looking for the complications. That's the only time when if you have those, you escalate from an oral antibiotic to an IV antibiotic dependent upon that type. So which ones you pick it depends upon the complication that you got for the patient who comes in and they got I'm talking sinusitis pictures but this one here they have rapid complication presentation right I'm talking like when they present they're already presenting with complications and on top of that they have the risk factors that scream fungal uncontrolled diabetes any immunosuppressive state and you hear that term epistaxis and then when you Look in the nose, you see necrotic escars all over the place. You think fungal until proven otherwise. How do you prove it? You go up and you do a nasal endoscopy. You look to see that you can prove that you can see that there's lots of escars. While you're there, biopsy, send it off. You have a suspicion. You do not wait until the biopsy comes back. They'll be dead by then if you don't. You start the briding and you start them on IV antifungals. And that's the big thing for that one. But I think that that that should cover it. >> Yeah. No, it it for sure did. And and that's our episode on science affections. >> I like it. So >> I like it. >> I hope that you guys liked it as well. And I hope that you enjoyed a lot. I hope that you learned a lot. I think a big like pearl to take away from this is that oftentimes when you think a patient comes in with acute like sinusitis or they have a sinus infection, which is how we kind of think about it, just really always air on the side of caution of always going to an antibiotic. I think that's the big thing I want you to take away from this because again all it does is it contributes to you not being a clinician that has a sense of gustalt and thinking and critical analysis. You're just going with the quickest way and that's fine. They might be okay but all you could do is you continue to contribute to antibiotic resistance in this in this country. So just please always consider that really really think about these things clinically and have different types of safe you know methods and and and checkpoints to really institute followup with these patients. But I really hope that you guys learned a lot about this. I hope that you feel confident being able to first diagnose and then manage different types of sinus infections. And I thank you guys so much. I love you guys. And as always, until next time.