 alfalfa, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, the caratinocytes of the stratum spinosum. All right, what about the basal cell carcinoma? It's pretty simple. It's the actual stratum basale. And again, it is the caratinocytes of the stratum basale. And then lastly, the melanoma is cancer involving the, well, the melanocytes. And that usually is going to start where? It starts in the stratum basale, but it can extend into the stratum spinosum. So that's really what I want you guys to understand is that whenever patients develop skin cancer, it's infecting or it's involving the epidermis. And which layers, stratum spinosum, those caratinocytes, when they become mutated, it can become squamous cell carcinoma. When it's the stratum basale, it's basal cell carcinoma. When it's the melanocytes, it's melanoma. Okay. Now that we've discussed that, the next question that you have is, okay, I know that this is going to be the cells that I'm hitting, the part of the skin. But my question is, what's causing this cancer to arise? When we think about the mechanism, it's actually kind of interesting. A lot of the time, and it's pretty simple if you guys have, you know, been around, is that UV exposure is going to be the most common exogenous or environmental trigger. The concept here is that you're causing skin cell damage. And these skin cells, they contain a nucleus that has DNA. So again, what is the primary trigger, the most common one? It's chronic UV exposure. So if you have UV light, and that is constantly leading to what? Damage to the skin cell, that's where we're going to start seeing some potential issues. That UV light is ionizing radiation. And that ionizing radiation can start damaging some of the skin cells, but more importantly, they hit the actual genetic material inside of the skin cells. And again, if I said which skin cells can become affected when I talk about UV exposure for a squamous cell, you would say the carotenocytes of the stratum spinosum. If I said a basal cell, you'd say the stratum basale. If I said the melanoma, you'd say melanocytes. So at some point there is UV light hitting those particular skin cells. What is it doing? How is it actually causing cancer is the question. Well, let's actually kind of zoom in here. Let's say that you have the UV light nailing that actual DNA inside of the nucleus. When it does that, basically you have a bunch of different nucleotides. And that ionizing radiation is going to cause specific injury to the DNA. What kind of injury? Let's actually zoom in. So I'm going to zoom in now on this double helix. When you zoom in and that UV light hits this, what it does is you have naturally these nucleotides and they want to form interactions, complementary, right? So A with T, T with A, G with C, C with G. It's a simple concept where this is generated by hydrogen bonds. What if the UV light hits some specific nucleotides and you lose the hydrogen bonds going from T to A and they start to form here. And now you get a dimer of these two thymines. We call it a thymidine dimer. So what happens is the UV light will cause DNA damage. But the question is, is what kind of DNA damage? I'm glad you asked. UV light hits the skin cell, hits the nucleus inside of the DNA, hits the DNA inside of the nucleus. When it damages the DNA, it produces this thing right here. These are called thymidine dimers. Thymidine dimers. Now think about this for a second. If I form this, it's going to distort the DNA double helix. Now here's what can happen. This could stay like this, but we shouldn't, right? Because what happens is all my enzymes like DNA polymerases, helicases, tau boy somerases, all of those things need a proper functional DNA double helix to be able to do their thing. If that is right there, any kind of replication process that you want to undergo is going to be blocked. So how do we fix that? Generally what happens is, is you have what's called DNA repair enzymes. Okay, so let's say that you go through and you fix this process. So you have certain types of DNA repair enzymes. They come in there and they actually break this bond, and then they regenerate the connection between the T and the A. That should work. And now this is normal, normal DNA. Now there's no chance of this developing a proper mutation because what you did is I took away the thymidine dimers and I said, let's reconnect these. Alright, what if I don't allow for DNA repair? In other words, there's some kind of issue here. Maybe this is spontaneous. Maybe this is genetic. And what happens is the DNA repair enzymes that are supposed to come in here and fix those thymidine dimers don't do it. If that happens, and these thymidine dimers persist, let's say here we have them right here. What happens now is you are going to increase the risk of mutations in this area. So now I run the risk of mutated DNA. And if I cause a DNA mutation, now this section of DNA, let's kind of color coordinate this. Let's say here's a specific section of DNA that now becomes mutated. Here's another one. Let's do this in red that becomes mutated. Here's another one in green that becomes mutated. These specific sequences of nucleotides could be a gene. And if those genes become mutated, now what their function is supposed to be becomes altered. Let's say, let's pretend for a second, these genes that become mutated could contain genes like the PTCH gene. You're probably like, okay, Zach, I don't know what the heck that thing does. I got you, don't worry. Another thing is maybe there is an alteration in the RAS or RAF genes. So let's say the RAF genes. This is a particular pathway that we'll talk about in a second. Or I bet you guys know this one, the TP53 gene. So now if I have these thymidine dimers that never got repaired, now I have mutated DNA. And now this mutated DNA can lead to some specific issues with these particular genes. And now these genes are all mutated. And their function becomes compromised. What's the point of all this, Zach? You jack up the DNA. It's mutated. Okay, cool. I got it. You know, there's no DNA repair process. They get mutated. This is where cancer arises because here's the thing. These genes I'm using as examples, there is certain things that there's drugs that we can use to target these. And so it's important to know what these genes do. For example, the PTCH gene, sometimes we call the PATG gene, it controls the hedgehog pathway. And the hedgehog pathway is naturally kind of like a tumor suppressor pathway. Same thing like this one. And I know you guys know this one, the P53 gene. That's a tumor suppressor gene. So because of that, this is a tumor suppressor gene. And then this one is a tumor suppressor gene. Now, if you mutate these, what happens is now you lose the ability for this gene to function properly. And so now this activity of the tumor suppressor gene goes down. This activity of the tumor suppressor gene goes down. You lose the ability to shut down cyclin-dependent kinases. These are enzymes that want to push you from G1 to S phase. They want the DNA to undergo replication. They want to make new cells. If you have decreased activity of this gene and this gene, you now lose the ability to inhibit those cyclin-dependent kinases. And they can just keep on going through the cell cycle. For the RAF gene, this is more of a stimulatory pathway. This is a proto-oncogene. And so now when you mutate this, it gains more activity. It's a gain of function. So this is going to be an increased proto-oncogene activity. Proto-oncogene. Now, here's the thing. If one of these becomes affected or if all of them become affected either way, so let's say we kind of consider this a plus minus, plus minus. No matter what, whether it's the solitary involvement or all of them combined, if this happens, you start to see what kind of effect. A increase in cell growth because this is going to cause you to replicate. And these are no longer going to be able to stop that replication process. So that's what we're going to start seeing. These cells just growing like crazy, like a bunch of rabbits. These things are going to go crazy. So you're going to have a massive amount of growth here. Here's what I want you guys to understand for a second. We just kind of map this all out to this process just from you getting exposed from chronic UV light. Ionizing radiation, hitting the skin cell, damaging the DNA inside of the nucleus by causing thymidine dimers and losing the ability to have DNA repair, then leading to the mutations in these specific genes that then push your cell cycle to keep going going. There's got to be other things. This is by far the most common. But I'd say, think about it, but in those patients who have albinism, their albino, what does that do? Remember I told you melanocytes produce something called melanin. Melanin is supposed to have the ability to protect against UV light rays? Well, if you have albinism, guess what that does to your actual melanin production? It decreases it. Well, if I have decreased melanin, do I lose some of the protection from UV light now? Yeah. So when there's a decrease in melanin, the problem with that is that that decrease in melanin leads to decreased UV light protection. And now more of that light is going to just shoot right into these actual keratinocytes or into the stratum basalia or the actual stratum sphenosum, or it can even hit the melanocyte. And so the problem with that is that now you just increase the risk of these skin cells getting damaged, more damage to the DNA, more risk of these thymidine dimers. If you don't repair it, you get mutations in these genes, boom, cell starts growing like crazy. So that's one thing to consider. Another one, and we see this more likely in squamous cells, but patients who experience something called immunosuppression. So what type of patient population would I be worried about this? I'd say anybody who has like HIV, AIDS, they have solid organ transplants. You know, we have other cells inside of the skin, layers, we call them lanyerhan cells. And lanyerhan cells are important because what they do is they help to clean up any kind of cellular debris. What if you have an immunosuppressive state where you now don't have that ability to clean up some of the damaged skin cells? Now those damaged skin cells stay there. They incur more DNA damage, more risk of thymidine dimers. If they don't get repaired, mutations. And so it's important to remember that immunosuppression basically, it decreases the, let's say, removal of damaged skin cells. And the problem with that is, is that when you decrease that removal of these damaged skin cells, you get the same kind of pathway. So all of these things really push this pathway in this direction. Now let's say you have a patient who, they get exposed to just a little bit of UV light. It's not chronic. They don't have albinism. They don't have any immunosuppressive state, but they just get exposed to a little bit of UV light. Damages of the skin cell, they get DNA damage. They cause thymidine dimers. Most people have proper DNA repair enzymes. But what if you don't have the DNA repair enzymes and you shut down this process and you really, really amp up this process and you push it in this direction? That'd be a condition called xeroderma pigmentosum. It's, it's a genetic condition and it does increase the risk of skin cancer. And so if you have that condition, you don't have the DNA repair enzymes. If I don't have the DNA repair enzymes, can I repair it all? Even if I get a little bit of sun exposure? Because you know normally we get a hit with sun exposure. You get thymidine dimers. That happens. But if we have normal DNA repair enzymes, they're going to fix it. If you don't have any of these dang things, guess what? You're shooting it into this area. That's what I want you to understand. So to summarize, you've chronic UV exposure, albinism, immunosuppression, all of these things lead to an increased damage of skin cells leading to this pathway. Also, if you have just a little bit of UV exposure, just a little bit, and you have this condition, you increase the risk of developing skin cancer because you don't have the DNA repair enzymes. Now let me kind of just take one more step to bridge us, I think into the treatment section when we get there. I talked about this gene, this gene, and most people know this tumor suppressor gene. Let me explain something about why these are important. You know you have a, it's called the patch. We kind of like call it patch, but this is the PTCH protein. It's made, it's kind of generated from that gene. Little ligands bind onto this little extracellular domain on the surface, and these are called your hedgehog proteins, right? So these are called your hedgehog ligands or proteins. And what they do is, is once they bind here, they're going to bind to this spot, it's going to act on this gene. Now normally this gene is supposed to decrease cell growth. That's what it's supposed to do. The way it does that is actually interesting. It works by inhibiting this protein on the other surface called SMO. So normally it inhibits a protein over here called SMO. And whenever SMO is inhibited, that decreases its activity. When its activity goes down, it's less activation downstream of a particular transcription factor. What is that transcription factor? We call it Gli. Gli, when I'm up a TF or transcription factor. If there's less of this activity, are you going to have less of this? You got it. I got less of the transcription factor. The problem with that is, is that now this little guy is going to have less translocation into the nucleus on specific genes. And if I have less of this, what's it going to do is not going to activate those genes properly to undergo constant cell growth. And so what it would actually do is, this is kind of going to seem odd here, right? It's going to decrease cell growth. That's the normal function of a tumor suppressor gene. So normally it should kind of flow this way. But now, let's say that you get sun exposure, you get this whole process and you mutate the PTCH gene. If it becomes mutated, you now have loss of function. If you have loss of function, this is gone. Now, if this is gone, so let's say that this is inhibited, can this pathway inhibit SML? No, it becomes stimulated. If that becomes stimulated, is this going to become hyperactive? Yeah. Is it going to increase its signals down to Gli? Yeah. Is that going to lead to increased activation of particular genes to increase cell growth? Yeah. Do you see the process there? And so what we're talking about is that there's drugs that can alter that pathway. Tell me that's not cool. So we can use this a lot. And the one that we tend to use this in, we'll talk about a little bit later, is called squamous cell carcinoma. All right. Another thing, RAPH. You have a bunch of different types of receptors. It could be tyrosine kinase, could be jack stat. There's just a ton of different types of growth factor receptors. Let's say you've got some growth factors here. We'll put here growth factors. A lot of them activate this pathway. There's different types of pathways, PI3K, AKT, MTOR, but there's a really important one called the RAS pathway. When growth factors are basically going to act on these receptors, it activates an intercellular signal through something called RAS, which is a GTPase. This will then activate something called RAPH. RAPH will activate something called MEK. MEK activates an enzyme called MAP kinase. And MAP kinase is a very potent transcription factor. So when this pathway is working, it does what? It leads to this pathway increased. It's going to stimulate these genes that are going to increase your cell growth. So this is a normal pathway. Now you develop a mutation. You get some chronic sun exposure. You hit that DNA. You cause the thymidine dimers. You don't repair it. And then because of it, if it happens in that gene, now what's it going to do? It's going to increase the activity of the RAS. That's going to increase the activity of the MEK. That's going to increase the activity of the MAP kinase. That MAP kinase is going to stimulate the crap out of that gene. And you're going to increase your cell growth. So you're going to have a gain of function. You see that? I don't think that's not cool. I mean, it's a sad condition. But either way, the whole point I'm trying to make is that you can understand now, just from this point here, how you get to this skin cells replicating like bunnies. We got this down. I think the pathophys has been nailed. All right? We got this thing really good. Now what I want to do is, let's talk about, you got a skin lesion. How can I know based upon the description and also identification that it's a basal cell, that it's a squamous cell, that it's a melanoma? Because I'm learning all this information and I get how I can get skin cancer. But how do I identify which type of skin cancer it is? Because I can't just go and say, oh yeah, that's all the stratum spinoceum or the stratum basalia. No, no, no, no. You got to identify this based upon the overall characteristics of it. Then get a biopsy to say, oh, it looks like it came from this particular area. Let's do that now. All right. So let's talk now about the classic findings. So whenever a patient comes in with skin cancer, one of the biggest things is you have to be able to identify that particular lesion. And that's a challenge, right? And I think for these, they technically will have these buzzword terms that I really want you to remember. I want you to consider. I want you to think about. And I'm going to show you some pictures of what this looks like. But for right now, I have a couple goals. One is to tell you the basic buzzword terms of how we would describe them and what you may read them as on the clinical vignette. And sometimes you'll get an image and I'll show you what an image would kind of be like that. And then the other thing is like, what are the locations where they tend to be a little bit more prevalent? They all have a little bit of overlap, but there's some specific things that I want to talk about. So start off with squamous cell carcinoma. Squamous cell carcinoma. Let's say that again, let's remind ourselves, which cells, keratinocytes of the stratum spinoceum get nailed, right? And you get some mutation. And then that causes proliferation of some of these specific genes. With squamous cell, what happens here is it typically forms what I would describe as a plaque with usually a central ulceration, right? So we're going to say that this is going to be oftentimes described as a erythematous plaque with a central ulceration. And so if they are at risk of bleeding. And so that's one thing I want you definitely to think about. So again, squamous cell carcinoma is mutation that arises in the skin cells, the keratinocytes of the stratum spinoceum, they get nailed with UV light, causes mutations, incurs those gene kind of changes and causes uncontrolled cell growth. That cell growth then leads to this proliferation of the cells within the epidermis. And what happens is they come up towards the top and they produce this erythematous plaque with a central ulcer. Now, with squamous cell carcinoma, if I were to describe where does this generally occur, what would I say? All right, with squamous cell carcinoma, you tend to see this involving the ears. It can hit sun exposed areas. So the ears tend to be a big one. And here's the next one. This is a little bit weird, but it helps me to remember it. And this is sometimes where the boards will try to get you. They ask location of the lips. So when I talk about squamous cell, S is going to come later. It's going to come after B. And so I know that the lower lip is going to come after the upper lip. And so the squamous cell tends to hit the lower lip as where basal cell involves the upper lip. That's something to consider. Now, the other areas is that it tends to affect other sun exposed areas. So the arms are pretty common one, especially the forearms. All right. So that's what I want you to think about is when we talk about squamous cell carcinoma, loves to hit the ears, loves to hit the lower lip, can even hit the neck, but it definitely also appears to affect on the arms. Now, last thing, what would this, what would this look like? Here, I'm going to pull up a picture. You see this picture here? You can appreciate that with this, you'll see kind of a weird looking plaque. And you'll appreciate that it has this central ulceration. And the problem with this is that these can bleed. You know what's an interesting way, sometimes to identify these is that sometimes you'll have this weird skin lesion where you pick it and it bleeds and it just keeps going back and it never goes away. That could be a concerning feature for squamous cell carcinoma or skin cancer in general. So in a rathymidous plaque that is a central ulcer can bleed and it just doesn't go away. Think about squamous cell carcinoma. Now, there's one other thing I just want to leave you with. There is a lesion that can be, I'd say, like a precursor. So it's kind of like a premalignant condition where if you see these, this increases the risk of squamous cell carcinoma. What are those called? We see these actually a lot on the scalp. And so these are called actinic keratosis. All right, so I'll write this down for you. There is a precursor lesion. So I want you to think about this. It tends to happen. We see this a lot on like the scalp area. There is a premalignant condition that puts you at high risk of developing squamous cell carcinoma. And you tend to see this a lot in older individuals and they are like, I'm not kidding. They look like a periodic, they look like a weird plaque, a yellowish plaque. If you take a look, you can actually see, you see how this kind of plaque appearance is? This is called actinic keratosis. And that is kind of a precursor lesion for a patient developing something like squamous cell carcinoma. So sometimes they will ask you that question. Within this plaque, central ulceration, that's the buzzword terms, wear, lower lip, ears, sometimes the head, and on top of that the forms. Basal cell carcinoma. Where does the actual mutation arise? And what cells? The keratinocytes of the stratum basal. Yeah. And what happens with this one? We'll keep it the, let's do this one. I want to do this pink color. You'll have a mutation. Boom, the cells grow. They grow, they grow, they grow. And then what happens with this one is it forms, you see how this one's like a plaque and it can be red. This one is more pearly and it's more nodular. And so the way that we oftentimes describe this lesion, oh look at that, I just took the pink one.  and an anhyzerine. With this one is a pearly papule, a pearly papule, and it's usually got these really, really nice, like, rolled borders, as you can see here. So pearly papules with what we call rolled borders. The other thing I will add on is that sometimes with this, you tend to get some blood vessels towards the edges. And it's like these little small vessels towards the edge. You know what that's called? Talangiectasia. I'm not even going to dare to try to spell that out because I'll know a little bit. But these are called pearly papules with rolled borders. And on the edges, you can see these small little superficial vessels that it's called talangiectasia. That's what I want you to think about as the buzzword term. If you're not given a picture to describe it, that's the way we would describe this one. Now location-wise, where is this one? This one tends to love the face. Really, really heavy involvement in the face. Usually what you see is, remember I told you B is going to be, think about coming before S. So it's going to hit the upper lip. It tends to involve, like, the cheeks. Really a lot of where you're going to see it on the exams, the nose. And then on top of that, we can see it in sun-exposed areas, like the forearms. But you definitely see this one a lot in the median cheeks, the nose, and the upper lip. With basal cell carcinoma. As you can see from this picture, what are you kind of appreciating from that? You see that nice little rolled kind of like papule? So it's kind of pronounced and it's definitely going to be a little bit bigger off the skin. And it's got those little bit of blood vessels on the edges of it. That's what we would see in a basal cell carcinoma. As compared to some wasquama cell, it's going to be more erythematous. It's more of a flatter pack. It's a little bit kind of like raised, but it has sometimes a little central ulcer that can bleed. All right, beautiful. We come to the most feared. This is the scary one, melanoma. So melanoma, again, it's a mutation and replication of what's else. The melanocytes in the epidermis. So they start off to get mutated. They start growing, growing, growing, growing, growing. And these ones tend to be kind of nasty. And here's the problem with these, right? They're going to have a dark pigmentation. So most of the time they're going to be a pigmented lesion. And it's hard to describe these. Anyone know why? Is because there's different subtypes. And also they can look a little different. We'll talk about something when we get into the diagnostic section. There is a way that we utilize a very simplistic, and I'm sure that a lot of you have heard it at some point in time in life, but the way that we try to describe these pigmented lesions, as we use something called, we check what's called the A, B, C, D, E rule, or the criteria. So that's what I want you to always consider is to check the A, B, C, D, E rule. I'll hit you with it briefly. When you look at the lesion, does it look asymmetric? All right? Does it look asymmetric? Do you have more bumpies on one side and less bumpies on the other side? B, border irregularity. Does it look like it's rounded on one side and a little bit spiky on the other side? C, color. It usually has variable different colors. They're usually dark. Maybe brown, black, bluish discoloration of the skin. That's why we say it's usually a pigmented lesion. Unless it's amelanotic, but we won't talk, we won't get that far because those are rare. D, diameter. We often use the example of a pencil eraser. If you were to compare the pencil eraser, which is about six millimeters, so if it's greater than about six millimeters of pencil eraser, that is an abnormal appearing lesion. And E is evolution. Does it change? If I looked at it at this moment as a dermatologist and I looked at it six months later, did it change in that timeframe? That is something that brings about a concern for something like melanoma. And we can't describe one lesion for melanoma because there's different types. So let me do a better job in explaining this pigmented lesion. We talk about these. Sometimes these lesions, they occur a lot in the face, especially in a very specific type. And usually they can be nodular. So there is one and it's called nodular melanoma. If you get this one, I'm sorry. And the reason why is this is going to be the porous prognosis. What I mean by that is when you think about this one, let's imagine here is the lesion. Lesions can grow horizontally or vertically, which one's worse? Vertical. So if the lesion starts growing and growing and growing vertically, that means it has the increased risk of metastasis. So nodular melanomas, they tend to be a little bit more common, especially in the head and neck region. So nodular melanomas, they are thus the term, they're more nodular appearing. But what I want you to remember with the nodular melanoma for this particular scenario is that these have the worst prognosis. They're the second most common out of all the different types of melanoma that we're going to talk about. It is the second most common, but it carries the highest risk of metastasis and the worst prognosis. Where would you see it more often? I'd say you see it really in the face and in the neck region. All right. That's one kind of explanation for there. All right. Another one is called lintigo. All right. We call it lintigo maligna melanoma. You're like, oh my gosh, here we go, Zach. So what does it call it? Lintigo maligna melanoma. This one, again, we tend to see this in the face and in the extremities, usually the upper extremities, because again, those are sun exposed areas. With this one, when you look at this one, it's kind of an irregular lesion. And when we look at this one, what we're going to appreciate more with this is that you're probably going to see this more often, you're probably going to see this more often in older individuals. You're going to see it more often in older individuals with chronic sun exposure. Nodular, second most common. You're going to see it in the face. You're going to see it in the neck. All right. Lintigo maligna melanoma, this is going to be more common. This is how they kind of will present it on the exam, more common in elderly individuals with chronic sun exposure. All right. So I'll write that down for you just so that you guys have that. Again, which type of population would I see this in? Elderly is going to be one. And then increased sun exposure. Obviously increased sun exposure increases your risk for any of these. But if you have an elderly individual with chronic increased sun exposure and it's on the face and it's on the extremities, this is the one that you definitely want to think about as lintigo maligna melanoma. All right. The next one, this one is the most rare. But it's something that sometimes they'll try to like throw at you. If you see some lesions, and this is going to be in darker skin individuals, so more likely the African-American population, maybe other ethnicities that carry more of that darker hue, you'll appreciate these more on the palms of the hand and the soles of the feet, right? Because they're going to be a lighter coloration. And oftentimes you can even have them under the nail. We call it subungul. But as a general category, this is referred to as acral melanoma. So what do we call this? Acral melanoma. And again, you can see this where, palms and hand soles of the feet. This is definitely going to be the least common. But one that they try to sometimes throw around is there's a type of acromelanoma that when I go into this palms and hand soles of the feet thing, if you see it under the nail, we give it a specific name. We call that a subungul melanoma. All right, so that is the thing for this one. All right, palms and hand soles of the feet, big things, and I'll kind of add this here for the feet as well. That's acromelanoma. What is the last one? It's the most common. The last one is that it's the most common. It tends to occur on the extremities and on the trunk. And it doesn't grow very much vertically. And it actually does grow superficially, thus the name, but it spreads really slowly horizontal. And that's a good thing probably, right? Yeah, that carries the best prognosis. So this last one is called superficial spreading melanoma. And again, all of these are going to be characterized based upon that ABCDE rule. And I'll pop up a picture here in a second, but I just want you to start appreciating these based upon a couple different things. But I think this right here helps you to appreciate superficial spreading melanoma is going to be by far. It is the most common, but it has the best prognosis. And that's what I want you to remember. All right. So to recap this, melanoma, you should consider this and a person who has chronic sun exposure, albinism, xeroderma pigmentosum. But what is the big thing? They have an abnormal pigmented lesion that is going to appear on the skin. I evaluate it by the ABCDE rule and it appears abnormal. If I see it on the palms of the hand, soles of the feet or under the nail, which one would you think? Acral. If I said it appears nodular and we see this more on the face in the neck region, which one would you think? Nodular. Which one has the worst prognosis? Nodular. If I said dark skinned, elderly individuals tends to be on the face and also on the extremities. You would say lintigo, maligna, melanoma. And if I said this one has the best prognosis, occurs generally on the trunks and the extremities and when I evaluate it, it has very slow horizontal growth. You would say superficial spreading melanoma. And again, I'm going to pop up a picture here that you guys can appreciate just what this looks like as a review. All right. We've done this. I think we have a pretty good understanding now of how to describe these. What I want to do now is I want to say, if I find a patient has skin cancer, I diagnose it because obviously you'll see the lesion, you'll appreciate the lesion and then you'll have to go through a series of steps to actually determine is it basal cell, is it squamous, is it melanoma and we'll talk about that. But the biggest concern is has it spread? How do I tell if it's spread? What kind of clinical manifestation should I be thinking about? And if they are asymptomatic, how can I prove that it hasn't spread somewhere? Well, the only way to know that is which cancers are most likely to metastasize. And if they metastasize, what are those most common locations? And if they do metastasize to those locations, what would be their symptomatology? Or what would be some lab findings that I could think about? Let's talk about that now. All right, my friends, for the last part here, a patient has skin cancer. You identify that skin lesion and you start to ask yourself the question, why do they have bone pain? Why is there LFTs elevated? Why do they have a pleural effusion that keeps coming there? Why are they seizing? Why do they have a bleed in their brain? These are things that can happen as a result of metastasis. But let's think for a second. We talk about metastasis. There's a really, really important note. I want you to think about which ones are the most likely to metastasize? Which one would that be? It is more than likely going to be melanoma. So melanoma is the most common out of all of those skin cancers to metastasize. For the most part, for example, I would say it's pretty rare for things like basal cell carcinoma to metastasize. Squamous cell carcinoma can metastasize, but it's not too common if it does. It goes to local regional lymph nodes. Melanoma is the worst one. I've seen this one wreak havoc in patients' brains. They don't have melanoma diagnosed, but then they come in all of a sudden and it's their first onset seizure. They have neurological deficits. We scan their brain and we find that they have a bleed or they have masses in their brain. They get a biopsy or they get some surgical resections. They send it off to pathologists and it comes back that the source was melanoma. This is a really nasty disease that sometimes can be very insidious. When it presents, it presents with an unfortunate complication. Sometimes you don't even have a skin lesion. You have one of these situations and you end up biopsying it and finding out that it was metastatic melanoma. That's why I really want you to remember that. If basal cell, so basal cell, it doesn't metastasize really. What it can be is locally destructive. What the stink does that even mean? What that means is that since this tends to occur in areas like the nose, the medial cheeks, the upper lip, they can erode into the bone. They can cause local bone destruction. When I talk about this, I'm talking about bone destruction as the example here. That's what I mean. Basal cell carcinoma is not really going to metastasize, but if it can get deeper and deeper and deeper, it can invade to the bone in those local areas. That's where it can be concerning. Basal cell carcinoma, since it tends to happen in the face, can cause local destructive processes in the bone. Because melanoma is the most common to metastasize, what are those locations? Lung, liver, bone, brain, and lymph nodes. Let's say here you have this lesion and it spreads to the lymph nodes. The reason why I talk to you about this is, we'll talk a little later, melanoma, you have to take a pretty good excisional biopsy. When you take that excisional biopsy, you look at it and you do something called the Breslow Depth. The reason why is that oftentimes these cancers, when they do spread, they spread to your local regional lymph nodes, what we get concerned about is how do we know if it's spread to the lymph nodes? What we'll do is we'll check what's called the Breslow Depth. We look to see if it's 0.8 to 1mm in depth or greater. If it is, you have to check what's called your Sentinel lymph nodes. We do what's called a Sentinel lymph node biopsy to see if the melanoma has spread from that lesion to local lymph nodes. That's really, really important. It's kind of just a precursor is when this happens, is you want to do something, you want to check what's called the Breslow Depth. We'll talk about this and then check a Sentinel lymph node biopsy if the Breslow Depth is greater than or equal to 0.8 to 1mm. Again, we'll get into the diagnostics. Here, melanoma can spread lymphatic, but it can also spread hematogenously. If these little suckers get into the bloodstream, they can go all over the dang place. They can get into the lungs. They can get into the liver. They can get into the bone and they can get into the brain. What would be a concern if we spread to these particular areas? How would I even know? Now, we've talked about this and it's kind of like we're repeating the same thing a lot, but that's okay. Repetition is a lot of keys to learning. When you spread to the lung, so if I get lung mets, liver mets, bone mets, brain mets, how do I identify these? A lot of the times you end up having to get an image. You have to get a pan CT scan or brain MRI and you find them. Like I told you, sometimes patients may come in with particular symptoms. But a patient has persistent, let's say that they have a new onset hemoptysis. This oftentimes involves some type of imaging evaluation. If they have recurrent dyspnea or if they have malignant pleural effusions, what does that mean? That they have recurrent pleural effusions that keep occurring. And then you end up doing a thoracentesis. You tap into it and you find, oh my gosh, this is a exudative effusion. You send off cytology, you find that they have some type of malignancy. These are some things to think about, right? Melanoma could be considered. Liver mets. Oftentimes, I'd say it's really just maybe a bump in the LFTs. But oftentimes with this one, you may get some epatomegaly. And with that, you may end up having to get what's called an ultrasound or you may get a CT scan of the abdomen, the pelvis, and find that they have a bunch of different liver mets. It's not usually one, it's usually multiple. Bone mets. I think clinically having bone pain is definitely one. This also puts them at pretty high risk of pathological fractures because they can cause like lytic lesions and really chew through the bone. But the other thing is, is when you chew through and cause a resorption of bone, what does that do to your calcium levels? It can pump it up. I wouldn't say it's super common as compared to like lesions like that we see in like multiple myeloma or lung cancer is really one best cancer. Melanoma can do that. But seeing something like hypercalcemia would be concerning. And another one is another level, alkyphos. That's a monitor or harbinger of lots of bone turnover. It's not specific, but if I see high calcium, high alkyphos, bone pain fractures, I could consider that. And lastly with the brain mets. This is the one I'm telling you. I've actually seen these bleed a lot. I've seen patients develop, I'd say focal deficits. But oftentimes this could just be because of the lesion and the surrounding edema. So sometimes it can cause edema. But the other thing it can do is I'm not kidding. I've seen mets bleed. I've seen these mets bleed. And so that I have seen patients develop hemorrhage, ICHs. And the last thing is sometimes if it gets up near the cortex, it can cause a lot of agitation of the cortex and we can see things like seizures. And this is usually like a patient coming in with their first like new onset seizure, no underlying trigger, you get imaging, boom, you find that. So this is something I do want you to think of. Patients don't always have to present with an obvious skin lesion in melanoma. They can present unfortunately with these particular symptoms and then you end up kind of investigating it further, finding out that that came from, usually in pathology, a metastatic melanoma. But oftentimes our goal is to be able to say, hey, we found the skin lesion early, we found a superficial spreading melanoma and they don't have any symptoms. We span scan them. We don't find any kind of lesions anywhere else. That's obviously the ideal goal. Sometimes it just doesn't work that way. All right, we've taken our time, really kind of dissecting skin cancer. We talk a lot about melanoma because that's one of the most concerning ones. What I want to do now is I want to see if we can put this all together. Let's take a second and let's actually kind of redirect our minds. Not to think so much on the whiteboard as the mechanism mind things. I think that's good to kind of build a foundation, but let's think clinically now. We have a patient coming in and they have a skin lesion. Let's learn how to evaluate it, know what's the next steps to do. What's the first diagnostic step? What's the best diagnostic step? When we get those findings, what do we do next? Then let's finish off by talking about how do we treat them when we get the diagnosis back. All right, my friends, let's now move into the diagnostic approach of skin cancer. We talked a lot about melanoma. We talked about basal cell carcinoma. We talked about squamous cell carcinoma. We talked a lot about the pathophysiology. Really it comes down to just chronic UV exposure and understanding a lot of the times that these patients will present with very odd or suspicious skin lesions. That's what you have to be able to identify and recognize. For example, if I had a patient here with basal cell carcinoma, we oftentimes define this as a nodular appearance. It's a papule, if you will. It's usually going to have this pearly type of appearance. Usually the border is nice and rolled. If you get lucky, you may be able to see some telangiectasia. Maybe there's some central ulceration. These are all things that really scream more of that basal cell carcinoma. Again, that tends to happen more along the ears, maybe the nose, maybe the medial cheeks, the upper lip. Sometimes you can even see this in other areas as well, like the arms. Again, I think this is important to really think about and visualize when you're hearing the terms basal cell carcinoma. For squamous cell carcinoma, we're thinking about more of like a plaque-ish. It's more of like a firm. It's more irithematous. It can be nodular, but it can be also more plaque-ish. You're going to see here that you're going to see this plaque-ish appearance. There may be some central ulceration as well. These also tend to bleed decently. That's going to be more of your squamous cell carcinoma. The melanoma is a little bit more challenging. That presents more as a pigment lesion. The thing that we oftentimes use for these pigment lesions is to determine if they carry that concern or that risk for melanoma as compared to them just being like a mole, is a couple of different things. That's when we use something called the ABCDE criteria. For example, A is asymmetrical. If you look at this, you can appreciate how this doesn't have the complete symmetry all the way around. The next thing is border irregularity. Is it a nice circular kind of border or is it jagged appearance as we can see here? The next thing is color. As their color variation, as you can see, there's color changes all over the place. It's not one color. It's multiple colors that are really, really concerning for melanoma. D diameter. If you look at the size of this, is it greater than at least six millimeters or a pencil eraser is one way that we look at it. Then lastly is evolution. In this case, evolving. Has it changed over the weeks, months, or years? In other words, did it start off as really small, then it got bigger and bigger. That's what really concerns us about melanoma. All right. We now know pearly papule, rolled borders, telangiectasia, maybe some central ulceration, basal cell. Firm, erythematous plaque or nodule with, again, more of that erythematous appearance and it can have central ulceration and bleed. Squamous cell. Pigmented lesion that is asymmetric has border irregularity, color variation, diameter greater than six millimeters and is evolving is concerning for melanoma. With that being said, that was B when we actually decided to say let's get a skin biopsy. This is really important in high yield because you'll probably be tested on the specific type of skin biopsy for that concerning or suspicious lesion. Let's say that I have a patient here, they have an abnormal skin lesion. I want to know do I need to get a shaved biopsy or do I need to do a punched biopsy? Shaved biopsies are really, really preferred for your squamous cell carcinoma and basal cell carcinoma. That's literally when we're going to shave off a layer of this actual lesion, send it off to the actual pathology lab and have them identify what type of skin cancer do we have here, how deep is it penetrated, et cetera. That's our shaved biopsy. Another option is a punched biopsy. If you have a skin lesion and you're trying to identify particularly what that skin lesion is, you can do a punched biopsy. That'll give you pretty much close to the shaved biopsy would do. These are the two options that you would utilize to biopsy for a suspected squamous cell or basal cell carcinoma. For melanoma, we prefer excisional biopsies, wide excisional biopsies. You really want to do that so that you get a really good margin, so that you can truly tell has this spread. How far away is it from the actual normal skin margins and the actual kind of cancerous tissue? It's really, really important to remember, shaved, punched biopsy, squamous and basal cell, melanoma, excisional biopsy to get a really good margin to see where the cancer ends and begins. From this, that skin biopsy is going to be able to tell me what is the likely type of cancer. If you see these basaloid cells and you hear that term peripheral palisading from the pathology report, it screams more basal cell. If you hear a lot of keratin pearls and intercellular bridges, that screams more of the squamous cell carcinoma. If you see particularly more of this atypical melanocytes that is invading the dermis, that screams more melanoma. From here, the next thing that we have to consider is when we have a patient who has melanoma and we take a wide excisional biopsy, we want to know how deep do the atypical melanocytes go into the dermis and beyond. We want to know something called the Breslow Depth. The Breslow Depth is we kind of determine how deep has this thing invaded into the underlying dermis and beyond. Anything greater than 0.8 or 1mm is really concerning that this could have spread to nearby lymph nodes. Even if they don't present with lymph adenopathy, we should check the sentinel lymph nodes to see if this metastasized to the nearby lymph nodes. So then when that happens, when the Breslow Depth is greater than or equal to 0.8 to 1mm, we need to do a sentinel lymph node biopsy. We need to sample the sentinel lymph nodes to see if the actual tumor cells, those melanocytes, spread to nearby lymph nodes. It's just as though we talked about it in patients who experience breast cancer. All we're going to do is we're going to inject a particular dye into a primary melanoma. What we're expecting is that that dye is going to then move to the appropriate sentinel lymph node. Then we actually kind of examine that. We'll find potentially those cancerous cells in that lymph node. That's what we get concerned about right here. Let's see that you do find that the patient has some metastatic melanoma in those sentinel lymph nodes. The next question is, could it be anywhere else? Could it have spread to the lungs? Could it have spread to the liver? Could it have spread to the brain? Could it have spread to the bones? I got to know these things. That's when we sometimes consider doing CT chest adenpelvis, a PET CT scan, which is really going to give a better idea of overall metastasis or a brain MRI, usually only if they have neurological symptoms. If I got a chest CT and on that I see this type of lung met's presentation, I'm concerned. They have melanoma and they may have pulmonary metastasis. If I see this, I'd see some liver met's, usually multiple hyponensal lesions on the CT scan. If I got a brain MRI and I see there's multiple lesions, and again, these usually bleed inside of the brain, that may make me concerned for potentially a metastatic melanoma to the brain. Another reason that we would do these brain MRIs is if they have new onset seizures, they have neurological deficits, we find that they have these brain lesions. Get an MRI, find that, we biopsy and it comes back as metastatic melanoma. These are the things I want you to consider. If a patient has evidence of metastasis, that's when we're concerned about metastatic melanoma. Metastatic melanoma is the really overarching theme that I want you guys to think about here because it guides overall what treatment we're going to go with. Obviously, having a wide decision on biopsy is important, but then we add on specific therapies depending upon if it's metastatic or not. One other thing to add is that sometimes we will confront from those actual tissue samples, we'll do amino histochemistry. It's not often, the only time you really do this to differentiate and exclude melanoma from an atypical kind of presentation or from basal cell or squamous cell, it's really in those weird situations where it's really hard to differentiate between a poorly differentiated basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, atypical nevi and melanoma. We'll order that amino histochemistry test and we'll look for specific types of proteins that may help us in those scenarios. That gives us the diagnostic approach to skin cancer. The next question that we have to ask is, okay, we identified that the patient has skin cancer and it's basal cell. How do we treat it? Surgical excision is going to be the go-to for these patients. It's a standard of care. You're going to literally remove the actual skin lesion from the area. You remove the risk of any kind of chance of metastasis or further kind of deeper dermal invasion. A Mohs micrographic surgery is an alternative to surgical excision in very sensitive areas and what I mean by that is usually the face. Usually in lesions that are appearing on the face, we want to really be careful. We want to have a cosmetic appearance to it. We may use a Mohs micrographic procedure where we're kind of like taking layers off one at a time, one at a time, one at a time to try to be able to get down and get most of the actual kind of tumor removed without taking that wide excisional kind of removal of tissue ending up with some undesirable cosmetic appearance. That's the goal with a Mohs micrographic surgery. It's usually an alternative to an excision, but it's actually when a patient has a lesion on the face. Other options if you have small kind of lesions, particularly on the arms or they're very, very superficial, you can consider things like topical 5FU, which is kind of a chemotherapeutic kind of drug. It's working to inhibit particularly DNA synthesis in these cells. You can also use topical amicromyla, which is kind of like an immunomodulated kind of drug. These are for very small superficial lesions that are usually on the trunk or on the limbs, like the arms. The one that I really want you to remember as we talked about this a lot is Vismodigib. This is a hedgehog pathway inhibitor. This is when we use it in patients who have advanced. It's really kind of extended beyond maybe to the, it's caused destructive process of the bone, maybe it metastasized. That's when we consider Vismodigib. What it's going to do is it's going to work particularly on the SMO. It's going to inhibit that SMO protein, which is then going to affect the Gly. You're going to decrease that Gly transcription factors, and you're going to decrease that cell proliferation. So that's one of the drugs that we can give. Again, you're thinking about this. Remember you have that PTCH protein. This gene normally kind of encodes the PTCH gene, codes for PTCH protein, which binds hedgehog ligands. That hedgehog ligand binds to the PTCH, and what it does is supposed to inhibit the SMO protein. SMO protein controls Gly transcription factors, and Gly transcription factors are supposed to play a role in cell replication and growth. If you have less of that, you're not going to grow. So whenever you develop a mutation, you lose that ability to inhibit SMO. And that's really where this kind of process begins in basal cell carcinoma, which can happen due to UV light. It can be in immunosuppressed states. It can be in certain types of genetic conditions.  that are predisposed, but either way, now you lose that ability to inhibit SMO. Instead, it starts to stimulate this protein. Now this increases the activity of gly, and that's going to increase the cell replication and cell growth process, and that's what's going to lead to these cancers kind of forming. If I give a drug like Vismo to give, which is a hedgehog pathway inhibitor, it's shutting down the SMO. It's kind of replicating that process of having a normal PTCH gene. And because of that, that's going to shut down SMO, shut down the gly transcription factors, and then shut down the actual cell growth process. And that helps to prevent these cells from constantly replicating and growing. All right, that is going to be basal cells. So again, surgical excision is first line. If it's on the face, you can do a M.O.S. If it's on the arms, on the trunk, and it's very superficial, it's very shallow, you can do 5FU and a Myckelma topically. If it's metastatic or very, very advanced, you then need to consider a hedgehog pathway inhibitor. For squamous cell carcinoma, it's kind of the same thing. Stomach excision is going to be the first line. It's the gold standard of therapy. But again, if this is in a particular area which is on the face and it's a little bit more cosmetically desirable that you kind of be a little bit more careful, then we may go with something like a M.O.S. micrographic surgery, where again, we're going to take layers off kind of piece by piece by piece by piece, where we try to make sure that we preserve a lot of normal tissue and we maintain a decent cosmetic appearance. All right, the other one is topical 5FU or topical Mykelma. We can use this for small superficial lesions on the trunk and on the limbs. Where it differs is we may use a particular immunotherapy, like an anti-PD1 inhibitor like Sumapilumab, only in metastatic or advanced squamous cell carcinoma. So we don't use that hedgehog pathway inhibitor. It's almost the exact same as basal cell. With this one, you kind of go back to, if you have a tumor cell, what it does is it expresses something called PDL1. That's important, right? Because another molecule that it expresses on its surface is called an MHC1 with a small antigen. T cells usually use a T cell receptor to bind with that MHC and then they also, actually with the antigen, and then they use a CD protein to interact with the MHC. Then on the T cell, it expresses something called a PD1, which interacts with the PDL1. When this occurs and these two interactions kind of click together, it shuts the T cell off and it doesn't want to kill or harm that tumor cell anymore. All right, so it survives. If I give a drug like an anti-PD1 inhibitor, it binds to the PD1, no longer allowing for that interaction between PD1 and PDL1. Now the T cell becomes active. When the T cell becomes active, it can then trigger the death of these tumor cells. So that's what I want you to remember for squamous cell carcinoma. All right? Now with that being said, again, surgical excision, that's going to be the first line. If it's on the face, mose micrographic surgery. If it's on the superficial kind of like level and it's on the arms or on the trunk, topical 5FU and micromod. And then if it's kind of metastatic, it's going to be the anti-PD1 therapies. Let's move to melanoma. First line therapy is always going to be surgical excision. There is no kind of mose micrographic surgery here. It is the standard of care. It's a wide surgical excision to try to remove as best of a margin as you can. The sentinel lymph node biopsy is one of those things that we do again, if the Breslow depth is greater than or equal to 0.8 to 1 millimeters on the biopsy. We want to see if there's any of this involvement of those lymph nodes. We may have to remove those. The next thing that I want you to remember is again, this is more part of the diagnostic process where we're trying to see if it did spread to the sentinel lymph nodes. And if it did, we may need to again remove those appropriate lymph nodes, especially if there's a lot of them that are involved. The next thing that I want you to remember is if they have metastatic melanoma, it's spread to the nodes, it's spread to distant organs. That's when we use an anti-PD1 inhibitor like Pembralismab or an anti-CTLA4 inhibitor like Ipilimumab. That's primarily for metastatic melanoma. One thing that I want you to consider is that sometimes these patients can exhibit what's called a BRAF V600D mutation. If they have the BRAF V600D mutation that's potentially contributing to their underlying cancer, you can use a BRAF inhibitor like Vimiraphonib. So that's the other thing I want you to know. We'll talk about that in a second. But again, anti-PD1 inhibitors, anti-CTLA4 inhibitors, a similar concept. Here we have a tumor cell. It expresses an MHC1 with the antigen. T-cell comes, interacts with the antigen with the T-cell receptor and uses cluster differentiation proteins to bind with the MHC. T-cell expresses a PD1 which interacts with the PDL1. If I give an anti-PD1 inhibitor, what am I going to do? Block that interaction and the tumor cell will die. Anti-CTLA4 inhibitors are otherwise going to be particularly doing what? They work on the T-cell by doing something very interesting. On the T-cell, they always interact with antigen-presenting cells, which also can activate them. They do that with a CD28 protein. That CD28 also is going to compete with a CTLA4. Tumor cells are smart where they actually increase the CTLA4 expression on these T-cells. That beats out the CD28 to interact with B7. When this happens, the tumor cell just continues to survive because the antigen-presenting cell doesn't tell the T-cell to get activated. What we want to do is we want to give a drug like an anti-CTLA4. That's going to bind with the CTLA4 and then it's not going to allow for it to bind to B7. Then who interacts? The B7 and the CD28. This causes that co-stimulatory signal, activates the T-cell, and then it can trigger the tumor cell death. Metastatic melanoma is either anti-PD1 or an anti-CDLA4 inhibitor. If they have that BRAV V600D mutation, you then consider vimiraphinib. That's the only time this will be considered as an alternative is if they have the BRAV V600D mutation. How does this really work? You got to think back to the mechanism here that whenever you have these receptors, these could be a bunch of different receptors, tyrosine kinase receptors, epidermal growth factor receptors, but they'll bind onto these receptors and activate an intracellular molecule called RAS. This is a local GTPase. That activates RAF. RAF then activates MEK, which then activates your MAP kinase pathway, which activates particularly the specific genes that you want to undergo lots of proliferation. It's going to activate those proto-oncogenes, so proliferate, proliferate, proliferate. If I give a drug like a BRAV inhibitor, I'm essentially inhibiting RAF. I'm going to give a drug to basically do what? Block RAF. If I do that, I drop down the MEK. If I drop down the transcription factors, I don't activate those proto-oncogenes, and I shut down the cell growth. That's where this drug comes into play. Again, melanoma, surgical excision, it is the standard of care. Do the sentinel lymph node biopsy if you have a Breslau depth on that excision that shows that it's greater than 0.8 to 1 millimeter to see if it's spread to sentinel lymph nodes. You may have to remove those. If you have lymph nodes that are involved, if you have other distant organ metastasis, use an anti-PD1 or an anti-CTLA4 inhibitor. If they have a BRAV V600D mutation, you use a BRAV inhibitor as an alternative. All right, my friends, that covers skin cancer. I really hope that you liked it. I hope that you learned a lot. I hope it made sense. Man, I love you guys. I thank you guys. As always, until next time. Bye.