 packageddashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdash obviously difficult. So, you know, I'll do the best I can to visually explain things with my mouth, but you know, in words, but I think a lot of the times it's about identifying what it looks like, and then knowing what's the proper way to buy OBSIET. And then the other thing is just knowing potentially like, what's the treatment and the scenarios where it's like, maybe in a cosmetically, you know, appealing area where you want to be careful. What if it's advanced and it's metastatic, and it's gone all over the place, what do you do? So I think that's the big outline or kind of like objectives to talk about in this in this podcast. Alright, well, let's not waste any time then case one, we have Mr. J, a 72 year old male, retired sailor comes in with a slowly enlarging pearly papule on his left cheek. His wife noticed that it bleeds very easily when he shaves. There's no pain associated. He has a history of significant sun exposure. Of course, he's a sailor and no immunosuppression. When you hear pearly papule, I think that's the key like, you know, if we can give you like pathodemonic or buzzword terms to think about these, that's the best way I would try to use it as a pearly papule. Rolled borders. You hear the term telangiectasia, which is just basically like these like small superficial blood vessels that are like near the edge of it. That's usually the key thing. Another one is that it can have a central ulcer. But I think one of the key things is it bleeds. So if you keep having like a like a skin lesion that's a little bit like enlarge like a papule and it bleeds a lot. And it has that kind of like, papule pearly appearance with like some small little blood vessels along the edge. That's something I would always consider as a potential cause of like skin cancer, especially basal cell. So basal cell would definitely be the thing. And then all of these gun skin cancers, we all know this UV exposure is going to be one of the biggest risk factors. So prolonged chronic UV exposure basically causes it causes something called thymidine dimers. It basically causes dimerization of the thymine nucleotides. And it basically causes an issue where you can't allow for these proper processes to occur when you have that DNA damage. What it does is it increases the risk of developing things like mutations and mutations bring about the opportunity for leading to carcinogens or carcinogenesis, the formation of cancer. And so that's really the key thing is UV exposure, chronic UV exposure is going to be one of the biggest risk factors for developing skin cancer. There is other risk factors. And I think that's why this was mentioned here is it says no immunosuppression immunosuppressive states like HIV significantly increase the risk of developing something like like squamous cell carcinoma. So having a recent transplant being on heavy degrees of immunosuppressants or having a immunosuppressive disease like HIV AIDS really increases your risk of something like squamous cell. And then the last thing is like genetic conditions that basically put you at risk. So having mutations particularly. So I think something like being albino like albinism that you have less melanin to kind of reflect some of that sunlight. And it puts you at higher risk of developing kind of like skin cancer. And I think the last one very rare but it's a condition called xerodoma pigmentosum. So that's another type of a condition where you definitely have a pretty significant risk of developing skin cancer as well. But yeah, I think the biggest thing is for me looking at this patient, the way it's described, even though I can't see it, and then having the risk factors of the UV exposure, that that's really the things that make me pretty concerned. Now, benefit of basal cell is it's kind of like it rarely ever metastasizes. And so that's kind of one of the benefits of this one, where you don't have to worry about it like metastasizing all over the place, it can happen. But it's just I think less likely. But so I guess I'm wondering, what's the big deal then? Why do you have to get this treated? But of course it's skin cancer, you want to get it treated. I don't want to like, you know, just leave a big old papule there hanging on it. I don't want to dismiss that. But if it does rarely metastasize, is there less of a concern or less of a rush to handle this? I mean, even though it doesn't like, distantly metastasize, it can locally erode. So I think because it occurs more commonly on the face, especially like nose, lips, eyelids, another one as well, it can erode into the bone. And so you can get kind of local destruction from that cancer, if you don't take care of it. So if it goes for a long period of time, it can actually cause like local like soft tissue bone destruction. So that's kind of the thing I would be a little bit worried about. But I think the best thing in this scenario is just the biopsy. And there's different ways you can biopsy. For these, a shave biopsy is pretty good. Punch biopsies aren't bad. I think you just got to be careful. But I would probably do either a punch biopsy or a shave biopsy, I'd probably lean more to the shave biopsy in the scenario. But that's what I would do. And I would see what the histology shows me. And that's really the key thing. A lot of the times I don't think you need to know this. But you look for what's called the term is peripheral palisading, like of the actual like histological appearance. Again, we're not going to focus on pathology, because I'm not I don't have a slide to pull up on the on your podcast as you're listening to. But we will we will. This is gonna be a little extra, right? Yeah, exactly. Because of course, like you always do, we have a YouTube video on this. Yeah, exactly. So you will get that. Yep. But I think the biggest thing is if you hear the term like palisading, peripheral palisading of some of the actual cells, the basal cells, and you could think about this what I think the key thing is that if you see pearly papule, roll borders, telangiectasia, bleeds easily, usually on the face, UV exposure, biopsy, it shave it. If you don't take care of this thing, it can locally cause tissue and bone destruction. And I think that's the key thing to do here to see what that biopsy comes back with, can guide your decision of how you treat. So if it's localized, I'm guessing we can just quickly excise the area and get rid of it. Yeah, if it's if it's not like invading pretty deep into like the dermis and getting kind of like to where it's really challenging, or it's again, I'd say like the key thing is is if it hasn't metastasized, which is pretty rare, but if it hasn't gotten advanced where it's invaded into the bone, yeah, you could probably just get away with like a normal just excision, just an excisional removal surgical excision will be the key thing. Now, I think if it's like a nasty big one, and it's on the face and like, you know, you don't want to have like a cosmetic like, oh, this looks a little funky kind of thing. There is another option you where they kind of take like small slices of the of the tumor over time and that they spare kind of the tissues and they keep going until they get good margins. You could do what's called the Moe's micro graphic surgery. So that's another option I'd say that's going to be one, I'd say primarily more for the face, but you could still have a pretty good like look, if you got like the surgical excision, I kind of think it just depends upon the degree of the tumor. So excise it or Moe's, I think that's kind of the key thing here. If it was like superficial, like on the arm or something like that, it was like in the small one. Another way that we describe this is, you know, if it's like a tiny little guy, you could do something like topical five floor urus or amyquamod. Oh, wow, you can use something topical. Yeah, if it's really superficial, it hasn't really gotten invaded in deep and down into the dermis, it's kind of like staying right there. You and it's a small one, you could consider something like topical five if you're a myquamod. But if it's spread, that's when I would say you just have to unfortunately you actually have to be kind of look really aggressive. So let's say metastasize on it's tough. But if it did, it invaded into the nearby bone and metastasized to the lungs or something like that, you have to use like and I'm not making this up use what's called a hedgehog pathway inhibitor. I think it's called VisMotigib. And basically, it's going to work to be able to kind of shut down that pathway and prevent the cancer from continuing to grow and allow for it to at least kind of slow down the growth process of it. So generally, first line standard of care is excision. You can do that surgically, you can do the mose if it's like in a cosmetically appealing area. Again, topical five if you a myquamod you can do if it's a very small superficial lesion. And then if it's advanced, you have to use like targeted therapy and we use like a hedgehog inhibitor, usually for that one. Okay, hedgehog. I know it's very it's a cool name for it though. Yeah, it makes it fun. I don't know. Sometimes science can be fun. It could be a lot of the time it is. Yeah. Alright, let's move on the case to Zach. We have Miss L. She's a 66 year old female who is a kidney transplant patient on long term immunosuppression presents with a scaly, arithmatist nodule on her lower lip that hasn't healed in two months. She also has actinic keratosis on her forearms. Yeah, I'm seeing some buzzword terms here. I'm seeing some things that, you know, a nodule on her lip that hasn't healed. Yep. What's going through your mind? So when you hear scaly, and like arithmatists just read nodule, and then you hear the term actinic keratosis, like that's usually so actinic keratosis is kind of like a scaly like it's, it looks like flaky too. And it's kind of like it's definitely kind of more protuberant appearing on the skin. So it's kind of like a pre malignant condition, essentially, to developing squamous cell carcinoma. And then if they have an arithmatist lot nodule that's very scaly on their lower lip, that's another common place for squamous cell carcinoma. And then you hear the term immunosuppression. So when I see immunosuppression, scaly and arithmatist nodule lower lip hasn't healed and they have a tinnate keratosis, they're like three of the risk factors for developing. I mean, that's that's a couple risk factors for developing squamous cell carcinoma. And the way it's described, described squamous cell carcinoma. So that's what I would think for here is that there's definitely the immunosuppression, the actinic keratosis, and then the way it's described as being on the lower lip, scaly arithmatist nodule sounds like squamous cell carcinoma to me. Okay. Well, I'm wondering, it sounds like squamous cell carcinoma. How do you prove that? I eat biopsy. Yeah, you take a piece of tissue. Again, I do a shave biopsy, you can do a punch biopsy and just take a look. Again, you know, when you talk about astrology, we're talking about it's something called keratin pearls. And that's the key thing that you're going to look for on the exam or something like that, if they kind of present a histological finding is keratin pearls and intercellular bridges. So that's really the big way that we kind of see this one, it's because of the different stratum layer that involves it often involves usually the stratum spinosum, whereas the basal cell carcinoma involves the stratum basale. So you see the basaloid cells with peripheral palisading for basal cell. And then for you know, your squamous cell, you get involved into the stratum spinosum, there's heavy amounts of keratin there. So you get a lot of keratin pearls and intercellular bridges that usually form there. But that's really the key thing here. Now, with squamous cell, it can metastasize, it's definitely a little bit more likely to metastasize than basal cells. So I think the most common area is the lymph nodes. So you got to watch out nearby lymph nodes, if they spread there, that's something I would definitely consider. But again, squamous cell basal cell not as highly of a metastatic skin cancer as compared to the last big honcho, which is the melanoma. But that's something I'd still watch out for. Because there's a risk of nodal spread. Is this something where you would maybe consider using a Sentinel lymph node biopsy? You could. I think it's only if like, not very necessary. No, I'd say that's definitely more necessary, depending upon melanoma. So melanoma, if I biopsy like melanoma, and I found that it was pretty deep, I have a high suspicion that it probably spread to a Sentinel lymph node. Yeah, and then I would probably do something there. Okay. Yeah. Is the treatment strategy at all similar to basal cell carcinoma? Or is there some differences? It's almost exactly the same. Okay. Yes, that's the nice thing is you for the most part, if it's like, you know, I relatively localized, you know, I'd say for the most part, you can just pretty much surgically size it, get good margins. If it isn't a cosmetically appealing area, which this person seems to be on the lower lip, that's probably something I would maybe like a mose micrographic surgery would maybe be preferred in this scenario. I think again, if it's like actinic keratosis, guess what you can treat with that? Because it's kind of like a superficial premilagant condition, you can treat that with topical that'd be a perfect example of topical 5FU or a nickel mod. So I would use that as a perfect example. You see this on a board if they asked you like, what would you treat this with? Topically, if you wanted to, you could give 5FU or a nickel mod for that actinic keratosis. Alright, cool. If it did spread, let's say it metastasize, you know, again, less likely, but it's possible, you treat these with anti PD1 inhibitors. I forget what the name it is. I think it's like some a some a pillow, Mav or something. There's all these maps. I like to remember it's a map. It's a checkpoint inhibitor and immune checkpoint inhibitor is the key thing. Semiplamab, semiplamab. I don't know. I just am I right? Yeah, semiplamab. I don't know if that's a pronunciation. Yeah, I'm terrible with these. I usually just like to say maps. Yeah, so usually any immune checkpoint inhibitor, you can remember those as your maps. That's the way I always learned it. And so these are really going to be the key thing. So your checkpoint inhibitors consist of anti PD1, anti PDL one and anti CTLA for inhibitors. And usually those are under the kind of broad easy way to remember as your maps. So Ipilim, Mav, Nivala, Mav, Pimberlism, Mav, Semipila, Mav. So this is definitely going to be my key go to is my immune checkpoint inhibitor if it was metastatic. Okay. And then I'm guessing like you said before, a really big thing with this case is that immunosuppression, you're going to have a skyrocket. Yep. Yeah, you high risk. Yep. Exactly. So I think that's the key thing. Basil cell really high risk for UV exposure. Squamous cell same thing. But even combining UV exposure and immunosuppression catapults that. Okay, so I think those are the the big things to separate when it comes to like risk factors essentially. And then the way that they're described key, pearly papule, rolled borders to landgectasia, basil cell, scaly, erythematous papule that can bleed squamous cell. That's usually the key differences there. Alright, well, we have one more case left, Zach. We have case three. You can probably guess what we're going to be talking about. Yeah, we have Miss T a 48 year old woman comes in with a changing mole on her back. It used to be a flat and light brown mole. But now she states that it's darker irregular. It's now raised. Ah, shoot. No pain. But she noticed occasional bleeding. Her father died of melanoma at 55. Yeah, I mean, that's that's pretty scary. So I do the same thing. I mean, I just went to the dermatologist recently. Yeah. You know, you get it. I was like, I think I was telling you, oh, this is this is the SOB that's going to get me. I got I got you know, it's not hard to do right? Like you go to you go to the dermatologist and say, All right, strip down and I want you to check me from head to toe. Yeah, you can look and cranny. Exactly. Don't don't you miss a spot? No, you can't go wrong. Yeah, so I think that's why whenever you evaluate any of these like irregular pigmentation or moles, if you will, it's really establishing a criteria or like at least a pattern. And I think the common one that most people know is the ABCDE criteria. So you want to look at and see if it's like asymmetric. A lot of the times when you look at moles, they're pretty much like circular, they're relatively symmetric, you know, in this case, if it's asymmetric appearing, that's kind of a little bit concerning. The next thing is like border regularity. So does it when you look at it, is it a perfect circle? Or does it kind of have like, you know, some some edges that are a little bit jaggedy and kind of loopy out and then on this side, it's kind of nice and circular. That's key thing color. Is it dark, but more particularly, does it have variations in dark pigmentation? So is it brown, light brown, purple, black, anything like that? That's a key thing. And then diameter, is it pretty I think they say the pencil eraser, that's what I learned. Yeah, so greater than six millimeters is about the size or the size of a pencil eraser is one. But I think the most important thing is keeping an eye on the mole, or the irregular appearing like skin lesion, and saying has it changed in size. So it started looking like this, or not just in size, but did it become asymmetric? Did it become a little bit more irregular with its borders? Did the color change? Did the diameter change? So evolution is really the key thing. It used to be people saying elevated elevation, like if it was elevated, it's more evolution has it changed rapidly or changed at all. So that's the key thing here. So she noticed that there was a changing mole on her back used to be flat and light brown. Now it's darker irregular, it's raised. Those are pretty much like concerning for me. And that's right away. It's a red flag. And I need to go ahead and say we should biopsy this and get a pretty good wide excisional biopsy. So that's the next step you would do an excisional biopsy. Yeah. And well, what's next then? When I get the wide excisional biopsy, you want to make sure that you get a pretty good one. And then when you do that, you want to look at the so you want to get what's called the Breslau depth. So essentially, you want to see how far does this thing go down? Yeah. And so usually melanomas, the invi is cancer of the melanocytes. So cancer of the stratum spinosum cells, that's squamous cell, basal cell, cancer cells, the cancer of those cells, that's basal cell. And then the melanocytes is going to be melanoma. If you get cancer of that, and it starts invading down into the dermis and deep, deep, deep, you want to say how deep did it go? So you took it to Breslau depth. Anything I think greater than 0.8 to one millimeter in depth is an indication enough to say there's a concern that it could have spread to a Sentinel lymph node, you need a biopsy. Okay. So that's what I would say is let's get the wide excisional biopsy, check the Breslau depth first, how far is it invaded? If it's invaded pretty far, check the Sentinel lymph nodes, and then also evaluate them. Do they have any other concerning features that make you think that it could have spread anywhere else? Do they have any cough, homoptysis, dyspnea? Do they have any pleural effusions on chest x ray? Or did they on exam? Do they have any neurological changes? So headaches, altered mental status, focal neural deficits, new onset seizures, bone pain, fractures, hypercalcemia, outfoss levels. These are all things that I'd kind of be assessing to see if I need to do thorough scans to scan their chest scan their abdomen scan their pelvis scan their, their head to see if it's metastasized because once I get to say, Okay, it's gone to a Sentinel lymph node, potentially, I'm going to do a Sentinel lymph node biopsy. The other question is, has it spread anywhere else? Yeah. And that's going to guide my decisions on how I treat the patient as well. So that's kind of how I would go through this step by step. And then when you're doing a biopsy, is it like a is it like a punch biopsy? Are you like shaving it or never? No, only shave and punch is for basal cell and squamous. Okay, so for melanoma? No, no, wide, wide, like, excisional biopsy. So you want to really get a good, like, pretty like wide excisional, you want to go get good margins that you can really make sure that you're not missing any kind of skin cancer. Be very careful. Exactly. Yeah. Okay. Yep. Alright, so my next question then is, we have a good idea. And let's say we know it's localized, how do we treat it? And what happens if it has spread? How do we treat it? Yeah, so let's say like you said, like we checked it, preslo depth was good, didn't need to do a Sentinel lymph node, or we did the Sentinel lymph node, nothing there. Pretty localized. And that's an area you can just, again, cut it out. Okay, so wide local excision establish really good margins, you're done, you don't need to do anything else. You do the Sentinel lymph node biopsy if that preslo depth was, again, greater than 0.8 to one millimeter, we could do that there. Okay, let's say you did that, and it showed that there was some lymph nodes that were involved, or let's say worst case scenario, shoot, it spread, we he had, you know, some spread to the lungs, he had some spread to the brain, because he had some neurosympathies, you get a brain MRI, he has some spread to the bones, you know, things like that. If that is the case, then unfortunately, in those scenarios, you have to change up your therapy, and it's no longer excisional or surgical, now it's more like immunotherapy. So first line for like metastatic or really advanced melanoma, as we do, you guessed it, the MABS, right? And so it's the MABS, it's going to be your immune checkpoint inhibitors. Now out of those, we do the anti PD one just like you wouldn't squam a cell, but we also combine that with an anti CTA for inhibitor. Alright, so usually I have to because I don't remember all of these guys, I apologize, but your anti PD one is your Pembrolyzumab or Nivellumab, and then your anti CTA four is your Ipollumab. And again, I think there's a key thing is that you're going to be combining two of those types of agents. That's the key thing that you're going to be combining here. And that's going to be for a patient who has metastatic melanoma. There's one little thing. So let's say that you had the patient, they have melanoma, it's metastatic, it's confirmed. Another thing that you should be doing is checking what's called a particular mutation. So the BRAF v 600D mutation. The reason why is if you check this, and it comes back that they have this, you can actually give a targeted therapy for it. So it alters the RAF pathway. And so I remember that I actually do remember this one by Vimu RAF anib, because it alters the RAF pathway. So if you think about the Vimu RAF anib, it alters the RAF pathway. Yeah, or it's involving the BRAF. So BRAF v 600, the RAF is in BRAF and RAF is in Vimu RAF anib. That's the only way I remember that it's the only way I remember that one. But Vimu RAF anib is one that I would use if they have the BRAF v 600D mutation, you could use that one as an alternative. But otherwise, surgery for again, usually localized, if you get do the Sentinel lymph node biopsy. And it shows that that depth, you know, because because the depth is beyond what it's supposed to be, you have proven there or you find it's metastasized other areas, immunotherapy, usually dual anti PD one, and an anti CTA for antibody. And then lastly, if they have that BRAF v 600D mutation, remember Vimu RAF anib, and you can add that one on sometimes you can combine it with like a mech inhibitor, but I don't think you need to know that just I like to remember that little thing with the Vimu RAF anib and the BRAF mutation. But otherwise, that is what I would say that you use to treat melanoma. You briefly mentioned it before, but where does melanoma commonly spread lung liver brain bone. So those are the primary ones that I would want you guys to remember lung is definitely a big one. Brain is AI've actually seen that one I went super sad because again, you don't oftentimes what ends up happening with this one is that you find a patient I had a couple of patients come into the you know, the neuro ICU and they had, you know, nuance at neurological symptoms, you scan their brain, and then you find that they have like these weird bleeds in the brain because it's a metastatic melanoma bleeds, it's pretty nasty one. And so we ended up scanning them get a brain MRI, they had just tons of little like, you know, sites of metastasis. And then we had to figure out where it was, we did a CT just having pelvis, we kind of scan them. And then we ended up finding nothing. And then what we ended up doing is we ended up getting a biopsy, and it came back that it was from melanoma. So it was from melanoma. Did you find the original source skin that I don't know. At that point, they had kind of like come out of our care. But yeah, I think if you would have done like a thorough evaluation, you may have found you could have found something. So I think that's the key thing is that, you know, it can spread and then one of the concerning areas is the brain. But the same thing as lung is a really scary one liver. I say that's probably like the less common bone is another one that can do as well. So yeah, those are some concerns. And I think that's why you know, if you have any symptoms, or even if they're diagnosed with melanoma, for the most part, you should you should kind of do a pan scan and make sure that they haven't actually metastasized the brain MRI, I would really do that one only if they had like some potential neurological symptoms. But otherwise, if they diagnose a melanoma, I don't think it's a bad thing to make sure that it hasn't spread to things like the chest, spread to the bone spread to the liver. So that's what I would do is I check that and I would do the brain MRI if they have some neurological symptoms. But yeah, melanoma is a pretty nasty one. It's a pretty scary one. You want to make sure that you're staying on top of those, those moles, you know, I mean, yeah, mulling, mulling, mulling, mulling. Got to watch them moles. Now, a quick wrap up here, Zach, if we can go over some high yield exam pearls, those buzzword terms, yeah, things that you should you got to pick up immediately with each one. Yeah, I think just pearly papules, roll borders, telangiectasia, central ulcer, bleeds easily, basal cell, scaly, erythematous type of like, you know, nodules. I think I would associate that with squamous cell. And then for the melanoma, I would associate that with like a symmetry of a kind of an abnormal appearing like, you know, pigmented lesion, border regularity, color variation, diameter greater than a pencil eraser, six millimeters, and then it's evolving, it's changing. With basal cell, it doesn't usually metastasize it's locally destructive, especially if it's on the face, it can cause like bone and, you know, soft tissue destruction, especially near the eyes. And then for squamous cell, it can metastasize is usually the nearby lymph nodes that I'd be concerned about. And the melanoma is the most metastatic lung, liver, brains and bone. So that's the ones I'd be scared about there and just keeping on that one. biopsying these squamous cell basal cell, you can do a shave, you can do a punch melanoma has to be a wide excisional biopsy treatment for these again, if it's kind of like superficial, it's localized, it's not like super kind of aggressive, you can just do like surgical excision for all of them. Yeah, mose micrographic surgery more for like that cosmetic appearance, especially if it's on the face. And then once it starts getting metastatic for any of them, you're kind of going to target a therapy for basal cell, you're using the hedgehog pathway inhibitor for basal cell, you're using more of a immunotherapy, squamous cell, I'm sorry, squamous cell. Yeah, I apologize. You're using more of a, particularly an immune checkpoint inhibitor, like an anti PD one, right? And then for metastatic melanoma, you're doing kind of a dual immunotherapy or immune checkpoint inhibitor. So you're doing the anti PD one anti C TLA for and if they have that BRAF V 600 emutation, you can add on the Vimurafinib as is the alternative therapy. But yeah, I think that's kind of the biggest thing to think about with with with skin cancer. All right, well, hey, that's skin cancer in less than a half hour. Nice. Let's say pretty darn well done. I like it. And don't forget, of course, of you know, we're talking about skin cancer, you need to visually see these things. Yeah, we got you. Yeah, it's up and coming. Absolutely. Well, my friends, I really hope that you like this podcast, I hope you learned a lot. I hope that you had an opportunity that, you know, maybe if you're again, I don't know, hanging out with your family, maybe you're just trying to chill out, maybe you're on the treadmill, you're working out, you're doing dishes, you're outside cutting the grass, whatever you're doing, you're trying to just stay busy and active. I hope that this podcast helped you in that timeframe. And man, I just love you guys. Thank you guys so much for supporting us. And I wish you guys the absolute best. Love you. Thank you. And as always, until next time.