All right, engineers. In this video, we're going to talk about the structure of the inner ear. All right. So, what we're going to take a look at just so that before because what we're going to do is we're going to have an individual video on different sections of the inner ear. So, what we're going to do is we're going to talk about the anatomy of the inner ear. And then again, we're going to separate each component into individual videos where we'll talk about them in great detail. So, let's go ahead and get some anatomy down. All right. So, first off, what is this big old structure right here called? This big old like snail-like looking structure. This big old beast right here is called the cookia. Okay? So this big old structure right here that's nice and windy and twirl swirly and stuff like that, that's called the cookia. Now the cookia is actually broken up into three different chambers that we'll look into great detail. Okay, so there's three different chambers of it. Okay, one of the chambers is called the scala vestibuli. Okay, the one in the middle, so this is going to be the upper chamber. Okay, so this is the upper chamber. In the middle is going to be what's called the scala media. And the scala media is really important because this is actually going to be a nice little indolymphike structure. Okay? You know they also call the scala media the cclear duct. So another name for the scala media is called the coclear duct. This is the middle layer. Okay. So this is the middle layer. Then the lower layer, the bottommost layer of the cookia is what's called the scala tempani. Okay, the scala tempani and this is the lower chamber. What's really important about this is that on the scale of vestibuli, you're going to have a really important structure that we talked about within the middle ear. We said it was called the oval window. It's called the oval window. Remember the stapes? The stapes is tapping on the oval window. And when it's tapping on the oval window, because of uh sound waves, right? The sound waves were actually creating vibrations that were compressing and decompressing the tanic membrane that was moving malus, incis. And stapes is tapping on this oval window. Well, really, when it's tapping on the oval window, it's tapping on the scale of vestibuli. Why is this important? Because the scale of vestibuli is filled with a specific type of chemical. Okay? a specific type of fluid which we call perilymph. Okay, it's called perilymph. Okay, which is more of a harder like fluid substance. The other one there was a structure that was right inferior to the oval window. Remember that one? It was called the round window. What was it called? It was called the round window. And if you remember we said that the round window was important because if you remember some of the sound waves are going to come through the different parts of the scale of vestibuli the scale of media and the skeleton pani. What happens is some of those sound waves will actually can get lost or scattered throughout the inner ear. We don't want that because that can interrupt the actual action potentials going to the brain. So what we want to do is we want the round window to prevent the actual scattering of those sound waves to prevent the the actual scattering of those sound waves into the different parts of the inner ear. Okay. So again the round window is really important and that's actually located within the scala tempani and again we'll look at this in a more deeper view when we get to this individual uh coia and we'll talk about the spiral organ of cordi and a whole bunch of other stuff. Okay. But another important thing is the skeleton pani is made up of what's called perilymph you which is more of like a harder fluid-like substance with a little bit of calcium and stuff in it. Okay. Then the scala media which is really really important. The scala media or the cclear duct which is the middle layer is rich with a fluid called endolymph. And we're going to talk about endolymph a lot. We're gonna talk about what kind of structures are making the endolymph. But what I want you to remember about the endolymph is that it is a potassium rich fluid. It is a potassiumrich fluid located within the scala media or the cclear duct. So what you're able to notice here is that the scala media which is filled with endolymph is surrounded. Above it it has a scala vestibuli which is filled with perilymph. Below it has the skeleton pani which is filled with perilymph. Perilymph is what's called the outer bony labyrinth. Okay? So if something is made of perilymph, it's a part of what's called the outer bony labyrinth. So again, this one's made of perilymph also. So this would be made of this is actually called the outer bony And then the structure that's actually made up of endolymph, the structure that consists of endolymph is actually going to be consisted to be called the inner membranous labyrinth. So it's called the inner membranous So the outer bony labyrinth which is the scale of vestibular and the skeleton pani consist inside of it with an inner membranous labyrinth which is made up of indolymph. Okay. All right. Sweet deal. So that covers that part of the cookia. We'll talk about a little bit more detail. But if you see right here, you see this little ending point here. You can see that the coclear duct is this nice little blue structure here. So we can definitely clearly see here this part there which is called the cclear duct. Okay. And then we're going to have again two different components. We're going to have what's called the oval window and then we're going to have what's called the round window. And remember, we can have two chambers. Now, this isn't a perfectly uh formed here, but we're going to say that this part up here, let's say above the cclear duct, this is going to be what's called the scala, what vestibuli below this is going to be the scala tempani. And in between is going to be the cclear duct. Okay? And again if you remember we could say here would be the oval window which would be where the stapes is tapping on and below could actually be the round window and the round window is where the actual preventing of the sc the sound waves from being scattered. Sweet deal. And if you want to know one more thing this point here at the end if we follow the coar duct kind of makes this nice little spiral here and it comes to this end point here. You see this end point here right there. I'm going to write it here. this point here where the actual scala vestibuli. So again what would this one be? Scala vestibuli. Scala tempani. You see that part where the scala vestibuli and the scala tempanana actually come together and their perilymph combines. That's an important structure there. And that structure is actually called the helilico trema. Okay. So it's where the scala vestibuli and tempani perilymph mixes. All right. Sweet deal. That's the helicotrema. Now another thing that we'll talk about in great details. You see this like duty brown kind of like structure here. That duty brown like kind of structure is actually called the cclear branch of the vestibular cclear nerve. Okay. So if you see this part right here, this part right here, imagine there's actually nerve fibers coming through here and they actually come through a ganglion which is called the spiral gangleion. We'll talk about this in detail, but these axons are actually going to be a very very important component of the vestibular cclear nerve. So if you see these fibers that are coming out here, it's actually going to be an important component of the vestibular cclear nerve. Okay. But this branch here which is coming from the cookia is what branch? It's the cclear branch of the vestibular cclear nerve. So what branch is it? It's the cclear branch of cranial nerve 8. Okay? And cranial nerve 8 is going to be called the vestibular cclear nerve. Okay. Sweet deal. So that covers that part. That covers the cookia. Now we're going to talk about the next one which is going to be the vestibule. So what is this next part here? The vestibule is really important because the vestibule is a pretty decently sized structure here. Let's actually write it right here. This part here is the vestibule. Okay, it's a very kind of like vestibial is kind of like the body. Okay, so this big whole part here I'm going to kind of like encircle it here like this. Okay, if you kind of see I'm kind of encircling around it here. All of this part here is actually going to be the vestibule. Okay? All that part that I moved around with the purple, that's all the vestibule. What's important about the vestibial? The vestibial is actually going to consist of two important structures. It's going to consist of what's called the utricle, okay, internally. So the vestibial is going to consist of a structure called the utricle. And it it's going to consist of another structure called the sacule. Okay? And again, we'll look at these in more detail. I just want to get you guys introduced to them. But what's important to remember is the vestibule is the outer bony part. So it's called the outer bony labyrinth. So the vestibule, which is this whole big structure here, it is a outer bony labyrinth. So what does that mean? That means it's filled with perilymph. Okay, it's filled with perilymph. So therefore since it's filled with perilymph it is the outer bony labyrinth and again inside of the vestibule which is the outer bony labyrinth it consists of the utricle and the utricle is filled with indolymph okay so this is filled with indolymph which is potassium rich okay this is potassium rich and this is going to be the what inner membranous labyrinth. Okay, sweet deal. Same thing with the sacul. The saculle is a little bit smaller. See the utricle is actually going to be, if you want to see where it's placed here, I'll show you where it's placed. So, let's say that this one right here, but I'm going to point on with red. I'm going to bring him down here. That one right there is the utricle. Okay. So, this upper one. So, if you come here for the vestibule, let's say that this is the inferior portion. This the superior portion. The superior portion here is going to be the utricle. The inferior portion here is going to be the sacule. So what is this structure here called? This one here. This is the sacle. Okay. So we have the sacule which is the inferior part. And then over here we're going to have the utricle. And again the saculle what's important about the saculle he's going to consist of indolymph which is a potassium rich fluid and he's going to be a part of the inner membranous labyrinth. Okay. Now, why am I mentioning all this stuff? And the reason why is because the saculle and the utricle, just like the cclear duct, this endolymph is important because these structures, we'll talk about in way more detail when we get there, but they consist of things called hair cells. Okay? They consist of things called hair cells. Okay? And these hair cells are really important because the utricle and the saculle are a part of a larger structure. Okay? So really when we say vestibial, vestibial is the outer bony labyrinth. And if we really really wanted to be super super picky, the vestibule actually consists of this structure here. Now let's actually come back to this. It actually consists of a structure called the utricle and the sacule. But inside of the utricle and the sacule, they have a special structure called the macula. So they have a special structure here called the macula. And we'll talk about this in great detail because the macula is important for static equilibrium, which is like whenever you are linearly accelerating. So if I'm actually going and I'm in a car and I hit the gas, boom, I my head moves back or when I hit the brake, my head moves forward. So when I linearly accelerate and I decelerate, or when I tilt my head to the side, so if I tilt my head to the right side, I can activate these guys. If I tilt my head to the left side, I can activate these guys. Or let's say that I'm falling. I'm in an elevator and some terrible thing happens and the freaking cord breaks and I'm flying down. Ah, you know I'm flying down. That can also activate that. So a vertical deceleration could also activate these structures. Okay, so sweet deal. So again the vestibial is the outer bony labyrinth filled with perilymph consisting of the utricle and the sacula which are filled with indolymph. These are the inner membranous labyrinth. They cons contain a special structure which are consisting of these hair cells. But these hair cells as well with other structures here, you'll see them later. They're called an oolithic membrane with odiconia. Okay, little calcium carbonate crystals. They make up what's called the macula, which is a special detector for what type of equilibrium? We said that this is for static equilibrium. Okay, like I said, we'll go into this in more detail when we get there. And if since we covered this part over here, the scala media or the cclear duct, it has a special detector. So, it has special hair cells covered with what's called a tectoral membrane. And these hair cells with the tectoral membrane make up another really important structure called the spiral organ of corti. Okay? And this is interesting for sound. Okay? So, whenever you actually I'm talking to you guys right now, the sound waves that you guys are hearing is carried out by the spiral organ of cordi. Okay? So auditory information is going to be picked up by the spiral organ of corti. All right, sweet deal. We did that. Next thing, you see these these suckers here, these canals. These canals, we have three of them. Okay, we have three canals. This one right here is called the anterior semic-ircular canal. I always put a U there for some reason. Circular canal. this one in the back. So, it's coming here and it's moving posteriorly. This one right here is called the posterior semic-ircular canal. And then you have one, imagine it coming out at me like it's punching me in the face. Okay? So, imagine this bad boy is coming at me to punch me in the face. This is coming out laterally. Okay? Because remember this is an internal structure. So when this is poking out, remember we said that this was actually a little depression within the middle ear cavity or the tempanic cavity, the medial wall. So this guy is trying to come outwards is trying to go outwards towards the ear. So this is actually going to be lateral Okay. So now that we got that, the semic-ircular canals, what's important about these guys? The semi-ircular canals are going to be the outer bony labyrinth. So outside of this, again, imagine kind of like I'm kind of highlighting it right here. You see all this stuff that I'm trying to like move in with like little lines. That part there is the outer bony labyrinth which is made up of perilymph. Okay. Now, why am I telling you that? So the outer bony labyrinth here which is made up of perilymph. So it's consisting of perilymph. So this is the outer bony labyrinth. Inside of it, there's this nice little blue structure there. What is that blue structure there called? The blue structure inside of this is called the semi-ircular ducts. Semi-ircular Another important thing is the semic-ircular ducks. So, this is a whole semic-ircular dock here. This is a semic-ircular dock coming back. And this is a semic-ircular dock going this way. All right. But these semic-ircular docks dump into a nice dilated region, which I'm going to kind of highlight here in pink. Let's say that this one right here kind of dilates right here. This kind of dilates. This kind of dilates. And that kind of dilates. Those little dilations at the end part of the semic-ircular canals here as it's getting getting ready to go into the vestibular area. These little dilated regions are called the ampula of the semic-ircular canals. So what is this part right here called? What do we say this was? This little dilated regions here. These dilated regions here are called the ampula of semi circular canals. Right? So it's the ampula. So that dilated region there is consisting of a very very special structure. So at the ampula of the semic-ircular canals that dilated region right there's semic-ircular duct right there that so the semic-ircular ducts are moving all the way around but they have little dilated regions right there. That dilated region which is in the ampula is a very very special detector. that special detector which is in the ampula. It consists of these hair cells that are covered with like a collagenous uh gelatinous membrane called the kupula. Okay. And that basically makes up a very very special detector called the christe ampularis. And the christ ampularis is important for what's called dynamic equilibrium. Okay. What do I mean? If I decide to turn my head to the right, turn my head to the left, or I decide to do circles, this guy is really important because he's helping to maintain my balance, my posture, my equilibrium whenever I'm doing head rotations or angular acceleration. So he is good for cristulus is important for angular acceleration. Whereas the macula which is consisting of the utricle and the sacule that's important for static equilibrium or linear acceleration. Okay, whether it be horizontal or vertical. And then the last one which was the cookia which is consisting of the cclear duct. These hair cells are important because the spiral organic cordi is detecting sound waves, vibrations in the air, okay, and turning that into electrical potentials for us to perceive. Okay. So in this video we covered that. Now what? Oh one other part here. Let's do this one in this color here. You see this part here? This is actually another branch of the vestibular clay nerve cranial nerve eight. But this branch is coming from the vestibule and it's coming from the what? It's coming from the actual semic-ircular canals. But I guess maybe they don't have much love for the semic-ircular canals but they are coming off the vestibule. But they call this branch that's moving with the vestibular cclear nerve. They call it the vestibular branch of the vestibular cclear nerve. So what is this branch here called? Holy crap. Get rid of that one. This is called the vestibular branch. Vestibular branch of cranial nerve eight or the vestibular cclear nerve. And just like I said, this had spiral ganglion. Okay, these also have a ganglion along the way. It's actually part of what's called scarpas ganglion. Okay, so these are the sudi pseudouiolar cell bodies which have their peripheral processes coming out here to the vestibial and the semic-ircular canals and their central processes going into the central nervous system. Same thing here. Spiral ganglion have their peripheral processes coming out to the coar duct and they have their central processes going into the central nervous system. All right and they'll take these informations into the cclear nuclei and we'll have that p we'll talk about that in the actual uh auditory pathway. Okay. Whereas the vestibular branch will take it to other structures called the vestibular nuclei. And again, we'll have another video on that. All right. So, engineers, we covered basically the anatomy of the inner ear. What we're going to do is we're actually going to have individual videos where we're going to focus on the vestibule and it's the structures inside. We're going to have another video on the semic-ircular canals and the structures that are inside those special detectors. And then we're gonna have another video on the cookia and the structures that are inside. and we're going to talk about how static equilibrium is being affected, how dynamic equilibrium is going to be affected, and how sound waves or sound is actually going to be affected. So, if you guys need any extra help with a little bit more of the actual ear anatomy, we're going to have another video that you guys can click out on the the corner of the video. It's going to be talking going over the external ear, the middle ear, and the inner ear. And I'm actually taking a model, an anatomy model, and you guys can see that in a little bit more depth if you guys need a little bit more help with that. All right, but ninja. I really do hope that you guys enjoyed. If you guys did, please hit the like button, comment down in the comment section, and please subscribe.