Alright guys. So, now what we're going to do is, we're go ahead and look at the sphenoid bone. So what I'm going to do is, I'm gonna take this portion of the skull here and basically, if you look here, in the middle cranial fossa that we had here. I'm going to take the individual sphenoid bone out of that and we're going to take a look at that. Alright, so just look here, this right here is actually going to be a part of the scraping right there, that's going to be the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone. Then, you look here I'm moving right through it right there, that's going to be the optic canal, right there, the optic canal. Optic canal right there. Look here again, you see little fang like structures right there? That's going to be the anterior clinoid processes. Then if I come here, its right here, this little divot remember that, that's called the hypophyseal fossa. And then this back here, is the dorsum selea and then we got tuberclulum sallae. And then again, that's all part of the sella turcica, right there. Then if we look here, we got another like fissure like structure running right there. Alright, see that right there that fissure moving right, there that's going to be called the superior orbital fissure. And, if I look here this little round one that's called the foramen rotundum. This one here is called the foreman oval. Right there and this one here is called the foreman spinosum. Okay, so we got that I'm going to flip it over here... Oh, then again see there guys here, they're going to be called your greater wings. I'm going to flip this over here, so you can see a couple structures. So, if you remember these little legs, these are called your pterygoid processes. Then you know, if you look at the medial part here, you have this little thing here these are called your hamulus. Now, really important thing before I finish is, the thickest part of this bone is actually called the body of sphenoid bone. And another thing that I want to mention is that, this is actually going to have a hollow cavity inside. It can be filled with mucus and that means its a sinus. This is actually one that can actually drain into the nasal cavity. So, it's called the sphenoid sinus.