What's up, ninja nerds? In this video, we're going to be talking about subdural hematoma. Before we get started, though, if you guys want to continue to support us and help us the best way that you guys can would be hitting that subscribe button, hitting that like button, and then throwing some comments down in the comment section. Also, if you guys want to take a deeper deeper dive and have more support and really helping you to understand this material, we're going to be having a website come out where there'll be very thorough illustrations and notes, question banks, flashcards, everything that's going to help you in your academic journey. All right, engineers, let's get into it. All right, engineers. So, a subdural hematoma, how do we define this? It's basically a a hemorrhage or bleeding that occurs within the subdural space. That means we have to have a very brief conversation about what the subdural space is. So we have to have a little bit of anatomy discussion about the meninges and the parankma. So what I want us to do here is take a look at this coronal section. And what we're going to do is we're going to zoom in on a particular portion here where we focus on the skull, we focus on the meningis and then the brain prankma. And let's just go ahead and really really nice and zoom in on those structures. And this is what we're going to see when we zoom in. Now it's important to remember these layers from superficial to deep. Okay? Very, very important. The first one is this brown layer. What is this called? This is the bone, right? That's the easy one. So that's just the bone of the skull. Underneath the bone of the skull is this green layer. That's called the perryostial layer of the dura matter. Okay. So it's called the perryostial layer of the dura matter. We'll put dura mater. All right. Beautiful. Now there's a space that exists between the perryio layer of the dura mater and this purple layer and that is called the epidural space. Right? But that purple layer that is called the meningial layer of the dura matter. Now the next one here is going to be this very beautiful baby blue layer that looks kind of like it has little spider legs coming from it. What's that called? That's called the arachnoid matter. Now the space between the arachnoid m and the meningial layer of the dura matter which is this space right here. Here, if I were to kind of highlight it here in pink, this space here is the space that we'll be focusing on. That's our subdural space. That's where the bleed can occupy. But just to be consistent to go through the rest of the layers, what's underneath the arachnoid mo? Well, you have the subacoid space which is filled with CSF and then you have this pink layer called the pomater. And then last but not least, you have the parankma of the brain here which is in black. And this could be the brain parankma particularly of the actual the cerebrum right so we'll put parankma all right beautiful so we understand here the different layers of the meninges and all the way down to the brain parankma and what's the really important space that I want you guys to remember it's this space right here between these two layers which is called the sub dural space so that's the space where the bleeding is going to occur Now let's take a little quick deep dive down here and understand a little bit about what happens with these subdural hematomas or hemorrhages if you will. So if we come back here and quickly recap some of the structures cuz you guys are so darn smart you guys already know this. This is bone. That's the meningial perryostial layer of the dura matter. Then you have the meninjial layer of the dur then you have that subdural space. Well in the subdural space you see this vein here. Right? So this is a vein that is actually present within the subdural space. Then underneath that you have the arachnoid m and then under that you have some blood vessels that are running within the subacoid space. Then you have the piamater and you have the braarankma. There's two other structures I want you to remember. You see this part here where this purple layer breaks away from that green layer that when it breaks away it forms this little thing called like a like a septa. And then inside of those septa are these little veins called dural sinuses. These are called your dural venus sinuses. And there's a bunch of these types, right? The superior sagittal sinus, inferior sagittal sinus. We can go on. Then down here, there's these superficial veins. All we're just going to put SV, superficial veins here, basically between the arachnoid m and the pomater. They're pretty much near the actual brain tissue. This vein here in the middle acts as a bridge between this superficial vein and this dural venous sinus. What do you think these veins are that are present within the subdural space? What do you think they're called? The bridging veins. So this is called the bridging vein. So what happens is when someone develops a subdural hematoma there's actually tearing or breaking or rupturing of the bridging veins. How is that different from an epidural hematoma? An epidural hematoma what do we say that was primarily arterial middle meningial artery. Very very rarely very rare is it a venus epidural hematoma. But the most common cause of a subdural hematoma is a venus bleed. The tearing of the bridging veins. Boom. roasted. Now that we understand that, let's go over the particular causes or eeteologies of subdural hematomas. All right, so let's talk about the particular causes or the eeology of someone who develops a subdural hematoma. By far the most common cause is traumatic. So it's actually really interesting to see how this kind of bleed occurs. Now it's usually kind of some type of like blunt force trauma and the most common is usually in a motor vehicle accident. And in these motor vehicle accidents, it usually produces what's called an acceleration deceleration type of injury. Now, what does this mean? If you're in a motor vehicle accident, right? You're you're drilling like uh you know, 120 on the highway and as you you know, you end up coming by and there's some type of deer that comes in the way and you're like, "Ah, I got to hit the brake." When you hit the brake, what happens? Your head starts to move forward. And let's say that, you know, you end up accidentally hitting something. And when you hit that, the airbags go off and you kind of fly forward. When you fly forward, the brain will kind of slosh forward and make impact with the skull, right? So that's the kind of acceleration portion. Then what happens after you stop? What happens? You start flying backwards. And then as you fly backwards, the back of the skull will the actual brain will kind of slosh backwards and hit off the back of the skull. So that's kind of that acceleration deceleration movement. When that happens, particularly after the acceleration going back into the deceleration, it stretches the actual bridging veins. And when you stretch those bridging veins, they actually tear and break and start bleeding into that subdural space. Okay. So that is the big thing that I want you guys to remember. So again what happens is that there's tearing of the bridging veins during that acceleration and deceleration type of movement. That is the big thing to remember with this. Okay. And this can happen very very commonly as an example of this acceleration deceleration injury. This is usually some type of motor vehicle accident. Okay. Now, it doesn't always have to be this severe traumatic incident of like an acceleration deceleration injury in a motor vehicle accident. It can also sometimes just be very minor injuries, not significant traumas. Maybe an older individual falls. And when they fall, it's just enough to cause a bleed. Why? Here's the reason why. In older individuals, or there's a couple particular eeologies. In particular eeteologies there can lead to this situation here called cerebral atrophy. Okay. So cerebral atrophy basically this is when the brain starts becoming a little bit smaller. The sulky start actually becoming uh the different fissures and sulky start having a lot of more spaces between one another. Just the brain starts getting a lot smaller. This can happen in very particular populations. So generally old age is one particular reason. The other one is alcohol abuse. So alcohol abuse can actually cause cerebral atrophy. And then another one is any type of really like a neuro degenerative type of disease of some kind. Alzheimer's, vascular dementia, Louisibody dementia, some type of neurodeenerative disease can also lead to cerebral atrophy. Why is this a problem? Imagine here is kind of, you know, this used to be kind of something like this before. Maybe this used to be nice and tight here where now you're having a lot of these spaces that are kind of coming in between the sulky. What happens is the bridging veins are supposed to span across these sulky. As you start having this atrophy, you start putting more traction and more stretching on those actual bridging veins. That's even just a minor trauma, a minor fall is enough to tear those bridging veins. And when you tear those bridging veins, that's enough to cause a subdural hematoma to form. Okay? So cerebral atrophy is a risk factor for very minor falls, minor trauma, enough to cause a subdural bleed. Now, this is kind of again the comparison between these two, right? So this would be a normal brain progressing into kind of a an atrophied brain. Here's another thing, and this actually is going to kind of tie in a little bit with this acceleration deceleration. There's another particular thing here where maybe it doesn't doesn't have to be due to the stretching of the veins from cerebral atrophy. There is people who actually can have thinning very thin uh cerebral veins. So very thin cerebral veins and this can happen believe it or not in chronic alcohol abuse. But one other one children very young children. So this is one thing to be thinking about. So, this is going to kind of tie in. There's something called a nonacal trauma, also known as shaken baby syndrome. And this can kind of fall into this category, but it can also fall into this category. We're going to call non-acal trauma. And it's also known as shaken baby syndrome. You know, whenever unfortunately people get a little frustrated, the baby's crying or something of that nature, and they shake them to tell them to stop crying. These baby's veins are very thin. that acceleration deceleration type of movement is enough that anytime you're shaking them back and forth, it can tear those very thin types of cerebral veins leading to a subdural hematoma. So, another big thing to think about is a baby that maybe it doesn't their clinical picture doesn't completely add up with them having a subdural hematoma and a non-acal trauma like shaken baby syndrome. Okay, so again, non-acal trauma. Let's actually make sure that you guys know this. This is known as shaken baby syndrome. And again, these are big high yield things to remember, especially acceleration deceleration and shaken baby syndrome. All right, that covers the traumatic events. And again, it's really important to remember that these particular issues only can happen with just minor trauma. It doesn't have to be this big motor vehicle accident. It could be something as simple as just a fall, and that's enough to cause a subdural bleed. What about the non-traumatic causes? These are again something that you have to be thinking about. If a patient has no particular risk factors for them having trauma, it doesn't completely add up. They don't have any traumatic event that actually they are reporting of. You have to be thinking about non-traumatic causes. What are those particular causes? Well, you know, um daily there's micro tears that form within our blood vessels, right? We have micro tears that form within blood vessels all the time. Naturally, we should have platelets that will come and plug this up and we have our coagulation cascade that should go and help to form a clot there nicely and to plug that up and allow for the healing process. But what if somebody has very low platelets where they don't have enough platelets to actually clog up that hole? They have thrombocyopenia. What if someone is on anti-coagulants and they're taking too much? Maybe they're a little bit super therapeutic or maybe they're on anti-platlet medications. So maybe they have normal platelets, but they're on a super therapeutic or they're on too much of these antiplatlets and now it's hard for the platelets to even stick there because these drugs are blocking them. This could be a coagulopathic cause. So if they have some type of coagulopathy, that could be leading to them not being able to close up these micro tears and bleeding can start to form. And as that bleeding starts to form, it can lead to again that subdural hematoma that can form there. What else? Less common, but sometimes if people can actually have these AV malf forations, these also could be a potential trigger for an actual rupturing of this venus side here and leading to a subdural hematoma. Okay. So again, coagulopathic causes AVMs. All right. So the last one that I want you guys to be thinking about is not just coagulopathic causes AVMs. These quagulopathics is going to be one of the more common one. AVM is less common and by far the least common one, we're not going to spend a ton of time talking about it is that sometimes if you get kind of a cancer that spreads from some other area of the body, so a malignancy and you have a metastasis to the actual meningis that requires a lot of blood supply. If that blood supply again is trying to supply that tumor, sometimes it can bleed and so they can also cause subdural hematomas. So you want to be thinking about some type of dural met. Okay, so dural mets. All right, the next thing to think about, so not only is there coagulopathic AVMs, dural mets, what else could be another potential cause? Another one, and again this is a really interesting one to think about is intraranial hypotension due to like a drop in the CSF. You know, if somebody is getting a lumbar puncture, they're getting a lumbar puncture and they're trying to drain off particularly maybe some CSF. And when they try to drain off this CSF, they drain off too much of that CSF and it drops the cerebral spinal fluid. If you decrease the cerebral spinal fluid, where does the cerebral spinal fluid like to sit? Where is it generally wanting to be? Well, generally, if you were to look at this diagram here, it would actually be beautifully between the arachnoid matter and the pia matter. Imagine if the CSF amount dropped. Well, then what's going to do is it's going to decrease the actual space with inside of the between the arachnoid matter and the pom matter and it's going to cause that distance between what between the bridging vein and the superficial vein to increase. If you drop the CSF so now there is a decrease in CSF due to a lumbar puncture. So maybe you're doing a lumbar puncture you drop the CSF now you actually cause this kind of subactoid space to kind of collapse a little bit. you cause the distance between the bridging vein and the superficial veins to increase and that's enough for this to tear and bleed into that subdural space. So that can happen with a lumbar puncture. You know what else it can happen with? If you do an EVD, so sometimes if people do what's called an external ventricular drain and they drain off too much CSF really really quickly again it can drop the actual kind of uh contract if you will the subacoid space put traction on the bridging veins and tear them and cause a subdural hematoma. Okay. So, it's something to think about whenever you have a lumbar puncture and a high volume at that or you pull off too much fluid via or too much CSF from an external ventricular drain. All right, that covers this. The last thing that I want us to talk about is that whenever someone develops a subdural hematoma, it can form in three particular ways. It can be acute, it can be subaccute, or it can be chronic. You may not always pick it up at the acute stage. It might be way later. So we should understand a little bit about the pathophysiology of that. All right. So the next thing that I want to talk about is to again remember there is different types of subdural hematomas. So we have what's called an acute subdural hematoma. Right? So this one is usually whenever you have an acute subdural hematoma you have fresh blood that's accumulating within the subdural space. Right? So it's usually fresh kind of blood that's accumulating in the subdural space. And important to remember is the symptoms that these individuals that we'll talk about in a second usually don't develop for at least maybe two to three days after the bleed occurs. Okay. The next thing is that you can have what's called a subacute bleed, a subaccute subdural hematoma. So what happens is that bleed is actually starting to get a little bit more clotted off. So you're actually starting to get kind of a clawed up blood and also you're beginning to get a lot of different types of fluid that's kind of a lot of exudative fluid that's actually starting to accumulate within the subdural space as well. So clotted blood and exudative fluid. And the other big thing to remember here is that the symptoms for someone with a subacute subdural hematoma usually don't start to kick in until about anywhere from about four to about generally 21 days. Okay. The next one is the chronic subdural hematoma. Now this one's very interesting. So when someone develops what's called a chronic subdural hematoma, they actually have clotted off blood generally that actually can accumulate here. a lot of granulation tissue here. So, they can have clotted blood and they can also have a lot of granulation tissue that can start to form around that. But here's another thing that's really interesting. Not only do they have that, they also have that fluid accumulation, that exodated fluid. But something else very interesting happens. Whenever there is this subdural hematoma, there's a lot of inflammation, a lot of cytoines that get released. And these cytoines have the ability to trigger the middle meningial artery to cause neocapillaries to infiltrate into the duramatter. So you start forming these neocapillaries that infiltrate into the duramatter. When they infiltrate, they can actually start causing leakage of protein. They can start causing leakage of fluid and leakage of even some red blood cells to form inside of this actual subdural space. And so that's an important thing to remember when someone develops a chronic subdural hematoma. And the reason why is there's a very interesting therapy that's been new is that when someone has chronic subdural hematomas, the best way to treat them is embleizing the middlemanial artery. Why? Because you stop that exodative and blood and protein exodation into the subdural space to stop the continual expansion of it. So it's a pretty cool thing. But anyway, the symptoms generally don't start to become a little bit more apparent with a chronic subdural hematoma until about greater than or equal to 21 days after that bleed. Okay, so these are the different types of subdural hematomas that you should be aware of. Now that we know that, let's talk about the clinical features. All right, so when someone develops a subdural hematoma, what could be the clinical features? Well, kind of similarly, if someone has a traumatic event and kind of like the the classical kind of feature if someone does. So, if we were to really say like the classic features, some of like the basic ones that we could have before we start talking about the most common kind of like worst case ominous findings is that they may present with a headache. They may present with a loss of consciousness maybe from whatever the traumatic event was. If they got into a motor vehicle accident, they may have lost consciousness. They may have a lucid interval. It's not super common, but they may have a loss of consciousness that fall after that. They follow with a a lucid interval, but generally headache, loss of consciousness. These are going to be kind of some of the more like basic signs. And then they may present with some neurodeicits depending upon where the actual bleed is and where it's compressing. If it's compressing on an area of the frontal lobe near the motor cortex, it may cause weakness on the contrlateral side of the body. So again, they may have focal neural deficits, headaches, loss of consciousness. As the bleed continues to actually span, expand or cause mass effect and push onto the brain tissue, what can you start to see? You can start to see herniation syndromes. And this is some of the big things that we need to be good at being able to pick out. So what are some of the herniation symptoms that you need to be able to pick out? Well, the first one is called subfalian herniation. So what the heck is subfalian herniation? So subalian herniation, this actually happens to be one of the most common types of herniation that you see particularly in a super tentorial lesion. So you guys know that you have this structure here called the false cerebri right here. It kind of like spans down through the longitudinal fissure. What happens is let's say that this person has a bleed within their subdural space. That bleed is compressing onto the brain tissue and it's trying to shift the brain tissue from the right side to the left side. As it does that, it starts trying to squeeze and push parts of the brain tissue underneath this kind of like uh purplish structure, this purplish septa that you see here. What is that purplish septa here called? It's called the Faulk Cerebri. We're just going to put Faulk. We'll write it out. Faulk cerebri. So, whenever you go underneath the Faulk, there's herniation of one side, the right side of the brain tissue underneath the Faulk to the other side. That's why they call it subfalene herniation. What's the problem with this one? Well, think about it. You have to remember kind of your basic circle of Willis anatomy here. Here you have your internal corateed arteries. They give off this branch here. This branch here, that's your middle cerebral artery. But then they give off this branch going forward. So you know here, this is your A1 segment of the anterior cerebral artery. Here's your A2 segment of the anterior cerebral artery. And then this little thing here between is called the anter commmunicating artery, right? Well, what happens is imagine if you kind of cause this part of the brain tissue because you're having that mass effect. Here's the bleed and it's pushing this right side to try to go underneath the faulks. As it does that, you're pushing and squeezing down on those anterior cerebral arteries. Are you going to be able to get blood flow to the cerebral cortex? No. Well, darn it. Think about what the anterior cerebral artery does. If it's on the motor cortex, it supplies the muscles of the lower extremity. So, what happens if you compress those enough? You don't get blood flow to that part of the cortex. You can have lower extremity weakness. So, that's a big thing to think about. You can develop lower extremity weakness. What about for the actual uh parietal portion? So the semataensory cortex, you compress the actual uh anterior cerebral artery that goes to the smata sensory cortex, you can have sensory deficits of the lower extremity. So lower extremity weakness and sensory loss. Boom, baby. And again to kind of give you an idea of how this would look is again you're having this part of the uh this compression here that's trying to squeeze and push brain tissue from this side to this side. And again, it's causing that midline shift that you'll see there in a condition such as subfalene herniation. All right, beautiful. All right, the next herniation syndrome that we need to think about is a very specific type called a dianiphalic shift. We also call this like a transentorial type of herniation. So this is where you have to remember another type of kind of like a faulk if you will or actually more another type of dural septa particularly. So you know there's a dural septceptor that comes right here and it forms really kind of between like the occipital lobe, temporal lobe and kind of between like the cerebellum and brain stem area here. This right here is called the tentorum. Right? So you we call it the tentorum cerebelli. So it's a nice little separation between the superentorial structures and the infrinctoral structures. pretty much like you know your brain stem cerebellum versus the upper parts of your actual uh your frontal lobe lobe occipital lobe and temporal lobe. Now if someone has a subdural hematoma and it's actually compressing onto the brain tissue this can be a problem. Now it is actually interestingly it's more common when you have bihemispheric subdural hematomas which can happen. If you have a bi-hemispheric subdural hematoma and these both are compressing onto the actual brain tissue, they're equally going to shift particular structures that sit within this subcortical region here downwards through the actual tentorum and into the area of the brain stem. What is these structures here in the center? the dianephylon, you know, the hypothalamus, the phalamus, the epialamus, all of those structures can be shifted down through the tenorum and into the area of the brain stem. So, we call this a dianphalic shift. And again, a big thing to remember here is that whenever you do that, you actually stretch some of the basler artery perforators and lead to tiny little bleeds that can form within the ponds called durret hemorrhages. All right, the next thing is when you have this dianphalic shift, what are some of the actual clinical manifestations to be thinking about? The big thing is, you know, you have your hypothalamus. Your hypothalamus has sympathetic fibers that actually run down through the midbrain, come down here to your spinal cord, give off fibers that will go to the muscles of the eye, and then again do what? Particularly, it controls the pupils, right? So, it allows for the pupils to undergo dilation. If someone has this type of dianiphalic shift that it actually damages or compresses these sympathetic fibers because again what part of the uh subcortical structure is going down through the tentorum the dianphylon. What's a part of the dianflon the hypothalamus. So if you're compressing some of these fibers you're not going to be able to allow for dilation of the pupil. Instead the pupils might be a little bit smaller. Okay? And so you may have more small pupils not pinpoint just small. Sometimes we actually even say mid position and also they may be fixed. In other words, if you try to shine a light in there, they're not going to react as well. Okay, so that's some of the things to be thinking about. The next thing here is that if we actually compress another structure, so if the dianphylon shifts down and compresses onto the dorsal midbrain, you know the dorsal midbrain contains the vertical gaze center. So here we're going to compress this structure. So this is in the dorsal midbrain. So the dorsal midbrain is where the vertical gaze center is uh present. And so the vertical gaze center is allowing for basically our eyes to be able to move upwards particularly. If you compress that due the dian sephylon shifting down and compressing on the dorsal midbrain the ability for the eyeball to be able to look upwards will be impaired and they'll have an upgaze pausy. So you'll have them hey follow my finger up. They won't be able to do that. Okay. So they may have an up gaze pausy. All right. What else? The other thing you have another structure called the red nucleus which sits within the midbrain. The red nucleus gives fibers that go down the spinal cord via what's called the rub spinal tract and go out to muscles that are involved in flexion. So whenever this tract fires, it causes flexion. You have cortical fibers that run down to the red nucleus. And these cortical fibers are inhibitory. When you have a dianphalic shift, guess what it does? It really compresses and compresses and damages those cortical fibers. Now you have no inhibitory input to the the actual red nucleus. If the red nucleus overfires, it's going to cause increased contraction of the flexion muscles or flexion types of activity. And this actually can lead to a very very weird type of posturing where you have flexion here and adduction called a decorticate posturing. So that's another thing to be thinking about in this kind of situation here called d corticut posturing. Now the decorticate posturing may actually progress if the damage actually occurs below the red nucleus. Then it actually can lead to what's called a dere posturing because now you lose the ability of that rubous spinal tract. You're no longer able to trigger this pathway if the damage is below it. All right, last thing here is that sometimes whenever there's actually compression around the um again midbrain's primarily one, but if there's compression near the pawns, this can alter the breathing patterns and it can lead to a very weird type of breathing pattern called Shine Stokes or Shane Stokes types of breathing. And basically this is like a as you kind of take a breath in it's this progressive hyperpia and then hypopnia then an apnic period progressive hyperpia hypopnia and then an apnic period. So it's kind of like so it's kind of that kind of again progressive hypernia hypopnia to an aptic period. So that'd be your Shane Stokes type of breathing. That would cover the dian syphalic shift. Now the next thing that you guys need to be thinking about is the most common type of herniation syndrome which is called uncle herniation. So uncle herniation is a very very interesting uh type of herniation syndrome. And again what happens here is that you have this uh the subdural bleed compressing onto the brain tissue. as it compresses onto the brain tissue, there's a very particular part of the temporal lobe. So again, imagine we really highlight here there that tentorum, right? So the tentorum would kind of be like right here, right? Again, it's that kind of dural septa, if you will, that separates the superenctoral compartment from the infratorctoral compartment. Now, there's a part here of the medial temporal lobe. We'll kind of like just point it out like right here. We'll highlight this. Let's say this is your medial temporal lobe and we call this the uncus. It's the medial aspect. Whenever there is this compression of the brain tissue, it may cause the uncus to slip out over the actual tentorum cerebelli and compress onto the midbrain. As that compresses on structures of the midbrain, what are the clinical features? Well, the big big big one to know is that it can lead to a ipspsyateral third nerve pausy and so that'll present with kind of a down and out movement of the eye and the pupil will actually be dilated. So to give you a brief explanation of why that is is because you have two fibers of the third nerve. One is the motor fibers that control extracular mo muscles. So you know the uh particularly the third nerve supplies the superior rectus which wants to elevate the eyeball. If that's damaged you can't pull the eyeball up. Where will it go? Down. Also it supplies what else? The inferior oblique. The inferior oblique also wants to elevate the eyeball. If you damage that it can't actually do that. It'll go down. What else? The third nerve ocular motor supplies the medial rectus that wants to adduct the eye. If that's damaged it can't do that. So now it'll actually go out. So that causes the down and out movement of the eye. The other thing is that you have the parasympathetic fibers. Parasympathetic fibers wants to cause constriction of the pupil. If you damage the parasympathetic fibers, can you constrict? No. Instead, it will dilate. And then whenever you try to shine a light, they won't actually react. Well, so that can cause that issue. The next thing that can happen is that imagine here the encus is compressing on this structure here. It's compressing onto the cerebral podunkcle. You know, within the cerebral podunkcle, you have these cortical spinal tracts that are running through. And the cortical spinal tracts will actually come down through the crust cerebri. What will they do? They'll eventually go down through the pawns. They'll go to the uh medulla and come down to the spinal cord and then eventually go out to muscles on the contrlateral side. Right? If the cerebral podunk is being compressed by the uncus, it may damage these cortical spinal fibers. And if you damage that, what's going to happen to the muscles on the contrlateral side? They'll develop weakness. And so this can develop what's called contrateral weakness. And here's where it gets interesting, and they love to ask this on the exam. If there's enough compression, there's so much midline shift, and you're starting to really cause that uncas to herniate and just smash that cerebral podunk on this side enough that it shifts the whole midbrain to the other side. What was that structure that was kind of sitting right here that was a part of that dural septto? What was that structure called? The tentorum cerebelli. If you shift the midbrain enough that it starts to smash up against the tentorum cerebelli on the other side, it can start to damage these corticospinal tract fibers. Where do they go? Well, they'll come down through this through the pawns. They'll go cross over at the medulla, go down to the the lower motor neurons in the spinal cord, and then go to the muscles on this side, the contrlateral side from here. But if you damage these, it's going to cause weakness on which side? The same side as where the actual herniation is. What's that called? Very weird kind of thing here. They call this, since we don't have enough room, we're going to write it up here. This is called kernahans. We'll write this up here. This is called kernahans. notch. So, kernahans's notch syndrome, kerno hands notch. And so, with kernahans's notch, they'll actually have ipsy lateral weakness along with potentially contrateral weakness. And so, this is called a false localizing sign. So again, that's a big thing with Kernahan's notch is that not only will they have third nerve pausy, contrlateral weakness, but they also have weakness on the same side as the uncle herniation and that's called kernahans's notch. Okay, last thing you have to remember your blood supply through the posterior circulation. You remember the encus is right here, right? It'll be that medial temporal part. If it herniates out through the temporum cerebelli and compresses onto this vessel, what vessel is this? Well, think about it. Here's your vertebrals pah superior cerebellar PCA. If you compress the posterior cerebral artery, you can develop PCA stroke syndromes. Maybe contrlateral homonymous hemopia, some midbrain abnormalities, some phalamic syndromes. And so it's important to remember all the stroke syndromes as well because you may see that with an uncle herniation. All right, we talked about the big herniation syndromes here. There's one more and we'll get to that one in just a second here because this this one that one is a little bit more common that you can see with subdural as compared to something with an epidural hematoma. All right. So the next thing I want you guys to remember is that sometimes with um this high incraanial pressure you could also get some like generalized types of clinical features that you need to remember. Whenever you have high intraanial pressure this loves to compress onto like the optic nerve right? So the optic nerve can get compressed. when it's compressed, it alters the venus drainage, right, from the retinal veins. And so that causes a lot of like swelling and edema around the optic disc to where it's really difficult to differentiate the optic disc. And we call that papaladeema, right? So there can be what's called papaladeema. All right. So that's that one. The next thing is that sometimes from high intraanial pressure, you know, the the the six cranial nerve kind of runs up through the area of the clus. Whenever there's high intraanial pressure, it really kind of presses and leads to a lot of kind of stretching of the six cranial nerve and this can lead to a sixth nerve pausy. You know, whenever someone has sixth nerve pausy, whenever you have them like track, they may have difficulty being able to move laterally. But not only that, they also can have a lot of double vision dipopia. So that can also be another symptom. They may say, "Wow, I'm seeing double vision and things." Okay, so think about papal edema, some double vision with six nerve palsy. The other thing is that whenever there's high introanial pressure, this can lead to compression of the actual chemotrigger zone. You know the chemot trigger zone is basically important. Whenever there's compression of that activates the aimed center within the medulla and whenever that is stimulated, it can lead to what's called nausea and vomiting. The last thing to think about is whenever you compress the brain stem, especially near the medulla where there is a very important cardiovascular and some respiratory centers, this can alter the activity of respiration and cardiovascular activity. Particularly, it's going to try to increase your blood pressure to try to peruse the brain because there's so much pressure in there. You need more blood flow to peruse the actual brain tissue and consequently a lower heart rate. So they have brada cardia hypertension and it also alters the the rhythm in which we breathe and it leads to very irregular breathing patterns. Sometimes you may see like a biot or a toxic type of breathing and sometimes even worst case scenario apnea. Okay, that covers a good chunk of the herniation syndromes. What we'll do next is we'll talk about one more particular type and then some other clinical features. All right, so the last thing that I want to talk about is another type of herniation syndrome that you can see. Again, it's not going to be as common, but you can see it. We talked a lot about how subdural hematomas are like super tentorial. You can have infratintorial subdural hematomas. And again, remember what's this structure that would kind of come right here as a septa? That's your tentorum cerebelli, right? Well, let's say that here we have a bleed in the infronttorial area. What's that going to do? That's going to compress on the cerebellum and it's going to compress onto the brain stem. And so, what can you get out of this? We're not going to go over all of the things here, but you can get some cerebellar symptoms. So, you may develop some ataxia. You may develop some disdocinesis, some nestagmus, things of that nature. Right? The other thing is you're going to have brain stem compression and particularly compression of the medulla and so you can develop a lot of medularary types of symptoms as well. But I just want to for right now say brain stem compression. So we'll put BS brain stem compression and this can lead to a lot of cardiovascular respiratory abnormalities. Very important to remember. But the last thing is if you compress the brain stem you have to remember your ventricular system. So remember you have here what's called the lateral ventricle. Then you have what's called the third ventricle, cerebral aqueduct, fourth ventricle, and then you have your central canal. If you're compressing onto the brain stem, maybe where the fourth ventricle is, are you going to be able to allow for the CSF to flow outward into the subacoid space or down to the central canal? No. And so what's going to happen is that CSF is going to backflow and cause ballooning or like just extra extraordinarily like huge ventricles. And this can lead to what's called hydro sephilis. And so this is another thing to be thinking about whenever you have these infertatorial bleeds. Now just as a quick recap, some of the classic symptoms is that these patients can present with headache. They may even present with a loss of consciousness as well. Again, from whatever traumatic event, if they did have one, they could have lost consciousness, potentially a lucid interval, but then kind of a headache that they may present with. Last thing, just like we talked about with epidural hematomas, if there's a cortical bleed, it's going to be very very at high risk for developing seizures. So sometimes you can develop focal seizures or seizures that are focal that secondarily generalize. So it's important to remember that seizures are a potential uh clinical manifestation or even complication of a subdural hematoma. Now going back here, if someone has a subdural hematoma and it's due to a traumatic event, what is the big thing to remember? Sometimes there can be leakage of CSF from wherever the fracture was. Maybe there was a fracture somewhere or a leakage of the actual CSF from the uh external ear canal. And this can lead to what's called a CSF otoa. Or you can have leakage because maybe there's some type of fracture of the nasal bone or the frontal bone or the or the ethmoid bone and there's leakage of CSF from that area and this can produce what's called a CSF rhora. Now what you may do is take some of the CSF either from that area of like the the the rhino or from the odora put it on like a little gauze pad and what you may see is you may see the CSF form kind of this outer ring and then in the center of it if there is a subdural hematoma the blood actually may kind of form in the center here and this may produce what's called a halo sign. Another thing that you can do is if someone has a leakage, a CSF leak, is you can check for what's called a beta 2 transfer in protein. And so sometimes if there's a positive beta 2 transferin test, that could also be indicative of a CSF leak. All right. The other thing to be thinking about, and they love to ask this on the exam, is that sometimes if people actually are in traumatic events, you want to look for particular types of echimotic signs. So signs of kind of like subcutaneous bleeding and particularly if they have a basler skull fracture it can kind of present like behind the ear they can have what's called a battle sign. So that's one big one to remember. The other thing is that sometimes you can see around the orbits. All right. So perorbital kind of echimosis. This is called a raccoon sign. Okay. So big things to remember there. The other thing is that sometimes again from a baselor skull fracture you also may have what's called a heo tempanum. So bleeding from the actual tempanic membrane. So a heo tempanum. Okay. So that covers a lot of the clinical features. So again remember that if a patient is coming in they have a traumatic event acceleration deceleration uh non-acal trauma and a baby they're presenting with headache loss of consciousness some of these particular herniation syndromes as well you go through you see a battle sign a raccoon sign hemotimpanum maybe you see a CSF odorhea or CSF rhinora be thinking I think this person may have a subdural hematoma how do I go about diagnosing it you start off with the bread and which is a CT scan. While you're sending them to get the CT scan, get some labs cooking to be thinking about what could be an underlying cause. So, what should you be thinking about? Most important test, most important one is going to be a CT scan of the head. Okay? So, a CT scan of the head without contrast is going to be the first line. While you're sitting in there, get some labs. Particularly, you want to look for their co-ag. So, first thing is say, hey, do you take any anti-coagulants? Do you take any anti-platelets that you know of? If they say no, okay, it's probably not anti-coagulant related or anti-platlet related, but still get some coag because sometimes people's PTNR can be elevated for other reasons. And if they have a liver failure and maybe that's why their INR is elevated, that could be a potential cause. So, think about that. You can also throw in a PTT as well, but again, uh, PTINR will probably be the bigger one. The other thing is get a CBC. Why? Look to see if their platelets are like two. If their platelets are super low, that might be the reason that they're bleeding is they have a thrombocytoenia. Okay, so these are quick little things that you can order. Now, CT scan is going to be the most important one. And what you're looking for on a CT scan is you're looking for very particular like criteria, especially on your exam, what kind of bleed they'll be characterized as. So generally with this bleed, there's two things that's important about this. One is that the bleed almost kind of looks like a crescentshaped. Okay, so that's the first thing is that it's crescent shaped. The other thing is not only is it crescentshaped but you know here you have these sousers. These don't obey the sushi lines. They can cross the seure lines. So remember they do cross the suture lines. Now there's one more thing. Now we talked about this with um epidural hematomas how it will present as a hyper dense bleed right? That's not always the case with subdural hematomas. This is venus blood, right? That's generally there. And so it depends upon the staging of their bleed. This is why we talked about acute, subacute, and chronic subdural hematomas. So what I want you to remember here is that you have an acute subdural hematoma. That's going to be fresh blood. Fresh blood will actually appear to be a little bit brighter than the actual brain parankma. So their bleed will appear hyper dense subdural hematoma. Okay. If you have someone with a subacute subdural hematoma, that actually starts to be a little bit more difficult to differentiate. As the blood starts kind of clotting, you start getting a little bit of fluid that accumulates there. It starts to take on an iso dense appearance. So that's a very important thing to remember is an iso dense type of appearance to the subdural hematoma. And then so you have one two the third one is the chronic subdural hematoma. And this one after it's actually started to claw off gets lots of protein extravisated material into it and even a little bit of red blood cells. So after all of those proteins and extravisated material and red blood cells and clotted blood are there, it starts to lead to a very interesting type of bleed appearance, which is a hypodense type of subdural hematoma. Now, here's the big thing to remember. When someone presents with a chronic subdural hematoma and it really looks dark, that's what hypodense means. it's dark. You have to be having a differential diagnosis of what's called a subdural hyram because subdural hyramas can look just like a chronic subdural hematoma, but it's actually not really due to a bleed. It's due to some type of CSF leak, like a tear within the arachnoid matter of some kind. So again, be thinking about that especially if someone comes in with a chronic subdural hematoma is very hypo dense. Think about a differential of a subdural hyram potentially like a tear within the actual arachnoid matter. All right, but that gives us the big big diagnostic things that we need to know about subdural. Last thing I want us to talk about is the treatment. All right. So with the treatment of a subdural hematoma, obviously if it's someone that it's not due to a traumatic cause, it's due to anti-coagulants or even if they were in a traumatic incident and they're taking anti-coagulants, you should still reverse the anti-coagulants or if they're thrombocytoenic, give them platelets. Okay, so reversing the coagulopathy is very very important. So reverse any coagulopathy. So how do we do this? Well, the first thing to remember is what if for example they take warin or couadin? If they take warin, you have to reverse that with IV vitamin K and proth thromben complex concentrate. What if they take heperin and for some reason they took heperin they're super therapeutic or they cause a bleed from that then you give proteamine sulfate and there's so many other different types that uh we can reverse but I I just want you guys to get an idea reverse the underlying coagulopathy the other big thing is what if their platelets are extremely low well if it's less than 50k and you're not planning to have a neurosurgical intervention then that's fine but if neurosurgical intervention is planned to do something about that. Then you should actually transfuse them with platelets. And generally the goal is to get them to greater than or equal to 80K. Some uh literature says uh greater than equal to 100,000. It really is kind of provider preference and practitioner dependence as well as just institutional dependence as well. But again reversing the quagalopathy I think is the big thing. If they need platelets and they need it, give them pllets. If they're taking an antiquagulant, reverse it. Now the most important thing is if they start having clinical deterioration, herniation syndromes, their level of consciousness is decre decreasing, then you need to neurosurgically evacuate out this uh hematoma. And so sometimes what they may do is they may do what's called kind of a craniactomy and then evacuate out that subdural hematoma. Sometimes you can even just do like a cranottomy where you put a little hole there and then shove what's called may drain out a little bit of it but then put in what's called a subdural drain to allow for that drain to continue to keep kind of sucking some of the blood and fluid out of that actual subdural space. So these are things that could be employed but again this is the important neurosurgical intervention is craniactomy with an evacuation of that hematoma or maybe a cranottomy and put a subdural drain in there to continue to keep draining that actual blood out. Now the other interesting thing that is again really really cool and we talked about this a little bit with the chronic subdural hematomas is that whenever someone has this bleed right that subdural hematoma that we're seeing right here as it becomes chronic remember what I said there's a lot of inflammation and that middle meninjial artery starts forming these neocapillaries that start invading the arachnoid matter and then starts causing some blood to leak in here some red blood cells that starts causing uh proteins and different types of fluid to accumulate in that area allowing for that chronic subdural hematoma to continue to expand. We can stop the expansion of that chronic subdural hematoma. You know how we can do what's called a middle meningial artery embleization. If we emolize the middle meninjial artery, we clog up that. What's going to happen? Well, think about it here. If we zoom in and really kind of make this picture a little bit bigger here, if I were to kind of send and uh embleize this vessel here, I embleized it. Am I going to be able to allow for blood to flow through here and allow for red blood cells and proteins and all that stuff to extravate and leak into that subdural space? No. So, can I continue to cause the expansion of the subdural hematoma? No. So, this process stops and it stops the expansion of that subdural hematoma, which is very, very cool. So MMA amilization is becoming a very very uh good therapy as well especially for chronic subdural hematomas. The last thing is that what if we're waiting we have a patient who's starting to show herniation symptoms symptoms clinical deterioration and we just haven't gotten them into the neurosurgical suite yet. What do we do? Well we can temporize them. And what we can do with that is we can try to lower their ICP through particular types of measures like how well maybe we have to give manitol for right now just to lower their ICP or maybe we give them hypertonic saline in the form of 23.4%. These may be things that we have to do in the antum until we get the neurosurgical intervention. One last thing is that's very very cool is there's a lot of studies that are actually being employed right now about utilizing corticosteroids that corticosteroids may be very very beneficial in individuals with chronic subdural hematomas by helping to stabilize or prevent this neocapillary formation as a way to maybe not need a neurosurgical intervention for chronic subdurals. So very interesting kind of theory there but again that covers the treatment and that covers subdural hematomas. All right, ninja nerds. In this video, we cover subdural hematoma. I hope it made sense. I hope that you guys really did enjoy it. Also, please, if you guys want more info to truly understand subdural hematoma, as well as various different medical and science topics, please go check out our website that's going to be coming out very, very soon to really enhance your understanding, your knowledge of all this information that is from Ninja. All right, Ninjers, as always, thank you. Love you, and until next time.