 packageddashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdash Chris Tucker. But hey, serious note, we're talking about testicular cancer, one of the most common malignancies for men. Yeah. And something that should definitely be talked about and will be talked about. Yeah, let's get right into it. Let's talk two cases, right? Yeah, it should be two. Two cases. Let's do it. Let's do it. All right, case one. We have a 32 year old man. No past medical history notices a firm, painless lump on his right testicle while he was showering. There's no trauma, no gynecomastia, no systemic symptoms at all. So Zach, what do you think with this? I mean, of course, it's it's obvious what you think, right? Yeah, it's a stupid question. But it's like still a reason through it. Yeah, reason through it. Obviously, you hear someone with a painless lump on their testicle. Yeah, it's pretty alarming. But yeah, I know it's not only just testicular cancer, there's other things. But of course, that's where our minds go. I mean, you're kind of like off to like a good start in the sense that if we have a painless testicular mass, you obviously have a lot of things in your differential. You know, usually things like hydro seals, a common one, varica seals and other ones, permatosil, you can get those. Usually things like epididomitis or testicular torsion, those are usually more painful. So that's going to be pretty easy to say that's unlikely. But I still think like at this point, you can definitely consider malignant. That's why always whenever you have that get a scrotal ultrasound. And that's going to give a lot of information at least to say, okay, this definitely looks like it's more hydro seals, more spermatosil, more varica seal. Hey, this is like a more of a hypoechoic mass. It's it looks like it's a little bit more solid. And that could be suggestive of cancer. So I would definitely say get a scrotal ultrasound. So tumor markers would be another one that I would order. The only reason I would even consider that is based upon the scrotal ultrasound itself. So if I got the scrotal ultrasound, it didn't show like a hydrosil look, it didn't show like a varica seal, it didn't show like a spermatosil, it showed something that was suspicious for a malignancy. That's when I would get tumor markers. And the reason why is it can help a little bit. And it's mainly adding utility to especially in your clinical vignettes, to talk about the possibility of which type of tumor it is, is it a germ cell, a non germ cell, if it is a non germ cell, which one it is, is it, if it's a germ cell tumor, is it a semenoma, a non semenoma. So those are things that I would order. And so those tumor markers are usually going to be primarily like beta HCG, AFP, I wouldn't say we often order, it's called placental alkaline phosphatase or plop. You can do that, they bring it up on the exams, but we don't really routinely order that one. The one that we do, I would say in place of that is LDH, but LDH doesn't point to a specific type. It's mainly beta HCG and AFP, LDH those are the three, but beta HCG and AFP will be the most helpful for your exams. Well, let me start you off with the ultrasound. Okay, show you what we got. So for our patient, we perform an ultrasound, and we determine a homogeneous hypoacholic 2.8 centimeter intratesticular lesion, no cysts or calcifications. So what does that tell you? I mean, definitely tells me about potentially like cancer. I mean, there's different types. And so here's the other thing this patient is 32. 32. Okay, so usually anything greater than equal to 30 makes me think semenoma. Semenoma is the most common testicular tumor. When it comes to it, especially over the age or equal to the age of 30. And so that's what I'm thinking right off the get go given their age given the overall look. But I think the tumor markers may add a little bit more to help me out. Okay, we have an AFP beta HCG and LDH. Okay, and I'm also going to go ahead and just state the norms for people who are watching. So for the AFP, we get that result back and it was four, normals less than 10. Alright, beta HCG is 12. Normals less than five, just a little bit a little bit high. And our LDH is 260 normal is 100 to 190. So what's that interpretation? What is that telling you? Alright, so LDH again, that's not every like specific as well. It just it kind of just tells me there's a little bit of turnover cell turnover. And so you can see that really in any in all of them, it could be sometimes normal and it doesn't really help. But beta HCG being minimally elevated and AFP being normal makes me think a little bit possibly likely a semenoma. Again, semenoma is one of the big things about them is that they have a very mildly elevated beta HCG. It's very minimal, usually a normal AFP. And that's what I'm thinking about at this point. So you've talked about a semenoma and that's fine. But when we when we're talking about semenoma versus a non semenoma, just so we kind of understand what are the other types, it's looking lay them out for us. Yeah, non semenoma is usually going to be an embryonic carcinoma. I'd say that's not like super common. But it's usually if you get like a orchiectomy and you look at it, under pathology, it's like a hemorrhagic kind of necrosis and a lot of apoptotic bodies that are present. Usually that one's possible. It may have a little bit of elevated beta HCG usually AFP is normal for that one as well. Unless it's mixed with another kind of tumor. But then there's teratomas teratomas are like Frankenstein tumors, they're like tumors that got a bunch of different tissues. And I'm not kidding, it can have bones, it can have teeth, it can have hair, it can have muscle, it can have cartilage. And so that's another one. Another one is called yolk sac tumor. So it's actually derived from like primitive yolk sac tissue, which is in the embryo. And that one usually has a very elevated AFP level. So that would make me think about a yolk sac tumor file like a super high AFP level. Choreococinoma looks like placental tissue, I'm not even kidding. It looks like placental tissue. It's like syncytiotrophoblast and cytotrophoblast tissue that pump out lots of beta HCG. So beta HCG levels that are super, super high would make me think like choreococinoma. So that's what our non semenoma types. But for our patient, we are thinking most likely a classic semenoma. Yeah, I think it's definitely more likely semenoma. Now they have a elevated beta HCG. They're greatly equal to 30, which makes me think again, that's more common for semenomas. You could still say like, could it be an embryonal? It's possible, but embryonic carcinomas don't make up a large proportion of like testicular cancer. So I'd say yeah, I feel pretty good that it's probably going to be a semenoma. And if we're doing the radical orchiectomy, you have to do that in order to obviously get pathology. Yeah, it's kind of nice with this because I mean, it's not it's not great. But you know, removing a testicle is never fun. But at least in this, you get like almost like curative result, which is beautiful. But it also helps you to determine the type, which may guide a little bit more of your treatment. So when you do a radical and guenal orchiectomy, you're removing like, you know, the testicle, the epididymis, you're moving a lot of this chromatic cord stuff like that. So you're removing a lot of different like vital tissue here. But you're most importantly removing the tumor so that it actually can grow or spread. So that's definitely something I would do. And I would definitely probably even do that before doing like staging. I was gonna ask you so you you wouldn't do any CT yet? No, I don't think because no matter what, you're gonna have to do it. You're gonna have to remove the testicle no matter what. So doing a radical orchiectomy, whether it's metastatic or not, yeah, it's still gonna be an option. Gotcha. Okay. Well, hey, we do the the post orchiectomy pathology comes back as a pure semenoma, no vascular invasion. Oh, that's good. That's that's pretty good. Actually, that probably means that in this case, it's semenomas don't usually like metastasize. If they do, it's very local. So they usually go like nearby lymph nodes. So they may go like the retroperitoneal lymph nodes, if they if they do potentially invade there. But you know, only way that you can really see that is getting a CT scan. So I'd have to stage them a little bit. But usually the pathology, that's pretty good. It tells me that it's at least like for right now, it seems like it's local. But I'm going to go ahead and get a CT scan. I probably do like chest, just to make sure because choreocarsanomas, those usually go to the lungs. But there's a semenoma. So I probably wouldn't need it. But I would probably do it just in case abdomen, pelvis, that's the main one abdomen, pelvis, CT scan is going to be the big one. Because I want to see if it's spread to the to the nodes. So it'd be the big one I would do. All right. Well, we do a CT scan. It's clean. Nothing wrong. Good to go. So this is definitely one of those kinds of cases where if you got a semenoma like this, I'd say it's like, you know, you can do stages, but I like to just consider like low risk, high risk kind of patients. So I would consider this more of like a lower risk semenoma, or like a less advanced stage, like a lower stage like a semenoma. So radical and green orcectomy is probably good enough for this patient. And I can just like do some active surveillance by trending the tumor markers, and just making sure those are okay. I could even potentially do like a repeat CT scan if I need to to make sure that nothing else is kind of occurred. But that's probably the good way to go. You don't have to do much else. If it was like, I was a little bit more high grade dysplasia, if there was some lymph node involvement, then I may go to doing what's called radiation therapy, because these tumors, semenomas, that's a classic term for your your step one or your step two, they're radio sensitive. So the things that they respond very, very well to radiation therapy. So that's something I would consider, but I would only really be doing it if it was something that like, they had some node involvement, because we can maybe get some benefit with that radiation therapy. Well, what happens if he can't comply with intensive follow up? Then I would do the radiation therapy. Yeah, if you can, if you don't stick with that, I would suggest radiation therapy just to make sure. Yeah. All right. Well, that does it for case one, pretty straightforward, good prognosis. Yeah, yeah, this is overall I mean, testicular cancer does have a favorable prognosis. Overall, in general, it is a pretty good prognosis, especially semenomas. All right. Well, case two, we have a 25 year old man with a three week history of rapidly enlarging left testicle, mild shortness of breath and new bilateral breast tenderness. Well, what do you think in here? There's some there's some pretty big red flags. I think he's got testicular cancer. We know that there's something else something obviously is leading us in that direction. But the question is, is like, okay, how do we like think about this? Right? So gynecomastia seems to be the case bilateral gynecomastia, which that sucks. mild shortness of breath. Maybe some lung involvement. That would scare me if I hear that. That's concerning. Yeah, Disney and definitely could be concerning because like, you know, they're always like non specific symptoms like metastasis like cough, dyspnea, you know, maybe hemoptysis if you really want to be scary, but it's not usually super helpful. But rapidly enlarging left testicle with mild shortness of breath and new bilateral breast tenderness kind of makes me concerned for like choreocarsanoma. And the only reason why is that choreocarsanoma, it's very, very aggressive, it grows quickly and metastasizes quickly. And so you would see and it also happens non seminomas are common in males less than 30. Okay, so this probably is a non seminoma is my guess. And then it's aggressive. That makes me think choreocarsanoma the most common location for choreocarsanomas to go the lungs they usually get bilateral they call it cannonball metastasis. So I think they got gyno prior from a lot of beta Hg. I think they probably got some pulmonary metastasis causing the shortness of breath. But either way, I'm going to do the same thing. I'm just going to get an ultrasound, get some tumor markers. Theoretically, if this is a choreocarsanoma, it'll show like a mass that is concerning. But the beta Hg will be through the roof, theoretically. Okay, alright. Well, hey, we do that we get an ultrasound, we have some markers to follow. For the ultrasound, it reveals a heterogeneous mass with cystic and hemorrhagic areas. Okay. What does that say it usually that's not seminoma. So usually like seminomas, they don't usually have that kind of pattern. Non seminomas, they can look a lot of different ways like for example, embryonic carcinomas can have this kind of appearance. Yolk sac tumors don't usually have well actually, Yolk sac tumors can have a lot of like vascularity to them. So they're gonna have like chiller deval bodies and stuff like that. But choreocarsanomas have a good amount of like vascular tissue and placental tissue. So yeah, either way, I think this is non seminoma pattern, but I'm still going to wait for those markers. I got him. I got you. AFP is six. Normal range is less than 10. Beta Hg is 105,000. Geez, I don't mean to laugh. But like that's that's crazy high. So that kind of tells us a lot already. But normal range is less than five. Yeah, you overshot it there. Yeah. LDH is 680. And again, normal is 100 to 190. Yeah. And so that's that's a tumor burden, heavy, heavy cell turnover, the more cell turnover, the more the LDH, AFP screams more yolk sac tumor, beta Hg screams more choreocarsanoma. So I definitely think that's explaining everything. And you know, usually with gynecomastia, the reason why that actually develops in these males is because beta Hg, it kind of acts like luteinizing hormone. And luteinizing hormone stimulates light excels to make testosterone testosterone in a male whenever you have too much of it like abruptly, it gets aromatized aromatized by aromatase. And that makes estrogen and estrogen, unfortunately, in higher levels in males can cause some feminization, which is going to result in them getting some some moobs. So yeah, and then the I definitely think the shortness of breath is probably some some lung met. So we should definitely follow up with some, some some chest CTs if that comes up. But yeah, that's what I would think from this one. But either way, I gotta do the same thing that we did with the seminar. I was gonna say, no matter what, it's gonna be the same exact process. We did ultrasound, we got the tumor markers and guess what? Now we're gonna have to do the radical inguinal orcheectomy, right? And they get past them. Yep. Yep. Yeah, clip them. So for pathology, we have a pure choreo carcinoma, extensive syncytia trophoblast. But this is bring me back to embryo. Let's get away from embryo. No, I'm just thinking embryo. Yeah, it's placental tissue similar to splicental tissue. Definitely. Yep. That's crazy. So now we have the pathology, we perform the orcheectomy, we have to stage. So I would think actually first, you wanted to get a CT and say, has this metastasized, which Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's what I would do. I definitely would focus on the chest, but I would even go with the abdomen and the pelvis just to make sure it didn't go anywhere else. Yeah, because this this they can go other places. Usually it's not too common. They go to the liver, but they can. They definitely can go. I want to say another area is the bones, but the brain is a really big one too. Okay, so so far with that choreocarsanoma lungs and brain. Yeah, lungs and brain would be the big ones. You can get some bone involvement. But yeah, the first and you can obviously they spread the nodes. So any kind of retroperitoneal node involvement, you can probably pick up from the abdomen and pelvis, but the chest is going to be the big one. But yeah, choreo loves the brain, it loves the lungs. So those would be the areas that I'm really going to be kind of focusing in on. So for the CT, we have numerous bilateral pulmonary nodules, retroperitoneal nodes that are three centimeters, and the brain MRI is negative. They got that going for them. But either way, it's metastatic, unfortunately. So this is a pretty significant and then that's also what happens with choreocarsanomas. They're pretty aggressive. You know, like, when you think about the non semenomas, like embryonic carcinoma isn't great, but it's not as aggressive as this. Yoke sac tumors, they're not they're malignant, but they're not like super aggressive. And they don't usually metastasize like this. Teratomas unless it's in a adult, those can be a little bit more malignant. But if they're in children, they're actually pretty much benign. Wow. So but yeah, in this case, this is definitely, you know, metastatic either way, we got to we already did it, we did a radical and we know orkyectomy. These patients don't do well with radiation therapy. So chemotherapy, chemotherapy would be a good one. I'd probably do my best to see if that can shrink down some of these like areas and then especially some of the nodes and see if I can get those nodes a little bit smaller, the retroperitoneal nodes. And then from there, we may try some, you can do like lymph node, you can do retroperitoneal lymph node like dissections. Okay, so that's something I would consider if I really, really needed to is I would definitely get them systemic chemotherapy because that's going to be the only thing that's really going to help with the degree of metastasis. And that may help to shrink these nodes a little bit. But then afterwards, I would see if I got that node down a little bit more. And I would do a radical, what's called per retroperitoneal lymph node dissection, anything else for case two. The only other thing I would say is just make sure that you're monitoring, you know, your your tumor markers. Because if, for example, if, if I did this, let's say that it wasn't metastatic. Alright, so let's say that they didn't have any involvement of the lungs and any other kind of like nodes, in no situation where you just have like a choreocarsinoma just in the testicle, just that's it, you do the radical and glenal orcheectomy and you can go straight and remove the retroperitoneal lymph nodes if you want to to prevent it kind of from spreading. But again, I would I would just say in this particular situation, we are I'm pretty happy with what we did. We removed the source of the tumor, we're doing chemo for the degree of metastasis and considering, you know, this kind of like retroperitoneal lymph node dissection if the nodes get smaller. Alright, well, there was two cases for you, pretty straightforward. First case, favorable outcome, good prognosis. Second case, it's less than ideal, but you know, hey, we gave we have the run through we know what we have to do now. Yeah. And I think now we're just left with Zach, if we can do a quick recap, maybe a maybe a 60 second recap on what we've talked about, I'm gonna time them to I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm not gonna make it. I'm gonna definitely time you now. So yeah, 60 second recap. Let's see what you got here. I'd say the big thing is like synomas you want to remember with these that they're the most common tumor and males greater than or equal to 30. Non-synomas are more common in those less than 30. With synomas, radio sensitive is the big exam pearl. They probably have a little bit of an elevated beta HG, but their AFP is going to be normal. Non-synomas are going to be usually something where the two important ones is choreocarcinoma think elevated beta HG, spresa the lungs, spresa the brain, very aggressive. Yolksac tumors, usually those are going to be having a super elevated AFP. The thing is, is that regardless of the type of tumor, you're going to be doing a radical and green orchiectomy, you should do this for pathology results, removing the source and then then proceed to staging. Never biopsy because you can seed the tumor. From there, I would say my decision afterwards after the radical and green orchiectomy depends upon the degree of the disease. So if it's a semenoma, oftentimes, if it hasn't really gotten like that bad and gone to nodes or metastasize, I can probably just survey. If not, I can offer up radiation therapy for the non-semenomanous kind of tumors. Usually that's going to involve pretty much chemotherapy and we can consider removing some of those retroperitoneal lymph nodes. But overall, these can have a decent prognosis. I feel like especially with the younger age, I mean, with our first patient 32, I feel like even trying to survey that it's like, well, hey, you're 32, let's be a little bit more aggressive here. Maybe you might want to do the radiation therapy. Yeah, definitely always an option. And some people will actually go on and go that route just for the safety aspect of it. They are more reassurance, I guess. Yeah, I think that would probably be my thing is like, Hey, I want to be like really, really sure. And with everything comes risk, but sometimes reassurance is it says it all for you. Yeah, really does. Peace of mind. Yeah. Alright, well, that's all I had. Yeah, man. So I think overall, just always think, you know, what are the tumor markers tell me? You know, after that, consider or to me, stage them and then tailor the treatment depending upon that stage. I think that can give you everything you guys need to know. But man, I think this is a good one. I really hope that you guys like that. I hope you enjoyed it. I hope you learned a lot. And man, engineers, I just love you guys, you guys are awesome. So thank you, love you and as always, till next time.