 Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, medicine. But if you have the ability to, on our website, which I'll have a link down below, go there. If you become a member, you'll have access to our high yield notes, illustrations, quiz questions, flashcards. There's a lot more there. So go check it out. All right, without further ado, let's get into talking about the meat and potatoes. All right, my friends, let's start talking about a little bit the pathophysiology of testicular cancer. So when you got like a, unfortunately, like a tumor in the ball bag, this is really problematic. And when we think about it, it's really important to understand that testicular cancer, it oftentimes, we'll talk about it, I promise, but it's going to be broken down into like, synomomas, which are usually the most common germ cell tumor. And then you also have non-synomers. There's also non-germ cell tumors. They're just very, very rare. Most of the time we have germ cell tumors. That's probably like 95% of the cases. But for germ cell tumors, they're usually synomabase, which I'll explain. These are usually going to prevent, present in males greater than or equal to the age of 30. Whereas the non-synomers, those are more likely to present in males less than 30. So you can see this obviously within kind of a different age range, but usually synomers, which are the most common, greater than or equal to 30, non-synomers, more in the younger patient population. When we think about these, the testicles are obviously going to be within side of the scrotum, but there's different components, right, inside of the scrotum. So obviously we have one structure here. This is kind of like a C-shaped structure. And this is called the epididymis. So we have the epididymis. This is one of those that where it kind of like you actually store sperm. And then whenever a patient gets ready to ejaculate, it gets moved. And then it usually gets moved into something here, which we can have like the vas deferens, right? So we could actually write that one out as well. This is called the vas deferens. And that's basically the transportation tube for all those little sperm cells, right? So that's the vas and we don't really care about these areas, right? We care really about this one here. And so this area is the testes, right? So this is the testes. And we talk about the testes. There's a couple different components into it. I don't want to get too crazy into that. We talk about that in some of the anatomy of the reproductive system, but here in red we have something called semineferrous tubules. And semineferrous tubules are where basically you make sperm. You make sperm, but you also have some other cells in this area kind of around it that also make some steroid hormones for males. And then back here you got something called the retitestis and then just you have some ductules that connect to the epididymis because you're trying to get sperm to get made here and transported stored here. So what I want to do is I want to cut in and zoom in on these semineferrous tubules. So now we're looking at the microscopic anatomy, we're really zooming in and I'm really only focusing on what we would call here, this is a a semi, let's see if I can get this here, nephrous tubules. And we're only really looking at one, right? We're only looking at one of these, but this is what we're going to call this thing, a semineferrous tubule. I've just taken like a slice of it and I'm looking here in the center. In the center you're going to have these guys. This is your sperm cells. So we call them spermatocytes really is what you should be calling them, but we call them spermatocytes. Now spermatocytes are really made from germ cells, but we usually these germ cells, they differentiate into what's called spermatogonia. Spermatogonia then usually go through their process where they'll make spermatocytes. So we need to know where the heck those are. So if you imagine as you go up towards this edge where the basal kind of like layer is, there's these like circular blue cells, you see these the circular blue cells all there, those are called your germ cells. They're the ones that are going to eventually differentiate because spermatogonia and then eventually help to make your spermatocytes. So we'll kind of represent this guy. This is going to be your germ cells. All right and these are the ones that are really going to be helping you to make your spermatogonia. All right and then eventually here's spermatocytes. Now we also have these other cells, these black like weird wonky looking cells. These are called the sertoli cells. They're more supportive cells like physiologically they really just kind of help to control what's called the blood test these barrier and they allow they basically like they're like little guards where they open up like little spaces between them for spermatogonia to go down through their division and makes spermatocytes. So they help to control the movement all the way from this basal layer all the way to the inside of that lumen. All right so that's kind of cool. They also will make a thing that binds testosterone to keep testosterone. But I'm getting off track. This is a sertoli cell. This sertoli cell is not really a germ cell. It's a supportive cell. So it's again it's important to remember that it's a non germ cell if you will because that terminology is going to come back a little bit later. All right but sertoli cells they're really just supportive. They may they help a little bit with testosterone concentration inside of that where the sperm cells are. They make what's called sertoli testosterone binding protein. Binds testosterone keeps it in the area so that the sperm can really divide. And then on the outside so you usually say if you could imagine like imagine here I had like another like I had another seminiferous tubule right here right. Usually in between we have these cells called light excels. Light excels. So here we got we didn't annotate that part. Here we have the light excels. The light excels are cells that basically they they really help in hormone production. Testosterone right in males. And so they help they get stimulated by LH and LH helps the these cells to produce testosterone. And then testosterone can go and get into this area when it binds the testosterone binding protein keeps the concentration high helps with sperm production. So that's the basic kind of like anatomy. Now you're probably like okay Zach I um not what what does this have to do with testicular cancer. When we talk about testicular cancer they're really kind of get broken down classified as what we call germ cell tumors and non germ cell tumors. So again there's what's called germ cell tumors. And when we talk about it 95 percent of the cases are going to be these. All right that that's what's happens here. And really when it comes down to it out of all these cells that we just mentioned that are really in that vicinity which ones are going to be affected. Think about it. It's the germ cells. Now there is two types and we'll talk about this a little bit later but there's what's called synomers which we'll get into which they kind of retain some of what of that primitive germ cell kind of like look. And then we have non-seminomas which means they don't really kind of preserve um that original germ cell look. They look like something else right not like a germ cell is going to make a sperm. Then the other ones is your non germ cell tumors. Well what the heck is that? Well we don't really have any testicular cancers that are involving spermatocytes. So we're really only left with sort of totally cells and light excels. But we just call them non germ cell tumors. And so these make up the other's very small percentage of testicular tumors. And again well if you can do math this would be about five percent. So it's not a very small it's not a very large amount. And so this is going to be two different types of tumors. One is a tumor of the light excels. They malignally transform. They become abnormal. You get a bunch of them and they start unfortunately producing lots of testosterone. All right so that's one potential problem here. So we got light excel tumors. All right and again relatively uncommon not something that you probably see a lot but again something to mention. Light excel tumors. There's nothing you know kind of crazy name for it. And then for this one it's the same thing. You get a malignant transformation of their sertoli cells. And these unfortunately don't really have too many things. They may have a little bit of like higher testosterone concentrations but they don't usually have many symptoms or any kind of weird like hormonal effects that you would think. So that's kind of the big things that I want you guys to remember. So when we talk about testicular cancer it's obviously a tumor that will really be involved here in the testes. When we think about how it actually derived from you got to then dig into the microscopic anatomy. Talk about the seminiferous tubules. And then say that there's germ cells which make the spermatocytes. And then there's also sertoli cells which are supportive cells. Really control the blood testes barrier. Help to control concentrate testosterone. Help to transport you know the spermatogonia into spermatocytes down into this interlumen. And then you got light excels which are on the outside and between the seminiferous tubules that release testosterone. What I want to talk about is what in the heck causes these cells unfortunately mutate or to become lignit. And there's not a lot of great reasons. We have one very common risk factor that we definitely like to preach for exams. And this I'd say is going to be the most common one that you'll probably see. Crypt orchidism. Let's see if I can get this one. Crypt orchidism. So this is basically when you have an undescended testicle. And so there's different ways it could actually so unfortunately sometimes well generally the testicle should be sitting down inside of the scrotal sac. And if it isn't, if it's a little bit higher like unfortunately maybe it's within parts of the usually in the anguinal canal is where we kind of say if it's sitting somewhere near the anguinal canal that is when we consider that to be an undescended testicle. And that is a pretty high risk factor for developing testicular cancer. Even if you fixed it, even if you actually take it and actually fix that condition you still carry the risk of testicular cancer. Another one, I wouldn't go too crazy but it's always sometimes presented. I don't think that you'll oftentimes see this because client filters as a chromosomal condition and but it doesn't usually cause testicular tumors in that sense. It can actually cause usually it's non-seminomas, right? But they tend to form in like the mediastinum which is odd. So they kind of form midline which is really weird. You can get these things to form usually in the mediastinum most common but sometimes it can form like in the sacral, the coccyx. It can form all over the place so that's weird. It's like extra testicular non-seminomentous tumors which is like we don't see that too often. Crypto-Orchidism would be the most common reason. And obviously if you potentially have like a family history of you have contralateral testicular cancer those are possible. But by far this is right here. This is going to be the most common one right here. So I'll try and like see if I can get that to be a little bit more... Bang! Crypto-Orchidism is going to be the big one that I need to know. All right? So Crypto-Orchidism is going to create a risk, a scenario where some of these cells will immediately transform. But then I want to talk a little bit about that. I want to talk about seminomas, non-seminomas, light-excel tumors, certoly cell tumors and really just kind of not crazy in the pathology and cellular makeup. More just talk about is there anything that helps us to identify them based upon maybe some things that they secrete? Maybe a little bit on what they're made of? And then from there we'll talk about what's the most common presentation besides having a goober in the ball bag. All right so let's move into talking about these different types of tumors. And we'll start with obviously seminoma first which is a part of your germ cell tumor. So you take a look here, you got that tumor, you zoom in on it. When you think about the germ cell look, it was like a bluish circular cell, these are going to resemble germ cells. I mean they're going to be malignant, right? They're going to be malignant and that reason why they change from being normal stem cells to becoming unfortunately these malignant ones is because they had something like Crypto-Orchidism maybe in the future or in the the past for these patients. What I need you to remember is that with this tumor it is the most common cause of testicular tumors. That's really the big thing. So again I told you that it's an age-or-age thing so usually this is the most common tumor and those patients greater than or equal to 30 years of age. All right that is really really important. Most common tumor and also usually occurs in males greater than or equal to 30 years of age. Now one of the things here about these tumors is that obviously it's the most common. We can see it maybe it'd be more likely to occur in older greater than or equal to 30 males. But another thing is also we use these things called tumor murders. So sometimes these tumors gain the capacity to secrete hormones that we can use as a way of identifying them. Now there's not a lot of identifiers for seminomas so there's different things that they can release. There's things like LDH, there's things like alpha-fetal protein, there's things something called beta-HCG which is basically human chorionic anatotropin. We see that whenever a woman is pregnant this is something that they actually release. Well sometimes with these seminomas there's not, there's a little bit. It's usually very very minimal, very very minimal but you may get a small little increase in alpha-fetal protein. But usually for LDH and for the alpha-fetal protein level it's pretty much normal. We don't see these like large jumps in these tumor markers. And so that's really really important. There may be a small little increase in the beta-HCG but the LDH and the alpha-fetal protein not too much. So again most common tumor in males greater than or equal to 30 you don't have a lot of the big specific tumor markers that are significantly elevated. You may get a little bit of the beta-HCG. When I talk about non-seminomas it's not as simple as seminomas unfortunately. There's subtypes to these. So for example if I take here there's a tumor sitting in that ball bag and I look in on it is it going to look like the germ cells? That's what's important remember. No it's not going to look like these. And so that's when we say okay if it doesn't resemble the germ cells what the heck does it look like? Well that's when we start getting into the different subtypes. With this first one we'll use an example is embryonic carcinoma. So you can kind of see here that it looks a little bit different. There is maybe some somewhat like germ cells present but you're going to notice there's a lot of like apoptosis that's going on around these. So here we have like some cells that shriveled up like a prune. So there's going to be some apoptosis but you're also going to notice that in the center there's a lot of dead cells a lot of dead tissue. So you're going to notice a lot of necrosis that's going to be present and usually this is necrosis is hemorrhagic. All right so you're going to even notice some areas of hemorrhage which is going to be represented with that blood tinge there. So you're going to have some hemorrhage, some necrosis, and again you're going to have some apoptotic bodies or apoptotic cells that are going to be present. With embryonic carcinomas sometimes this can actually cause a painful testicular mass. Oftentimes the testicular cancer is usually painless. But another really important thing to remember with embryonic carcinomas is again hormones. Do they really make a lot of them? Well it's not a big thing. Usually with these you may see a little bit of beta HCG. Alpha fetal protein is not really going to be too elevated but they can have somewhat of a beefy up tick sometimes and LDH. So you may see an increase in LDH but this is really the interesting thing. The beta HCG may be a little bit elevated. The alpha fetal protein for the most part should be normal. There may be a little bit of an increase in LDH. But here's the important thing to remember. Embryonic carcinomas, pure, so meaning that these are just their pure embryonic carcinomas, aren't that common. They're usually mixed meaning that we have like this mixed with like a little bit of like yolk sac tumor tissue. And so sometimes it's it is kind of important to remember that this is variable. This AFP if it is increased it could indicate it could indicate a mixed tumor. So here's what I want you to remember that in mixed tumors, so if I have what's called a mixed tumor which is actually kind of common unfortunately with embryonic carcinomas, then you may have an AFP that could also be elevated. Alright so with mixed tumors you may have an increased AFP but most of the time this is the scenario that you get. So so far we haven't really had much help in really using these markers to identify something. It's usually just going to be pathology that once we do the orcheectomy on these patients when we find that they have testicular cancer we'll look at the tissue and say oh that's embryonic carcinoma. These markers aren't going to be super helpful. Again we'll take a orcheectomy look at the pathology say oh that looks just like germ cells as a synominal. Not going to have a lot of help here with these unfortunately these tumor markers. But when I get to these it's a little bit more of a different story especially this one and this one. Yolk sac tumors what happens with these is you do have somewhat of a like a similar look to the germ cells except they're really they got gargantuous nuclei and a lot of chromatin like material. But one of the key things is in the center of these they have this like a really vascular area of tissue super vascular and these are called shiller duval shiller duval bodies and so all these are is just kind of a pretty vascular area and you get a lot of primitive tissue that actually looks somewhat similar to the yolk sac during embryology embryological development. What I want you guys to remember here is with yolk sac tumors yeah you may see these shiller duval bodies you may see some primitive yolk sac tissue present. But the big thing that's really important to remember is they do secrete some of these tumor markers which are actually really critical to remember. So do they have any impact on the beta HCG? Not really. Do they have any impact on the alpha fetal protein? You betcha. Do they have any impact on the LBH? It's kind of variable to be honest with you. So the big thing to remember here and this is where I really want you to find some significant importance here. Beta HCG normal alpha fetal protein through the roof. LBH is kind of variable where it could be normal but it also could be high. It kind of just depends. But this is the big thing that I want you to remember. So what I want us to emphasize here at this point is the significance of the alpha fetal protein in identifying a yolk sac tumor. Because we can identify based upon the pathology but it's also going to be helpful if I get labs and I see that an AFP is super high in the clinical vignette I could be thinking it's a yolk sac tumor. Now choreocarsinoma is also kind of important to remember. The unfortunate thing with choreocarsinomas is that they are super aggressive. Very, very aggressive tumors. So the embryonic carcinomas can be kind of nasty too but choreocarsinomas are probably the most aggressive malignant testicular carcinomas. Usually when you actually diagnose this one they probably have metastasis to a couple different areas. So with this one it's weird. It doesn't look a lot like the germ cells and so the germ cells really they differentiated and they turned into these different types of cells that look like placental tissue. What was the hormone that made placental? I mean that was made by the placental beta HCG. I wonder if that's going to come into play here. Well obviously when you look at the histology there's different types of cells. So we got what's called cytotrophoblast. I wouldn't go too crazy but I just want you to kind of understand this is what really, really makes up the placental tissue and then you got what's called syncytiotrophoblast. And these are really kind of like when you look at placental tissue it's almost like night and day. All right so when you take it to stick to the tumor you look at it you're going to say oh man this looks a lot like placental tissue. The key thing here to remember is that when you look at the tumor markers that's really the key. That's really the key because you can look at the beta HCG and that's usually going to go ding ding ding. This is the one and these levels are usually through the roof man. AFP not too bad. LDH is usually pretty nasty. LDH is kind of like a marker of like turnover and so if you have kind of an aggressive turnover of cells you're probably going to have somewhat of a bump in LDH but it can sometimes be variable with these tumors. And so the real parts to emphasize is the beta HCG or the AFP but you're seeing here that it doesn't help you with some of them. What really really is key that we've already noticed is that the beta HCG is like that that light up factor for carcinoma and it's that light up factor AFP being elevated for yolk sac tumors. It doesn't really help a lot with these. All right well then you come to the teratoma. All right teratomas are like they're like the Frankenstein tumors. I'm not even kidding. You look at this and you're like wait holy son of a gun is there a tooth in that tumor? Yeah. Is there a muscle in that tumor? Yeah. Is there bone in that tumor? Yeah. Is there hair? Yeah. So you're like wait there's just a bunch of different types of tissue in this testicular tumor. Yeah that's what teratomas are. They're like Frankenstein tumors. I'm not even kidding. If you look here you can have bone tissue. You can have cartilage. You can have the brown representing hair. You can have muscle tissue. You can have tooth or tooth. So you can have teeth in this tumor or things that resemble it. You could have bone. You could have cartilage. You could have hair. You could have muscle tissue. It's literally a conglomerate of a bunch of different tissues. Now when we think about teratomas obviously knowing this fact is pretty easy because you'll it's now it's kind of easy to remember oh man it's the one with all the different types of tissue in it. Yeah. But teratomas also are really important to remember because there's two different things about this one that sometimes can get tested on. So when we think about this in adults, it can happen in adults, but it can also happen in children. When it happens in adults it's malignant. Can be aggressive. All right. So when we talk about this in adults it's malignant. Can be pretty aggressive. If we talk about it in children it's benign. All right. So that's kind of a prognostic kind of indicator here as well. Helps us to kind of think about the likelihood of these tumors being really really nasty. Okay. All right. So so far with non-seminomas there's four types that we talked about. Embryanocarsinoma which has hemorrhagic necrosis can be painful. It may have the elevated beta-ACG. The AFP could be elevated if it's mixed, but oftentimes it's just knowing that is it existing as a mixed tumor most of the time. These are the two big ones that are easy to differentiate. Shilu Deval bodies yeah but AFP yolk sac tumor. Remember that. Shove it into the cortex. Tell that hippocampus you will remember this. Choreocarcinoma you can remember the placental tissue similarities but the big thing is the beta-ACG. Teratoma Frankenstein tumors can be malignant and adults can be benign in children. All right. Let's move over here to the non-germ cell tumors. All right. For non-germ cell tumors it's actually pretty straightforward honestly we don't have to go too crazy on these but again you're going to say does it look anything like the germ cells? No that's why we call them non-germ cell tumors. So then what you have to do is you have to break this up. So let's say here I'm just using as an example there can be two different types of like cellular makeup or tissue makeup and that really just determines these types of tumors. Your light-ig cell tumors or your sertoli cell tumors. Obviously these are going to look like a bunch of light-ig cells. The only thing I really wanted to add on to this one is that these cells can really bump up their production of testosterone and that can be helpful when we talk about some clinical manifestations potentially but really light-ig tumors again these in general super uncommon but testosterone are going to be the big things that can be a little bit elevated unfortunately in light-ig cell tumors which can cause some symptomatic presentations. Sertoli cells they don't really make anything so if you're trying to really look for something they may have some kind of effects on like estrogen or something like that but it's not very common so you're not really looking for any kind of like true like clinical symptomatic effect. It's usually a testicular mass they may may have gynecomastia but it's not often too much that you're going to be seeing here. It may just be that they're not making the testosterone binding protein so they get kind of similar effects but even then again there's not going to be too many symptoms for this one. So from here we've really talked about testicular tumors where do they originate. We talked about the microscopic anatomy. We talked about the cells that make up these potential tumors. We talked about the different types of synomomas, non-symmenomas and the non-germ cell tumors. What I want to do now is let's say okay you got a tumor hanging out in that testicle. What are the potential presentations beside having a testicular mass? Let's talk about those. All right obviously when we talk about testicular cancer the most common presentation is usually going to be a testicular mass. I mean look look there's a bowling ball in this dude's screw so that's definitely going to produce symptoms right now when we think about that when a patient has a testicular mass just because you have a testicular mass doesn't mean that you have testicular cancer. There could be a lot of different reasons why right. Usually one of the big things to think about is in this patient they're going to have a painless for the most part it's a painless testicular mass. Now there's a lot of different things that you obviously have to go through on your differential here and so this would be something that would like be palpated by the patient. Usually this is best obviously during hot showers because the testicle is not even trying to be weird but they become a little bit more flaccid so it's easier to identify some of these things or it could be during a physical exam by the actual practitioner. But whenever we see these and they feel hard and they feel painless that's usually something that's kind of concerning but again there's a lot of things that can cause a testicular mass. Things like hydroceals which are benign findings. Things like spermatosials benign findings. Things like varicoseals for the most part benign findings. And usually if they're painful we would have a little bit more evidence of something like trauma that would suggest maybe a testicular torsion or potential infections like epididymitis. So these are definitely things that would help us you know to think about it. If they come in with painless there's only a limited amount of things. Oftentimes a testicular ultrasound will be able to take a look at that and say hey it's likely one of these things. All right so that's really all I want you to think about that is usually it's going to be painless and then the differential is relatively small for that and really the best thing about this is to get an ultrasound. Now one other thing is that with painful testicular masses the next thing that you should always do is do a trans illumination test. And so what we would do is is we would not even kidding it's like Star Wars you take a light and you shine it on the scrote where the actual effected mass is and you look to see if that light kind of shines and illuminates the testicle. And the reason why is that can give us some potential theories of what could be going on. Usually for an example if I have trans illumination so in other words that thing really lights up then I could be thinking something like a hydrosil. Right and sometimes other things like spermatosils as well but those aren't going to be super common. If it doesn't trans illuminate the differential is so dang wide. So if it doesn't trans illuminate you got a very very wide differential diagnosis. And so you have to compare that with if it being painless. If it's painless that could be a varicoseal. It could be something like potentially testicular cancer. You get the testicular ultrasound oftentimes and that's usually going to be pretty good enough to tell you what's going on. Alright so gynecomastia is definitely a possible presentation. Usually we're going to see this more in the adult patient population. Now one of the concepts behind this is that there can be two different types of tumors that cause it. There's one way more common one and I'd say that would be the choreocarsinoma. As you can tell this one's a pretty nasty one. It's a pretty aggressive one. You could have another one. Again they only account for a very small percentage but your light excels tumors. They could potentially cause gynecomastia. Now when we think about this in the scenarios of a choreocarsinoma what would be the primary hormone that would be released? Well think about it. Beta HCG. Beta HCG. Alright so there's going to be a lot of beta HCG. This is interesting because guess what it does? It goes to the light excels which we represent that over there is pink. So let's draw some light excels. So these can actually kind of act like LH. And so they're going to go to the light excels. They're going to act like LH. When they do that these are going to stimulate the light excels to produce what? So these light excels are going to then be stimulated by the beta HCG and that's going to tell these light excels to start pumping out testosterone. Now that's interesting because if you have a tumor like a light excels tumor. Let's say that this tumor is a light excels tumor. What would be the hormone that it would actually just pump out? Testosterone. So we're kind of like right passing. We're kind of like bypassing that if you have a light excels tumor. Now the concept here is kind of cool that whenever this is a person that's developing that testosterone could be utilized and it could cause them to grow a little bit quicker than they should during pu-  before puberty. So if testosterone's elevated and you're kind of a more amount of adult individual, it can be utilized in some ways, but oftentimes, if it's a quick bump, it gets aromatized and gets converted into estrogen. So you see these enzymes that look like toenail clippings? This is called aromatase. This is an enzyme called aromatase. And aromatase, I mean kind of what its name is going to do, it's going to convert testosterone from these pathways into estrogen. Now if you got too much of that estrogen pumping around as a male, unfortunately, what that's going to do is, this is going to cause the moobs. It's going to cause gynecomastia. So here, this estrogen is going to increase the enlargement of the breast tissue. And if you do that, you're going to end up with gynecomastia. So that's one thing to think about. So our film guy here, Rob, looks a little bit like him. But we like to joke, but in all seriousness, when we think about patients who have choriocarcinomas or light exceltumers, it can potentially cause gynecomastia. Usually they're in adult patients. Precocious puberty is you're kind of looking at the same pathway. And funny enough, if we think about this patient, again, you could have a tumor and it can still be the same thing. It could be a light exceltumor. So it's the same concept. It literally is. It's just now you can actually utilize that testosterone in this prepubescent male. So light exceltumor and a choriocarcinoma, these are going to pump out your beta-HCG. So that's going to be pumping out that beta-HCG. This is going to be pumping out testosterone. What we know is, is that beta-HCG acts on over those cells that we represented in pink over here, over these cells. These were your light excels. And what do the light excels actually produce when primed by beta-HCG? They produce testosterone. What do light egg cells produce whenever they're really unfortunately proliferating and there's a lot of them that are malignant? Testosterone. If you get a lot of testosterone in a prepubescent male, it's a young child, usually less than like nine. I'd say usually less than nine years of age. If all of a sudden, they're not, they shouldn't be hitting puberty at like the age of five. But if all of a sudden, you notice that this testosterone, what it does is, is it usually can hit areas like the larynx and can increase the prominence there and deepen the voice. Now you got this five-year-old walking around like, what's up dude? You know, that's, that's definitely concerning. So deep voice change would be concerning in a five-year-old. All right. The other thing is that it's also going to change some of the growth of hair. So all of a sudden, this kid is walking around with more axillary hair and more pubic hair. That would be abnormal. All right. So an increase in axillary hair and an increase in pubic hair. So let's put pubic axillary slash pubic hair. All right. So if they have an increase in the axillary slash pubic hair, that would definitely be a potential thing. And the last thing, I'm not even trying to be funny, but if they walk around and they got a, you know, a decent size, you know, schmeat, that would be definitely concerning, especially in like a five-year-old if they had an enlarged penis. All right. So enlarged penis would also be kind of concerning too. All right. So now we have this patient who's coming in. They're very young and they got a deep voice. They get enlarged penis. They got axillary pubic growth. They're, they're height. They just all of a sudden, they catapulted to be the height of LeBron James all of a sudden. This is definitely concerning. And you start thinking about precocious puberty. Usually whenever you have a precocious puberty like patient, you'll order a lot of hormones. You'll check their LH. You'll check their FSH. Guess what else you might be looking for? Do they have any testicular tumors, especially something like a choreocarcinoma or a lidaxel tumor? All right. Now, these are possible. All right. This is oftentimes the most common presentation. But while we're on the topic of possible, there is something else that can occur, but I'd say it's probably extremely rare. It's just mentioned in a textbook, so I want to make sure that I talk about it. That if you have a testicular tumor, and again, you're going to be like, oh my gosh, does this tumor ever let up? No, it's a really nasty one. It's an aggressive one, choreocarcinoma. So if you have a choreocarcinoma, we obviously know that the beta HCG levels can be problematic. It can be a tumor marker, but it can also cause precocious puberty or it can cause gynecomastia in adults. But the other thing that's also interesting about this choreocarcinoma is again, beta HCG has similar subunits. And so the best way of saying is it kind of has similar subunits, especially when it's in high levels. Okay. So let's say here, I'm going to represent it with you got like super, super high levels. What can happen is, is this can act like TSH. So when it's a super high levels, it can act like TSH. Well, then you get to say, what the heck does TSH do? Well, TSH is thyroid stimulating hormone. If it has the ability to, it'll bind on to the TSH receptors on the thyroid gland. What's the thyroid gland going to start pumping out? It's going to pump out thyroid hormone. And so now you're going to have bumped up levels of T3 and T4. Now this patient is going to have hyperthyroidism. Again, it's not super common, but it is something to think about if you have a patient who has a high T3, high T4. And what happens when your T3 and T4 levels are really high? What should it do to your actual hypothalamus and anterior pituitary? It should shut this puppy down. And it should lead to low levels or suppression and TRH and a suppression. So it's going to lead to less levels of TRH. And it should also shut down TSH. And so if a patient has low TSH, high T3, T4, all right, what could this be due to? And this is something I would potentially think about is, does the patient have a Tsticular Mass? That's definitely a possibility. So something to consider. The last thing that I want to talk about with Tsticular tumors is the probability of it spreading. Now Tsticular tumors actually have a really good prognosis. Even if it's Choreocarsinoma, they still can have a pretty decent prognosis. I'd say that's the worst of them all, though. But when we think about these, what can they do? Where do they spread? I mean, we know that certain cancers love particular organs, like breast cancer. You think about that when it loves the brain, it loves the lung, right? Most primary tumors love the liver, but it'll even consider going to the liver. So that's important to remember. So when we think about this, the common areas for it to spread is usually lymph nodes that are around the aorta. So for this, it actually would have to break through. So you know there's a layer here. I'll kind of represent it here in this blue color. It's called the tunica abugenia. And this tumor cells, if they break through the tunica abugenia, what happens is their first area that they kind of prefer to go to is your para-aortic lymph nodes. And these are usually retro-paritoneal as the aorta is, but this is some common areas where these tumors, they really can go and reside. They can hang up around these. And so oftentimes, we may have to do some scans, like CT scans, to see if we see any of these areas where they're involved. All right? Now, the other thing about metastasis is that when these things do distantly spread, they hop into the vascular supply. So you have gonadal veins, in this case, testicular veins for the male. So if these tumors do happen to kind of start seeding and they get into the vascular system, they can go a lot of different places, right? Because now they got a transport system that they can just go and right on to the highway and they're going to go to organ to organ. When we think about this, here's the testicle. Here's the testicle. We have the testicular veins. If these puppies do get into the bloodstream, right? So here we have a tumor. Let's say here, let's actually use this one as an example. Here's the tumor and it starts to seed and it gets into the circulatory system and it gets into the inferior vena cava. From here, it could really, it could go to the liver, it could go to the lungs, it could even spread to the bone. So from here, we see the possibility of this thing really going to a lot of different organs. It's usually going to go here to the lungs. That's a, I'd say the most common one. It's also loves the brain, unfortunately, and I'll explain to you what I've seen with this. And another location I'd say it's the least common is going to be the bones. So once it gets into the vascular system, it can go and spread hematogenously. The area that it likes to go to is the lungs and usually I'm not even kidding when I make this term up. It can cause bilateral cannonball pulmonary metastasis. That's what we call them. I'm not even kidding them. We call them bilateral cannonball metastasis. So we got bilateral cannonball metastasis right here. The other thing that happens is when these tumors get into the brain, they're nasty, man. They can really break up the vascular tissue. And so they oftentimes can cause hemorrhage. So they can cause like a bleeding mass. So you can actually get a mass here that spreads to the brain, but these are nasty ones. They can actually cause a bleeding, a bleeding metastasis. And that's a nasty one. And then the other one is it can go to the actual bones too where it can lead to some unfortunate lytic lesions. And so these patients usually they present with things like bone pain. And if you just so happened to be a good clinician and you think about it, sometimes if it's presented on the exam, you see this elevated alkaline phosphatase that could be indicative of lots of bone turnover. So definitely something to consider. But you can see here the most common organs that it likes is going to be the lungs. I'd say the brain would be a really, really important one. Now, the last thing to consider is which one of these tumors usually spread locally and which ones usually spread distant. That's an important thing to talk about. With local spread, usually this is going to be your synonymous and your embryonal. These are the ones that are usually they don't go too far. They don't go too far. So embryonal carcinoma, this one does like to go after the periortic lymph nodes. And synonomous like to go after the periortic retroperitoneal lymph nodes. For this one, I bet you can guess which one likes to go everywhere. The choreo carcinoma. So for this one, it's usually the choreo carcinoma. All right. So this is the unfortunate one where it really, it likes to go all over the place. It can definitely get into the vascular system, get into the actual lungs, get into the brain and potentially the bones. So we have a patient who maybe has a history of cryptorchidism. They come into the physician's office and say, I have noticed this painless testicular mass. At this point, maybe you examine them. And maybe this patient does have a painless testicular mass and they're not really presenting with any of these like symptoms that we talked about. Well, that kind of rules out like the non-seminomas. Your next goal here is to say, okay, does the testicular mass need me to get an ultrasound? That's what I'm going to do. I'm going to get an ultrasound. And then from there, I'm going to be able to kind of figure out, is this a mass? But then how do you start really differentiating a non-seminoma from a semenoma? We'll talk about tumor markers and we'll talk about pathology results. So let's get into that now. All right, my friends, let's start talking about the diagnostic versus testicular cancer. So when we talk about testicular cancer, we talked a lot about the different types of testicular cancers, right? Really determining if it's like a germ cell or a non-germ cell tumor. We talked a lot about those, right? And we really defined semenoma, non-semenomatous. We went through some of like the non-germ cell tumors that kind of really talked a little bit more about like the sertoli, lidig kind of sergic cell tumors. So I think what I want to really kind of talk about next is when a patient comes in with usually like a painless testicular mass, which is kind of the classic finding here, you definitely want to have a concern of testicular cancer, right? That's pretty important to remember. Now, I think we talked a little bit about what testicular mass is, yes, you know, especially with these, can they have the opportunity to present with some odd symptoms? Yeah. Yeah, they definitely, depending upon if it's kind of hormone related, one especially associated with like the coreocarsinomas and more of like the lidig cell tumors, they can have hormonal effects that can cause either precocious puberty in a younger pre-pupil male or it could potentially cause, I'd say, more changes in, we would describe it as changes in their overall demasculinization or they would have things like gynecomastia and reduced libido and things like that that we would see more in the adults because of the aromatization of testosterone and estrogen and things like that. So I think those are definitely possibilities. Hyperthyroidism with the coreocarsinomas is also the other one to remember, but the metastasis is the really, really scary one with coreocarsinomas, but oftentimes they come in with like a painless testicular mass. When you have a testicular mass, it's always crucial to think about what could be the cause. It doesn't always have to be, you know, testicular cancer. And so I think a scrotal ultrasound is really good. Sometimes you can even do the transillumination test to see if it looks like a hydrosil hydrocells usually do transilluminate and they'll show up really, really bright as you put a flashlight to it. Whereas things like, you know, tumors, those are not going to be like transilluminatable. Usually things like varicoseal is also, so it's really important. I think it could be an initial test. They may prove that and they may actually present that in an exam when they say a patient comes in to stick to the mass, they do a transillumination test. It shows that there is no transillumination. All right. That could support is a stick of the mass. A scrotal ultrasound would be the best way to go because what it's going to do is it's going to help you to see that mass instead of seeing something like a varicoseal or seeing something like a spermatosil or seeing something like whatever it may be that even like it's unlikely because usually it's more painful, but epitomitis and things like testicular torsion, those are usually very, very painful. Whereas usually things like hydroseals and spermatosils and varicoseals and even testicular tumors are usually more painless. So if I were to see this ultrasound and I see definitely this kind of like hypoachoeic nature here, this is pretty consistent with the testicular tumor, especially like, you know, your synomnos. But one of the big things that we like to talk about, especially on the exam is tumor markers. They're not, I wouldn't say that they're diagnostic of a particular type of tumor, but they have some degree of suggestion of that being the possible cause, especially when they talk about these on the exams. Orchiectomy would be both therapeutic, but also would be diagnostic because we would take the actual testicle, send it off to pathology and see what it would come up as. And so, oh, this is a choreocarsinoma. Oh, this is a yolk sac tumor, et cetera. But I think tumor markers may provide some benefit, at least to start kind of like stratifying and thinking about the possibilities. For example, if I said that the beta ECG was like really, really high, I would say it's more likely a choreocarsinoma. If it's just mildly elevated in the AFP is kind of like normal. I would say it could be a synominal, but if it's super, super high, always think choreocarsinoma. If AFP is elevated, I would definitely think if it's really, really elevated, think a yolk sac tumor. If the AFP is like mildly elevated and maybe even a little bit of mild elevation in the beta ECG, it could be a mixed tumor, especially like an embryonal carcinoma. Those are very commonly mixed. They're very rare for them to be kind of like solo or primary. If I say an LDH is really high, that just means that there's a heavy degree of tumor burden, which we would see in things like choreocarsinomas. We would see that even in some degree of like yolk sac tumors and things like that, but I think it's really, really, really important to think about beta ECG associated with choreocarsinomas, a highly elevated AFP associated with yolk sac tumors. If you get kind of a combination of both, it could be some type of mixed tumor. All right. Now, from here, we have some suspicions, but the definitive diagnosis and therapeutic aspect of this is a radical and guinoarctomy. And essentially you are removing the testicle. And when you remove the testicle, you remove the source of cancer, especially if it hasn't metastasized, you can get complete curative source control. Now, it's important that the tumor markers are more as a guide. They are not designed to diagnose. They are to determine the assessing of the response to how the therapy works. So for example, patient came in, had a testicle of the mass, you get a score of ultrasound, shows it, you get these levels, and you find out that they have a yolk sac tumor and AFP level was super, super high. You cut that thing out. You measured it a couple of months or a year later and the AFP has significantly declined. Great. That means that you probably had a great response. If you check it and then you still have a persistent or even worse case scenario, elevated AFP, beta Hg, Ldh, that may pretend a poor sign and not a good response to the orcectomy. And you have to dive in a little bit deeper into this one. Now, from here, the orcectomy is great because it's therapeutic, but it also gives definitive diagnosis. We got tissue diagnosis now. It'll tell me if it's a semenoma, which is going to be the most common one, especially in males greater than 30. If they're less than 30, it could be a non semenoma, but it'll tell me, is it a choreocarsanoma? Because it has syncytiotrophoblastin, cytotrophoblastin tissue. Is it have tissues of that suggests more of like a yolk sac tumor? It's got those chiller duval bodies that they talk about. Right? Does it have potentially like hemorrhagic necrosis and cystic material that would suggest an embryonic carcinoma? Does it have like teeth and hair and bones and muscle and nerve tissue? Oh, that could be a teratoma. Right? And then it also tells us if it's more of like the non semenoma tumors, like the sertoli or lidaxel tumors. So it's really, really important, I think, to consider those things. Now, when we talk about metastasis, these are very common to regionally metastasis. They can metastasis a little bit distantly, but I'd say it's more common for them to locally or regionally metastasis. A CT chest out pelvis would be good because it'll help up any distant metastasis, but that abdomen pelvis area is going to be really good to see if it's kind of spread. Particularly, did it spread more to the peritoneum, did it spread to nearby lymph nodes? Those are really, really helpful. So for example, retroperitone lymph nodes are usually the area that these like to spread right to. You want to see if those got involved. All right. So here, I kind of give you an example here. You can see that this patient has a large cysticular tumor, right? Pretty large cysticular tumor here in that right side. And then also, if we kind of look up here, here's going to be the vessels. You can appreciate here on the side of these vessels, there's some lymph nodes that are absolutely gargantuan. They have some pretty significant retroperitoneal lymphenopathy around the aorta. All right. And then also, if you kind of span, you can see here that they have a significant amount of fluid. So they have kind of like a hydrosil if you will. That's kind of running up through that anguinal canal. All right. So this is kind of just giving me an idea that you can see, here's the tumor, but you can see where it's spread. And that's going to help to unfortunately tell me, oh, that this is actually metastasized. And that's really, really helpful because it determines how I'm going to treat these patients. Distant metastasis is less common with cysticular cancer, but it can spread. It can go to places, I'd say, you know, the liver is one to think about, the lungs is another one to think about. So if I had a chest CT and I say, oh, here, oh my gosh, I got all these like lung Mets, that's definitely something to consider. And one of the worst ones, especially when you see like cannonball lesions or bilateral, like big, big cannonball lesions, they really make me think about choreocarsanoma. So remember that bilateral cannonball lesions associated with the choreocarsanoma. Again, here we have some brain Mets. Choreocarsanoma loves to spread to the brain. It can actually cause a lot of bleeding in the brain as well too. So that's another one I would definitely consider if it was like having these images. If I say lung brain, ooh, could it be a choreocarsanoma? And again, the radical and guineal orchiectomy would have told me that. All right. So at this point I've diagnosed, I've determined that the patient has testicular cancer based off of what? Really it's the orchiectomy. The tests up to that helped me to really kind of sift through the other likely causes and unlikely causes. So getting the scrotal ultrasound associated with the tumor markers, digging into their history helped me to think about what it could be. But the true answer was the radical and guineal orchiectomy. And the pan scan really helped me to determine, has it spread anywhere else? What's the most loved area as the retroperitone olimpinose for kind of like the seminomas and non-seminomas? Which is the one that can really, really distantly metastasize your choreocarsanoma. That's the scary one. All right. Use the tumor markers more as a way of assessing response rather than truly diagnosing a disease. All right. Let's dig into the treatment of testicular cancer. So we've diagnosed testicular cancer. I think one of the big things I think about is what do we do to treat this? It's really just removing the source. I think it does, you know, when you think about a testicular mass doing a orchiectomy would be the best way to go about this. So the radical and guineal orchiectomy would be the best way for regardless of any kind of testicular tumor, whether it's a seminoma or whether it's the non-seminomas. Right? And so when we talk about, you know, these types of tumors, there's germ cell tumors and there's non-germ cell tumors. So your germ cell tumors are going to be your seminomas and also consists of like the particular ones like your choreocarsanoma, your yolk sac tumors, your embryonic carcinomas, your teratomas. And then you have your non-germ cell tumors and that's going to be the ones that are less common, your sertoli, your light exceltumers and things like that. But either way, all of these, you could do a radical and guineal orchiectomy. You're theoretically, you're removing the source of cancer. And so you'll make an incision and you'll cut out things like this chromatic cord in the testicle and you'll remove that and kind of suture that area off. It's getting rid of any way for this thing to possibly be there and also spread. Now, the thing that you have to think about is afterwards. So depending upon the degree of spread, how much it has kind of gotten invasive, the overall size of it, you may have to do radiation therapy. Now, one of the big things that they're going to talk about on the exam is that the semenomas are radio sensitive. So they respond well to radiation therapy. So this could be done for a semenoma after you've done the orchiectomy. All right. For patients who have like the need for, because they have retroperitoneal lymph nodes that are oftentimes a very strong affinity for testicle tumors to spread there. This could be something that could be utilized. So you're basically dissecting out those retroperitoneal lymph nodes. This is usually done for non semenomas because they do like to spread to those areas. Your coreocarsinoma likes to do that. Your embryonic carcinomas like to spread to those retroperitoneal lymph nodes as well. So that'd be something that we would do after an orchiectomy or even after they've gotten chemotherapy. And theoretically, you can have different approaches where you only remove these retroperitoneal lymph nodes and this surgical approach, or you remove these retroperitoneal lymph nodes and this surgical approach. All right. But these are definitely options. So what I would say is a radical and we know or get them is going to be good for testicular tumors, regardless of the underlying type, you know, germ cell, non germ cell from their radiation therapy is really great adjuvant Lee after orchiectomy for your semenomas retroperitoneal lymph node dissections are really good for your non semenomas tumors. So that's going to be the yolk sac tumor, the coreocarsinomas, the embryonic carcinomas, all of those are going to be better afterwards. All right. Now chemotherapy is a very common one that can be given to patients, especially if they have semenomas or non semenomas, and it's usually done after the orchiectomy as well. So what I want you to think about is let's say that we have a patient who has to stick to the cancer, maybe you could be confused about this. When you have to stick to the cancer, the radical and we know orchiectomy is going to be the primary treatment. It's the first line from there. If you have a patient who has a semenoma, what is going to be the best way? Well, it depends. Do they have the stage one where it's really just confined to the testes? It hasn't spread. If that's the case, you don't really have to do anything. You can just stick with a radical and we know orchiectomy and that's it. Monitor their levels, their LDH, their AFP, their beta HCG, see how they do in response to that. If there are anything beyond that where it started to invade past the tunica albigenia, it's kind of gone into the nearby lymph nodes. It's actually spread to other distant organs. At that point, that's when I think radiation therapy and you can consider chemotherapy as well, is going to be the go to radiation therapy is going to be the go to though, for semenomas. So remember that. Now the chemotherapy to Gagens, I don't think that you need to go crazy memorizing this, but the BEP regimen is going to be one of them. So bleomycin, topocytosis, platen, or you can just do a topocytosis, platen, but I would really want you to focus more on the radiation therapy is the secondary therapy that can be utilized in semenomas for non semenomas. Again, you're going to be doing the radical and we know orchiectomy. If it's stage one, it's confined to the testes. What could you do? You could just actively survey. All right, that's it. However, a lot of the times non semenomas can be a little bit more aggressive, especially if it's choreocarsinoma embryonic carcinomas. So oftentimes you may have to go to the next thing. So if it's stage two where it's a little bit beyond the testes, it's actually getting towards retroperitone lymph nodes. It's getting beyond that to distant. That's when I would say that the retroperitone lymph node dissection is going to be the best way to go because you're going to remove those sources of where the tumors like to go to. And then you can again, follow that up with chemotherapy or you can add it on. All right. My friends, that's a stick of the cancer. I know that sometimes when you think about these topics, they can kind of seem stressful. They can seem like there's a lot of information I have to know, but I really hope that after taking all of this in, you feel a little bit more comfortable. You feel like you're able to kind of take a patient who comes in with a painless and desiccular mask and kind of know what's the first thing that I should do. I can do translimation. I can do ultrasound from there. I see the mask. What do I do next? Okay. Get the tumor markers. Helps me to think about what it could be, but the best test is a radical and guineal orcheectomy. So reach out to a surgeon to do that. From there, I've got a tissue diagnosis. I've determined what kind it is. Follow up with pain imaging. I think that they could have metastasis, especially to the retroperitone lymph nodes. Best thing to do, cut the tumor out from there. Radio therapy is going to be the radiation therapy for the synomomas. And again, retroperitone lymph nodes or the sections are going to be for the non-synomous. We think about the stickular cancer. Again, the most majority of them are going to be synomomas and males greater than 30 years of age. What's the primary risk factor? Crypto-organism. I really hope that you guys feel like you got something that out of this lecture. I really hope that you learned it. I really thank you guys for always sticking around and just being the best possible fans out there and just thank you guys so much. Love you. Thank you. And as always, until next time.