Welcome back to the Ninja Nerd podcast. Today we're talking about throat infection. Stop looking at me. >> I hate when [laughter] he looks at me. Look, look that way. >> I'm looking very intensely at you, too. >> You know, like when you're out in public and you feel someone staring at you, like you just feel them. >> It's very impolite. >> And you just, you know, you know, peel over to me and I'm just like, >> Yeah. Yeah. Imagine that. Yeah, that that's what [clears throat] that's what he's seeing. It's not a pretty sight. So, >> just I don't blame him. Yeah. >> Keep your eyes >> on you guys. >> Exactly. [laughter] Exactly. Throat infections. We're doing throat infections today. Lots of We've been doing a lot of sore throats lately. A lot of sore throats in our our podcast lineup. >> Yeah. Yeah. I think it's important, you know, whenever you got throat pain, you got to figure out why that why is that throat sore, though? You know what I'm saying? Keep your minds clear. I'm being serious here. But in all in all honesty, when a patient has throat pain, I think it's it's something that you [clears throat] really want to and I think we emphasize this a lot as we talked about in our couple of our lectures. Throat pain intrinsically by itself is not scary, but if it's accompanied with things that bring about signs of respiratory distress or as we would call them red flag signs, that's when you want to think about really scary things. Deep neck infections, things like dtheria is another really bad one. epiglatitis, maybe even like luringot tracheo bronchitis. That doesn't always present with a sore throat. But either way, the point is is that when you have a a throat pain, always really look to see if there's anything that really screams a very serious concerning infection as compared to the ones that you have some time to work them up. The first case here, not too scary, probably something that we've all experienced and very, very common. We have a 22-year-old college student presents with three days of sore throat, congestion, cough, red, watery eyes, low-grade fever, and then when we look in the mouth, we do our exam, we see some mild fingial arythemma without exodates. >> Okay. >> What what are you thinking here? This is pretty straightforward, but what's your thought process? >> All right. So, the first thing I like to do is ask them myself, okay, do they have any red flag signs? Like, you know, is there any stride or muffled hot potato voice? Is there any dysphasia, dinophasia? Is there any tismas? Is there any respiratory distress? Anything like that? That's a red flag. None of those things pop up. >> Nada. >> So then I go to the next thing which is okay this is not a complicated throat infection if you will. So then [clears throat] the next thing I say is okay do they have features of like a tonsillo ferngitis and usually that comes with a sore throat which if you look in their oral cavity it'll show the fingial edema or ariththemma maybe some exidates. It kind of depends. If you palpate their lymph nodes, they may be a little bit inflamed. Usually, they're more prominently inflamed in bacterial cases and in mono. And then fever, higher the fever, the more likely it suggests to be bacterial. The lower grade or absence of fever, more likely to suggest maybe a mild viral case. >> So there is features here of a a tons of ferangitis, right? They have a low-grade fever. They have fangial aryththema, edema, they don't have any exidates. But I think right now the next question is is could it be viral? Right? And viral syndromes are very common. When a patient gets a viral upper respiratory tract infection, oftent times it doesn't just plague one thing. It you can have a a culmination of multiple areas. So it can involve the sinuses. It can involve the nasal cavities. You can get a rhinocinusitis. It can involve the larynx. You can get a laryngitis. It can involve the ferinx and you can get a fngitis. So this could be a clinical picture of a patient who has an upper respiratory tract infection. That could be a rhino virus, an adno virus. It could be a parinfluenza. It could be influenza. Could be dang near COVID 19, right? All of those things, all of those viruses can kind of culminate in a couple different ways. And so when they present with viral syndromes like a cough, that's really important because that tells me that there is a likelihood of a viral upper respirator tract infection. usually bacterial. They don't always have almost usually never do they have a cough. So at least that really adds to the diagnosis of it being bacterial. So having a cough, having things like kisa, which is like their runny nose, congestion, post-nasal drip, those things all make me think about an upper respiratory tract infection and even adno. Adno loves the eyes and so you can get a conjunctivitis. All of these things really scream like a viral infection of sorts. So if that is the case, I would really lean to this being a viral fngitis. Now would if that's the case, would I or viral tonsoferitis if you want to think about it because I think they had I don't know if they had tonsular and edema or was it just the fairings? >> It was both. So I would call this an acute viral tonsoarangitis. The question I think that comes up is would you swab them? Would you do like a viral PCR? Not usually. Unless and the only reason I say unless is because for any other viruses except for two wouldn't really change management and two of them influenza and SARS KV2 which causes COVID 19 those actually you could change management if they fit the particular risk factors and the time frame which we'll get into it in those lectures we won't talk about it now you can actually give them antivirals so for influenza you can give them oel tamavir which is known as tamlu and co 19 if it's within the proper time frame you can give them paxlovid all the other ones you don't do anything so why would I test them for it if I'm not going to change my management the only ones I would test for is if they had features of influenza and covid what would you got co what was the one sympto we all did [laughter] >> what was a common symptom that you had that I don't know it's not always perfect but it really makes you think about co >> yeah so you know that the smell and taste like azia lack of smell, decreased smell. Those things really kind of make you think about COVID. And also, did you were you around somebody that had exposure? Because they would always ask that, have you, you know, been around somebody that tested positive or you knew had COVID. So, that known exposure risk and having those in combination with the symptoms that this person has, it wouldn't be unreasonable to test them for COVID, right? If they had all of these symptoms and they had body aches, really bad muscle aches, joint aches, a pretty high fever, then I and I'm in the proper kind of time frame for the flu. I would start thinking about influenza and I would test them for the flu. Otherwise, guess what? I don't do I just say it's going to be okay. It's okay. >> It's okay. I'll treat the pain. >> You're getting NSAIDs and some or acetaminophen. >> Yeah, some I'll get some NSAIDs. Acetaminophen and then you're good to go. I mean, you could do like things like gargles and you know, like this. You ever been told like gargle some salt water? Do lozenes that maybe have a little bit of lidocaine in them, but a lot of the times it's just going to be kind of letting the virus run its course. Maybe some NSAIDs, maybe some alternating that with Tylenol or acetaminophen is going to be the best way to go. Case two. Okay, cool. We have a 10-year-old that presents with sudden sore throat and fever, no cough, and we also note that they have painful swallowing. exam shows tonsular exidates, palatal pitikier and tender anterior cervical lymph nodes. >> Okay, this is that perfect case but go go through the same process. They came with a throat throat pain was the primary chief complaint when they came in with a sore throat. Did they have any red flag signs? And there was nothing really that kind of screamed off to me that it could be. I didn't hear anything about trism. I didn't think hear anything about a muffled hot potato voice. I didn't hear anything about drooling or difficulty with their swallowing, I believe. Right. >> Well, I guess technically they had it's painful swallowing. I'm not sure. You can't say that's difficulty swallowing, but it's painful. >> Yeah. And I I think that's important to remember. But again, I think if it's the this scenario here, I would I would again you're going to look in the oral cavity and I think that's going to help you a lot in that kind of scenario. So, we'll get to that. But I don't even even nonetheless there's no strider. There's no other signs of respiratory distress. Nothing that really screams like a red flag sign. But either way, once I get to looking in that oral cavity, I'll have a better idea anyway. So, I go to the oral cavity and you kind of told me that when you looked in there, the first thing I would look for is if I had any concerns, is is there any kind of like really large fluctuant like swelling areas. So, I'd look at the tonsils. I'd look to see if those are swollen and if it's pushing the uvula to the contrlateral side. I'd look for any kind of like bulge on the lateral fingial wall and the posterior tonsular pillars. I'd look in the posterior fingial wall, see if that's really swollen and bulging. None of that came up. It was more just the ferinx was really red. It was maybe a little swollen >> tonsil or exidates >> and then they had some exidates on their tonsils. Yeah, >> that really is more of a like a fngitis that seems like it's more bacterial, but you could still have some viruses that cause this. So just because it has exidate just because it's red, just because it's inflamed doesn't mean it can't be viral. So I definitely know this is acute tons of ferngitis, but the question is is what's the cause? Do they have any viral syndromes? I didn't hear anything about cough, kisa, congestion, or any of those things that really make me think about that. I even heard that they didn't have a cough. >> Nope. No cough. >> So, that makes me then start to think, could this be could this potentially be two things or it's it's rare, but there's three things. One is group A strep. So, strep f people call the strep throat, which is group A strep tons of fangitis. That's one. Second one is infectious monucleiosis. Nothing in this patient's picture makes me think that, but I I'll go through that. >> Okay. >> And the next one is gonocakal. And that's I'm not even trying to be weird. You looking for a patient who's sexually transmitted infections. So they would have like they usually have a pretty good like amount of exidate on their tonsils. But on top of that, you'd be looking for vaginal discharge, penile discharge. you'd be looking for maybe any signs of it's rare gynecal conjunctivitis but if there is some kind of like transmission between the genitals to the eyes they could have a conjunctivitis so I I'd be looking in that in the history and and I would also definitely ask about sexual exposures and stuff if I had that thought in any way shape or form but those are the three that I'm thinking at this point so then the next question is is okay do I have anything that makes me I'm going to do two things simultaneously do I have anything whatsoever that makes me suspicious of mono. Nothing really said they're mono. So mono usually is the most common symptom is like the really really bad fatigue. They just feel like they are tired. >> Yep. >> They feel like they can't do anything and it is a heavy heavy fatigue and just overall just lethargic. >> Um I didn't hear anything with that. Another one is I'd say I don't remember the percentage but it's it's a very it's greater than at least 50%. of patients get splenomegaly. And so if you you if it's big enough and you palpate upon the left upper quadrant, they in a board exam, they're always going to say this that they have like some left upper quadrant fullness or tenderness or you can palpate something and that's usually where the spleen sits. So that would be something I'd be looking for. And then another one is lymphatinopathy in the anterior chain is more suggestive of a of a group a strep or even a viral case whereas posterior chain that's more mono because of the way that it travels via lymph nodes because it is it's one of these EBV infections that it hops into you know these B cells and really goes and cause more of a a generalized lymphnopathy and so that's that's something I would be hearing and and their tonsils. I'm not kidding. They would be really really swollen and they'd be pretty like like I'd say really swollen and they would have a heavy amount of exidate on them. So, nothing's really like screaming mono. >> And and let's not forget to rule out the the obvious things here that you know they're a 10-year-old. I'm pretty sure, you know, there's a reason why we call mono the kissing disease. [laughter] >> I don't know. Maybe this 10-year-old is is >> Yeah, that's a good point, too. And again, I think >> I don't know. I'm just saying for the most part your clinical picture is maybe like a college student >> college age and >> it's very true very very true and I think the other thing that's really important here is that that in this patient when you when you look through all of this nothing really pops out especially that history that's when I would say at the same time that I'm doing that I'm going through and you don't have to go into your calculator and do this but you do something called a c a modified centur uh like criteria score and basically all It is is it's really simple. It looks at first do they have any like fingial edema and arythemma like especially do they have any like exudates like that's really one important thing do they have that so if there is a lot of that that's you get a point if they don't then you don't give them a point do they have like a fever so generally greater than 38 degrees Celsius if they do okay they get a point if they don't then they don't get a point do they have anterior it's usually is very specific anterior cervical lymph nodes that are like tender and swollen. If they do, they get a point. If they don't, they don't get a point. And then last is age. What is the age range at which this usually occurs? It's more often than not pediatric patients. You don't see it as much in the older individuals. And so, we go like at least three years of age to 14 years of age. If they're in that range, it's a point. If it's anything generally, we say 15 to probably about like 44 years of age, you don't get any point. and you actually take a point away if they're greater than 44 because it just it's reduces the likelihood. So that's why it is more of like a pediatric kind of like adolescent infection. So in that scenario that's how you go through that and you calculate a score and generally any time and there's a lot of controversy on that but generally if it's like zero one you it's it's unlikely this look for something else as an alternative reason maybe you know what the most likely reason if it's if it's zero to one it's probably viral. So that's boom that's likely the cause we don't need to keep going further with that. The other thing is if it's if it's maybe two or greater, so maybe two around that, you can say that this patient could have a very strong chance of group A strep. And what you should do is you should follow up with some testing, which we'll get to. The last one's very controversial and I I don't remember the names of the particular like guideline. So, I know there's like the family medicine and there's there's all these different types of guidelines, but basically, if you look at Up to Date, they they kind of argue at what you do when the score is four or greater. So, score four or greater, they say that one will say just go with antibiotics empirically. The other one will say you still need to test them. And so, it kind of just depends. It's more of a provider preference at that point in time. I think a lot of them are starting to push more for still test them. And so what I want you guys to really remember is at least the score of two and greater. That's the important thing because if you go off of the more preferred guidelines, which is anything two plus, that includes four beyond, you should test them. And it's a quick test. So the first thing that you should do is you you get a swab and you go in and you swab the oral fairings and you do what's called a rapid antigen detection test. It's looking to see if it comes up positive for group A strep. If you do that and it's negative, then you then have to make a decision. If it's a ped patient, right, any kind of pediatric patient, so probably anybody like 18 or less, you go to a culture because sometimes it can be negative and there's still a possibility that they could have group A strep. So you go to a throat culture. If it's an adult, we often don't we just we don't do it. We say it's unlikely group A strep and we consider an alternative diagnosis. If rapid antigen testing, rapid antigen detection test is negative, unless they are a PE patient, then you go ahead and you get that culture. If they're not, you just do not go any further and you consider an alternative diagnosis. If that test is positive, it is then group A strep. You don't need to get a culture. So, that's the important thing is that it's really specific, but it's sensitivity and like ruling things out is a little bit careful. you want to consider in the pediatric patient to get that throat culture. But you don't have to get a throat culture if it's positive. You can just treat them. So that's I think really really really important in that this patient here is I would go through their centaur. I think off of their centaur it definitely is two plus >> 100%. And then a lot of it you could even argue that it's probably even four or more. So that's when you get into the controversial discussion. I would still probably go with the guidelines that suggest just do the rapid see what that comes back as is. If it's positive, cool. Treat them. If it's negative, if they're a pets patient, which this one is, then I would go ahead and do a throat culture. And then from there, make my decisions off of that. But for this patient, I'm going to go ahead and say that this is likely going to be going in that direction where it's going to follow up positive. [laughter] >> And let's say we do, let's say for our for our patient, we do the rapid strep test. It's positive. >> Now, we say, okay, it's a positive group A strep. Yeah. >> How do we treat them now? >> Yeah. So with this one it's so it can be you can do penicellin but I think they're starting to gravitate more to amoxicylin as the preferred regimen. So you could do penicellin oral penicellin which is just penicellin V. That's one option and then the other one is you could do amoxicylin and this scenario that's usually going to cover most of your patients. However, in the scenarios where you got that patient who's like, "Oh, I can't take emoxicil. I can't take penicellin." Then what do you do? Then you have to kind of dig into a little bit more of their degree of allergy. So, do they have an allergy? All right. Hey, what happens? You get a little wash. You get a little wobble. Yeah, I do. I [laughter] do. Then in that scenario, you can consider like another alternative, which is usually a sephilis. I think Keffllex is Sephillexin is usually going to be the go-to. It's it's funny because when I was growing up, I was allergic to a moxicylin. Nothing bad, but a rash. But they would always put me on a Zpack. >> Every And I remember it so so clearly every time. Oh, no. I'm sorry. I'm I'm allergic to a moxicil. No big deal. Okay, great. No problem. We'll put you on a Z-pack. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Of course. Of course. >> Yeah. So, yeah. But hey, I I think in that scenario, you know, we're now realizing that we can go with the sephilosporins now because there used to be this like fear of it still causing it. But >> it's pretty low and especially if you have a mild one, it's like ah, pick your poison. What do you want? Resistance and other issues. But >> in this case, you go with like probably Kelex and then if you do have a severe allergy, then you go with something like a macrolyte and that's and I think sometimes you can even consider like doxycycline as well. But yeah, macrolytes are probably going to be the one that will be the zithramy rhythm that they may kind of reach for in these scenarios. >> Now, we're not just obviously we want to see our patients get better, no more symptoms, they're good to go. But I think something we should talk about is the real fear of this progressing further and and what can that cause? >> Yeah, that's a that's a legitimate concern. So, whenever So, here's the thing. What's funny enough is that with with with group A strep, it's one of those infections that if you adequately treat it, you you'll probably be okay, but you can develop two complications. One is a separative complication, which means it becomes like a puspocket essentially, and the other one is a non-superative complication, meaning that you develop probably like immune reactions or toxin mediated reactions by the by the actual group A strep itself. that causes complications that don't cause pus to form. And interestingly, the separative ones, those usually happen if you didn't adequately treat it or you didn't treat it at all. The non-superative ones, those same thing if you treat it adequately for roheatic fever, like you can prevent roheatic fever. But the other ones that can happen regardless if you treat them or not is postpockritis. So I'd say the complications that you want to watch out for is if you don't adequately treat them, it can progress to a peronular abscess. I'd say it's possible to progress to a parapheringial abscess. It's possible to progress to a retrofaringial abscess, but the most common one that it progresses to is a peronselor. And in those scenarios, you're now changing it to where they have tismas, right? Maybe they also have drooling. Maybe they have that muffled hot potato voice. Now you notice when you look in their mouth the tonsil's swollen it's ademus it's fluctuant and it's pushing outwards and it's moving the uvula those are things that make you think more about that patient who has potentially like a per tonsular abscess but the other ones that you got to watch out for is if that group a strep if it what happens is you get an immune reaction right and when you get an immune reaction you produce antibodies and these antibodies are going to be directed against the antigens on the actual bacteria to fight it off to help to optinize for, you know, macrofasages to come in, for neutrfils to come in, for all of our immune system to fight off these pathogens. But sometimes those antibodies, they can go around and they can react with other tissues. And this can happen, especially in rheumatic fever where those auto antibodies attack other tissues. And so if you have a patient who gets treated with or let's say that they don't adequately get treated with strep and then all of a sudden at some point in time maybe a couple weeks later they develop what we call the Jones criteria feed like the major criteria which you can remember by the pneummonic J. I think J is going to be joints. So they develop kind of like a a polyarth arthritis. Multiple joints usually get inflamed and aggravated and and irritated. The next one is the O. It look you can make it look like a heart and so it can cause carditis and usually the most common feature of carditis is they get a valvular disease and so they can get like roheatic heart disease because their valves can get really really fibrous and they can get things like stenosis especially like mitro stenosis. Another [snorts] one is N and you can remember that for nodules. So they can get these subcutaneous like nodules or bumps usually on their like shins is a pretty common one. What else we got? E E is like athemma marginatum. So they get this like weird looking kind of like circular almost almost looks like a bullseye kind of rash that appears usually on the extremities as well. And then the last one is S for Cindenham's Korea. And essentially the they attack the basil ganglia and that can cause this kind of like Korea form movement where they have like this involuntary kind of like synchronous movement with their or asynchronous movement with their extremities. And so that's something that would be really concerning to make you think about rheumatic fever as a complication. Another thing that can happen is that the especially strep pioins it can release small little toxins and those toxins can get around the body and they can cause certain reactions and it can cause like like ariththrogenic toxins essentially and they can cause rashes. So usually one common thing that you can see I don't know if it's common but it's something to think about is scarlet fever. So scarlet fever can happen when a person gets streped throat and all of a sudden you look and they got this like crazy rash. It's like it's almost like if you feel it feels like sandpaper and so it's all it's all over the body and it's a very red kind of like a macula papular like rash and and it has like this sandpaperish kind of like s like grit to it and that's usually over the extremities and the trunk a lot of the trunk and that's one thing and if their tongue is really red and it has like little bumpies like little like kind of like swollen little bumpies that would be like a strawberry tongue. So strawberry tongue with that common like sandpaper like rash over the body is pretty characteristic and obviously they'll have a pretty good fever too called scarlet fever and that can happen as well as a as a as a complication. So so far we got peronsular abscess we got another one like rheatic fever. We got scarlet fever and the last one is postpocal marinitis. This one can also happen. Doesn't matter if you treat them well or if you don't treat them at all it can happen regardless. With this one, their immune system literally produces antibodies and those antibodies bind on to the antigen and they kind of like shear it off and then that antigen and antibbody complex move through the bloodstream, get down into the glomemeilus, deposit into the glomemeilus, jack that thing up and it causes inflammation and it destroys the glomemeilus and they start to leak red blood cells into their urine and they get blood in their urine. So they get hematy which we also call Coca-Cola urine. So if you look at them you say oh my gosh this patient has strep throat now they're they look like they're pissing blood and on top of that they have high blood pressure and usually they lose albumin and whenever you lose abumin you loses the ability to kind of keep and normal extracellular kind of like blood volume or effective arterial blood volume and you also leak a lot of fluid into your extracellular spaces they get a lot of swelling of their face so they get perorbital edema those things make me think about that push-up to coalitis you still awake over there >> yeah no I'm [laughter] I'm I'm regretting asking you that question. I if you guys I don't know if if it's going to panda, but this is him. No, I'm good. I'm good. It was a lot. >> Do you need a Celsius now, buddy? You need a Celsius. >> I didn't I didn't think that question was going to lead to all that, but this is this is medicine. All right, case three. >> All right, >> we have a 17-year-old presents with two weeks of sore throat, profound fatigue, and malaise. No, I'm just kidding. >> You got it. >> Yeah, this one should scream it out to you pretty >> pretty fairly easily. Like you talked about this exam we we're going to show here is they they reveal posterior cervical lympidenopathy and mild spinomegally. [snorts] >> Yeah. I mean we we know at this point it's we're kind of pushing towards that end. So it's again it's it's same thing sore throat. From there you go ahead and you say okay is there any red flag signs? Maybe not. There's not. Okay cool. any viral symptoms? Not really for this patient. But then you go ahead and you do simultaneously your centaur score and then you're also looking to see if you have suspicion for mono. And then for this what you're finding is is that you probably your centaur score could be high on this one because they have exidate on their tonsils. They got fever, right? I think they had fever. >> Maybe it didn't mention it. >> Didn't it didn't mention it. Just that that two week sore throat, profound fatigue, >> and then maybe they don't have a cough. And then on top of that, you know, you're looking they they have posterior cervical impenopathy, but maybe they had a score high enough where it's like it makes you think about it. >> I they got they got splown megally. >> Yeah. But >> but that's the key is that the suspicion is making you push it because sometimes people can get a M centaur score high enough they get go through the rapid antigen detecting test negative and they say, "Oh, could it be mono?" The goal is to say, "Could it be mono before I even have to get like a rapid antigen and a throat culture, etc." So for this patient, a lot of their things scream mono. So, what do you do when you have a high suspicion of mono? The first thing you do is you order what's called a monospot test. And it's a simple test where you do some blood work. And it's a really weird test. So, they found I don't know how they found it out. Obviously, there's cool smart, very, very, very smart people out there. They found that whenever you take mono, right? So, that's a EBV infection. It affects like, you know, your B cells. It affects the way you you know your overall B cell reactions and you lead to your plasma cells producing antibodies and generally whenever your plasma cells produce antibodies these antibodies have specific functions. What they found is that whenever a person has mono they generate antibodies that are not directed against EBV specifically. They're they happen to crossreact. So they're called heterophile antibodies and they can crossreact with red blood cells, specific antigens on red blood cells that are in sheep and I want to say it's like horses too, but either way it's some kind of it's an animal of sorts and they found that. So what they do is they take your blood and they take your serum which may have those antibodies, the hetereroy antibodies. They then add it on to a sample which has these red blood cells from sheep or horses. And what they want to know is if you have those hetereroy antibodies and it could mean that you had an EVB infection or at least mono, you'll have those antibodies react with those red blood cells and they'll clump. They'll glutenate. If it clumps, it's a positive monospot test and it tells you they they have a high likelihood of them having monucleiosis. Boom. Done. However, if the monospot test is negative, you can get false negatives and still have mono. Why? If you ever got mono, you present within the first week of your symptoms. That test is oftentimes pretty high false negative rate. So then what you have to do is you either have to say, "Okay, I can do I have two options. I can do another test or I can have you come back maybe in another couple days or a week or so. Anything beyond a week and I'll retest you with a monospot because that's when it can be negative." Another is a is a child. I think the age decision is less than five years of age. I I'm pretty sure that's about the time frame of when you would say that is if they're less than five, there's a very strong chance it could be falsely negative. And then you would do another test and we'll talk about what that test is. I think any other nasty infection like an HIV infection, CMV infection, those are also another one that can cause like a false negative. But I don't I I would just stick with the biggest thing which is you're too early or you have a very young child. In those scenarios, you have the next decision which is to do P corology for the specific EBV antibodies because we tested it for non-specific like heterophile. Now we're going to test it for specific antibodies, but it takes that's why you don't do this test first. It takes a long time for it to come back. So you don't want to have them waiting forever. Even though, funny enough, you don't do a lot for this disease, which we'll talk about, but you're going to send off that test. When you send off the EBV antibodies, all you want to know is this dude right now is spraying Listerine spray into his mouth while we're talking. [laughter] >> Yeah. >> Don't mind me. >> I need something I need something to keep awake over here. [laughter] >> Oh my gosh, you just caught me off guard. When when you get the EVV corology, what you want to look at is is it an active or acute infection. So you look at the IGM. IGM is always really an indicator if it's acute. All right? But also, you're still going to be producing some IGG antibi antibodies around that same time frame as well. So those will both be positive. The big thing that's going to be negative, and that's what tells you it's an active versus a chronic or a past infection, is the EBNA IGG antibodies. And so that's the ones that I want to look at. If those are negative, it tells me it was likely it is likely acute infection. If it's positive, it means it's probably been like this is a dormant. This has been going on for a while. So that's the thing I want to go ahead and take a look at. So if that came up positive, that's an alternative way to get to monucleiosis as well. But that's that's the the the kind of longhaul way of getting to mono. >> So for mono, just give them a moxic. We're good to go. >> That's a that's a good test point there. Call it call it a day. >> Yeah. So with mono it's viral. So if you give them a moxicillan theoretically I don't know what the percentage is. I I think I did read it was like a very might have been like less than 10 but either way small but it's a >> the boards are going to ask it because it's a rare one is if you give a person who let's say that you go through that's why they say like do the M centaur and and look at your suspicion for mono along the way. the suspicious monob cases, you should you should be able to do it before you kind of go through and say, "Oh, let's do the rapid antigen is negative and I'm gonna go ahead and treat you, but I want to get a throat culture first and I'm going to wait and then it's mono the whole time." >> Yeah. >> And then you give them a moxicylm. Theoretically, what could happen is you could give them this like ex like a exanthm. It's it's a maculopar rash. They just get it all over the place. And I think it used to be believed that it was mainly from Moxil, but they found that it can also happen with other antibiotics, too. But that's the classic test question. So if they ever say that on the exam where you go through you thought that the patient had strep, you treat them with the moxy and they develop this big rash all over the place. It could be mono and that might be a reason to test them for it in that scenario. Say, oh let me maybe I was wrong. Let me do a mono spot kind of test quick. But yeah, that's a good good exam question. >> All right. Well, I guess I want to know I I want to know how do you treat this? Do you do anything with mono? >> Not really. There's no specific antivirals. There's no really there's nothing. The only two things that you could do is because mono really attacks the lymph nodes, those lymph nodes really like technically some of your tonsils are like they're lymphatic tissue. And so you can get like those tonsils can get so enlarged that it can obstruct the airway. I'd say it's pretty rare, but in those scenarios where a patient has mono has really large tonsils to the point where they're so swollen and they're developing symptoms where it's maybe a little bit harder to breathe or things like that, you may give them a steroid. But that's really and that's pretty rare. I think the only other thing is like, you know, since you got this big old melon of a spleen now, don't go out there and, you know, go five rounds or, you know, 12 rounds with with Mike Tyson. I think that would be the thing's going to explode. So that's I think the biggest thing is just to avoid aggressive contact sports. Anything where there's a risk of if you hit that thing it could rupture. So that's I think just a safety precaution. >> Yeah. I I had mono when I was in high school and they told me, "Hey, you just make sure cuz I I played football and they said, "Oh, you you you can't play football. You you definitely can't." I said, "No, no, it's all good. I I ride the [laughter] I ride the bench." >> I knew it was going there. >> Yeah. I'm a bench warmer, so it's all good. I'm the water boy. >> Until Tommy ruptures an Achilles and they're like, "Rob, you're up." You're like, "I can't. My spleen's big." >> Yeah. [laughter] I would say, "I'm in. I got this. My time to shine." No. No. I said, "I'm good. I don't I don't I [laughter] don't play football. They put me on the bench." >> Yeah. I think that's the biggest thing. Other than that, though, no. Mono's I think it's pretty much just like we said. And you had it too. They probably just told you like rest. Yeah. >> Lots of rest. Avoid contact sports. Nothing really particularly. >> Yeah. Yeah. Because you were just you were just wiped out. You were just completely exhausted. >> Yeah. And then and then generally you're treating it the same way as you would like a viral tonsil fngitis which is again it's just supportive care. It's just with the precaution of the the contact sports. And then again steroids maybe if the tonsils are super super swollen and you're worried about it kind of impeding the airway. That's that's pretty much it. >> All right. Case four. We now escalate a little bit more. We have a 30-year-old man presents with worsening sore throat, muffled voice, drooling tismas, and uvular deviation away from the affected side. We got some red flags here. >> Yeah. Yeah. So, that's a throat pain with a lot of red flag signs that screams a deep neck infection. And that deep neck infection seems characteristic for like a peronular abscess. >> All right. So, tell me a little bit more about peronsular abscess. The biggest thing that I really think that you guys should think about with this one is whenever you hear that term like the the the muffled hot potato voice, the drooling, that's really just because it's it's obstructing your ability to swallow properly. And it's also it's a it's a big kind of chunky mass that's affecting the way air is flowing out of your airway and through your mouth to for speech. Another thing is tismus is is the infection is kind of close to your terragoids and some of the masticator muscles. So if it irritates them, it can cause a lot of pain, particularly whenever you try to open up your your jaw and stuff like that. So whenever you're trying to open up your mouth, it can really hurt. For this one, the contrlateral uvular deviation with the pretty fluctuant swollen tonsil that's bulging is pretty much the diagnosis right there. You don't need to get any imaging. You don't need to do anything further. That's that's the characteristic way of diagnosing it. >> No throat swabs, nothing like that. >> No. The only time you'll do any kind of swab is when you when you puncture into it and you you drain it. Otherwise, you're going to give them some antibiotics. Generally, those are IV unless they do have the capability to swallow appropriately, but IV is probably the preferred upfront go-to. And then from there, you need to kind of get that drained. And so, you can do it right there. Like sometimes in the ED, they'll drain these if they feel like comfortable. And you can do that just transorally where you go in and you needle aspirate it or you literally, I'm not kidding, you cut it open. You take a scalp and cut it. So, that that'd be the ways of just draining it because it's it's going to get better. But the problem is that if it you don't get that proper source control, it's easy for it to spread right through the superior fingial constrictor muscle and get right into the paraphernial space and so that can just make things worse. So it's better to just drain it for source control. >> And we'll be having an entire episode on deep neck infections very soon. So go ahead and stay tuned for that one. But let's go ahead and move into the next case. >> Okay, final case. We have a recent immigrant with incomplete vaccination presents with sore throat, fever, and a thick gray pseudo membrane on the on the tonsils that bleeds when it's scraped. >> This does not sound good. This sounds like an emergency. >> Yeah, I I think with this one, when you have a sore throat, again, you ask for those red flag signs, right? And you're going through a lot of these. And the biggest thing here with a when you have a patient who comes in with like this I think one of the problems with having this condition which I I I I think I know what it is the swelling of factor and then the pseudommembrane factor obstructs the airway. So they are high risk for like respiratory distress. >> And what are we thinking here? >> I'm thinking it's probably deferia and especially with the unvaccinated you know immigrant history. This is just a a classic case of a person who maybe was not vaccinated, went and traveled somewhere, they're an immigrant from somewhere. That's a classic scenario for you to have high risk of the corny bacterium dtheri bacteria. And the classic scenario for this one is that it will produce a it causes it releases a toxin. It's a really really nasty exotoxin and it causes necrosis of the fingial tissue and that then leads to a lot of fibbrin and a lot of other kind of deposition there that causes this thick thick membrane across the fernx and across the tonsils. Also the there's just pure destruction of the fangial tissue causes a lot of swelling especially just where the ferinx is which is where part of your throat and so they're going to get their neck gets really really swollen and we call it like a bowl neck and so imagine having significant swelling of the fairings the pseudo membrane all of those things are narrowing air flow through the ferinx and getting into the larynx that's going to increase the risk of respiratory distress for this patient. So they'll probably present with some form of like airway obstructive signs. Maybe it's strider, maybe there is some type of like work of breathing factor, whatever it is. But when you have that sign of a really bad neck swelling, that's the key thing. Significant neck swelling, it's no longer a classic case of like tonsilloitis. This is then, okay, something else is going on. And when you look in the mouth and you see, oh my gosh, there's this really weird gray pseudo membrane or some nasty thing that's hanging over the ferinx and the tonsils and I'm gonna go ahead and pick at it. And then you pick at it and it starts bleeding heavily, it's because it's super like adherent to the membrane and it's going to cause a lot of bleeding, heavy bleeding. That's really a way to think about dtheria. So once you have that, you should there's a special you you have to get a special throat culture. I don't remember the medium cuz it's it's just it's probably very rare and usually with these you got to report these to like the >> probably the CDC, right? >> Yeah, this would be a reportable pathogen. So for this one, I don't I don't remember what the it's a special media and whenever you order this throat culture, it has to be for dtheria because there's a specific culture and medium that it grows in. And so you'd have to do that and it would basically tell you all the culture tells you is if there's dtheria or not, but that's not all you need. So then once you do that, you have to do PCR off of that. And the PCR tells you if they have a gene capable of producing the exotoxin. If the culture comes up with dtheria, then the PCR tells you that they have a gene capable of producing the toxin. You then order a toxin test. And so this toxin test, it's like an electto toxin test. It literally looks to see, so they do it with like this weird like they do it's like a paper test. And all they do is they look to see like like this reaction, this kind of crystallization reaction. Essentially, all you're doing with this toxin testing is seeing if they produce an exotoxin capable of causing all of this issue, the fingial like necrosis. And so when you do this and you think dtheria, you do the throw culture in the particular medium with a PCR. If that comes back positive, it means you have the bacteria, you have the tox gene. From there, you need to do a toxin testing to see if you have that toxygenic strain. And that's what you usually report to the to the CDC. And from here, you've diagnosed ethetheria. If you had a negative throat culture or a PCR, you wouldn't go through the links of getting that toxin testing. And so, that's that's really important. And so, from there, that's what you really want to consider is if it comes up positive, I have dtheria, then what do I do? And this is again reporting it. And you got to get you have to quickly institute treatment on these patients right away. >> And what kind of antibiotics are we using here? >> All right. So antibiotics are definitely important because it's going to erad eradicate the bacteria. The problem is is that the bacteria's already produced a lot of toxins. And so an antitoxin has to be administered like as soon as you diagnose this like right away. pro even actually I wouldn't even say before if you have any suspicion you see the pseudo membrane you see the bull neck they have the vaccination history all that the unvaccinated history you start it then you get the throat culture >> you have to do it as soon as you can because the cultures take time PCR testing takes time toxin testing takes time you let this go guess what they could develop some pretty severe complications like they could have airway compromise they can get myocarditis they can get like they can get polaropathy which is reversible but at least the myocarditis that's a That's a scary one. So, this toxin can become systemic and so you want to get that antitoxin in them right away and then also add on the antibiotic to get rid of the bacteria because the toxins out there neutralize that and then eradicate the bacteria from continuing to produce that toxin. And that's usually penicellin or ariththramy, but I think people are reaching for more. I think ariththramyin is more preferred now. So, one of those two is usually going to be the go-to, plus an antitoxin. And do that before you send off the cultures if you have a high suspicion of it. >> Okay, that is all the cases I had today. >> All right, >> for this lovely podcast episode. Final mental framework here, if you will, or recap. >> I'm just kidding. Yeah. So, big thing for here is when you got a patient who comes in with a sore throat, just ask, is there any red flag signs? Do they have significant neck swelling, drooling, tismas, muffled voice, difficulty or pain with swallowing that's significantly severe? And again, I think that's really really important to couple also. Do they have things like strider? Do they have any signs of respiratory distress? If they do, that's a concerning one that you need to kind of say, could this be a deep neck infection? Could this be something else like epiglotitis? Could this be things like dtheria? And that's going to involve more of a workup. If they don't have that, you then need to start asking yourself the question, does it look like tons of feringitis? Do they have a swollen swollen kind of fairings and and is it really red? Is there exidate on the tonsils that are present? If if there's is there fever, is there lympadenopathy? If that is the case, it could be a tonsil feritis. But then you ask about viral features. Is there viral features present or not? There are. Okay. Could be viral. Only time you got to go ahead do the next steps to test for things that are specific viruses. If they have concerns for specific viruses like COVID, like influenza, things like that. The next thing is that if they don't have any viral features, then you want to ask yourself the question, could it be group A strep or could it be things like mono? From there, suspicion of mono should push you further into that grouping rather than just looking at a negative or, you know, results of an MSN towards criteria. If they got suspicion, oh my gosh, this guy's over here smiling like the joker. If if there [laughter] if you get a chance, put that in there so they can see what I'm talking about. He was smiling. I'm not getting >> No, no, no. I'm doing my thumbnail picture. >> Oh, really? Okay. All right. Good to know. >> I'll take that for later. >> Yeah. [laughter] >> Look at the suspicion. If your suspicion is high based upon what we talked about, monospot. Monospot's positive. You got mono. Monospot's negative. Ask yourself the question, do the symptoms come within like, you know, less than a week? Are they less than five? If they are, go ahead and get the EBV corology. EBV corology will definitively diagnose. It just takes time. That's going to confirm the mono. From there, you also want to say, does the Mentor score come up pretty high, two plus? If it is, test them. Do the rapid antigen detection test for the group A strep. If it comes up positive, you diagnosed it. If it comes up negative, only in the PES do you do the throat culture, not for the adults. The throat culture will then confirm if you have that. Usually after you, you know, get the throat culture, then you can, you know, continue antibiotics. And if it comes back negative, you can tell them, hey, stop the antibiotics, right? For these patients who come up with like a true negative culture, they come up with a negative rapid antigen detection test and they have that STI history, any features that suggest that they have an STI, you're going to want to do a nucleic acid amplification test. We didn't talk about that, but it looks for like gonoccal infections. So, it looks for, you know, particularly gorrhea, maybe even chlamyia, and that'll guide your decision of what you want to do for those, which is usually like a one-time dose of sept trioxone, especially for gorrhea. And then if you do have those red flag signs, it's really important to kind of further evaluate that. So I got a patient who has drooling. I have a patient who has difficulty with swallowing and tismas and muffled out potato voice and things of that nature. Take a look in there. Is do they have a per tonsil or abscess that's screaming at you. Do they have a pseudo membrane that's present? If they have one of those things, we're going to go down a different path. Deep neck infections we'll talk about in the other lecture as we've discussed. But if they have that pseudo membrane, they have that like improper or no vaccination history that's presented and they got that pseudo membrane, you definitely want to think about diff dther area, right? And so what you're going to do is get the throc with a specific medium, get the PCR and a reflex toxin testing. If those come back positive, you got diffia. And for that, that is how we kind of get to that kind of progression of what the disease is and we treat accordingly based upon that. But yeah, that's throat infections in a nutshell. Throat infections done. All right. Well, hey, I I really really hope that you guys like this. I I hope that you guys aren't bored with it. I hope you have fun at least. And and as we go through these, I know that sometimes it can seem overwhelming, but again, we remember we're we're learners forever. In medicine, that's one of the key things is that you won't know everything. It's constantly medicine's changing all the time. And it's important for us to always like think about that, not be so hard on yourself whenever you feel like you don't remember something or you're tested on something or you're asked something and you just don't remember. That's okay. It'll come with time. It'll come with repetition. It'll come with practice. It'll come with failure. So, just stick strong to doing the best that you can. And Ninja Nerds, I just thank you so much for being so awesome, sticking with us along the way for these however long we've been doing this, eight years or so. And just we appreciate you guys. I mean that. And I love you guys. I thank you guys. And as always, until next time.