 and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, and morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, morphine, website. If you guys are interested in some of those things, things like notes, illustrations, quiz questions, all really high yield geared for you to succeed at the best possible rate for your exams, go check it out. We'll have a link down our website. Go check that out. I think you guys will enjoy that. All right, without further ado, let's really dig into the pathophysiology. When we're talking about urinary tract malignancies, oftentimes the most common clinical presentation for these patients is hematuria. And we could think about that pretty simply that if there's a tumor, there's a little bit more vascular supply to that tumor. Maybe these tumors are a little bit friable, meaning it's easy for them to bleed. They bleed into the mucosa of that organ, and that's going to potentially lead to bleeding in the urine. And that's why we would oftentimes see that as the most common presentation. But in order to understand that, let's kind of just take a quick step back, talk about the patho and how these things actually develop. What are the risk factors that really put patients at a high risk of having these urinary tract malignancies? Because not every patient who comes to the office that has hematuria means that they have bladder cancer or renal cell carcinoma. So this is where digging in a little bit into the patho, talking about the risk factors, helps you to risk stratify, talk about, I think that they could potentially have a malignancy, but their symptoms and their history and physical exam suggests other things. So let's dig into that. So when we talk about renal cell carcinoma, this is going to be the more common of the two of the malignancies. Now, when it occurs, usually it's going to occur. So when you think about the kidney, we have the cortex, this outer portion here, and that's where a lot of like the portions of the nephron, like the glomerulus and the proximal tubule and the distal tubules live. Then there's the inner portions, which is like the inner medulla. That's where a lot of your loop of Henle and a lot of the medullary interstitium lives. Oftentimes when these tumors form, they usually form in the cortex. So they're usually going to be more cortical, but they can extend down into the medullary region. But oftentimes we're going to see these as a cortical mass. That's going to be the more common types of presentation. Now the size of them differs, obviously, and that's what determines the prognostic indications of what we're going to do. Are we going to remove the whole kidney? Are we only going to remove a piece of that kidney? And that depends upon the size of the mass. Usually we measure that in centimeters, but that's the first thing is that usually they're more commonly going to be cortical. Now, if you think about that, and you actually dissect into the cortex, what did I tell you was the primary component of the cortex? Well, it was the glomerulus, which is going to be containing a lot of the vasculature, these capillaries. And then you're also going to have the Bowman's capsule. And then what's this portion? The proximal tubular cells. So the proximal combolid tubular cells are oftentimes the most common location. So these are the cells that are usually going to transform. So let's say that here they're green, which is this is normal. They're going to become malignant. And so we'll represent that by kind of giving them an abnormal kind of shape, if you will, and a different color. So this is going to be the most common location. It's usually cortical. And the cells that are affected is you're going to have your proximal tubular cells. These are going to be the most commonly affected. So when I talk about location of where it's going to occur, this is going to be the first thing. Location is going to be cortical. Second is when we dive in a little bit deeper into the actual histology. And I say what type of cells in that cortex is most involved. So most affected cells, you're going to tell me that's the proximal tubular cells. These are the ones that malignally transform from this to this. Now then the question is, is what in the heck actually happens? That's really the mechanism. How do they go from this to this? So there is a gene that's interesting, and it's inside here in the nucleus obviously, that's why we have these here. So you're going to have this one gene. Let's say that this is called the von Hippel Lindau gene. So this is called the von Hippel Lindau gene. And it's located on chromosome number three. So we're going to actually, let's represent this with maybe, let's do like a little bit of a red kind of portion of the DNA. And this is just indicating that is the gene. So this gene is really cool because it's supposed to help to regulate blood flow, right? Whenever patients have a mutation in this gene. So let's say that they develop a mutation. So in other words, this gene we're going to, unfortunately, we're going to have this thing get knocked out. What it normally does before I show this process, what it normally does is, is it helps with the activity of another molecule called hypoxia inducible factor, which we're going to represent as HIF, right? Hypoxia inducible factor. So it helps to control that level of hypoxia inducible factor. Hypoxia inducible factor then helps with the production and the release of a growth factor called VEGF, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor. So von Heppel-Lindau gene controls HIF, HIF controls VEGF and VEGF controls what? The blood flow to the surrounding cells. So not only can this gene increase the risk of us causing proliferation and mutation, but also it changes the blood flow. And so what VEGF does is it actually gets over here and hits onto some receptors. We'll represent these as like these blue color here. And so what VEGF is going to do is VEGF is going to bind onto these receptors. And what it's going to do is after it binds onto these receptors here, it's actually represented like this, it is going to increase angiogenesis. What the heck does that mean? All that means is that these endothelial cells are going to grow off like little stalks. They're going to grow off like little branches where blood vessels start to form around that area. And this is called angiogenesis. This is called angiogenesis. This is one big problem because if we start having all these branches that form, you increase blood flow to these cells. The other thing that happens is when you cause this von Heppel-Lindau gene to just go wonky, it also affects hypoxia-inducible factor, which also controls cell proliferation. There's other pathways that it leads to. And so this also can affect your cell proliferation. Alright, we'll say cell growth. Now here's the problem. This is supposed to regulate this. Keep it under control. But if, let's say, you develop a loss of the von Heppel-Lindau gene, it no longer regulates hypoxia-inducible factor. What happens to hypoxia-inducible factor? It goes up. What happens to the cell growth? It goes up. What happens to the VEGF? It goes up. What happens to the angiogenesis? We already wrote that. That goes up. The problem here is that if you increase cell growth, this is what's going to lead to your mass, your renal mass. And this is what it's going to lead to, increased blood supply to that mass. So right here, this is going to lead to a renal mass, an abnormal growth of tissue. And this is going to increase the blood supply to the mass. And this is going to allow for that to increase in its size and grow bigger and get more scary. So when we talk about renal cell carcinoma, usually what happens is it's more often a cortical mass. When you zoom in on the histology, it often involves proximal tubular cells. These proximal tubular cells become a renal mass and have increased blood supply by doing what? Losing control of the von Hippolindau gene. They lose the control of HIVF, which leads to upregulated VEGF release that increases blood supply. Also, you're going to see an increase in uptake and cell growth. Now, the HIVF may do this via other pathways. It's not just going to be the blood supply. And there's a lot of other things that happen, but basically this is the big thing I want you to take away. And the reason why is later I'll talk about drugs. We get into what's called metastatic renal cell carcinoma. And metastatic renal cell carcinoma, what we actually like to target is we can target these VEGF receptors. And we can target other pathways that alter hypoxia-inducible factor. And so that's why it's really important. So I just want you guys to know that this is kind of the basic mechanism here. Bladder cancer, on the other hand, is going to be a little bit different. And it's not as complex. There's not a lot of like this genetics aspects to it. When we talk about bladder cancer, it's a tumor that occurs in the bladder, right? Now, location-wise, I wouldn't say it's like super, super important, but I'd say that there's going to be two common locations. One is where you can have the posterior lateral portion. So over here is where I would say you're going to have potentially a tumor form. So here's going to be like in your posterior lateral walls. That's by far going to be a pretty common location. A second location is usually near the trigone. And that is another one that I would actually consider as being another possible location. So when we talk location-wise of tumors, let's say location, the most common is usually going to be in the lateral walls. So we'll put lateral walls and usually a little bit more posterior or the trigone. All right. And so that's something I definitely want you guys to consider as potential possibilities of tumor location. I'd say location isn't as key because either way, these can occur in other places that we don't actually expect. But what I do think is important is understanding what these tumor cells actually consist of because that's going to come into play for your exams is determining if it's a uroothelial or transitional cell carcinoma or a squamous cell carcinoma. Now, normally when we look at the epithelium, if we were to examine the bladder mucosa and look at the cells, it's usually transitional epithelial tissue. All right. It's transitional epithelium. Now, if for some reason you have insults, right? Just like when we talk about renal cell carcinoma, we got to get to the bottom of what causes this gene mutation. Same thing here. What causes the transitional epithelium for some reason to develop a mutation and to convert into these malignant types of cells? Well, one is it can malignally transform and stay the same type of tissue, but it's just going to be malignant now. So this is normal and we'll represent this one as being an abnormal. How can we do that? Let's just throw a little bit of black lines in here. This is just an abnormal transitional epithelial tissue. Now, this one, we would call this transitional cell carcinoma. Another term is called, and actually we should do this in red. This is called uroothelial. Uroothelial carcinoma. What that means is it retained the transitional epithelial tissue. It just became unfortunately malignant. This one, does it look the exact same? No. This one developed a little bit of a change in the tissue. And so this is it became squamous cell. And so you can see by the flat squished cells, this is called squamous cell. Squamous cell carcinoma. These are the two different types of bladder cancer. If I were to ask you which one is the most common, you would then say what? You would say it's going to be uroothelial carcinoma. So uroothelial carcinoma is by far going to be the more common one. So when we actually represent these are the two types, these are the two types, I want you to know that this is the more common one. So we can represent that. Maybe I'll kind of put here this is most common. So location, somewhat important that it can occur in the latter walls, the trigone, but more importantly is knowing what is the actual tissue makeup. And the reason why is there's different risk factors for those two things. Also, this is going to be the more common one that you'll see. You may see this in like sub-Saharan Africa, Egypt, Egypt areas. And the reason why is there are certain risk factors and we'll discuss that. What's really, really important because I think it also helps with understanding this disease is that whenever you have whether it's being transitional epithelium, staying transitional epithelium or transitional epithelium becoming squamous cell is how the tumor actually grows, the pattern of that tumor. So the reason I'm trying to tell you this is that we have different layers. So here in the oranges here mucosa, so we'll have the transitional epithelium, then in blue you have the lamina propria. Then after that you have the musculars propria, which we also call the detrusor muscle. And then in pink we have the adventitia or cirrhosa. These are the layers of the bladder If a tumor grows, let's say here's a tumor, it's a polypoid tumor and it's kind of budding off of the surface of the bladder, but it only goes through the mucosa and the lamina propria and does not invade the musculars propria. Again, let's actually write this one, this is called the muscularis propria. Another terminology for this is called the detrusor. So whenever this tumor grows, if it grows here and it doesn't invade into the muscularis propria or the detrusor muscle, this is given a specific type of name. This is called non-muscular invasive bladder cell carcinoma. It means that this tumor did not invade into the muscularis propria or the detrusor muscle. Now if I take this tumor, whether it's urethalia, whether it's squamous cell, and it's growing, it's a polypoid mass and it invades all the way down here now. And now this tumor is extended past the transitional epithelium, past the lamina propria and invaded into the muscularis propria, the detrusor muscle, what do we call that one? It's pretty straightforward. We call this the muscle invasive bladder cancer. The reason why I'm telling you this, and again how do we determine that? Well just look, what does it invade? What did it invade? It invaded the muscularis propria. So if you invade the muscularis propria and beyond, again another name for that is the detrusor, then again you've actually accomplished this goal of becoming an invasive bladder cell carcinoma. The reason why I tell you this is that when we think about patients who develop bladder cancer, we don't dig too much into the pathophysiology in the sense of how does this genetically occur. We dig into it more in the sense of okay location-wise, yeah we can find these, but if I were to biopsy that, so if I did a cystoscopy and I'm looking for it, where would I most commonly find it? You'll find in those locations. If I biopsy it, look at it under the microscope. What kind of cells would I find? Well you could see malignant transitional cells or you could see malignant squamous cells. We don't dig into the genetics and genes and anything that we talked about here, but once I take the biopsy and I get into a good deep biopsy, I want to know how far it invaded. The reason why is this determines everything and how we treat the patient. Very, very important. Just like in this scenario, I need to know if they have metastasis of their renal cell carcinoma, because if it does, it changes everything and how I treat them. All right, we got down here the two different types of big urinary tract malignancies. What we need to kind of dig into a little bit more is what's really leading to this von Hippolindau gene mutation. What's causing those transitional epithelial cells to become malignant? Well, perinosal carcinoma oftentimes more than not, it is sporadic. This is what you're going to see for most patients who are like 50 years of age or older. This is going to be more in your adults. You can have hereditary causes, except you're probably not going to see those too often. If you do, guess which population you're probably going to see that in. You're going to see these in younger patients. Sporadic, more likely to be an older patient and here more likely to be a younger patient. But now, without further ado, let's talk about what are those things that lead to the von Hippolindau gene problem. So, well, forgot my parentheses. This would be smoking is a really, really big risk factor for renal cell carcinoma. So, I really, really want you guys to know that. So, smoking is a really big one. Obesity, believe it or not, is another huge risk factor. And sometimes we can see chronic hypertension as this. Now, the concept here is that in some way, shape, or form, these are causing von Hippolindau gene mutations. That's leading to the uptick in hypoxia-inducible factor. That's leading to the uptick in this VEGF. There's also other pathways that are involved in cell growth, like the mTOR pathway. But there's a lot of these things that are leading to that problem. In hereditary cases, it has nothing to do with these. It's a gene that's then mutated. And guess what that is? We call this condition von Hippolindau disease. So, in the younger one, we call this von Hippolindau syndrome. Now, with von Hippolindau, or actually, we call this a disease, in true honesty, not a syndrome, we call it a von Hippolindau disease, you're going to see this as a gene loss. That gene is going to be turned off. And that's on chromosome number three. So, when that gene gets kind of turned off, that's when we see this potential problem. What would be something that would cue you off to think about that? Because if you looked in the history where you said a patient's coming in with hematuria and they are 50 years or greater and they're a heavy, heavy smoker overweight, that's probably going to lead to that one. If you have like an 18, 20-year-old kid who's coming in with hematuria and they have other symptoms that can make you think about von Hippolindau. So, these tumors, not only are these vascular tumors occur inside of the kidney, but they can occur in the cerebellum and they can also occur in the retina. And we call these hemangioblastomas. So, hemangioblastomas are these tumors, very, very highly vascular tumors that can occur in two locations. One is the retina. So, oftentimes, if a patient gets diagnosed with von Hippolindau disease, we have to be doing annual retinal kind of like fundoscopy to make sure that we're not missing any of these. And then sometimes we may even have to do brain immorized to make sure that we're not missing any hemangioblastomas in the cerebellum. So, somehow they mentioned this in the exam, very, very interesting and good to know. Another one is that they also happen to have tumors that occur in the adrenal medulla. What would that one be called? So, these are not vascular tumors. These are usually tumors that can occur in the adrenal medulla. And this is called a pheochromocytoma. So, a pheochromocytoma is a tumor that can occur inside of the adrenal medulla. So, a really, really important one to remember there. All right? So, pheochromocytomas could be incidental. Sometimes they can cause like periodic hypertension. They can cause palpitations. They can cause headaches. They can even cause hyperglycemia. So, it's really, really important if you see that in a young child who has like parapsysmal hypertension and they have diaphoresis and headaches and palpitations in combination with these things, you can definitely consider it. But the last one is the tumors here. They often have renal cell carcinomas, but it's not just one kidney. It's often both kidneys. So, having the presence of bilateral renal cell carcinoma also really helps to support von Hippolinda disease. So, if I see the presence of bilateral, we're going to abbreviate this, renal cell carcinoma. So, these are the things I really want you guys to think about when we talk about risk factors here. Oftentimes, more often, you're going to see the sporadic cases. But in the rare scenario of a younger individual with these types of presentations, you think about von Hippolinda disease. Now, bladder cancer is pretty straightforward and we again broke it down into uroothelial or squamous cell. This is helpful in determining how I am going to treat the patient. This is determining what is the more likely risk factor. Again, uroothelial is going to be much more common. And when we talk about uroothelial carcinoma, this is usually seen, I'd say more in the western countries. Obviously, the US is a big one. And this will be more associated with smoking. It's going to be the most common risk factor. So, that's why if a patient has a smoking history and hematuria, you definitely want to have a high degree of suspicion for urinary tract malignancy for both. Another one is carcinogens of sort. And they like to do this sometimes in the vignettes. Is there exposed to some type of environmental exposure or occupational exposure? Would even be a better way. So, aniline dies. And this is usually like in your rubber dies. Any kind of like factory die, we can see that as a potential carcinogen. And the last one is a drug that is often an immunosuppressant and can be utilized in a bunch of different diseases. But cyclophosphamide, you can use it in vasculitis. You can use it as an immunosuppressant for multiple different scenarios. So, cyclophosphamide is another one to definitely consider. All right. So, these right here will definitely lead to the transitional epidemial becoming mutated, transforming into this one or transforming into this one. That's where the issue usually exists. With squamous cell, on the other hand, this one's interesting. And again, it's not very common. But what we actually see with this one is it's more chronic irritation. So, what do I mean by that? So, there's two potential scenarios. With these, we want to think about chronic irritation. So, usually one of them is called schistosoma. So, schistosoma hematobium. Now, this one we see in Egypt. We see in sub-Saharan Africa. And it's basically a type of like worm. It's a parasitic worm. And what happens is it gets into the skin. So, usually it's going to be some type of exposure. And what happens is these, they're usually in like fresh water sources where they get exposed. And these get into the body. Once they penetrate through the skin, they get into the liver, they go to the lungs. And then eventually what they do is, is they migrate their way. So, after they've kind of gone, if I want to pick the particular organs in sequence, they usually will break through the skin, kind of make its way to the liver, make its way to the lungs. And then from here, it'll then go and bury itself into this nasty here. Look at this. It's going to bury itself into the walls of the bladder. And that chronic irritation is what brings about chronic inflammation. That chronic inflammation is going to lead to the increased risk of this turning into a squamous cell carcinoma. Alright? So, having that worm is definitely a possibility. The second one is going to be chronic catheterization. So, if a patient has a chronic catheter that is in place, that is another definite consideration that I would think about. So, if they have a catheter in place, they have a chronic like foley catheter that's up here, and it's constantly draining urine, that is something that it's constantly coming into contact with this area near the trigone. And this can cause chronic irritation as well. So, having a foley catheter, this can definitely lead to some chronic inflammation as well. And that brings about the opportunity for, you know, bringing out squamous cell carcinoma. So, this is the two things that I would want you guys to think about here. This one they like to present on the exam just because it's a ridiculous name and something that you're probably not going to see in often in life, but you'll see it on the exam. So, shishisoma definitely associated that with squamous cell, whereas smoking, dye exposure, uroothelial. All right. Usually this is chronic irritation, inflammation that's causing this. This is usually carcinogens of sort that are causing this. All right. That really, I think, gives us a good breakdown to start with on the pathophysiology. Now, what we got to do is we actually got to dig in and say, okay, patient who has hematuria, that's the classic presentation. How do I know that it's actually a malignancy off the get go? What are some things that make me think about it? And then after that, what are some potential complications that can be associated with these conditions? All right. So, the next thing I want to talk about is the presentation. Oftentimes, hematuria is going to be the most common presentation for these kinds of conditions. They may present with other associated symptoms. For example, when you think about hematuria, they both can present with gross or microscopic. I'd say, oftentimes, if we had to look at the presentation of these, this could be gross or microscopic. This is usually gross hematuria. So, there's one way that you can kind of compare and contrast here. So, if I were to compare and contrast for renal cell carcinoma, right, and I were to compare and contrast here for bladder cancer, the first thing I would say is that this could be gross or it could be microscopic, meaning you don't see it. All right. You don't see that they have that type of hematuria. It just comes up present on a urinalysis. This one is oftentimes more gross hematuria. And to go along with this, this usually has a little bit of clotted blood in it sometimes, too. So, think about that. If you ever see that presented in the exam, where there's even blood clots that you see in the actual collection, like the urinalysis sample, definitely should be thinking potentially bladder cancer. Another one that I would want you guys to think about is that this usually has associated symptoms. This one is usually just that primary presentation is gross hematuria. This could present with a triad. So, there's a triad presentation and I'd say and true clinical reality, probably like 10 to 15 percent of the time. But for your exam, definitely think about it. Where if you have a patient who presents with flank pain, a palpable mass, and hematuria, these three clinical pictures should make you consider the possibility of renal cell carcinoma, even though it's not super common. All right, definitely something to think about. And here, just to make sure that we can see this distinct separation here, again, flank pain, palpable mass, and hematuria. This one is there's usually no associated symptoms. So, there's usually no associated symptoms. Now, the next component here is that whenever we do a urinalysis, that can also be helpful within the kind of sussing out renal cell carcinoma from bladder cancer, for the most part. But you're going to notice that they have similar pictures here. So, for example, if I took the urinalysis of a renal cell carcinoma and I took the urinalysis of bladder cancer, it's going to have some similarities in it almost. So, for example, the urinalysis, that would potentially show that there's going to be no red blood cell cast and there's going to be no protein urea. Especially if I did microscopy, I could even say that there would be like not a lot of like cast as well. So, depending upon the extent of how I order the urinalysis, I would say no red blood cell cast, there'd be no protein urea, maybe no even like white blood cells. If I did the bladder cancer, it'd be the same kind of like picture here where they would have a urinalysis with microscopy, and I would say there's no red blood cell cast, there's no protein urea. And if I added on like let's say that I was looking for leukocyte esterase and looking for nitrites and things like that, I wouldn't even see those. And that's the whole point of this is a very specific reason. You're trying to rule out other types of pathologies. So, for example, if I had a patient who came and they had no red blood cell cast, no protein urea, what that does is it helps me to rule out a glomerular disease. If I added on there other factors too, so it's not just this, but I even said oh there's like there's no presence of things like leukocyte esterase, there's no nitrites. That would help me to rule out etiologies like a UTI. So, if I have no leukocyte esterase, we're going to abbreviate that LE and no nitrites or pyuria. That's another one, no white blood cells that are in the urine. So, leukocyte esterase, no nitrites. And I could even add in white blood cells. It's telling me that it's less likely a glomerular pathology. It's less likely a urinary tract infection of sorts. And it tells me that there's probably a renal or ureter or bladder source of this bleeding. And that's when I have to start kind of sourcing in the possibility of images. All right, so same thing here, no white blood cells is something I would also consider. All right, so if I added that into the case here, I could even say no pyuria. So, no pyuria. And again, no pyuria here. These are things that really helps me in thinking about the potential cause. So, if I have a  if you have a patient come with no glomerular, no urinary tract type of source, they have a flank pain, they have a papillomastohemiteria, it's microscopic or gross, I could definitely think about renal cell carcinoma. And I'm going to probably just go to get an abdominal CT scan of the abdomen pelvis with IV contrast. Whereas if I have a patient with gross hematuria with some blood clots in it, they have no other associated symptoms, it rules out glomerular, it rules out any kind of UTI, then I may have to do a CT urogram with a cystoscopy to see, hey, is there potentially a renal source, a ureter or a bladder source. And so again, that would make me think about bladder cancer. All right, so at this point we've now talked about the most common clinical presentation. Before we move into talking about the diagnostics, we need to talk about the worst case scenario. What are some other potential complications that we can see in things like renal cell carcinoma or bladder cancer? All right, so you've got a goober in your kidney, right? You've got a big old tumor. What are the potential complications besides peeing blood? I mean, there's a lot of different things that can go wrong with this one. For the exam, they love to test the perineoplastic syndrome. So imagine you've got a patient who's peeing blood, they've got phylloic pain, they've got a palpable mass, and they start presenting with some other wonky things that just kind of seem like out of place. For example, when you've got a renal cell carcinoma, this thing can pump out a hormone called erythropoietin. So erythropoietin is a hormone made by the kidney, usually in low available oxygen states or in tumor states. And what happens is that goes to the red bone marrow. Here in the red bone marrow, we're supposed to make blood cells. Epo is erythropoietin, so it's important for making erythrocytes, red blood cells. Guess what you're going to get? You're going to get an increase in the red cells. So if you get an increase in your red blood cells, what does that call? That's called polycytemia. And so that's what we can start seeing is we can start seeing an increase in the red blood cells. Red blood cells carry hemoglobin, and so what we'll see is we'll see a bump in the patient's hemoglobin and hematocrit. It'll be pretty elevated. And that brings about the concern for a condition called polycytemia. So there's one, and this is usually a secondary polycytemia. So it's not polycytemia there. Another hormone that's actually made, and it's actually kind of an enzyme, is called renin. So renin is an enzyme made by the kidney, and what it does is it helps to convert an inactive molecule called angiotensinogen. And so angiotensinogen is made by the liver. So it's made by the liver here. So if we wanted to, we could actually represent that the liver is going to make this molecule called angiotensinogen. And angiotensinogen, when coming into contact with renin, it will convert angiotensinogen into angiotensin one. And then angiotensin one will go to the lungs, and in the lungs there's an enzyme called ACE. And ACE will help to convert angiotensin one into angiotensin two. And angiotensin two works on your blood vessels to constrict them, increases aldosterone production, which helps to hold onto sodium and water, and so you hold more blood volume, higher blood pressure, and activates ADH to help to increase watery absorption, more blood volume, more blood pressure. So what happens to the BP? The BP starts to go up. And so what we see is, we see this pathway of increased angiotensin one, and this is going to be driven into angiotensin two by an enzyme called ACE, and then increased angiotensin two and increased blood pressure. So what you'll see is you'll see a patient with refractory hypertension, right? So that's something that we get kind of a little bit concerned about is something called refractory. Refractory hypertension. So a little bit of a higher blood pressure that maybe requires multiple medications, maybe three or more, or a high blood pressure in a younger individual that's come about all of a sudden. These are things to think about. The other one is that this tumor also gains the capacity to produce another hormone, and this hormone is called PTHRP. So this is, so far we're talking about perineoplastic syndrome, so it's a tumor that gains the capacity to produce hormones or enzymes. And so another one is called PTHRP, parathyroid hormone-related peptide. What this one does is, is it actually goes to the osteoclasts in the bone, and it goes to the distal tubules in the kidneys. It helps to do what thing? One is it helps to cause bone resorption. And bone resorption helps to liberate calcium from the bone, and so calcium will go up in the bloodstream. And so you end up with an increase in the calcium because you're liberating it from the bone via osteolysis, or bone resorption in this case. So that's one way, is we're going to stimulate the bone resorption. The other way is we're going to reabsorb the calcium across the distal tubules by increasing calcium absorption channels, and by helping to move the calcium into the bloodstream. So what that leads to is, is it leads to hypercalcemia. And so hypercalcemia obviously can present in a variable amount of ways. It can present with, what's that classic way that we try to remember? Stones, bones, groans, thorns, psychiatric overtones, right? So with stones, it can present with kidney stones, calcium oxalate, calcium phosphate stones. Bones is it can present with bone pain because you're resorbing bone, you're trying to help to break down the bones so that can increase the risk of fractures and osteoporosis. Growns is it can cause abdominal pain. And thorns is polyurea, it can actually block ADH at the collecting duct, and so you don't reabsorb water and you lose a lot of water into the urine. So you're peeing a ton. So polyurea, you'll be a nevergene di. And then psychiatric overtones, it can cause things like psychosis and irritability. So that's another thing that we worry about. The last perineoplastic syndrome that I want to talk about is that if this tumor gains the capacity to release something called ACTH. So increasing amounts of adrenal corticotropacormon or ACTH acts on the adrenal gland, especially the adrenal cortex. And when you act in the adrenal cortex, this helps, especially the zona fasciculata, it increases the production of cortisol. And cortisol can do a ton of different things. It can increase your blood sugar. It can increase your blood pressure. It can cause lipolysis and fat distribution. It can affect your immune system by kind of suppressing it a little bit and affecting wound healing. It can do a lot of different things. So what we can start to see with these patients is that they may have kind of a cushion-gloid appearance. And that's literally what we call it, is they say they can have a cushion-gloid appearance. So they can have the, due to the fat breakdown and redistribution aspect, they can present with the moon face, they can present with the buffalo hump, they can present with abdominal obesity and striae. They can present with thin or atrophied arms, hyperglycemia, hypertension, immunosuppression. There's a lot of different things that we worry about in that type of clinical picture. So these are the things that I want you guys to remember for the perineoplastic syndrome here, is that they can present with polycythemia, revactory hypertension, hypercalcemia and a cushion-gloid appearance. Now if the tumor spreads a little bit, it doesn't actually kind of like go to another organ, it gets into the vascular system or it leads to thrombosis in the vascular system, we can see a couple different complications. So let's say here we have a renal cell carcinoma and the tumor itself starts to invade. So it starts to invade into the renal vein. Well when it gets into the renal vein, sometimes what can happen is it can actually take any other, it can increase the risk of tumors seeding, but it also can increase the risk of thrombosis. So sometimes you can get a thrombus or you can get this tumor that will seed a little kind of like tumors out into the inferior vena cava. So here's the renal vein, here is the inferior vena cava. What's the problem with this? Let's imagine that this tumor or thrombus propagates into the inferior vena cava. So it started off here, here's your tumor, got into the renal vein and then it started to propagate and go up through the inferior vena cava and then some of it started to block off here at the hepatic veins. So we blocked off the inferior vena cava and then we started to block off the hepatic veins. Well when you cause obstruction of the hepatic veins, you can't drain blood. So blood trying to get out of the liver becomes inhibited. And so what happens to the liver? If you can't drain your hepatic portal system and get it into the hepatic vein and get it into the inferior vena cava because you're hitting this wall of tumor or thrombus, it's going to cause the liver to get larger. And when that happens, when the liver gets larger and it starts to become a little bit bigger, it can cause apatomegaly. It can also cause injury to the liver itself which can cause a presentation of increased LFTs if you get those. And on top of that it can cause back up into the hepatic portal system and start causing fluid to leak into the peridium causing ascites. This presentation that we get worried about is if it starts to propagate into the hepatic veins is this can lead to a condition called a bud kiari syndrome. So bud kiari syndrome. This is essentially when there is an obstruction of the hepatic veins that causes apatomegaly, a bump in the LFTs and ascites. So that's something I would watch out with if we get a thrombus or a tumor from that renal cell that invades into the renal vein and gets into the inferior vena cava. So here we have this tumor that's propagating in here and that's eventually obstructing the hepatic veins. Now another presentation is let's say that you have a renal cell carcinoma. Here's a tumor and it starts to spread into the renal vein. Well there's another potential problem here. Now this is going to be a little bit more within the left sided because with the right sided this empties into the inferior vena cava and then there's another structure here called the gonadal vein which empties into the inferior vena cava. With left sided renal cell carcinomas if these tumors start to propagate into the renal vein there's another structure that empties into them. What's this structure here? This is called the gonadal vein. So this is called the gonadal vein. And the gonadal vein especially in this case the left one this empties, this here empties into the renal vein, the left renal vein and then empties into the inferior vena cava. So this is again, this is going to be your left renal vein right here. So the left renal vein is going to be this one right here. If the tumor propagates into this it obstructs the drainage from that left gonadal vein. So blood is supposed to drain the testicles and bring this up here where it can empty into the renal vein and then into the inferior vena cava. But what's obstructing that path now? This tumor or thrombus. So now this can't move this way it starts to back flow. And then what happens is all the veins in the panpina form plexus of the testicle starts getting dilated. And so now this starts getting these to become enlarged and gorged and torturous and then eventually it causes swelling of the testicle. And whenever you try to palpate and feel around there you'll feel this corded kind of like enlarged gourd and dilated vessels there. This is called a varicoseal. So this is what we would potentially see as a varicoseal. Now again varicoseals are more common to be left sided just because of the natural concept that I just told you that they have to empty at a 90 degree angle into the renal vein. But again you can see it in right sided just less common but it is a possibility and that's another thing to think about. With left sided varicoseals they could be benign they could be malignant. It's just more common for left sided varicoseals to occur just because of the natural angle. If you get a right sided varicoseal you really have to have a high degree of suspicion from a lignancy. And the reason why is that means that this tumor invaded into the inferior vena cava and what comes up and eventually dumps into the inferior vena cava the right gonadal vein. So if I had a problem here where this tumor did actually completely occlude the inferior vena cava then it could block up which vein if I did have this issue the right gonadal vein. I'm going to put just V there. If there was an obstruction of the inferior vena cava from a renal cell carcinoma then you could definitely get a right sided varicoseal. Highly highly suspicious of a malignancy in the abdomen or pelvis if you had a right sided varicoseal. And the patient knows a renal cell carcinoma that that tumor does invade into the renal vein and obstructs that left gonadal vein that could also be a possibility. So it could be something that's normal could be something that actually indicates an ominous thing. Right sided almost always indicates an ominous kind of finding such as a renal cell carcinoma retroperitoneal tumor something like that something that's really obstructing the inferior vena cava because the right gonadal vein dumps right into that. So now let's focus on if the renal cell carcinoma does actually start to distantly spread in other words it's not local it's getting a little bit farther it's getting to other organs that's what we got to be wary of and it can cause a lot of scary complications. Let's say here we have a renal cell carcinoma gets into the vascular system and now these tumor cells are starting to see they're starting to get all over the place. Where can these start to spread? The most common locations are as going to be here you're going to have them spreading potentially to the brain right they can spread to the lungs they can spread to the bones and they can spread to the liver. Now whenever these happen what I actually have seen here is with renal cell carcinoma when you get a tumor into the brain these ones actually have a high risk of bleeding and so we can see brain mats here being pretty scary. So brain metastasis I would say you'd have to think about this one if a patient comes in with a very nasty headache, seizures, focal neural deficit that's something I would think about if they have an underlying history of renal cell carcinoma. So renal cell carcinoma can spread to the brain watch out for headaches, seizures and focal neural deficits. If it's spread to the lungs you can get metastases all over the lungs. This can lead to definitely things like dyspnea it can lead to cough it can even lead to haemoptysis. So definitely something to consider here as well. If it gets into the bones it can cause some nasty lesions here and often times when we see this when we think about things like bone pain. So bone mats is something to definitely, definitely consider in situations of two scenarios and I actually do want to write these out here and the reason why is yes it can cause things like bone pain but also not only can it cause bone pain but there is a big rapid turnover of bone and so whenever that happens there is something released from this area of mats and that is called alkaline phosphatase and so whenever alkaline phosphatase levels are high and a patient who has an underlying primary tumor like renal cell carcinoma that brings about a concern is there a possibility of bone mats. So the patient symptomatically presents with dyspnea, haemoptysis, cough, cool. Think about getting a CT chest. If they present with a headache, they present with focal neural deficits or seizures think about getting a brain MRI. If they come in with bone pain get a bone scan. If they come in with an increased alkyphos get a bone scan. And lastly it can actually also go to the liver and if it causes these hepatic mats usually this can be asymptomatic but with the paddock mats I would always consider things like LFTs. So this can potentially cause a slow and chattering rise of your LFTs. So I would watch out for that as a potential finding here. So these are all things that if it does hematogenously spread it could go to these locations. Other locations is this tumor can also not only hematogenously spread but it can spread to the nearby lymphatic. So there is lymphatic vessels that are nearby and a bunch of different nodes that are nearby. And so these can potentially spread to nearby nodes like retroperitoneal nodes, periorotic nodes. And so I would watch out for that especially when you're doing CT scans to look and see did this tumor actually spread to nearby nodes. So we think about metastasis as we're talking about nodes. We're talking about other particular types of organs. Now that we've covered this let's move into the last type of complication for your intertractable illnesses and that's bladder cancer. With the last one here being bladder cancer complications of this is relatively rare. It's usually going to be hematuria that's the most common presentation. And you definitely got to worry about just a muscle invasion or not. If it does actually lead to complications in the rarest scenarios if it's a large enough tumor that's near the trigo and it can obstruct the bladder outlet. So if I have a tumor here that's near the bladder outlet, let's say here's a bladder outlet tumor, that's going to lead to an obstruction, right? Like that's no bueno man because now urine is supposed to go this way and then go in that way now. And so what happens is it hits this wall and this leads to urine backing up via the uritors all the way into the kidneys. And so now you get back flow into the kidneys here and this can be bilateral. That's what kind of makes us a little bit more risky. And so if this happens now the kidney is going to start kind of blooming up. And what could that look like? Well, now the kidney was this size, guess what's going to happen? It's going to get a little bit bigger. And what's that terminology called whenever the kidney is bigger? It's called hydronephrosis. And so that's a potential complication that we worry about is the presentation of hydronephrosis. And that's just kind of like a water bogged or fluid filled kidney because at this point the kidney is so built up with fluid because of an obstruction here at the bladder outlet. That's one potential thing. You can see this on ultrasound. You can see this on CT scans. It's very, very evident. The problem with this is that if the pressure builds up in the kidney enough, think about it. You can't have things filter out of the glomerulus into the Bowman's capsule. But if the pressure is too high in the Bowman's capsule, you can't filter things across. And so these patients run the risk of developing an AKI. So if this backs up enough where you end up with a lower or a rapidly kind of dropping GFR, what's the ultimate result that can happen here? You can end up with a post-renal AKI. And so evidence of post-renal AKIs are usually a quick jump. We don't base it off of the GFR. We base it off the creatinine. And so they're going to have a very acute rise in the creatinine. And so that's one thing that we definitely want to be able to see. Another thing is that is any urine going to be getting out? If it is, it's very, very, very little. And so another thing that's also evidence here is very little urine. So we can say oliguria or anuria. So oliguria or anuria is a potential presentation depending upon the severity of that obstruction. So hydronephrosis is an imaging finding, but a laboratory finding of a post-renal AKI can occur in the scenario of a significant bladder outlet tumor. Now, the other thing is that if this tumor is obstructing it, not only can it back up this way, what can also happen to the bladder itself? Think about that. This bladder can start to get a little bit bigger. So you can have bladder distension. Bladder distension is another potential problem too because that can cause them to have a little bit more desire to want to go to the bathroom. They're going to have to feel the sense of urgency and kind of like frequency, but they're probably not going to be able to get things out. So they can have lower urinary tract symptoms that are present. But the other thing here is that if we do something where we try to test their ability to urinate and then see how much is left over. So we do something called a bladder scan. So we'll have them pee. Then we scan their bladder and we want to know how much is left over. If they have a lot left over, that's called a post-void residual that is going to be a lot left. So an increase in their post-void residual or their PVR is usually indicative of something that would be very, very concerning for a bladder outlet obstruction. Maybe a tumor, maybe BPH is another potential source, but it's something to definitely think about. So when a patient comes in with an acute rise in their creatinine, making very little urine, and then on top of that, maybe some urinary tract symptoms, you get a CT scan. An ultrasound shows a big old large kidney. They don't have a stone that's present. You do a post-void residual, which is you have them pee, then scan their bladder and they have a very large post-void residual greater than 200, 400 mLs. That should make you think about a bladder outlet obstruction and you need to start going down the route of thinking about what that could be. And oftentimes it could be a bladder outlet tumor or it could be BPH. All right, cool. That's something to think about, relatively rare, but something definitely to think about. Now the last one is can it metastasize? It can. It's definitely possible for this tumor to get into the vascular system and spread to different areas. If it does, it's going to be three typical locations. One is it can spread to the liver. All right, second, as you can see here, to the lungs and third is to the bones. And so again, it's kind of a similar thing like renal cell carcinoma. If they have apathic mets, what's one way apathic mets will present? Well, they could be asymptomatic, but another way is that they could have a little bit of a rise in their LFTs and maybe some epatomegaly if there's enough met that have extended there. Another one is it can spread to the lungs and so they can get some lung or pulmonary mets. And so lung mets is going to present potentially with symptomatology such as cough, dyspnea, haemoptysis. That's something else to consider. And lastly is going to be bone mets. And again, bone mets, this is obviously going to be a potential lesion that can occur in a bone due to osteolysis that can precipitate bone pain. But again, I don't want to discount the fact that sometimes bone pain isn't present. So another way that we look is if there's lots of rapid bone turnover, there's an enzyme released in rapid bone turnover and that is called alkaline phosphatase. And an increase in alkaline phosphatase in a patient with an underlying primary tumor, maybe bladder cancer, should pollute the thought of maybe having bone mets. Here bone scan, here CT chest, here a CT of the abdomen usually is going to be done to elucidate if they have any apathic mets. All right. All right. So my friends, that covers the complications of bladder cancer and then overall look at urinary tract malignancy. Now what I want to do is I want to take all of these pieces together and come up with a diagnostic approach. How do we really take a patient who comes in with hematuria, figure out the right test to order, how to interpret those tests. Once we get that, what do we do for the next one? How do we elucidate that, so on and so forth? And then how do we treat it? Let's dig into that now. All right, my friends, let's now talk about the diagnostic approach to urinary tract malignancy. So we talked a lot about renal cell carcinoma and really kind of digging into the path of physiology, the risk factors we talked about, how it really tends to involve like the proximal convoluted tubular cells really hits a lot of the cortical regions. And we can see this genetically with like von Hippel Lindau. We can see it obviously more often with sporadic risk factors, things like obesity, smoking, hypertension, and older individuals. So these are definitely things that we can associate with that. We talked about how the classic triad for your exam is that palpable flank mass, the hematuria, the associated flank pain. We talked about the perineoplastic syndrome is associated with it, like hypertension due to the high renin, hypercalcemia due to PTHRP. We talked about polycythemia secondary due to the elevated EPO. We talked about it can metastasize, can cause things like varicoseals, can metastasize into the inferior vena cava caused by the bud kiari syndrome, can get all over the place, and bones, and brain, and it's a NASA. We talked about how bladder cancer, it's primarily transitional cell type, right? And we talked about how we can see that heavily in patients who smoke. We see it in older individuals, if they have some kind of job where they work with weird rubber dyes or they have exposure to like cyclophosphamide and things like that. We talked about how when these form, they typically tend to cause painless gross hematuria. If it's a rare occasion where it's a large enough mass that blocks out that urinary outlet, the bladder outlet, it can cause urinary tract obstructions. But oftentimes the big thing is that painless gross hematuria and there's not much more beyond that. So what I want to talk about is taking these things into consideration. And out of these, the primary presentation of these is hematuria. It could be gross, it could be microscopic. If you happen to see this, this means it's gross, it's visible. It's visible to the naked eye that this patient has some pretty significant hematuria. It could look like Coca-Cola, it could look T-colored, but it's usually something that does not look like normal P. When I see this, I definitely would start off getting a urin microscopy. A urinalysis will give me a look at the red cells and tell me if there's any casc off microscopy. It'll tell me if I have any leukocyte esterase, some nitrite, some pyuria that would suggest a UTI. These are going to be kind of my first go-to based upon the results of the urinalysis. I probably get a urine culture, especially if the leukocasterase is high, the white blood cells are high, the nitrites are high, they have symptoms, I get a urine culture. I'd start off there. So if I see no red blood cell cast, no protein area, I for the most part rule out a glomerular disease, things like nephrodic nephritic syndrome. So that's a pretty important one. I'd say nephritic syndrome most often because that causes red cells and protein. The urine culture comes back negative. I'd say for the most part I can rule out, for at least the most part, things like pylonephritis or some type of really nasty infection of the urinary tract. So that would kind of get me started. From there, I'm then left with a lot of structural diseases, things like nephrolithiasis, so a stone somewhere in the renal pelvis and the ureter, something like that, right? Could be a tumor, could be malignancies, renal cell carcinoma, bladder cancer, could even be something structural like polycystic kidney disease, could be like renal papillary necrosis. There could be a lot of different reasons why this could be happening. Could be trauma. Sometimes a good punch to the kidney can do that because you're causing trauma. Foley catheters can cause bleeding from kind of like friction against the urethra. There's a lot of different things to think about with this type of presentation, especially gross hematuria, I'd be pretty concerned about something in the kidneys or in the bladder. So from there, what I would say is let's assess the patient and ask them if they have any symptoms that could suggest more of an upper urinary tract. If I ask them, do you have any flank pain? Do you have any palpable masses? If I look through the complications, like for example, do they have any things like polycythemia, hypertension, hypercalcemia, varicoseals, I would probably say, okay, if they do, let's get an image because that could potentially give me a little bit more of a narrow down look. It could also be a kidney stone. If they have flank pain and hypertension and they have some type of underlying history in the family of polycystic kidney disease, could be that. So I got to go down that rabbit hole a little bit. But the whole point of this is that if it seems like it's flank pain or a palpable mass in that vicinity, you should image that vicinity. So that's what I would do with CT abdomen pelvis with an IV contrast. It'll show the uncontrast, the non-contrast phase, and then it'll show it kind of flowing through the kidney in just the beginning parts of excretatory phase. So that's kind of what I would start with. If I do that and I see, oh my gosh, look at that. On that left lower pole of the kidney, you can kind of look at the asymmetry here. Look at that. That's a pretty significant heterogeneous mass. I can get you another one. Let's take another CT look here. You can see here's the left kidney. Boom! There's the right kidney, a big old mass. Their heterogeneous appearing in that right upper pole. So it's kind of just giving you an idea that you right away, you could identify this patient as a renal cell carcinoma. You could tell even for the most part, do they have hydranophrosis with a big old stone? Do they have polycystic kidney disease bilaterally? Do they have any kind of weird lesions that could suggest renal babillary necrosis? Things like that. So I think it's really important to start there and kind of get an idea. From this, I can kind of diagnose that the patient's got renal cell carcinoma, just off the renal mass. I put in here renal vein or IVC thrombosis because these tumors do like to spread. They kind of hit the renal vein first, that's where they can get the varicoseals if it blocks off the gonadal vein. But the IVC is the nasty one. If it gets there, it can really propagate all over the place to the lungs, to the brain. But on top of that, it can block off those hepatic veins. That's how you can get kind of like a Bud Kiari syndrome. Now you want to know if they have metastasized. So a lot of the times this is symptom driven metastatic imaging. So for example, if I said that a patient needs a CT chest, that's probably because they have something going on the lung. Do they have cough, dyspnea, haemoptysis, recurrent pleural effusions? Okay, get an image of the chest. Do they need a bone scan? Well, do they have bone pain? Do they have pathological fractures? Does their dexa scan suggest they got a really massively reduced bone mineral density? Do they have hypercalcemia, elevated alfalfa? Okay, get a bone scan. Let's see if it's spread. Did they present with neurological symptoms, focal neural deficits, terrible headache associated with nausea, vomiting, papillodema? They have a new onset, first time seizure. Get an image of the brain. All right. Especially if we know that they have a primary cancer like this and it can spread to these areas, that's when I would actually go to the decision of kind of getting those images. Now if we do that, we get these images and we say, oh, there it is. There's the lung mats. That's a pretty important one. These are going to love to hit those areas. They like to cause a lot of lesions in this area. Bones, you'll see this potentially in the vertebrae as well. Maybe even the pelvis. You can see some red lesions there. The brain mats are going to see lots of scattered ones. These also bleed a lot. They can definitely cause a lot of hemorrhagic kind of bleeding that we can see with these. That's kind of a nasty one. That would kind of give you an idea if you have metastatic renal cell carcinoma. The question is, what if they don't really have any symptoms that suggest kind of an upper urinary tract? Well, then it's probably best to say, I should probably image the upper and lower urinary tract. You could say, okay, the CT-adm pelvis with IB contrast does that. It does. But when you add on a CT urogram, what it does is it has a prolonged excretatory phase. You get a better look at the ureter. You get a better look at the bladder. Then I would also follow it up with visual imaging of the lower urinary tract, like a cystoscopy to really get a better look at the bladder cancer. You may miss more of a flat kind of like sessile mass that's adhered to the surface. If you have a tumor there in the bladder, it may miss that in the CT-U. That's what I would start off with first. You have to kind of assess the need to get this. You don't just get this on all patients. You do this more if they're a heavy smoker, they're older, and they have recurrent hematuria. Those are pretty big indications to say, hey, let's get a CT-U with a cystoscopy and then biopsy if needed. A CT-U is great because one of the first things it could show me is a renal mass, which I would have identified off of this if they had some symptoms that suggest it was there. But if they didn't and I got that CT-U, I could potentially find renal cell carcinoma. Again, it's just showing you that you're going to get that nephrogenic phase. What happens is you get the non-  contracphase, which is that kind of the blood is not in the kidney yet, then you get the nephrogenic phase where the contrast is running through the kidney, that will highlight any areas of the kidney. And then from there, you get the excretatory phase, which gives you more of that ureter and then the actual bladder, gives you a little bit more of a prolonged look there to see if you see any polypolypoid lesions there in the ureter and the bladder. So this right here would tell me if I had kind of a mass in the kidney. But here's another interesting thing is after I've done that, I would still go through the same steps, right? I'd still go through, do they have any need to get some metastatic imaging? Okay, let's get those based upon symptom-driven kind of explanations. But if I did a CTU and I say, oh wow, look, here's that excretatory phase. If I scan down, I see a polypoid mass there, present in the bladder, probably near the trigone. Oh dude, that could be bladder cancer. But sometimes you don't always pick these up. That's why you go to the next thing, which is getting a stysoscopy. It's a visualization with a camera. You run up through the urethra, up into the bladder. You can visibly see the lesion. And then from there, you could actually biopsy. You could remove a piece of that tissue, send it off to the pathologist, and confirm is this actually cancer. So that's the benefit of doing all of these images. It shows you upper, lower urinary tract, and then the cystoscopy visualizes something that you didn't see on CTU to get a potential bladder tissue and say, oh, that's cancer. From there, that's how we can really get the underlying assumption of bladder cancer. From here, the biopsy is very usually superficial. We probably want to get a little bit more tissue. And so that's when we do something called a terp. Not a terp, a terp. It's a transurethral section of the bladder tumor. It's going to give me a pretty deep kind of biopsy and tell me how far the bladder cancer invaded. Because it usually starts in the mucosa. It's epithelial, right? So it's a transitional cell. I usually also turn clear cell. And then it kind of moves its way down to the submucosa, to the muscularis layer, where the detrusor is, and then it can kind of break through there and then out into the pelvic areas as well. So that's what I want to know. I want to know if it's invaded the muscle or not. So if I look and it does not invade the muscularis propria, the detrusor, that's a non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer. If it did, you got it. It's a muscle-invasive bladder cancer. The reason why I tell you this is it determines how we treat the patient. So if they have concerns from a tassus, in other words, bladder cancer, it can spread. It can spread to the lung. It can spread to the liver. It's less likely, but I would get those kinds of imaging to see if it did spread. Look for the lung meds if they have some symptoms that concern you. Look for potentially bone meds if they have some features that really concern you. Look for the liver meds if they have potentially some increased LFTs in a paddle megalae. And that would tell you if they have metastatic bladder cancer. All right? So that's a lot. I really hope that you guys get the point is that when a patient presents with hematuria, get the UA with the microscopy, determine that you're in culture reflexively based upon that. If that doesn't give you much information about glomerular disease or about, you know, your tract infections, assume a structural cause. If they have structural causes located in a potential region, image that. CT-ADPELV with IV contrast may show your renal cell mass. If they just have hematuria and no other kind of focal symptoms and they have risk factors for malignancy, CTU and cystoscopy is the way to go. Either way, it'll tell you if you have renal cell carcinoma, it'll tell you if you have bladder cancer from there. If it's renal or if it's bladder, you probably need to do symptom driven metastatic imaging. But for bladder, the key thing that is really, really important more than the metastatic imaging is the turpt because it's going to be somewhat therapeutic, but also it's going to tell you how deep the tumor is innovative, which kind of guides your decisions after the turpt. Do I need to indwell something called an intravestical therapy like mitomycin C or some type of a BCG type of a container? All right. So with that being said, let's move into talking about how do we treat these conditions. So with renal cell carcinoma, I just want to know that a metastase size or not. If it did not metastase size, oftentimes it's just an nephrectomy and it depends upon the size of the tumor that determines how much of the kidney I'm going to remove. I can do a partial one, especially if the renal cell mass is less than seven centimeters. That's kind of our number. If it's bigger than that, then we got to go to a full nephrectomy. With partial nephrectomies, it's nice because you can preserve renal function here. I have a kidney that has a tumor in it. All I'm going to do is I'm going to cut out a wedge of that and I'm going to preserve a decent amount of cortical tissue and even medullary tissue to keep the renal function going pretty well. All right. So that'd be my partial nephrectomy. If I got a pretty decent size mass greater than right seven centimeters, then I'm probably going to have to remove the whole kidney. So that's where I'm literally taking. I'm clamping off the vasculature because I got to remove unfortunately the entire kidney. It's just too much. Me removing this much of the kidney, I might as well take the whole thing out. So usually we're going to clamp these puppies down, reduce the blood flow, get rid of that, get rid of the ureter and we're going to cut and tie that whole area off. That would be a radical nephrectomy in this scenario. Now if they have spread, it's the lungs, it's to the bone, it's to the brain, therapies like surgery aren't going to be of much benefit now because we got it all over the place. So that's when unfortunately we go to pharmacological therapy and this is going to be your targeted therapy. This is actually pretty high yield and it's actually kind of interesting the mechanisms here. So we're going to talk about your VEGF inhibitors and then we'll talk about some other kind of immunotherapies which is kind of cool too. We have mTOR inhibitors and VEGF receptor inhibitors. So what happens is, let's say here we have a tumor cell that's going to start kind of forming. What happens is that that von Heppel Lindau gene either sporadically or genetically gets kind of lost. You lose that function of it. That's what leads to the increase in the hypoxia inducible factor. This is coming back, right? So when that happens, the VEGF production goes up. That tumor cell pops that VEGF out, that goes to the nearby vessels, tells the endothelial cells, hey start making more vessels and that causes the angiogenesis. You start getting blood vessels that are popping up all over the place. The whole point of that is to give lots of blood flow to the tumor so that this thing can continue to keep jiving and thriving, right? Other things is that other growth factors, especially even the tumor cell or nearby tumor cells, they're keep pumping out growth factors. Growth factors really love to hit these receptors and trigger kind of an intracellular cascade via PI3K and AKT pathway. All this leads to is an increase in mTOR. MTOR is great because what it does is it pumps up hypoxia inducible factor. More VEGF, more angiogenesis, more blood flow to the tumor. So what if I could give drugs that could block the VEGF at the receptor and what if I could give drugs that could block the mTOR? That'd be pretty cool, right? So my VEGF receptor inhibitors is going to be accident nib and that's going to hit that receptor, block the VEGF, shut down the angiogenesis and starve the tumor cells. That could reduce its growth, right? So that's one of the benefits here. Some mTOR inhibitors like Everlems, this one's going to shut down the mTOR pathway. That's going to reduce the VEGF production. That's going to reduce the VEGF acting on the receptors. That's going to shut down the angiogenesis and starve the tumor. When do we give this? It's metastatic renal cell carcinoma, but it's usually used as a combination. So for example, when we give these targeted therapies, they're usually given with another drug like an immunotherapy that we're going to talk about next. It's usually not just solo on its own. And funny enough, we would prefer to give two immunotherapeutic agents, which we're going to talk about in a second, over giving an immunotherapy and an mTOR. But that is an option. So sometimes we do one immunotherapy and one targeted therapy. Sometimes we just do two immunotherapy drugs because they're super powerful. These are also called checkpoint inhibitors, which we're going to talk about now. So these are really cool. So here you have a tumor cell, right? So tumor cells, they're really kind of cool because they express these things called a PDL1. It's a programmed death ligand. And you also have an MHC1 complex that these can present with kind of an antigen on them. And then you have T cells that use their T cell receptor to interact with that antigen on the MHC complex. Well, what happens is, is T cells are really kind of interesting. Whenever they come up to a tumor cell, if the tumor cell expresses this PDL1, the T cell will actually express something called a PD1. And when they interact with one another, it kind of shuts the T cell off. It says, hey, T cell, leave me alone. All right, because tumor cells are smart. They'll increase their expression of PDL1 so that whenever the T cell does that it shuts them off. Now the T cells can't kill the tumor cell. All right, so that tumor cell just continues to keep surviving. What if I gave a drug that blocked the PD1? All right, what if I did that? So I gave a drug that blocks that. These are usually pretty powerful drugs that whenever you do that, now the T cell is not getting shut off because you're not having the PDL1 and the PD1 interact. Now the T cell is active and it can start killing them tumor cells. That's a pretty generous thing there. This is Nivellumab, right? Or Pembrolizumab. These are your great anti-PD1 antibodies. They're very powerful checkpoint numbers. We use them in a ton of different cancers. We talked about this in colorectal cancer. We've talked about Pembrolizumab and breast cancer. We've talked about these in lung cancer. There's so many different ways that we can use these at checkpoint inhibitors like Pembrolizumab or Atezzolizumab or Nivellumab or there is just so many Dervalamab. There's so many different types of immune checkpoint inhibitors that can hit these pathways because they can target both the PD1 and you have other ones that can target the PDL1. So these are great. The other one is the anti-CTLA4 antibodies. These are interesting. This mechanism is quite interesting. I'm not going to lie. So tumor cells are smart because what they do is they increase the production of cytokines that tell our T cells to express something called CTLA4. CTLA4 is a nasty son of a gun because it likes to compete with CD28. So antigen presenting cells, they have the MHC2 complex that they present, right? What they're antigen with the T cell is the T cell receptor and they interact with one another. What's really, really important is that on the antigen presenting cell, there's a molecule called B7. Now if B7 has the choice, if there's lots of CTLA4, CTLA4, it'll bind with the CTLA4. Problem with that is it shuts the T cell off and now the T cell can't kill the tumor cells, right? If you have an ability to say, let me give something that blocks CTLA4, now it can't interact with B7 and that would be Ipollumab. Now the B7 can interact with the CD28. This is the co-stimulatory signal. Now the T cell's active. It's like, oh yeah, baby. And what's it gonna do? It's gonna kill the tumor cell. Tell me that's not cool. Oftentimes we'll combine these. So oftentimes we'll give something like, for example, Nipolumab and Nipolumab and we'll do those in conjunction with one another as the first line therapy. And if that doesn't work, then we'll kind of give one of these plus one of these as the second line therapy, all right? Bladder cancer is a little bit more interesting. We don't give systemic things like that that much unless it's kind of metastatic. But oftentimes that turp that we talked about is the best way to go. When we got a tumor and it's not really invasive, we can kind of, like we can get that tumor pretty decently. Maybe we get down to the submucosa and we kind of pull that down. You can even get a little bit into the muscularies layer and you can get a good chunk of tumor out. You're removing that tumor, all right? And so that's one way that we could do that. If you see the lesion and cystoscopy, you'll refer them to a surgeon, they'll come in, they'll do that turp procedure, remove the tumor, send it off to pathology, determine if it was muscle invasive or non-muscle invasive. The benefit is that if it is non-muscle invasive, from there you have one therapy after that to follow up with. And that's an intravestical therapy. They'll take and they'll literally and dwell into the bladder, a chemotherapy to gage. And it could be mitomycin C, right? This one's actually pretty quick. You can give this within like six hours, I think, after getting a turp. You don't want to do that for BCG. There's a theoretical risk of sepsis and stuff like that, so we don't want to really do that one. But mitomycin C would probably be a good one if they're kind of like a lower risk one. So you can kind of fill that in there, leave that and it can kind of kill a lot of the remaining micro residual disease. BCG is another one, but that's going to be more in the high risk population. So low risk bladder cancer, you can give this one. I'd say the mitomycin C. If they're more of that high risk, it's a really high grade dysplasia on pathology. That's when I would go with the BCG. But just in general, just remember, intravestical chemotherapy plus a turp is great for your non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. If it's muscle invasive, we're kind of stuck with chemotherapy, really starting up with that first. So we may do what's called a neoadjuvant chemotherapy, cisplatin, gym cytobine, we'll get us started. And that's going to be if you have just invasion of the muscle of the bladder, but it hasn't gone to the lymph nodes, hasn't gone to distant organs like the lungs or the bone. From there, we don't have the option of doing a turp. If this thing's invaded a lot of the muscle, we're kind of stuck, man. So at that point, we got to remove the bladder. Now, when you remove the bladder, you have no way of getting urine out now. So you have to divert things. And so what we'll do is we'll cut out the bladder, all right? And then we have to have a place to take the urators and have the urine be emptied. And so what we do is we do kind of a urinary diversion where we have this thing dump into a part of the intestines, usually like the ilium. And then here is the condos. So this is going to collect the urine from that, and it's going to move it to this thing on the outer surface called a stoma where it can empty into a urosthemy bag. And so that's a way that they would urinate, right? So again, reminding you, non-muscle invasive, turped is the way to go, intrabescal chemotherapy. Non-muscle invasive, shrink as much of the tumor down as you can with giving them a chemotherapeutic agent and then follow it up by then chopping the bladder out and then diverting the urators to an intestinal source, which will offer them to dump out of the body. That would be the way to go with this one. My friends, I really hope that you guys learned a lot about urinary tract malignancies. I know sometimes that these topics can be challenging and bogging you down. You feel like sometimes it can't get you. You know, you don't feel like you understand these things sometimes or you do, and then you forget it afterwards. You're not alone. We're all together in this. But I will tell you something. If you feel like you need a little bit of extra help, go to the Ninja Nerd website. We offer things like notes where you can kind of recap this stuff. You can look at our illustrations and kind of draw things through with us together. You can take some quiz questions and really kind of have that space repetition. But just don't give up. Stay strong. Man, I love you guys. You guys are awesome. And as always, my fam, until next time. Bye.