 mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere some degree of ringing bells for urinary tract malignancy. Things like renal cell carcinoma or bladder cancer. Usually that's transitional or we call it uroothelial. But those are the two ones that I would think about right off the get go for a patient presenting with hematuria that is painless, it's gross. Think about a urinary tract malignancy. All right. Well, let's get right into it here. Case one, we have a 58-year-old male, 35-pack-year smoker. He also has hard-to-control hypertension. He shows up with three weeks of intermittent painless gross hematuria and dull left flank pain. On exam, you feel a mobile non-tender flank mass. Where does your mind go immediately? This seems like if you had a step two question like this, like a vignette that set you up, they'd be like, you know, like Jordan Slamdunk and renal cell carcinoma. That's what it seems like. And the reason why is like 10 to 15% of patients in a true clinical world present with the triad of renal cell carcinoma, which is hematuria, flank pain, and a palpable mass. Oftentimes, more than not, you may not even see any of these symptoms, but usually out of these, the most common one is going to be hematuria. So this tells me it really screams renal cell carcinoma off the get go. All right. So first differential renal cell carcinoma, you're not concerned with like bladder cancer or you have to further elucidate that? It could be bladder cancer, but the lack of, usually in bladder cancer, they don't have like flank masses or any kind of flank pain. So that's less on my differential. Now, bladder cancer is one of the uroothelial carcinomas. And what I mean by that is that there's a mucosa that we talk about in like, you know, our basic foundational sciences, and it's called transitional epithelial tissue. And that lines pretty much your ureter and we can carry that thing down all the way to the bladder. And so if you have a cancer of the uroothelial tract, you can have what's called uroothelial carcinoma out of that tract. The most common location is the bladder, but the fact that they have against other symptom etology, like a palpable mass and flank pain, it's less likely that I think that it's bladder cancer. It could be a stone. I mean, palpable mass less likely, but I definitely would want to get, you know, maybe some kind of imaging to think about that. But I want to think about nephrolithiasis or perinephric abscess. But usually with a perinephric abscess, you'd have like a history of pilonophritis. You'd have some kind of like history that would make me think about that. So I don't think it's pilonophritis, but I would still want to consider that. I'd want to consider a stone. I think it could be a carcinoma of the transitional epithelium, maybe at the renal pelvis of the ureter, but I think that's low in my differential. Right at the top is renal cell carcinoma, especially with the history of smoking. Having hard to control hypertension is kind of interesting. And the reason why is if patients have renal cell carcinoma in a perfect world, what happens is they, the tumor can release renin. And so it releases an increased amounts of renin that can help to activate angiotensinogen and to turn it into angiotensin one. Angiotensin one gets converted to angiotensin two. Angiotensin two helps to squeeze the heck out of your vessels and your pressure can go up. And so that's why they can have hard to control hypertension. It's usually a secondary cause. So that's one thing I'd be looking for. The other thing here is with renal cell carcinoma, they have other perineoplastic syndromes. So they make not only lots of renin, but they can make EPO. So I would actually consider checking this and see if they have a high hemoglobin and hematocrit for polycythemia. I check like a CMP to make sure that the calcium is like not elevated as well because that can also be a potential cause as well. So these are all things that I'm thinking about. Yeah, renal cell carcinoma is definitely at the top, but really I got to get some labs. I got to get some imaging to really kind of like start checking with those off. So what would you go with then? Your analysis, I'm guessing a CT. Yep. Like, hit me baby. BMP. I'd probably expand it to maybe a CMP. Okay. Just to get some liver function as well. And then baseline CBC. Yeah, I think they'd be good. You're covered. I think the reason why I do that is your analysis is if they're peeing blood, what looks like blood, I need to make sure it's blood. And then with your analysis, it's always good if you have a patient with hematuria. It's always good to rule out other causes. And so you always want to rule out things like an infection like pyelonephritis can cause that. So I would do a UA, probably even with a microscopy and a culture potentially. And then I would also want to look for red blood cell cast. I'd want to look for protein to see if there's like an nephrodic. I'm sorry, a nephrodic syndrome or a glomerular disease kind of present. So that's why I would get that one. I'd get the CT-admine pelvis with IV contrast probably first because I think that this is going to be a real mass. And so that's going to give me a really good look at the mass and say, is this a mass? Is this a stone? Is this pyelonephritis? Is this something else going on in the kidney first? The baseline CBC is going to help me to see if they have any high hemoglobin hematocrit. And the CMP will just help me to look at their liver function. It also will just give me a good idea of particularly their alkaline phosphatase, which can also be elevated in bone mats. And then on top of that, it can show me the calcium. So the calcium will be helpful to see if they have a high calcium level. So that's kind of what I would start with if I could. Okay, cool. Well, we do those results. We perform those tests and we get the following back. We have a urinalysis, which does show us hematuria, no cast or protein area present. We do the CT-admine pelvis with IV contrast. We have a heterogeneous enhancing 5.8 centimeter cortical mass, no renal vein, or IVC thrombus. Some baseline labs you were interested in are a hemoglobin of 19, creatinine of 1.0, and a calcium of 11.2. Our chest CT, we also do a chest CT. The chest CT shows no mets, bone scan is negative, and there's no bone pain or ALP rise. Okay. So that looks normal. All right, so yeah, with your liver test. Yeah, so I think with this right here, we definitely got a pretty good answer that the urinalysis, it shows that there's hematuria, but there's no glomerular disease because there's no cast, there's no protein. I would get a culture. You always should get a culture just to make sure that they don't have like pylote. I'm going to suspect that the pylote's not going to come back because they usually would have a fever. They'd have some CVA tenderness as well, but I don't think that this is pylote. And then on top of that, I know it's not pylote because the CT-admine showed me that I got a big honkin tumor inside of the renal cortex. And so that right there tells me it's likely a renal cell mass like renal cell carcinoma. And then on top of that, the hemoglobin is elevated. So they got polycythemia. The creatinine's fine. I don't know what their baseline is, but the creatinine's still fine even at one. And the calcium is 11.2. That's elevated. So they have hypercalcemia. They have polycythemia. And on top of that, they got a tumor with hematuria that's likely not glomerular, likely not pylorelated, or any kind of stone or any kind of renal pathology related. So this is pretty interesting. And on top of that, once they found the renal mass, usually you do go to the route of a chest CT and you can consider a bone scan if they have bone pain or they have an alfosso. If they didn't have bone pain and their alkaline phosphatase was like normal, I wouldn't have gotten the bone scan. But the CT chest, you should always get just to look to see if it's spread to the lungs. Another common location is the brain. I've actually seen this once where a patient came in seizing, ended up getting a CT. They had a bleed in their brain, ended up getting MRI. MRI showed an actual brain mass. So they had a met and we were trying to figure out where it came from. And so we ended up getting a CT of their chest, abdomen, and pelvis and we found that they had a renal cell carcinoma. So it's a very common source of bleeding, uh, mets in the brain. So that's another one I get scared of. But yeah, this is definitely a renal cell carcinoma. Given the size, given that it hasn't metastasized, this is resectable. We can actually treat this pretty well. I was going to ask, would you do a partial or would you get rid of the kidney? So we go size. So usually if it's, if it's like greater than seven centimeters, we'll cut the whole dang thing out. Okay. And so you'll tie off, you'll tie off the vessels, remove the actual kidney itself. So that'd be like a radical nephrectomy. I did have the tumor was like a gargantuan. It was like greater than seven centimeters where it was also taking up a large location too. So if it's like a little bit more centrally kind of seated, it's also hard to get those out with caught without sparing a lot of the nephrons. That's why it's a little bit more challenging. So our patient was 5.8 centimeters. Yeah. That would qualify for a partial. Yeah. And it's cortical, which is good. So that means it's a little bit more peripheral. So you could cut that out and hopefully spare a lot of the remaining nephrons so they could at least have some decent renal function after that. So yeah, you could cure this. If it hasn't spread and it hasn't seated anywhere, it's always good to just cut that out. Partial nephrectomy, follow up and just keep monitoring them afterwards on their renal function to make sure it hasn't declined. You should probably even see an improvement in like their hematuria. You should see an improvement in their hemoglobin. It should start coming down. Their blood pressure will probably improve. The hypercalcemia will probably improve. So a lot of the perineoplastic stuff would also kind of go away with some time as well. So our patient's prognosis is relatively favorable. Yeah. So it's, well, one, it's a kind of peripheral location and then it didn't metastasize. No. Yeah. So once you get metastasis, it's a different story. It's hard. You can still try nephrectomies. The thing is, is they always do this on the exam and they'll try to trip people up and so they'll say like, okay, here you have a patient who you have a renal mass and you have a high suspicion that it's renal cell carcinoma and they'll give you an option. What would you do first? An nephrectomy or a biopsy? And you should never pick a biopsy. And the reason why you never pick a biopsy is because if you stick a needle in there, you risk, in the risk of hemorrhage, but also you can see the actual tumor and you can actually micrometastasis. It's always better to do just go and cut it out. But when it's a lot of metastasis, so if I, let's say that the CT chest did show that there was METs to the lungs or they had a bone METs because their alfos was elevated or we had bone pain and we got the bone scan or we got a brain and Miriam. We found that they have METs in the brain or whatever it may be. We find that they have metastasis. Then it's a little bit more challenging and then cutting out the kidney itself may not only, it can actually help. So you could potentially remove the source, but the most important thing now is trying to just limit metastasis. And so that's when we kind of reach on to immunotherapies. And so there's newer therapies that we use now if they have metastatic renal cell carcinoma and they're called checkpoint inhibitors, immune checkpoint inhibitors. We, oftentimes we'll abbreviate them as MABs just because it's as easy as like Ipollima MAB, Nivolimab, Pembrolyza MAB and so we just call MABs. And these are pretty good. They actually have become, I'd say like the standard nowadays of what we use in patients of metastatic renal cell carcinoma is giving usually a combination. Two immune checkpoint inhibitors, one that hits a PD1 protein and the other one that hits the CTLA4 protein and it helps to basically tell the T cells, hey, get revved up baby, get revved up, start ripping these tumor cells up. So that's what we would do if they have, I'd say metastatic renal cell carcinoma is immune checkpoint inhibitors. That's the preferred method nowadays. Now remember before the, his underlying finding, his blood pressure was hard to control. Can we kind of now after doing an nephrectomy and it's almost like it's curative, can we expect that these would like resolve? Yeah, I would say that you still may need, depending upon it, you may need a little bit of a, usually an ARB or an ACE inhibitor because you'd be targeting that pathway. I'd say oftentimes, usually if it's because they're having an amplified retina, they have no other co-morbidities that's causing their blood pressure. Yeah, you should be okay then because you're getting rid of that source. Again, this person's a smoker. They're 58, they're getting older. So there could all there be secondary reasons for why they get a high blood pressure, but I think if it's hard to control, which is meaning they're probably on multiple agents, it's probably because of the renal cell carcinoma. And we could probably get that down where they could maybe need less of their anti hypertension. Sure. Yeah. No, that'd be, that'd be great for him. Yeah. All right. Well, hey, let's move on the case too then. Okay. We have our second patient. It's a 70 year old woman. She has a 40 pack your history, a long term, a cyclophosphamide for vasculitis. Now notes bright red, painless hematuria with clots. Her creatinine crept from 0.9 to 2.1 over the past six months. Shoot. So we have another patient, smoker, painless hematuria, clots. And we're noticing a creep in her creatinine. What's your mind thinking here? Smoking, big one, cyclophosphamide. What's she on that one for again? Vasculitis. Vasculitis. So that's two things there. Well, cyclophosphamide is a pretty big one too. That's kind of a carcinogen. Also vasculitis potentially can cause hematuria too. So we always got to think about that, especially things like Wagner's, potentially church straws, any kind of like vasculitis, even polyardritis, and those that can do that too. So I would definitely be even considering vasculitis as a part of the workup as well. That's definitely something to consider. But right off the get go, I'm definitely thinking bladder cancer, given that this is a significant smoking history, cyclophosphamide use, and they have hematuria with clots in it. That's always another way of like a buzz term or somewhat like pathodermontic for bladder cancer. So that's definitely at the top of my list is a bladder cancer, which is a usually most often more than not. There's two types, squamous cell and transitional cell. Squamous cell, significantly less common. That one we see in people who live over in like Egypt or like Sub-Saharan Africa, who get like exposed to like schistosome, which is like this nasty like worm, and that can penetrate through the skin. It can go up into your actual, what actually gets into your bloodstream. Then it goes to your liver, to your lungs, and then it spreads to your bladder and it literally gets stuck into the bladder wall. So that's one schistosome as a nasty one or chronic like catheter use. That can cause squamous cell. We don't see that one too often. That one's just, it's not very common. The more common one is transitional cell. And transitional cells usually seen with smoking. As I said, cyclophosphamide or any person who's working in an industry that is exposed to like rubber dyes of sorts. Those are the biggest, biggest, biggest risk factors. So that's what I'm thinking about. Could it be renal cell carcinoma? It could. Doesn't, they don't, they're not presenting with flank pain and palpable mass, but that doesn't mean that they can't still have it. That's still possible. A stone, they haven't presented with any flank pain. Again, I think it's possible, but I think it's less likely. So those are the things I'm thinking about. That's what I would start off with first, is I would say it could be still a renal pathology of sort. I'd say it's less likely. I'm going to say it's going to be more likely lower urinary tract pathology. And then what about the rising creatinine? Does that tell you anything? Yeah. Yeah. That's a big one from point nine to 2.1 pretty quickly. That's an acute kidney injury. That's, that's definitely like scary. It says over six months. And again, I don't know how quickly that did rise, but that's definitely a concerning feature. So theoretically, this could be an AKI. It could be CKD. It kind of just depends. All I know is that from six months ago, their creatinine shot up. Yep. So that's how quickly it went from point nine to 2.1 in that six months span. I don't know, but I definitely would be concerned about that. So there's all a couple of things that you would want to be concerned about with the rising creatinine. Could it be pre-renal? I don't see any risk factors here for like dehydration or any kind of medications or anything that would make me think about that. Intra-renal, cyclophosamide, it does have that vascularitis can also cause an intra-renal AKI as well. But with the hematuria, I definitely would want to be considering, it could it be, and it's rare that bladder cancer is near the trigone, right at the bladder outlet obstructing that actual, like the trigone obstructing the actual outlet, leading to a buildup of fluid in the bladder backing up through the ureters and then causing hydronephrosis. And then that can potentially be a cause. So that's something I'm thinking about, but I would definitely have to do a workup on this one. And one of the beauties of this is that if I did one study, at least two studies, maybe a CT urogram, which is, it's kind of like an abdominal CT with IV contrast, except what you do is, is you look at a phase where there's no contrast going into the kidney, then you look at another phase where there is contrast running through the kidney, then you look at a phase where it's running down the ureter and into the bladder. And so it just kind of just evaluates that and looks to see if anything kind of shows up as abnormal. Um, and the kidney, the ureter and the bladder. So it's a great study for that. It also tell me if it's a stone, it would tell me if it's a tumor in the kidney. It would tell me if it's a tumor in the bladder for the most part. And on top of that, it would show me any kind of complications. Like you're saying, like, what's the cause for the, is there hydronephrosis? If I saw a gargantua's kidney and I saw that there was a potentially an obstruction at the bladder side, then I say, okay, that could have been really reason why. So that's something I would think about, but right away I'm going to say, let's get a CT urogram and let's combine that with scheduling them a cystoscopy. A cystoscopy is great because CT urogram is better for upper tract imaging. So it's going to get a better look at the kidney and a better look at the ureters. It can find decent sized tumors in the bladder, but if it's a smaller or flat like tumor, it may miss it. So that's when a cystoscopy is, it's a flexible thing. It's, it's a scope. It goes right up through the urethra and goes up into the bladder and you can literally visualize the inside of the bladder and see if you can find a tumor in there. And so that's what I would do for that. And if I do see a tumor, I would take like a little piece of the biopsy there. So that's first thing I would do for this case, because they have smoking as a risk factor, cyclophosphamide. They have painless hematuria. And on top of that, they're older. Um, definitely concerned that this is definitely a bladder cancer. That's my high concern. But I want to rule out anything else. That's what I'd start off with first is doing those. Perfect. So CT urogram, we have a polypoid bladder dome mass. And then you note bilateral hydrogen nephrosis, kind of like you were expecting. So that's the cause for their acute, their, their kidney. They're, I'd say acute kidney injury in my case. Yeah. All right. And then for our cystoscopy with biopsy, we have a friable ureotheliolation. And then with the transurethral resection of the bladder or the tumor is performed for staging. And I'm kind of curious to know about the staging. Yeah. And then for pathology, it's a high grade, non muscle invasive bladder cancer. That's not bad. And it's not great, but it's not bad. So that's a good thing. So, well, that's, so when we do a CT urogram, we found the mass. That's good. Cause sometimes you miss them. Then we did the cystoscopy, confirmed that there was a lesion there, took the biopsy. And usually they can do a small superficial one. Oftentimes you have to do a turbid, which is like the transurethral resection of the bladder tumor. And you literally cut out a good chunk. You actually get into the muscle. Okay. So you have to get pretty deep. You got to go through mucosa and then get into the actual muscular layer and take that out. Cause what you want to see is, is how deep has the tumor penetrated. And if it's in the mucosa and it hasn't invaded the detrusor muscle yet, that's a good sign. That's called non muscular invasive bladder cancer, which is what this patient has. If they got into the muscle or beyond the muscle, then it's muscular invasive bladder cancer. That's not a good one. Okay. Oftentimes we got to cut the bladder out in that case. So, so what does this tell us then overall? I'd say from this one, we definitely have bladder cancer and I'd say that this is going to be, so it says high grade. All right. So, but it is non muscle. So it means it did not invade the muscle. So it's called non muscular invasive bladder cancer and it's high grade. Okay. So that's how they, they stage it. Yeah. Okay. Exactly. Well, throughout all of oncology, all the staging we've done, you do the T and M stuff. Yeah. It's, it's kind of confusing. Yeah. It's a lot. Yeah. So every topic we've done though, there's some sort of variation. Yeah. Exactly. And this is the easiest way to make it simple for determining prognosis or treatment for these patients. So you just want to know if it invaded the muscle or not. If it did invade the muscle, then you take it a little step forward for further and you try to determine if it metastasized to any nodes or to any other organs. So if it did, you oftentimes you don't, you don't do a lot. You usually just do like chemotherapy, aggressive chemotherapy. So we're not going to talk about that one. Usually the two things that you usually get tested on is if it's non muscular invasive or muscular invasive, and then what do you, what do you do with those usually? Okay. All right. So overall, then if you had to say a treatment, how would you treat this patient then? Um, so we already started off with the turbid. All right. So we already cut out a good chunk of it. And that's pretty much, it's kind of nice because that test is diagnostic and therapeutic. So if you do the turbid during like whenever you actually done the scistoscopy look, you visualize it, maybe take a little lesion. Sometimes if you're in the urologist present, they will actually go in and they'll actually do the turpt for you. Um, once you've done that, you can stage it. And then also you removed a good chunk of the tumor. But if there is any kind of residual tumor left, what you do is right after the procedure, if they're low risk, which this patient isn't, if they were low risk, I would actually fill their bladder with what's called chemotherapy. It's called intra vesicular or intra vesicle chemotherapy. And we give them something called mitomycin C. Usually it's done like a couple hours after you get the turpt. And you actually fill that bladder and that's going to help to kind of kill off some of the remaining or residual tumor cells and prevent recurrence. If they're high grade, you can't do it right away. You got to give it a little bit of time. Cause then you're going to give them something called BCG. And so whenever you give BCG, it's a little bit, it's rare. It's rare, but it can potentially theoretically cause sepsis. And so that's why you don't want to give it right away. You want to allow for the kind of bladder to heal a little bit. And then you're going to give them BCG. I would only give them BCG if they were high risk or they had a high grade. So as a tumor was like decent size, pretty big, but more particularly when you look at it under pathology and they mentioned the term high grade, you can't give them mitomycin C. You want to give them BCG. And it's going to help to really activate and amplify their immune system to kill off these actual tumor cells. So that's what I would do. I would start off with, we've done the turpt. I then wait a little bit and maybe after a couple of weeks, fill their bladder with the BCG and then, oh, they have, they got a tumor there. It should help to improve their flow afterwards. But if they have that bad of an acute kidney injury and it continues to continues to rise, even after trying to decompress by removing the tumor, even if we try to put a fully catheter in, I'd probably do like nephrostomy tubes. Just to kind of get them by if they have a significant acute kidney injury. If they started getting like, I'd say if they started to get like pilote too, that's a pretty scary one. So sometimes we'll do bilateral perc nefs and help to drain the actual urine there, help to allow for the creatinine to improve. And then you can just pop those out. So that's something to consider. But that's only something I would do if like they didn't improve after I actually tried to remove that tumor. And also if I needed to put in like a fully catheter. Now, if this patient did have muscle invasion, that's different. We don't, the turpt is not going to be the answer anymore. And neither will any intravestical chemotherapy. We actually have to give them systemic chemotherapy, like through their venous circulation, usually it's like cisplatin and gym side of being, and then we got to cut the whole bladder out and then even nearby organs. So not only do you cut the bladder out, like if they're a female, you remove the vagina, you remove, you know, the actual entire fallopian tubes, everything. And so you remove a lot of the nearby structure, the uterus, et cetera. If it's the male, you remove a lot of the associated structures there as well, such as the prostate, the seminal vesicles. So it's a pretty drastic type of procedure that you would have to do. And if you think about it, you removed a source of how you've empty urine into the urethra. So now you have to have another way to pee. And so what they do is they divert the urine. So they take the ureters and they, they take a stump of your ilium, usually is the conduit, and they'll externalize that ilium into a stoma, like a bag. And it's going to be like a urosthymia bag now. And so they'll take your ureters and the ureters will go and empty their urine into the ilium, this little piece of the ilium, and that'll come out into this bag that, you know, via the stoma. So sometimes that way, it's what we would have to do if they had muscle invasive. So in other words, you did the turp, you found, oh, shit, the tumor's all the way deep down into the muscle. Okay, that sucks. All right, what do we do? All right, now we're going to go ahead and we're going to give them chemo. And then we're going to get them set up to do a radical systemic to me, cut the bladder out and divert the urine another way. And so that's unfortunately the way that we usually go with these, but how do you monitor these patients? Let's just say our current patient, how would you monitor that for hopefully resolving him and getting better? If we didn't do it. So if you did the radical systemic to me, you can't do another scistoscopy anymore, because you don't have a bladder anymore. But if I did just go the route of the turp and the right, like our patient. Yeah. Okay. If I had that one, I do a scistoscopy again. I would do it probably like maybe like six to 12 months, make sure that the lesions actually not there anymore and make sure that there's not any kind of problems. That's what I would probably do. I'd probably do that. Usually I do six to 12 months. That's probably the best way of starting off with it. And then from there, you can kind of adjust based upon the results of that. And how about the any more CT urographies at all? Or is it just the scistoscopy? I'd say I would do the CT urography if I had upper uroothelial tract carcinoma. I'd say I probably wouldn't do any kind of like CT urography. You can sometimes, but I don't think that that's usually going to be necessary. Okay. Well, that's all I had for case two. Hopefully if you're not, if you're up for it, we can do a quick rapid recap. Yeah, sure. But, you know, keep it high heel. I don't want to hear you keep laboring on. Okay. Okay. Okay. Quick rapid recap. So if I had to give some big things for each one, like renal cell carcinoma first, I would say the big thing is to remember with these patients, you got to think about a patient who presents with hematuria, flank pain and a palpable mass. If they have that, definitely in the clinical world, it's not as common, but in the exams, it's the classic triad. Other things that you want to think about for this patient is the perineoplastic syndrome. You want to think about polysathemia. You want to think about hypercalcemia. You want to think about potentially any kind of resistant hypertension that you could see in this condition. Usually with these patients, the only way that you can truly find this is an abdominal CT, usually to with the IV contrast showing a mass. If you see the mask, don't buy opposite it to call on a surgeon to for your logical kind of surgery evaluation to see if they can do a nephrectomy. If it's less than seven centimeters, you can do partial. If it's greater than seven, then you're going to do a full radical nephrectomy. The other thing is that sometimes if it's like an old patient, it's a smaller tumor and they got a lot of comorbidities, you can just watch them and you can just do CT scans every six months or three months or whatever. However, aggressive you want to be in surveying it, but oftentimes we prefer to just cut that tumor out if we can. Um, if it's metastatic, you don't really do that. You do immunotherapy, dual combination of that bladder cancer, two types, transitional, yourothelial, yourothelial, much more common squamous. That's less common. You're going to see that more in the Cisoma and the Egypt, Sub-Saharan Africa to population transitional, more common here in our neck of the woods. And you're going to see the more smoking, you know, drugs like cyclophosphamide or any kind of like rubber dye factories where they have exposure. That's painless hematuria. Usually that's the most common presentation, maybe some visible clots. They don't usually have any other symptoms from here. If you see that a CT urogram is good to see if you rule out anything in the upper tract and then scistoscopy falls for the lower urinary tract to see, Hey, is there any kind of renal, I'm sorry, any bladder lesion present that I saw in the CT urogram or I didn't see. Oftentimes we prefer to do a turbid because that's going to tell you if it's muscular invasive or non muscular invasive. It's non muscular invasive. That's great. You're going to go ahead and you've done the turp at this point. Is it low grade dysplasia? High grade low grade. You fill the bladder with mitomycin C high grade. You wait a little bit, couple of weeks and you fill it with the BCG. If it's muscular invasive, ultimately they're going to have to get chemo and you're going to have to remove the bladder and a lot of other structures and then divert the urators to empty into the ileum, into the stoma and a bag. And so that's usually the way that we would end up with that one. A lot of the times with these patients, you got to be careful when you take a kidney out full like nephrectomy, renal function monitoring is really, really important, but you should see a lot of their perineoplastic stuff improve. Bladder cancer, you probably just got to keep following up with this testosterone piece, following up with the UA's, even your encyclologies or something that we would even do as well. Just making sure that you're not missing any lesion that resurfaces or recurs, especially if you haven't removed the bladder in that case. So that's what I would hit everybody with. And I hope that that made sense. Did you like this one? I sure did. I sure did. And hey, common theme here. Don't ignore painless hematuria. Don't ignore it, man. Yeah. So I really hope that you guys enjoyed this podcast. I'll be learned a lot. I'll be had fun. And I hope that you now can appreciate if a patient comes in with hematuria, how to be able to work them up, how to be able to kind of like see that there is a common thread between renal cell carcinoma and bladder cell cancer, but trying to be able to differentiate which one it is. I hope that now you have an understanding of that. Well, I love you guys. And thank you guys. And as always, until next time.