 vascularitis, inflammation of the blood vessels. So, when we talk about vascularitis, let's first discuss the pathophysiology, and the best way to do this is to cover the three types of vascularitis. The first one is large vessel vascularitis. It's actually not too hard to understand. It's primarily going to affect the aorta and the main aortic branches. So, if you look here, we'll see that they're going to have inflammation of the aorta, inflammation of the branches such as the subclavian, and even the carotids. Now, this inflammation is going to narrow the blood vessels, increase the risk of thrombosis, and sometimes the inflammation can even cause angiosus to form, and we'll talk about that. Now, when we talk about the reason why these large vessels are inflamed, oftentimes we don't have a great reason. The concept that we believe to be associated with this from potentially biopsies is that this is a cell-mediated inflammation. So the concept behind this is that let's say that a patient has lots of monocytes and neutrophils and lymphocytes, and what these guys are doing is they're infiltrating into the actual blood vessel wall and inducing injury. Now, you probably bring up the question, why in the heck are these monocytes, neutrophils, and lymphocytes going into the blood vessel to injure it? Let's say that a patient's been exposed to an infection of some sort, so a virus. When they become exposed to that virus, they produce an immune response to that virus. What if a protein on that virus resembles a protein on the vessel? That is called molecular mimicry, and the immune system will kind of attack that protein similar to how they would to a virus. The problem is that when you injure your blood vessel, you end up with a bunch of complications. One, is now your endothelial cells that are supposed to have a natural antithorombotic function via releasing things like PGI2, which is prostacycline, and nitric oxide. These are supposed to prevent platelets from sticking to the blood vessel wall. If you can't make these because you've injured the blood vessel, guess what happens? The platelets will stick to the injured blood vessel wall and form a platelet plug. These platelet plugs will now narrow the lumen of this actual injured blood vessel, and now oxygen that's supposed to be running through this vessel is going to be a decrease in its delivery to the tissues. Now as a response to that, the tissue can become ischemic, and over time, if not corrected, can lead to necrosis. That's one complication of vessel inflammation or injury. A second one is fibrosis. As you have repeated injury to the blood vessel, fibroblasts will come down here and they'll lay down this yellow tissue here called fibrous tissue. This fibrous tissue now will start to narrow the lumen here of this actual vessel. The diameter is decreased and the amount of oxygen that we can deliver via this blood vessel is decreased. This is going to lead to ischemia that this artery is going to be supplying. The last complication is when you have weakness of your blood vessel wall due to constant inflammation, the metalloproteinases are going to start breaking down the elastic lamina and you're going to end up with these little bubbles off of the blood vessel. These are called aneurysms. The complications that can occur with aneurysms is that if they rupture, this can lead to bleeding. That is a pretty concerning thing because this can lead to end organ damage. This is an overarching theme here that in all of these large vessels, this whole mechanism could be occurring. It's usually due to these cells interpreting the vessel as being similar to some type of prior exposure. That's the theory behind it. When we talk about these, let's say that the actual inflammation is occurring primarily of the carotid and some of its branches that come off near the face. If it is, we oftentimes will associate this with what's called giant cell arthritis, sometimes often referred to as temporal arthritis. Another one is let's say that the inflammation that's occurring within the vessel is primarily staying within the aorta and the arch and then just off the initial points here like the subclavians and maybe the initial part of the carotids. If that's the case, we're talking about another type of large vessel vasculitis called takayasu. We can differentiate these two types of large vessel vasculitis based upon the more predominant arteries and branches that they're going to be affecting, even though the mechanism of inflammation may be relatively the same. Medium vessel vasculitis is going to be affecting arteries that run through an organ. In other words, what would this artery be called going into the kidney? It's called the renal artery. These would be the mesenteric arteries because they're going to be going and supplying parts of the small and large intestine. If there's inflammation of these blood vessels, again, you're going to cause ischemia via thrombosis or stenosis of the actual blood vessels going to these organs and even potentially aneurysms that can form and you can cause bleeding. Now, when we talk about these, the mechanism is exactly the same as what we talked about for large vessel vasculitis. There's some type of cell mediated process. This could be due to a virus or an exposure of some sort that causes our immune system to go haywire and attack those proteins on the vessel that may resemble an exposure that we had at some point. Now, when this happens, again, the same thing occurs is that these vessels, renal, mesenteric, and so many more can have thrombosis of them, which can lead to ischemia to these organs, stenosis, which can lead to ischemia to these organs, and aneurysms that can bleed leading to bleeding that can occur along these areas. Now, with that being said, the way that we differentiate the two different types of medium vessel vasculitis is if it involves so many different systemic arteries and it only spares one organ, and that is the pulmonary system. If that is the case, we oftentimes refer to this as polyarteritis nodosa. If it confines itself primarily to the coronary arteries and not much else, we kind of refer to that as Kawasaki's disease. These are going to be, again, your medium vessel vasculitis, which has a similarity in the mechanism, but differences in the arteries that are oftentimes most significantly inflamed. Now, the last type of vasculitis is small vessel vasculitis. Small vessel vasculitis is interesting because this is going to affect our microvascular. If you guys remember this from your anatomy and physiology, this is your arterial that can become inflamed. This is going to be what we refer to as your capillary bed here that can also become inflamed. And then lastly, you have your post-capillary venial. These all can become inflamed, and again, within multiple different organs or tissues. When these become inflamed, that is what we refer to as our small vessel vasculitis. Now, the mechanism, the pathophysiological concept is different. It's no longer cell mediated as it was for large and medium. It's now in two distinct areas. One is it could be anka mediator, anka associated. What is this anka? This is an anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies, and there's two types. One is your C-ankas, which are the cytoplasmic anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies, relatively redundant. They're attacking a specific protein that's present on neutrophils. This one here is very interesting. It's called proteinase 3. Whenever the C-ankas attach to that, they trigger these neutrophils to become agitated, and they start releasing reactive oxygen species and proteases and extracellular traps that bind up and propagate more inflammation in the area. The other one is called P-ankas, and these are your perinuclear anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies. These are going to be going after a protein called MPO, myeloperoxidase. If it's going after the myeloperoxidase enzyme, it's the P-ankas, and if it's going after the proteinase 3, it's the C-ankas. Either way, what happens is when these ankas are formed, again, they're formed because maybe you're exposed to some type of environmental agent of sorts. The protein on that environmental agent resembles the proteins on the neutrophils. They bind to them and trigger these neutrophils to induce vessel injury. When those vessels become injured, you increase the risk of, you got it, thrombosis, stenosis, and aneurysm formation within these particular areas of your microvascular. Now there is a couple different concepts here because the causes are very, very dependent upon the organs that they affect and the anka that's causing this. The first one is called granulomatosis with polyangiotis, also referred to as Wagner's. This one is primarily mediated by C-anka, whereas eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiotis, also known as Church-Strauss syndrome, is going to be P-anka mediated and microscopic polyangiotis is also P-anka mediated. All of these are mediated via this anka antibodies that trigger the same mechanism as the cell mediated does in large and medium vessel. The last one is immune complex deposition. This can also injure these smaller vessels here. This is going to be via these different antibodies that are binding and precipitating with one another and then depositing into an actual vessel wall in a particular organ or tissue which precipitates inflammation. These immune complexes can be IgA complexes. Let's say that you have a bunch of IgA antibodies that bind together and they precipitate and then basically what they do is they go and bind into a tissue. Maybe it's a glomeruli that they bind onto. When they bind to the glomeruli, they can utilize the complement system and are macrophages who will come in and precipitate lots of inflammation. The big thing to remember here is just diagnostically important is IgA antibodies don't usually precipitate a heavy amount of complement protein utilization especially C4 complement proteins. There's less of that one. Why am I mentioning that? Because there's another type of vasculitis which utilizes heavy amounts of IgG and IgM antibodies that complex and bind with one another, deposit into the tissue and utilize a heavy amount of C4 complement proteins which precipitates massive inflammation. Either way, the concept that I need you to understand is when these immune complexes bind into the actual vessel wall of the tissue, it will cause these little maroon guys here which are your complement proteins to become activated which will precipitate a lot of inflammation. It can do that by pulling in macrophages to enhance opsonization. It can release C3A, C5A, a bunch of different inflammatory molecules or chemokines that attract in more white blood cells. Either way, this is going to precipitate pretty massive injury. Vessel damage that's going to lead to, you guessed it, thrombosis, stenosis, and increased risk of aneurysm. All right, my friends. Now we move on to the next one which is immune complex deposition. This is when you have a bunch of different antibodies. Maybe they're IgA antibodies that utilize complement proteins because whenever IgA antibodies bind onto a particular protein, they can have complement proteins come and stick onto it, lead to mac formation or they can cause macrophages to come by enhancing opsonization or they can release chemokines. The whole concept is that IgA antibodies when they utilize complement system propagates inflammation especially of the tissue that it's depositing which is a blood vessel. In IgA vasculitis, you see lots of IgA complexes but here's the big thing diagnostically. They don't use a lot of the C4 complement protein. Use more of the C3. For the other one which is your cryoglobulinemic vasculitis, they use lots of IgG and IgM antibodies that will precipitate fine with one another and deposit into the tissues and utilize complement proteins but they use a heavy amount of C4 complement proteins. When you check the C4 levels, in between these two, it's going to be very low in cryoglobulinemic and normal in IgA vasculitis. All right. Either way, when these complement proteins are activated, these little antibodies bind onto the actual vessel wall, cause these complement proteins to stick to it, form mac formations which will damage the actual cell and then cause lots of immune system cells to become enhanced into the area and cause more damage, we're going to damage these vessels. This is all propagated again, IgA complexes, IgA vasculitis, IgG and IgM with heavy C4 protein utilization, cryoglobulinemic vasculitis. Either way, guess what the same result is if you damage the vessel? Humbosis, stenosis and increase risk of aneurysm formation within these small capillaries and a particular organ or tissue. We've now talked about the pathophysiology of large, medium and small vessel vasculitis. What about the complications going through of large, medium and small vessel vasculitis pertaining to the particular disease? So the first one was giant cell arthritis, if you guys remember. This one is going to particularly hit a very specific artery and whenever these immune system cells infiltrate the branches of the carotid it tends to hit this artery first, the superficial temporal artery. When you cause this to become inflamed you narrow the lumen and reduce blood flow to the tissue here, especially to the skin and the muscles. This can cause a headache, especially near this temporal area and tenderness of the skin over this particular area. It also can inflame this little branch right here called the ophthalmic artery, which can narrow the blood flow going to the actual retina, which can lead to amaurosis, fugax which is a temporary blindness, but then over time it can lead to complete and permanent vision loss. This is the most feared complication of giant cell arthritis. And the last one is it affects the maxillary artery. This goes to a lot of the muscles of mastication and so you can develop what's called jaw claudication, which is a lot of pain, soreness, tenderness of the actual muscles like the masseter, the bucinator, etc. during the chewing action. These are things to think about if you see this on the clinical exam in a patient with giant cell arthritis, this is what you really need to be thinking about. Another high yield fact for giant cell arthritis, which goes along with the epidemiology, this is most common in females, particularly greater than 50 years of age. There is one disorder that if you see this in the vignette will often times cue you up to think about giant cell arthritis. It's a patient who comes in presenting with proximal hip and shoulder joint pain, tenderness, and stiffness within the morning. This is called polymyalgia rheumatica, and that's often times very common and heavily associated with giant cell arthritis. We now move to the other large vessel of acolytis, which is tachiosus. Now remember, think about the artery that involves and follow the flow of that. I told you the carotid branches refer to the giant cell. For tachiosus, if you remember it was like the aorta, it was the subclavian and the carotids and the proximal parts of them. So if I hit particularly a lot of inflammation hitting that aorta, especially the aortic arch, if I inflame the aortic arch and I narrow this, one really prominent complication is if you inflame the vessel wall, you increase the risk of tearing through the intima and creating a dissection or weakening the vessel and causing it to balloon, causing an aneurysm. So aortic aneurysms and dissections are relatively common in patients with tachiosus. But really high yield for tachiosus is when it hits the subclavians and narrows this. You're reducing the blood flow to the upper extremities. So often times in these patients, if you narrow their subclavians, they'll have very decreased pulses bilaterally. Sometimes we call this a pulseless disease. On top of that, they may have unequal blood pressures, potentially between both arms, but the blood pressures in their upper extremities may be significantly lower than the blood pressure in their lower extremities. And so having unequal blood pressure and pulses in the extremities, particularly upper, in comparison to lower, is pretty consistent with tachiosus. Lastly is if you hit these carotids. If you get the carotids and you narrow these, you're narrowing the blood flow up to the brain. This can definitely lead to transient loss of consciousness, which is called syncope. But often times if you auscultate over this area, you may hear some turbulence of blood flow like a carotid bruit. So these are potential things to think about with tachiosus. Here's a really high yield fact though, to differentiate tachiosus from giant cell. Because tachiosus can potentially extend out to the carotid, they may get some similar presentation at giant cell, but you will never see tachiosus in a patient greater than 50. They're almost always less than 50 years of age. Usually you have Asian descent. Alright. So that's a good comparison between these two. Let's now move to medium vessel. For medium vessel vasculitis, the big one, the heavy hitter, the mac daddy of this one, is polyarteritis nadoza. And it's within the name. This son of a gun does almost every artery possible, except for those going to the lungs. And so when you think about this, one of the big ones that it likes to hit is the vessels that supply the nerves, the peripheral nerves. And so there's a disease that's called mononuritis multiplexum. So let's say here we have this vessel. It's called the vasinervorum. And the vasinervorum becomes inflamed and it gets narrowed and it doesn't supply oxygen to these nerves. Well then the nerves start to become less functional and become ischemic. Because of that, you're going to get damage to these nerves. And this oftentimes, here's the key thing, happens to two or more of these peripheral nerves. That what happens is you get what's called mononuritis multiplex. I like to also say it's multiple mononuropathies, meaning, for example, let's say I injure here because of vasinervorum narrowing, I injure the radial nerve. I'm going to get wrist drop. If I injure over here, the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve, I'm going to get lack of sensation over this kind of particular area here. And if I hit down here towards the peroneal nerve, I may get foot drop. So you're seeing a patient who has multiple mononuropathies. And that's usually pretty key. Another one is it loves the renal system. So it loves to hit this by causing a lot of narrowing of the actual lumen of the renal artery. Kind of like a renal artery stenosis almost. And if you reduce the perfusion going into the actual kidney, the juxtaglomerulus cells will sense that and they'll pump up a renin production. Renin will lead to angiotensin formation and aldosterone formation. And this combined effect of angiotensin 2 causing vasoconstriction, aldosterone reabsorbing sodium and water, you end up with an increase in BP. Oftentimes, these patients have not very good controlled blood pressure, hypertension. The other thing is if you have chronic repeated poor renal perfusion, guess what makes up your kidneys? Your nephrons. And you got 1.2 million of those in each kidney. These things will start dying off if they're not getting enough oxygen because of poor perfusion. If that happens, you can start to develop kidney injury, especially chronic kidney disease. These are really, really common features we see in polyadiritis and lidoza, especially if you see the monodiritis multiplex. They also love to hit the skin, especially the kind of vessels in the dermis and cause the blood to extravasate here and cause things like levido reticularis, which is this lacy appearance, as well as preparic lesions that are palpable that appear on the skin. Again, big thing for both of these is they do not blanch. It also hits the GI and this is a really, really important one, I think, for diagnostic purposes. When you hit the mesenteric vessels by causing this inflammation, it can cause this beaded appearance like it does here in the renal vessels. But what happens is you get so much beating and stenosis and thrombosis that you reduce perfusion to the small bowel that this can cause abdominal pain via mesenteric ischemia. And also, sometimes, if the mesenteric ischemia is relatively acute, your lactate levels might be elevated. But here's another big thing. These little aneurysms that form these little beaded aneurysms can rupture into the lumen of the GIT and can precipitate GI bleeds. This is important to be able to realize that they often have the little micro-aneurysm, or rosary bead appearances on the splenchnic vessels, as well as the renal vessels, which is diagnostically helpful. Here's one last thing to take away from polyadiritis in adosas. A big hyaluron factor is that 10% of cases are associated with hepatitis B virus infection. It used to be higher. It used to be 30%. But now with the oncoming of vaccines, this is now reduced. But if you have a patient who has polyadiritis in adosa and the question comes up, what should you test for to reduce the risk of recurrence, it's going to be hepatitis B virus serology. All right. All right. Kawasaki's disease. This is a medium vessel vascularitis that actually affects child, our children, I should say. The arteries that are most commonly affected, the coronary arteries. Now, what happens here is that this inflammation occurs and causes these coronary artery aneurysms to occur. The problem with these aneurysms is when they form, they can increase the risk of a clot forming here causing thrombosis, which can reduce blood flow and lead to NMI. Or these things can rupture it, which can actually cause a patient to develop sudden cardiac death. Sudden cardiac death via some type of terrible ventricular arrhythmia or myocardial infarction causing sudden cardiac death, these are two big things that you have to be concerned about with Kawasaki's. Now, you never want to find Kawasaki's via this involvement. How do I find it and make sure I monitor for these potential complications and make sure I try to prevent this since this has a higher mortality rate in these children? Look for what's called crash and burn. This is indicative of the common manifestations for this. C is for conjunctivitis, R is for a rash, A is for adenopathy, which is your lymph adenopathy, S is the strawberry tongue, H is for hand and feet edema and erythema, and burn is they have a fever for greater than five days. These features oftentimes should cue you up to think about Kawasaki's and you should then look for this and a patient who is of one to five years of age. We now move into small vessel vasculitis. What are the big complications that we need to be considerate of in small vessel vasculitis? The first one is going to be granulomatosis of polyangiotis. Granulomatosis of polyangiotis can affect a lot of different organs, but it's important to remember one big difference that helps you to separate and remember GPA from EGPA and MPA. How do I do that? The first one is it loves to involve the vessels of the nasopharynx or the upper respiratory tract. You'll oftentimes see that they have lots of C anchors and these C anchors will cause those neutrophils to lead to a lot of reactive oxygen species and proteases that cause inflammation of these vessels and the sinuses. And the ears. And so oftentimes these patients will present with chronic sinusitis, maybe even otitis media and on top of that it can cause such inflammation of the nasal septum that it can perforate and indent and cause something called a saddle nose deformity. If you see this, definitely be thinking about GPA. Now the other thing that happens with GPA is it loves to hit the lungs. It likes to hit the bronchial blood vessels and cause bleeding which can present with diffuse alveolar hemorrhage which can cause massive pulmonary infiltrates bilaterally and can cause aards and it can even cause homoptysis. It can also cause inflammation to occur within the interstitial spaces here and cause interstitial lung disease and it can cause, here's the biggest thing, when the patient has infiltrates on their chest x-ray and sometimes these patients with GPA have fevers and a lot of other symptoms that are concerning for pneumonia, they'll oftentimes get antibiotics. They'll get a repeat chest x-ray and they'll still have that. And so the common theme to look for on the exam is a patient with recurrent pneumonia who's been treated with antibiotics. It's not necessarily pneumonia, it's just they have multiple infiltrates and they keep getting treated with antibiotics and it's not getting any better. The other thing is it loves to hit the kidneys, so homoptysis and hematuria. It likes to cause anchors to cause inflammation of the glomerulus which leads to loss of the glomerular filtration barrier and then they lose protein and blood. And so you'll see hematuria in the form of red blood cell cast which we'll talk about in glomerular nephritis. You also are going to lose lots of protein which is going to be in the form of proteinuria and the other thing that can happen in this particular patient is they can cause massive injury here which can lead to loss of proper GFR and clearance of creatinine and so these patients can have an increase in their creatinine, their BUN indicating and acute kidney injury. So rapid rise in their creatinine over a couple of days. That is a big thing to think about here. So hematuria, homoptysis via the diffuse alveolar hemorrhage, think about that especially if they have sinus involvement and lastly they like the skin and it's going to cause extravasation of blood into the skin tissue which can lead to palpable perpura. The big thing that you're going to notice is a recurrent theme here is that these three systems consistently become involved in GPA, EGPA and MPA. They differ really only in minute things. Let's talk about that. EGPA is eosinophilic granulomatomastopoligaeitis. So here's the big thing. These P-ankas which is the big thing that they're triggering, they like to cause these kind of again changes in neutrophils which lead to injury to the vessels supplying the nerves. What's this going to lead to? Vasin or form narrowing, two or more nerve damage and mononuritis multiplex. This is a big thing to think about. We see it in this one and we also see it in polyurethane dosa. But here's the heavy hitter. Here's the high yield stuff. These also tend to increase the production of IgE antibodies and increase the development of eosinophils in the airway which can precipitate allergic asthma via intense bronchospasm. So in patients who come in and have mononuritis multiplex, allergic asthma, eosinophilia and elevated IgE levels plus, what did we just talk about guys, pulmonary renal and skin involvement, think about EGPA. So this is going to be the same thing that you saw in GPA. They only differ in this particular area as well as P-ankas here, C-ankas for GPA. Okay, now we move on to MPA. Now MPA is even easier. You want to know why? Because if we look here, guess what? This one has elevated P-ankas, similar to EGPA. Okay, cool. What helps to differentiate it from EGPA and GPA? Well, no sinus involvement. Oh, that's GPA is the only one with the sinus involvement, the upper respiratory tract involvement. Okay. There's no allergic asthma involvement or eosinophilia or IgE antibodies that are elevated. Okay, it's unlikely EGPA. And there's no granulomas if you took a biopsy which we'll talk about later. That means really the only big thing for MPA is they have pulmonary renal and skin involvement. So they all can have diffuse alveolar hemorrhage via homoptysis. They can have infiltrates that require repeated antibiotics and they don't get better, interstitial lung disease, glomaline arthritis, and palpable perpura. They differ only by small little minute things. Now we move into the other type of small vessel vasculitis, which is your immune complexes. We have IgA. IgA vasculitis is the most common childhood vasculitis. Very important to remember. Usually a kid has been exposed to some type of upper respiratory tract infection. Usually it's a group A streptococcus bacteria or a viral infection. What happens is this triggers the immune system to generate antibodies against the group A strept or the virus. But guess what these things unfortunately do? They find proteins in our blood vessels that look similar to this protein on these bacteria or viruses and they attack it. Where? They love to attack the GIT, especially near the ilium. Inflaming these vessels, inflaming the ilium can increase the risk of causing this lead point where parts of the ilium slide right into the cecum. Casing the risk of antiseption and a small bowel obstruction here. You want to look for patients who have intense abdominal pain and IgA vasculitis. Guess what else it loves to hit? The renal vessels, the glomeruli, it can cause inflammation of the glomerulus. If it inflames the glomerulus, what's it going to do? It's going to cause hematuria, proteinuria. It doesn't necessarily cause as much of an acute kidney injury, but it is possible. It also loves to affect what else? It loves to affect the skin and cause extravization of blood into the actual skin tissue causing palpable perpura, especially oftentimes we see this over the actual legs and the buttocks. The joints, it loves to cause inflammation of the blood vessels near the synovial joints and causes inflammation of those joints causing joint pain. Oftentimes there is a triad that we will see as a similarity between IgA vasculitis and cryoglobulinemic, which is glomerulonophritis, palpable perpura, and joint pain. They differ really only between mesentery and GI bleed and the epidemiology that differentiates them as well. That then takes us into the cryoglobulinemic vasculitis. In this one, what we know is that this is most common. There is three types, type 1, type 2, type 3. Type 2 and type 3 oftentimes cause vasculitis. Type 1 causes hyperviscocity syndrome. We won't go too much into that. What I want you to remember, which is pertinent for your boards, is that cryoglobulinemic vasculitis is heavily associated with hepatitis C virus infections. They're exposed to some type of infection. Their body generates these antibodies against this hepatitis C virus such as IgM and IgG, and these IgM tend to be rheumatoid factor positive. If you check a rheumatoid factor.  for cryoglobulinemic patients, they're oftentimes positive. Either way, they generate these antibodies, and these antibodies will precipitate and complex together at temperatures less than 37 degrees. That's what we call cryoglobulins, proteins that precipitate and complex at low temperatures, less than 37 degrees. Once they do that, they go and deposit into the blood vessels of the affected organs, right, and we'll talk about those. Before we do that, I want to briefly pay homage to the types. Type 1, we see where there's primarily increased monoclonal IgM antibodies. We can see this in patients with multiple myeloma and Waldenstrung's macroglobulinemia. Type 2, we see that they have what's called monoclonal IgM antibodies and polyclonal IgG antibodies. This is the most common one that is associated with hepatitis C. Type 3 is you have polyclonal IgG and IgM antibodies that are complexing, and this is most commonly associated with autoimmune diseases. The big thing to remember, hepatitis C virus is associated. IgM and IgG antibodies are the primary antibodies that are precipitating the vasculitis, and it occurs oftentimes at lower temperatures. Now, the artery and organ that's involved is exactly the same as IgA vasculitis. It's the renal so they can precipitate glomerular nephritis, the skin so they can precipitate palpable perpura, and the joint involvement so they can precipitate joint pain. This is the big thing, but look for hepatitis C virus infection as the potential trigger here. My friends, we've talked a lot about vasculitis and differentiating them based upon pathophysiology. Now, if we're presented with a patient who comes in and says, hey, I'm having some fever, some fatigue, I'm having some joint pain, some anorexia, and maybe they're having other organ-specific symptoms, and you have a suspicion for vasculitis. You have to have a very strong degree of suspicion. The best thing to do is, is if they have some systemic and organ-specific symptoms, get an ESR and a CRP. All right, so now if we were to obtain an ESR and a CRP and it comes back that it's really elevated and they also have that fever, the fatigue, the anorexia, the weight loss, that's definitely suggesting systemic inflammation, right? So here's where a history and physical examination becomes extremely crucial to nail down a diagnosis of vasculitis. If I have constitutional symptoms, elevated ESR, CRP, and I have organ-specific symptoms, what in the heck does that even mean? For example, I have a patient who's greater than 50, they're coming in with a temporal headache and tenderness, they're having jaw claudication and maybe even some vision changes, that's their organ-specific symptoms, plus constitutional elevated ESR, CRP, I'm very suspicious of GCA. How do I really nail down the diagnosis? I could honestly make a clinical one and give them steroids and see if they get better, but if we really need to, we can do a temporary biopsy and look for giant cells with a lot of granulomidus inflammation that would be diagnostic of GCA, all right? If I do a good history and I see that the patient's less than 50, they have unequal or weak blood pressure impulses in the upper extremities and compared to the lower extremities, and I notice they have carotid bruise, maybe a history of syncope, I'm suspecting tachyacids, but I'm not going to go cutting into the carotid, cutting into their subclavian, cutting into the aorta, what am I going to do? I'm going to look for imaging evidence that suggests narrowing inflammation stenosis of those vessels. That's when I would go to a CTA or MRA. Look at this. You can see here some of the branches of the aorta carotid are very, very inflamed and very narrow. That's a pretty indicative one. I'll look here on the sagittal view. You can see here there's a lot of narrowing of the actual aorta and a lot of thickening and inflammation of the vessel wall. Those would be very, very suggestive and almost pretty much diagnostic for a patient having tachyacids. If we go the other route to now polyaduritis, if I have a patient who has hepatitis B virus infection, 10% of cases, they have mononuritis multiplex, they have hypertension, they have CKD, they have levidoreticularis or preparatory lesions, they have mesenteric ischemia or GI bleeding, I suspect polyaduritis and doza. How do I look for the primary problem? I told you the renal vessels, mesenteric vessels tend to bead and look like little aneurysms. And so if you get a visceral angiogram, it'll show these particular vessels. Look here, here's a mesenteric involvement. You see all these like little beaded appearances. These are all the aneurysms. That's diagnostic. If I get it in the renal vessels, boom, diagnostic. I have then made a pretty good diagnostic, a suspicion of polyaduritis and doza. This would be enough. If the patient has skin involvement though and nerve involvement, it would go a long way at this point to say, I'm gonna do a skin or nerve biopsy. And if I do that, I will find fibroenoid necrosis of that tissue that would be completely diagnostic of polyaduritis and doza. But oftentimes you don't have to if you have that visceral angiogram that makes the diagnosis. If I have purpuric lesions, pulmonary infiltrates, in other words, a patient with the infiltrates on the chest x-ray not getting better with antibiotics or glomeruline arthritis, I should be concerned about an ancovascularitis. Whereas if I have purpuric lesions, I have arthralgias or joint pain, anglomeruline arthritis, I should think about the triad present for immune complex vasculitis. How do I differentiate these two? Well, if I really wanted to, I should just get labs for all of these. I should get an ANCA level, an IGA level, a cryoglobulin level and a C4 level. Now, here's why. If I get the ANCAs, I'll tell if it's C-ANCA or P-ANCA. If it's C-ANCA, it's GPA. If it's P-ANCA, it's EGPA or MPA. And I have to look at their clinical features. If it comes back, IGA levels are elevated. It's IGA vasculitis. And if the cryoglobulin's come back positive and the C4 levels, remember, I told you the difference between the two. If C4 is low, that suggests cryoglobulinemic vasculitis. This oftentimes may be enough, but add in your history and physical exam. For GPA, they're going to have sinus involvement. That's the big difference. So nasopharynx involvement, so sinusitis, the deformity, the saddle nose deformity would also be suggestive of that otitis media. That would oftentimes be good enough. If you really wanted to, you could obtain a biopsy to really add to the utility here. If I had a patient with elevated eosinophils and IgE antibodies and asthma, I would think about EGPA. And if I have a patient who has no nasopharynx, no eosinophilia, IgE or asthma involvement, I'm thinking, MPA. But again, I can get a biopsy to really help me out here. IGA vasculitis, look for a recent upper respiratory tract infection and a young child. And cryoglobulinemic, what's the main infection? Hepatitis C virus infection. So these are cues to think about. Now, if I get a biopsy, this would oftentimes nail down some of the differences between these two and these two if I really wanted to. So if I got a biopsy from the skin or from the, I did a renal biopsy, if I did any of these, I would potentially find granulomas in some of these. Now, granulomas just fibrous tissue, lymphocytes and macrophages in the center. Oftentimes, if we see granulomas that are present and they're necrotizing in the center, it suggests GPA and EGPA, right? Thus the name granulomatosis, granulomatosis. So that's the way we'd see it there. If it's giant cells, which means that all of these macrophages have kind of coalesced together and formed a multi-nucleated giant cell, that suggests giant cell arthritis and dochaosis arthritis. If you don't see any granulomas here, then you want to start thinking about potentially MPA. That's another way to differentiate these. Another way to differentiate these two is that this has granulomas, this does not have granulomas. And lastly, if I did a biopsy for these two, I would see IGA deposition heavy on immunofluorescence and IG vasculitis. And then for this one, I would see IgG, IgM and C4 proteins that would be deposited into the actual vessel wall there. This is an easy way of really being able to systematically approach vasculitis in a very, very helpful way. All right, let's now move into treatment. All right, my friends, let's now talk about the treatment of large vessel vasculitis. So we talked about the two types, giant cell arthritis and takayasu. The nice thing is that we treat both of these relatively the same. So steroids is going to be the upfront treatment. Now what are the reasons why we would initiate steroids in these patients? Oftentimes, it's first-line in both of these diseases. Now there is an extra drug that we can add on if the patient is refractory to corticosteroids or we can't wean them off of the steroids because they're still having symptoms. That would be where we would utilize tosilizumab or methotrexate. So this is an interleukin 6 blocker and this has the ability to shut down a lot of inflammation as well. So again, that would be a potential indication. The last thing that we could also consider as a treatment in large vessel vasculitis is angioplasty and stenting. We really only would utilize this in severe organ ischemia in patients with takayasu. So if they were having like really bad limb ischemia, I would then say, hey, we should go in there, balloon open that vessel, place the stent so that we can maintain good perfusion and then we can go put them on steroids if we need to. I think this is a lot, right? But I think the biggest thing to remember is an algorithmic approach. It might make it easier for you. So let's say that a patient has giant solid right. They're having vision changes. If they are having vision changes, right away you have to put them on steroids no matter what. If the vision loss is really bad, then okay, guess what I'm going to do? I'm going to start them on IV methylprednisolone. I need to get high dose steroids in there and get the inflammation down now so that they don't lose their vision. If there is no vision changes, I don't want them to eventually do lose their vision. So I'm going to put them on steroids, but it doesn't have to be IV and it doesn't have to be these crazy high doses right away. That's when I would use something like oral prednisone. All right? So that's the way I would review this. Now let's say that I use one of those two agents. I don't get them under control or they're refractory. They're still having symptoms. That's when I would go to Tosalizumab or I would go to methotrexate. Same thing. If I have a patient with tachyosis, are they having limb ischemia? So are they having severe claudication? They're having discoloration, pallor, decreased pulses. They're having pain out of proportion on their extremities, on the upper extremities. Oh, they are. Okay. Well then I should probably go ahead and balloon and stent open that vessel, the subclavian. If they're not, put them on some steroids, reduce some of the inflammation down with some oral prednisone. Then again, if they're not able to get off the steroids and not getting any better, that's when I would go to Tosalizumab or methotrexate. That's the way that we would approach these large vessel vascularities. Thankfully, it's the way that we'll approach a lot of our vascularities. I think the reason why we're doing this should be straightforward. It's to reduce inflammation. Yes, that's 100% the case. You want to use things like steroids, methotrexate, Tosalizumab because you're shutting down all of these inflammatory pathways, which is inducing vessel injury. Yes, there'll be less vessel wall inflammation. What's the benefit of this? What are you trying to prevent? You're trying to reduce thrombosis. You're trying to reduce repeated injury leading to stenosis. You're trying to reduce the risk of aneurysm rupture and causing bleeding. That is the goal that you're trying to go after. Let's talk about the treatment of medium vessel vasculitis. Now, when we talk about these, the treatment oftentimes is corticosteroids plus cyclophosphamide. The reason you would give this is in a patient with polyarteritis nadoza with very bad organ involvement. This is the first line treatment. You want to reduce the risk of acute kidney injury. You want to reduce the risk of a patient developing a nasty GI bleed. You want to reduce the risk of irreversible nerve injury, et cetera. In these patients, oftentimes you have to go big or go home. For IVIG plus aspirin, you're giving the IVIG to a patient with calisoccus to reduce the risk of coronary artery aneurysms and aspirin to reduce inflammation, but more specifically, you're giving it to reduce the risk of thrombosis within those aneurysms. This is the first line in calisoccus disease. Now, you're probably like, okay, so I give corticosteroids plus cyclophosphamide for PAN and IVIG plus aspirin for calisoccus. Cool. Is there another way I should look at this? I like to say, okay, there is another way that you could look at this. When a patient has polyarteritis nadoza, ask yourself the question, do they have really bad renal involvement? Do they have really bad GI involvement or neuro involvement? If they don't, you could probably get away with steroids only. But if they start to develop any renal GI or neuro involvement that is not getting any better, you then need to go big and go to steroids and cyclophosphamide to really shut down the inflammation. Here's the big thing though, and they're going to try to ask this on the exam. If you treat these patients and you don't get rid of their underlying cause or reason why they're developing vasculitis, they'll keep coming back. In this patient, we know a potential reversible cause. Do they have hepatitis B virus infection? If they do, you need to treat that because it will reduce the risk of recurrence. What about Kawasaki's? It's pretty straightforward. You give them IVIG and aspirin, and then what you do is you look to see, are they getting any improvement in their coronary artery aneurysms? Are they remaining stable in size? Get an echocardiogram to keep checking on those coronary artery aneurysms to make sure they're not getting any bigger. Again, why are you doing all of these things? You're giving all of these agents to reduce inflammation, reduce thrombosis, stenosis, and aneurysm rupture. That's the whole goal. The last thing is small vessel vasculitis. With treating these, it all comes down to the same concept. For these, we can use supportive care in certain types. Oftentimes, IGA vasculitis and very mild cryoglobulinemic vasculitis, if they just have joint pain, they don't have any glomerular arthritis or anything like that, or they only have skin lesions, you can avoid going any too crazy. In terms of IGA vasculitis and very mild cryoglobulinemic vasculitis, we can just do supportive care and not doing anything else. It's when the patient who has cryoglobulinemic vasculitis or a patient has any Anka vasculitis, do you need to go to corticosteroids plus cyclofossilumine? You're seeing this one for PAN. Guess what else you see it for? I'd say moderate to severe cryoglobulinemia and any type of Anka vasculitis. The last treatment option for small vessel vasculitis is PLEX. The only time we would do PLEX is if a patient has Anka vasculitis and they're developing diffuse alveolar hemorrhage and rapidly progressive glomerular arthritis. The only other time is if we think that we don't know, does the patient have Anka vasculitis or what's called anti-GBM disease, often known as Good Pasture Syndrome. If I am unsure if the patient has Good Pasture Syndrome or Anka vasculitis that's causing their hemoptysis and glomerular arthritis, then I need to start them on PLEX. The whole concept behind PLEX, which is really cool, is you're taking a large catheter and you're removing the blood that has these antibodies or these kind of Ankas, cleaning it out via this kind of like filter, and then sending in a substitution fluid back into the patient's bloodstream and basically just removing the constant inflammation via these anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies or anti-GBM antibodies, which will reduce the risk of rapidly progressive glomerular arthritis and diffuse alveolar hemorrhage. That's the concept you want to remember. Now to recap a lot of this, if a patient has Anka vasculitis, you have to ask the question, do they have RPGN, rapidly progressing acute kidney injury? Do they have diffuse alveolar hemorrhage, so they're in R, so they're having massive hemoptysis, or do they have anti-GBM? If they don't, it's steroids and cyclophosphamide. If they do, you go to PLEX. That's the way that you make that decision. For cryoglobulinemic, you just want to know, do they have glomerular arthritis, because that's the bad one, because this can cause acute kidney injury. If they do not, it's just supportive care. If they do, then you want to start them on steroids plus cyclophosphamide or an alternative agent for this one is Ratoxamab. Next thing, this patient has a high association with hepatitis C virus infection, like there is HBV and polyurethanose. Ask them or check for hepatitis C virus infection. If they do, treat it, because you reduce the risk of recurrence. Again, why are we doing all of these things here? To reduce vessel inflammation and all of these complications. All right, my friends, that covers vasculitis. I hope it made sense. I hope that you guys enjoyed it. I love you. Thank you and as always, until next time.