 cram.com. They say that artificial intelligence is going to take our jobs, and that may be true. But before it does, it's going to make our jobs a lot easier. Hi, folks. This is Dr. Roger Schwell from MedCram. Today, I'm going to show you how, in many cases, for free, artificial intelligence can actually help medical providers with their medical documentation. Medical documentation has really evolved over the last 50 years. Back in those days, the documentation that physicians and healthcare providers did was merely to remind them about exactly what it was that they were doing with their patient. That's changed. Now, it is pretty much a document that's used for many things, specifically billing. Unless you're actually documenting what you're doing in the note for the patient, you're not going to be able to bill for that procedure or that time with the patient, and therefore you're not going to get paid. Medical documentation has really been beefed up in the last few decades to be able to justify the type of reimbursement that healthcare providers need to get, and they need to actually show that they're doing what they're doing in billing. That has to take place in medical documentation. In addition to that, it's also a legal document. It's actually showing what you're actually thinking and the reason why you're doing things. As a result of this, whereas the practice of medicine 50 years ago was very heavy on the practice and the actual doing of medicine and was pretty light on the documentation, that's changed. Now, medical documentation is starting to take up and has taken up a huge portion of the actual job of being a healthcare provider. For some, this paperwork and documentation has really caused a lot of burnout. People go into medicine, I can speak for myself, because we want to actually treat patients and be with patients and make these decisions and be at the bedside. When half your day is actually being taken up with documentation, burnout rates are high. I've seen studies that go back over a decade ago where healthcare providers were given scribes and people that would shadow them and actually do the documentation for them. Those studies showed and reported that these healthcare providers had almost like a rebirth, a re-experience of their profession and burnout rates would actually plummet. The issue was it was very expensive to actually hire an individual human being to follow you around and to write down all of the stuff that was legitimate and needed to be included in documentation. Enter AI. To really understand and appreciate what AI can now do, and we're going to go through this in stepwise function, actually show you how to do this as a healthcare provider. For those who are not healthcare providers, please stick around and watch because right now this is actually happening in real time how your healthcare visit is going to change. I'm going to show you what a typical inpatient visit is, and this also works by the way for outpatient clinics as well. What a typical inpatient visit would be for a hospitalist admitting and doing a progress note and for myself as an intensivist doing the same sort of thing. The first thing we're going to talk about is a new visit. One comes into the hospital and what are the sort of things that a physician needs to do or a nurse practitioner needs to do or a PA needs to do to evaluate that patient and get them quote unquote admitted to the hospital. Basically you need to research the patient. So that means you open up the chart, you're looking at the labs, you're looking at the old records if there are any to make sure that you are understanding exactly why the patient's there. You're going to interview the patient if you can and you're going to interview family because they can also tell you what's been going on with the patient especially if the patient can't do that. All of that in terms of researching, looking at the labs, looking at the old records, interviewing the patient, examining the patient, that also needs to be done. All of this together can take about 15 to 20 minutes and it sounds like a very short period of time but once you are doing this for a long period of time you can get actually pretty efficient at it. Sometimes depending on the complexity it might take you longer than 15 to 20 minutes to look through all of those things because you kind of know what you're looking for. The next thing that you're going to need to do is you're going to need to put orders into the computer or onto the chart. Orders simply tell the nursing staff, the ancillary staff, all of those people that work in the hospital what exactly that may need to do and that's going to be things like you're admitting a patient. So this tells them what the diet is going to be, what the IV fluids are going to be, what the medicines are going to be. Like there are any x-rays or CAT scans or labs that you want to order. How often do you want to order that? Is there tube feedings? Is there free water with the tube feedings, etc. And putting all of those into the computer to make sure that that gets done, that can take anywhere between 5 to 10 minutes depending on how protocolized that is and how long that needs to go. So you're already looking at about 30 minutes to admit a patient. But at the end of all of that you need to then actually write something called a history and physical. And a history and physical is taking everything that we've talked about so far here, talking about what it was that you found when you researched. You also need to document what you might have seen on the old records. You have to also talk about what did the patient tell you that makes you think that this is what the patient has. What did you find on examination? What are the things that you're going to be ordering? And it needs to be written in something called a format of a history and physical. And that has a very specific order of events. There are things that have to be written in a specific way, in specific sections. And if they're not written in that way, then you can't bill appropriately. So let's talk a little bit about what the history and physical generally looks like. A history and physical will have something called the history of present illness. And that's going to tell you a little bit about the patient's story. It could be maybe 7 to 8 sentences long. It's got some details in there that helps people understand exactly why the patients come in. Then you're going to need to list the review of systems. This is basically a list of arbitrary symptoms and signs that means that you've gone through and tried to pick out exactly what the patient should have. Usually about 10 systems are involved in that type of a situation. Then you write something called the past medical history where you list all of the past problems that the patient has had before, the past surgical history, any surgeries that the patient has had in the past, diseases that run in the family. That would be the family history, the social history where you list, for instance, whether the patient has smoked, used drugs or drinks alcohol or any other illicit things for that matter. You're also going to list the medicines that the patient is taking at home and any allergies to medications that the patient may have. You're then going to go through and list out a physical examination. This has multiple components looking at the general aspect of the patient, their head, their neck, their chest, their lungs, their abdomen, their extremities, their neurological examination. Depending on why the patient is there, you would have to do this in detail. You're then also going to look at all of the labs that have come back and see whether or not there are things that need to be discussed. This also includes imaging, CT scans, chest x-rays, et cetera. Then you're going to go into something called the assessment and plan. You're going to list off in order the assessment why the patient is there and what you're going to do about that particular diagnosis. For instance, a urinary tract infection. You're going to start antibiotics. These patients, you're going to have in many cases multiple different assessments. You're going to list off all of those assessments based on your understanding of medicine and what it is that you're actually going to do about it. This all has to go in a very specific format and listed out very specifically. When you're done at the end of the day, this can literally take between 10 and 15 minutes just to make sure that you're getting that right and you're putting all the information in there. You also need to say, what are the things that you're doing to prevent DVTs? What are the things that you're doing to prevent blood clots or ulcers in the stomach? Is the patient a full code or is the patient DNR? What kind of code status is the patient? Who's the one that makes medical decisions for the patient? How long did you spend actually seeing this patient? This is a document for billing and that all needs to be included. Maybe your best estimation about how long this patient is going to be in the hospital so that the insurance companies understand all of that. This is the things that are tasked day in, day out. Every single patient that you go down to evaluate, these are the things that need to be in the medical documentation. This is a new visit. This is what happens when you go down and admit a patient from the emergency room. What we're going to talk about is how we can speed all of this up using artificial intelligence. Before we do, I just wanted to run by you the other types of visits that we see in the hospital that are return visits. Once this patient is admitted and you've already seen them, what happens when you come back the next day? What's involved with what we call a progress note? Okay, so let's clear the board and let's look for a return visit. You're coming back to the hospital to see a patient that's already there and you're going to generate a progress note. Generally what's involved there is you go back and the patient is admitted. They have a history in physical. You've already started the treatment. What you need to do is you need to review the labs that have come in since you've been gone, labs or x-rays or things that have happened overnight. You may want to talk to the doctor or the nurse practitioner or PA that was there overnight seeing the patient, the nurse as well. We very helpful to find out what are the updates? What happened overnight? Did the patient do well? Did the patient not do well? Did they need sleep medicine to fall asleep last night, etc. That can take about 10 minutes or so. Then you're going to go and examine that patient and say, hey, Mr. Smith, how did you do overnight? Let me listen to your heart, your lungs, your abdomen. Let me focus on specifically the areas that are in question because you have this particular diagnosis and that's going to take about five minutes. Then what we do in the intensive care unit, for instance, and I'm specializing it to that because this is what I do, is I will go on rounds and we'll actually have nurses. ICU nurses present on rounds as well as the respiratory therapists as well as the pharmacists. That's very important because the nurse will tell me in a very specific format what happened overnight and what's going on with the ventilation of the patient if they're on a ventilator or they're breathing treatments, etc. Then what medicines the patient is on, what antibiotics are we covering for the blood cultures or the urine cultures that have come back overnight. That can take about 15 minutes going through all of that. What I have to do is I've got to go back and write, instead of a history and physical, I'm writing a progress note. That progress note is basically in the form of what we call a SOAP note, subjective, objective, assessment, and plan. This is the same assessment and plan that we had from the history and physical except it's going to be updated. Subjective is all the things that happened overnight and what the patient described. Basically all of this fits into the subjective. The objective is the examination. I went to the bedside and I examined the patient here. All of this needs to be listed off because this is a medical document. Then finally the assessment and plan again, those same things. Now I'm updating these assessment and plans based on the stuff that's happened up here. All of that together, this can sometimes take a good 10 to 15 minutes as well. I'm going to show you we can actually program AI to generate much of this documentation, if not all of it, to help with this and actually cut down the amount of time you're spending on patients in general and documentation. I want to be very clear about this. The way that we're using AI here in this example in this video is not necessarily to direct the patient's care. We're not using AI necessarily to tell us what to do with the patient. In this example, we're actually just using artificial intelligence to quickly document clearly and in the right order and in the right way what stuff is that you already have determined that you're going to do. You're not spending 10, 15 minutes documenting, typing, backspacing, inserting, copying, pasting, putting together a note that is taking a long time just to basically tell some person on the computer, whether it's an insurance agent or whether it's someone who's reviewing the chart, what it is that you've already done and decided for the patient. Let's get started and show you how that works. There are a lot of artificial intelligence generators in the medical field, things that you can pay some money for and get the benefits of exactly what we're about to talk about today, which is these AI generators, which can act as scribes to document what it is that you're doing. There's many of them. The two biggest things that I think are the most important in an AI generator, and which we're going to look at today, is you want it to be free and specifically you want it to be HIPAA compliant. The one I'm going to show you today is Doximity, and that's the one that I've signed up with. My understanding is that you have to be a provider to be able to get an account on Doximity. Once you do, it's free, and specifically it is HIPAA compliant. Now this is really important to understand because in order to be able to do this, you have to have something called a BAA. This goes for any AI that you would use with actual patients. It's called a Business Associate Agreement. You need to make sure that whoever you go with actually has this. This basically allows you to use their programs to be able to do this type of work on actual patients that are in the hospital because it is actually HIPAA compliant. It protects you and them if there's ever a breach, and you just need to make sure that there is this thing in place. You can see here that Doximity just list out their BAA. By the way, Doximity has a bunch of other cool things like a dialer, where you can actually dial out to patients without having to use your personal cell phone number. You can use this by the way on their mobile app. What will pop up on their telephone is the company that you work with, even though you're calling on your phone. What I wanted to go to is this thing called AI Tools. They have a bunch of things here like Answers that you can use, Scribe. The thing I want to use here is Doximity GPT, which is a HIPAA compliant writing assistant. By the way, if you're not a provider and you can't get onto Doximity for whatever reason, there are other HIPAA compliant AI generators which you can use, but some of them you do have to pay money for. We'll be talking more about those at the end of this talk. But let's go to Doximity GPT. This is what it looks like, and you can see I've been using this actually for a number of days. What you can do is you can type in your prompt or you can put your prompt library in here. This is where you tell the Doximity GPT what it is that you actually want. And really, the thing that you're going to get out of this is the type of prompts that you put into this. I have put together a history and physical prompt that I've written. And it's right here. You can see forget everything before because sometimes this thing remembers things. So just do a memory dump. This is a brand new patient. I'm a treating physician. I want you to produce a history and physical note after I give you the information of the patient. I want you to go through and I put that structure in that I want exactly how that history and physical is to be constructed, even down to the order of the exam that I want, the fact that I want ICD-10 codes put in, the order of the systems that I want. Since this is going to be an ICU note, I want it in terms of systems, including neurological, respiratory, cardiac, renal, infectious disease. I wanted all this to doubt, even down to whether or not I'm giving prophylaxis to prevent GI pain or DVT and also how long the patient might be in the hospital for. So when I've done that, it'll say I'm ready to hear about the patient's history and that's when I can actually type in or even dictate in the history that I've gotten as I've seen the patient. We're actually going to try this to see how this goes and I'll actually just dictate a made up story and we'll see how well this actually works. So this patient is a 63 year old nursing home resident who appeared more altered today by a nursing home staff. Vital signs were checked and the blood pressure was found to be 70 over 50. The heart rate was in the 120s. Because of this, the ambulance was called and the patient was brought in by an ambulance to the emergency room where the vital signs were confirmed and the patient was started on IV fluids. The patient had a Foley catheter already in place, which had been in and was dark and cloudy. The Foley catheter was changed and the patient was given 30 mLs per kilogram IV of normal saline. This did not improve the blood pressure and the patient was started on vasopressors in the form of LevaFed. And you can see that the dictation is not getting it perfectly right so you could always go back and correct it, but we'll just move on. The patient was confused and so the history was obtained by record sent over by the nursing home. Review of systems was unobtainable because the patient was not able to communicate coherently, period. The past medical history was positive for multiple urinary tract infections in the past but also had diabetes, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, osteoarthritis, and dementia period. Past surgical history is bilateral knee replacement surgery five years ago, period. Patient has a family history of prostate cancer in his father, who is now deceased. Social history, the patient has a 20-pack year smoking history but quit 15 years ago, period. The patient does not drink alcohol or use drugs, period. The patient's medications are atorvastatin, 10 mg POQHS, M-Lodipine, 10 mg POQD, and Metformin, 500 mg POBID, period. Patient is not allergic to any medication, period. Labs were reviewed, which were pertinent for an elevated WBC count of 15,000, a hemoglobin of 12 and a platelet count of 350, period. These were normal except for a bicarbonate of 19 and a creatinine of 2.5. The patient's urinalysis showed an elevated white blood cell count of greater than 100 per high power field and also positive nitrates and a positive leukocyte esterase, period. Chest x-ray was clear, period. Lactic acid was 3.0, period. On physical examination, the patient was mildly hypotensive on vasopressors, alert and oriented times 1. H-E-E-N-T was clear, neck veins were flat, heart regular rates and rhythm, lungs clear to oscultation, abdomen non-tender, non-distended, extremities, no clumping, cyanosis, or edema. The patient does have a foley catheter, which is draining yellow urine, which is cloudy, period. Assessment and plan, this is a patient with a urinary tract infection with septic shock. We will continue IV fluids, continue vasopressors, keeping the map greater than 65, and titrate off as necessary, period. Patient is to get IV fluids of normal saline at 100 cc an hour. We will start hydrocortisone 50 mg IVQ6, get urine and blood cultures, check lactic acid with sepsis labs and get imaging to rule out hydronephrosis and retained kidney stones, period. We will hold off on restarting the blood pressure medication as the patient is hypotensive and also start on metformin after the patient's kidney function improves, if at all, period. We will keep the patient NPO or nothing per mouth until the patient becomes more awake and also consider dietary consultation. We will start DVT prophylaxis with heparin 5000 units, sub-QBID, and hold off on GI or gastric ulcer prophylaxis, period. Patient is full code as discussed with his daughter Isabella. Total critical care time was 35 minutes, not including procedures, period. So you can see here that we basically just rattled off a bunch of sentences, which would never do an official history and physical. We've told the AI generator that we're going to give a full description in our mind of everything that's happened. We could even do this on the fly. We could do this on the mobile app that Doximity has and then simply type it in. By the way, the mobile app and this online version here on the computer are synced. So whatever you do on one will show up on the other. Now that we've done it, we are ready to click the button and instead of going back and typing this all out and dictating it and making sure that it's all exactly in the right order and everything has the ICD-10 codes and the plan and it's sorted out by systems, all we do is just click this little button right here and we wait. We can see here that it is writing our history and physical notes and it's like magic. Let's go to the top here and we can see it's going to consolidate what we said into a very nice history of present illness. This patient is a 63-year-old nursing home resident who presented with altered mental status as observed by the nursing home staff. Upon evaluation, the patient was found to be hypotensive with his blood pressure, heart rate, transported to the emergency room. Given this much saline, without improvement, the patient was started on vasopressors of norepinephrine. By the way, it figured out that I misspelled it and it corrected it. The patient was confused. The history was obtained from the nursing home records. A folicathor was already in place, which was subsequently changed. Very nice, very consistent and it's in very good English. New systems, past medical history, past surgical history, social history, family history, medication, allergies, medicines, all of the physical exam listed exactly as I wanted it, all of the pertinent labs. Notice the assessment and plan. Neurological, it states exactly what's going on neurologically, respiratory-wise. In other words, it's by systems. You can actually do it the other way if you want, but in the ICU we typically do it in systems. Here's cardiac, here's renal, here's infectious disease. All of these things are put in nice order, exactly how you would have it done literally in seconds. Hematological, endocrine, nutritional, prophylaxis, code status, critical care time, estimated length of stay as several days. You can save this, you can send it as a fax, you can send it as a text, you can copy it and then paste it into your favorite EMR and it's all ready to go. Literally you have an H&P in seconds. When you come back the next day, things have happened overnight. You have to write a soap note. A progress note. So, the S is subjective, all the things that happened overnight and what the patient has said. The objective is the physical examination in the labs and then what's left is the assessment and plan. That can take some time to update that assessment and plan and make sure that it is reflective of what is actually accurate. What I've done is I've put together an assessment and plan prompt, a treating physician and I need to create an updated assessment and plan based on new patient information that I provide for today using the current date and there are old things from yesterday's assessment and plan and I want to make sure that those things are put together and a new assessment and plan is created for today. So let's show you how that works. And so you can see when I put this in to the AI generator saying that I want to first put in the assessment and plan and then I want you to confirm that you're ready for the updates of what happened overnight. First I provide the updates, I want you to incorporate them into the final notes carrying over all of the elements from the old note to my changes applied and ensure a final assessment and plan remains sectional. It says here now, I'm ready for the updates, please proceed with providing the current assessment and plan so I can incorporate it into the new information. What I'm going to do is I'm going to take the assessment and plan that we just made with our history and physical right there and I'm going to copy it and now what I'm going to do is I'm going to paste it into here. This is assessment and plan from the history and physical that we did yesterday. It's thinking and now it says I'm now ready to incorporate the updates into the assessment and plan. Please provide the overnight developments and current actions. Overnight the patient improved and was able to come off of the vasopressors period. In addition the creatinine was checked overnight and it came down to 2.0 period. Also the patient's urine output picked up and the white blood cell count came down to 12 period. The patient is now more coherent and is alert and oriented times 2 and the patient is tolerating antibiotics well period. The patient's lactic acid is now down to 1.2 period. We have updated what has happened overnight and now what I would normally need to do is go piece by piece by system by system and update all of those things but now what this is going to do is simply I'm going to hit this button and it's going to give me a new assessment and plan based on all of these things that have happened overnight. So let's check it out. Neurological. Alternative status due to sepsis with the ICD-10 code. Improvement noted patient is now alert and oriented in two spheres. Continued monitor neurological status and reassess orientation. Respiratory was never a problem. Cardiac. Hypotension due to septic shock. Disease oppressors are discontinued as the patient is now hemodynamically stable. Continue to monitor blood pressure closely. Hold antihypertensive medications until stable. How about acute kidney injury? Secondary dyssepsis. There's improvement noted with a creatinine decrease down to 2.0 and increased urine output. Continue monitoring. Infectious disease. We're still continuing IV fluids because we didn't say we were stopping. We are still administering hydrocortisone because we didn't say we were stopping. We didn't update what the culture's results showed so they're still monitoring it. However, we did mention that the lactic acid levels were better and it does say that it decreased down to 1.2 and we're still continuing the current antibiotic regimen. In other words, everything here is accurate and it's updated immediately. We still have not allowed the patient to eat because the patient's still NPO, you can see. It does here show that the WBC count has dropped down to 12 and nothing else has changed. And you can see here that your assessment and plan is literally written within seconds. But still important to, as it says here at the bottom, please review for accuracy. Remember that GPT is an assistant. You are actually the authority here. You probably should be looking over this and making sure it is correct. We're not using chat GPT here or AI to manage the patient, although you could. You could actually say here, what three complications is this patient at risk for here in the hospital? It knows the patient's history so it can tell you. Let's see what it is. What are the three complications that the patient is risk for? Healthcare-acquired infections, acute kidney injury, and thromboembolic events. These are things that you can head off if you want some improvement on it. You could even ask it, hey, if this is what the culture shows, what are the best antibiotics for this patient? Let's try that. If the patient rose out ESBL E. coli, and that's a specific, really resistant form of E. coli, which antibiotic would be best to use? Let's see what it says. It should be like an imipenem or meropenem. Yeah, exactly. A carbapenem, such as meropenem or imipenem, would be the best because ESBL E. coli is not resistant to meropenem and imipenem. This really gives you good insights into your patient where it can actually start to guide management if you want it to. We talked about the ingredients for a good note writing AI or GPT, artificial intelligence generator, and that is you need a good HIPAA compliant source agent, and that has to have a BAA. The second thing that you need to have is a very good prompt. What I've done for you here is on our website, MedCram.com. If you go all the way down to the bottom, you'll see here under useful links is our MedCram blog. We've just published a MedCram blog here. You may have to scroll down a little bit when you get to it. You'll see this revolutionizing clinical workflow, how HIPAA compliant AI like Doximity GPT, Streamlines Patient Care. Just click on that. What I've done here is written a blog about what we're talking about today, but I've also put in some really good prompts that you can copy or modify and use for your own purposes. This first link here is a Dropbox link to the prompt that you can copy and use. This is for history and physical for the ICU. I put this in there because the assessments and plan on history and physicals typically are run by systems, so neurological, then respiratory, then cardiac, and then so forth, whereas four patients typically are run by the specific diagnosis as why they're there. And then I've also put in this prompt here where it basically takes the previous day's assessment and plan, mixes it with what's gone on overnight, and automatically comes up with the assessment and plan for the day. Click on these links, and you'll see here the prompt. So forget everything before. This is a brand new patient. I'm a teaching physician. I want you to produce a history and physical note after I give you information about the patient. I will give you the history of present illness, past medical history, so forth. I will also give you information about the physical examination. I might give you information on lab results and x-rays or other imaging results. It may not be given in the correct order, but I want it in the following format regardless. I want you to take this information and reformat in a style of physician and write it in the report this way and in this order, but don't include the numbers. And you can see here this is the general order for a history and physical. And also here I put in the number of minutes, and then you can modify that, of course, and then finally predict in one to two words how long the patient will be in the hospital by stating as such. And as I said, there are some other prompts on there. You can get other prompts for other things that you may want to do. You may want to do a procedure note or write a note that has some other basis for central lines, for intubation, bronchoscopy, all sorts of things that you can prompt and speed up the time that it takes for you to generate these notes. And while you're there, check out our videos, ECG, interpretation, CHEM7 results, medical acid base.  rich your knowledge and help you be a better clinician also give you continuing medical education credit. If you like this video, please turn on notifications, subscribe to our channel, give us a thumbs up and join us at MedCram.com. Thanks for joining us.