 cram.com. Welcome to another MedCram video. Today we're going to talk about CRISPR technology. This is actually gene editing technology that has tremendous potential to alleviate diseases that are rooted in genetics. Also, for the first time, CRISPR technology is now being utilized outside of the United States in the kingdom of Bahrain. That's a first. But before we get to that, I'm going to introduce myself. I'm Dr. Roger Schwelt, co-founder of MedCram.com, where we have multiple videos for continuing medical education, continuing education credits for health care providers, or for those that want to know more about their own body, test results, things of that nature. We have videos on CBC, EKG, urinalysis, lipid profiles, all sorts of tests that you might see on my chart. Join us at MedCram.com. So in late 2023, the FDA approved the first gene therapies to treat patients with sickle cell disease. This is one of the first genetic diseases that we learn about in medical school because it affects so many people, especially in the Middle East and Africa, also with thalassemia, which is often seen in patients in the Middle East as well. But this is very interesting gene editing technology, and it allows us to essentially make patients express the correct type of gene or alternative gene compared to the one that is there that is not being expressed. And this is really powerful stuff. And this is how it works. It was actually discovered in bacteria. If you can imagine it, you've got the bacteria and you've got viruses and viruses which land on the surface and they inject a foreign DNA material. This defense mechanism existed in bacteria where a protein and two RNA molecules would associate. And one of the RNA molecules was complementary to this viral DNA sequence, and it would bind to this sequence and it would actually cut the viral DNA so that it could not do what it was supposed to do. So we adapted this mechanism, and instead of viral DNA, we're able to do it with human DNA, specifically in the nucleus. So if you have a target DNA sequence that is identified, this is the part here where the gene may not be working in terms of sickle cell, et cetera, and you get a matching RNA strand that will go into this area and be very specific for just this area. This area is called the PAM. Then you get a Cas9 enzyme that also uses this RNA that binds to this particular area of the DNA, and you get a cut or a snip, basically. And when you have that snip, there's a number of things that can happen. So essentially what you've done is you've used machinery that we've developed from defense mechanisms in bacteria to be able to cut at will particular areas of DNA. And of course, there's three potential things that you can do with that. You can allow those cuts to fill back in again, and they usually do so with some sort of mutation, which can sometimes make the gene not work, which is kind of the opposite that you wanna do in medicine. So this is used more in research. We don't use that typically here. Or you can delete that, cut it out, and have it reconnect with itself again. Or what we're actually seeing now in therapeutics is to insert a strand of DNA or a gene or something that's going to do something into this area here, and then you have a new aspect of the DNA with a functioning sequence that actually does something. And that's exactly the type of mechanism that we're seeing being used here in CRISPR and the FDA approval for this gene therapy. And I have no financial relationships with any of the companies or medications in this video. So the first medication that we're gonna talk about is Casckevi, which basically works like this. And I actually got this from their website, and this is the reference for that. You can see what they're doing. CRISPR, or the Cas9, precisely targets the erythroid-specific enhancer region of the BCL11A gene using a non-viral delivery method. There's the Cas9 nuclease, the thing that cuts. There's the single-guided RNA. That's the thing that matches where we wanna be on the DNA. That gene editing that occurs where it snips it and it puts something in there, that gene-edited CD38HSCs. When that happens, there's reduced expression of the BCL11A specifically in the erythroid lineage cells. Now these are the cells that make red blood cells. And again, we're talking about a disease called sickle cell anemia. Why is this important? Because in sickle cell anemia, there is a mutation that causes the hemoglobin A molecule to actually turn to a mutated version of that called hemoglobin S, which instead of having nice, rounded red blood cells like we see here, it actually looks very elongated and that can cause occlusions in the blood vessels. And that means that the distal target organs don't get the oxygen that they need. What we're trying to do is actually prevent the formation of this hemoglobin S and make something else. And in this case, it's gonna make hemoglobin F, which is a fetal hemoglobin, which is made in infancy and it does not sickle. What they do here is we get BCL11A expression of these gene-edited HSCs. And this reduced BCL11A expression leads to an increase in hemoglobin F levels, which when that happens, keeps the cells nice and round. Let's get into a little bit more depth on that. What you can see here is the Cas9 nuclease and the single-guided RNA. And then what happens is it finds its place here on the double-stranded DNA. There is some editing, which occurs, some splicing, and then you splice in this new aspect, which can up-regulate the production of hemoglobin F. By doing this CRISPR, instead of getting sickled cells like this that include, you get nice rounded red blood cells and they are able to go through the blood vessels. Let's go to the New England Journal of Medicine article that actually looked at this type of condition. 44 subjects and tracked them for about 24 months. Looking at each time, they had something called a vasal-occlusive crisis. What you can see here is these pink strands are when they're being monitored and each one of these blue dots here is a vasal-occlusive crisis, which is very painful and can lead to hospitalizations. And you can see here for most of these 44 patients, life quality was not very good. Many vasal-occlusive crises that were very painful and may have needed to be hospitalized. So what they started to do is CRISPR. So this was not a randomized placebo-controlled trial. This was a open-label single arm type of situation. And as you can see here, after they did the process, after they edit these cells that they get from the patient themselves, they harvest them and they wipe out all of the rest of the bone marrow that makes these red blood cells by giving chemotherapy. So that's sometimes not a very nice thing. Doesn't feel very good. You lose your hair, opens you up to infections, but you wipe out all of the other cells and then you put back the same cells that you took out, except they're now edited. You're now making, in this case, instead of hemoglobin S, you're making more hemoglobin F, which keeps the cells more rounded. And you can see here hardly any vasal-occlusive crises. There's a few there. And this patient, maybe things didn't go as well. There's a few of them there. And the reason why it's like this is because they did them one at a time and these are the ones that are being followed. As they're following them along, you went from this many vasal-occlusive crises to this many vasal-occlusive crises. And here we're looking at hospitalizations. And you can see here going from these many hospitalizations to these many hospitalizations. And it's a stark difference. The other medication, Lymphgenia, is another way of hitting the sickle cell situation. By the way, this has also worked similarly on patients with thalassemia. What we're seeing here, again, first the cells are collected, the cells are modified using the CRISPR method. And then you infuse the modified cells back in after the other cells are wiped. You have a functional adult hemoglobin. In this case, we're not producing hemoglobin F. We're producing a modified hemoglobin A, which again, does not sickle. One way of making it not sickle is producing hemoglobin F. Another way is producing another type of hemoglobin A. Let's take a look, New England Journal of Medicine published. And you can see what happens in this situation. Here we have some transfused blood at the beginning. We have some hemoglobin S, which is the bad type. And we have some hemoglobin A, some native hemoglobin A. And as we do this, you can see here as the months go on, we can see an increase in the hemoglobin A. And we can see a relative stability here in a hemoglobin F that we're not needing to transfuse this blood anymore. So this reduces the transfusion. Severe vaso-occlusive events, notice what happens. A lot here before and almost none afterwards. So this is a very technical, very high technology type of procedure that has been pioneered in the United States. For the first time, it's now being done outside of the United States. Here's an article, Bahrain makes history with the first successful CRISPR-based sickle cell treatment outside of the United States. And I have to say, I'm not surprised that the Kingdom of Bahrain is the first place that this sort of thing would be because this country is really making strides in medical technology and really putting its foot forward in trying to make those things come together in its kingdom. For those that don't know, Kyle Alred, who's the co-founder of Medcram and myself, both received the medical merit medal for our contributions in COVID-19 policy through our Medcram videos, which was indeed quite an honor for us to receive that. We actually got a commendation from the Crown Prince himself. And ever since we received that a couple of years ago, it's always been on Kyle and my mind to go back and visit Bahrain. And late last year, we got a chance to do that. And I have not reported on it since that time, but I have some really good experiences and I'll show you a couple of photographs here. This is landing in Bahrain. Very nice accommodations at the hotel. Had very nice view of the city. Very forward leaning city. The architecture was just beautiful. We felt very, very safe. There are mosques standing next to Christian churches, which are standing next to synagogues and Hindu temples. The place is very beautiful. This is just one aspect of our breakfast at the hotel. They had really everything for everybody, no matter what part of the world that you came from. We got to meet a lot of dignitaries. Here you can see Kyle and myself talking with the public health minister. And we were able to sit down and actually have a really good discussion with a number of the health dignitaries there in Bahrain. I had an opportunity to give some lectures to the faculty in the Ministry of Health and also to give a lecture over at the schools and talk to the residents. We also got a tour of the hospital. They had state of the art technology. We actually visited a building, which is a complete simulation lab. And here you can see the type of simulation that you could do when you're practicing to do bronchoscopy, something that was near and dear to my heart as a pulmonologist. So the facilities there and the attention that is paid to healthcare in Bahrain made me not surprised at all that Bahrain would make history with the first successful CRISPR-based sickle cell treatment outside of the United States. And I'll put a copy of this article in the description below, but I just wanted to read some of this. Her Excellency, Dr. Jalila Bint Al Sayed, Jawad Hassan, the Minister of Health, said, this milestone exemplifies Bahrain's commitment to integrating global medical innovations from our national healthcare strategy by fostering partnerships across institutions. We are delivering on our mandate to provide access to life-changing therapies for all beneficiaries and positioning Bahrain as a hub for innovative medical care in line with the visionary directives of His Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa and His Royal Highness Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa, the Crown Prince and Prime Minister. When Kyle and I visited, this sort of innovation and technology was really manifest. It was quite impressive. If you found this video helpful, if you now understand CRISPR technology a little bit better, join us at MedCram.com where we have many other videos that can help you understand medicine and have medicine explained clearly. Thanks for joining us.