 cram.com. This is a paper that was published on March 10, 2025 in the JAMA Network titled High-Dose Vitamin D in Clinically Isolated Syndrome Typical of Multiple Sclerosis, the D-Lay MS Randomize Clinical Trial. This was a double-blinded randomized control trial and it was multi-centered, basically the gold standard in terms of control trials. And what they did was they recruited people between the ages of 18 and 55 for symptoms of multiple sclerosis. Specifically, they looked for people who had symptoms of multiple sclerosis, they had MRI findings, and they had oligoclonal bands, which are proteins that are found in the spinal fluid of these patients. And the other thing that's important to understand is their vitamin D levels were less than 40 nanograms per milliliter, or another way of saying that is less than 100 nanomoles per liter. So make sure that you understand that these are two different scales. The one that we use typically in the United States is 40 nanograms per milliliter. So as it turns out, they got 316 of these subjects. However, only 303 received any one dose and a total of 288 received all the doses. What exactly was it that they were given? Let's look at this analysis of those that got just at least one dose and what they did was they randomized them to getting 100,000 international units every two weeks times two years versus placebo. Remember, this was a double blinded. That means the patient or the subject did not know if they were getting the drug or not. The person giving them did not know. This was at multiple centers and it was randomized. This gets rid of a lot of confounders. 100,000 international units is pretty high every two weeks for two years. When they did this analysis on the 303, there was 156 in the intervention group and there was 147 in the placebo group. What they did at the end of those two years was they looked at MRI reports to see whether or not there were any of those new lesions that were seen. Here's what they found. There were 94 lesions that were found in the intervention group, which was then about 60.3% of the group. Whereas in the placebo group, there was 109 lesions, which was 74.1%. This difference was statistically significant with a p-value of equal to 0.004. In the intervention group with vitamin D, there was less of these new MRI findings compared to those that got the placebo. The relative risk reduction, in other words, 74.1 minus 60.3 and then divide it by 74.1 is going to give you about 18.6% relative risk reduction. However, in this case, the absolute risk reduction is simply the difference between 60.3 and 74.1, and that turns out to be 13.8% absolute risk reduction. In other words, if you gave 100,000 international units to somebody with multiple sclerosis as the subjects in this study were diagnosed with every two weeks for two years, you could reduce the risk of recurrence in these patients or new occurrences by 13.8% overall. There's a number that you can do called the number needed to treat. In other words, how many people would you need to treat for two years with these high doses of vitamin D to prevent one recurrence? It's simply just one divided by the absolute risk reduction, which in this case would be 7.24, but we always round up, which means it would be 8. So we'd treat eight people for two years with high doses of vitamin D. We could prevent one recurrence. So that endpoint was looking at radiographic findings, which may be more sensitive. When they looked at all 10 secondary clinical outcomes, there was no statistical significant difference, because as you can see here, even though there was a numerical difference, 28 patients, 17.9% in the vitamin D group versus 32, which is 21.8% in the placebo group, the P value unfortunately was not statistically significant. It was 1600s. Now we've talked before about this certainly with our talks on sunlight and the benefits that they have to the brain. And specifically in this study, which was published in 2013. And as you may recall, in this study, it showed that there was something about sunlight itself that actually improved the whole brain volume and also gray matter volume. And the conclusion of this paper was that sun exposure may have direct effects on MRI measures of neurogeneration and MS, independent of vitamin D. And so it may be that vitamin D is helpful, but as we've talked about before, there are other aspects of the sun above and beyond vitamin D, which actually may be getting benefit. We've known for many years that the latitude of someone growing up, especially in their young, formidable years, can have a large impact on the incidence of multiple sclerosis in those patients. And again, it reminds me of the paper that was published in Melatonin Research by Russell Ryder and Scott Zimmerman, looking exactly at the ability for near infrared light to be able to penetrate not only the scalp, but the skull and the cerebral spinal fluid and its ability to diffuse that light and be picked up by the mitochondria here in the gray matter, which was shown to be enlarged in that previous study. All that is to say that we can conclude from this paper that oral cocalciferol or vitamin D add 100,000 international units every two weeks, significantly reduced disease activity in CIS, and an early relapsing, remitting multiple sclerosis. These results warrant further investigation, including the potential role of pulse high-dose vitamin D as add-on therapy. Let me also recommend that if this is something that you're considering, I'd highly recommend having this followed by a physician as high doses of vitamin D can cause issues if they're not followed. Thanks for joining us. Don't forget to subscribe, turn on notifications, and join us at MedCram.com.