 cram.com. Hi, Dr. Roger Schwelt here. Welcome to another MedCram video. Today we're going to talk about a new COVID variant called nb.1.8.1, codenamed Nimbus. As we're recording this, this is late May, and so as we're heading into summer here in the Northern Hemisphere, the Southern Hemisphere is heading into winter, and that's where we're starting to see a little bit more of this, and specifically on Australia and parts of Asia. We're also going to talk a little bit about some of the genes involved in SARS-CoV-2 and why it's important to understand about MAK1 and its effect to circumvent interferon, which is a major defense protein in our body, part of the innate immune system. We're also going to talk about what's going on in the United States in terms of support from the government for the development of mRNA vaccines, and there's been a major change in that as well. So I encourage you to stick with us as we go over this here at MedCram. This is a piece that was just published in the conversation titled, There's a New COVID Variant Driving Up Infections. A virologist explains what to know about nb.1.8.1. We'll just call it nb181. This is a recent descendant of amicron, subvariant, dominant parts in Australia and Asia. It seems as though it's able because of spike protein mutations to evade immunity even more than its ancestors. The good news is, is that it does not appear to increase the severity of disease, but they are seeing an uptick in the percentage of infections that come from nb181 or Nimbus. They're also seeing in some studies that are not peer-reviewed, but are available on preprint, which we'll give you links to, that there could be some modest humoral escape. That means some of the antibodies don't bind to it as well. And more specifically, this spike protein may bind more tightly to ACE2 and therefore cause a higher likelihood of infections. Let's talk about some points here from the article. Number one, let's go over some key points here. New COVID variant nb181 designated as a variant under monitoring by the WHO. It's emerging as Australia enters the winter months with rising case numbers reported in late May of 2025. That's where we are at the time of this recording. So even though it's been about five years since the pandemic began, we're still getting regular waves that are persisting. So there's still new variants that are being kicked out that are finding new ways of being successful with ACE2 and spreading around. Obviously, because of the fact that we're able to deal with it now without the morbidity that we had previously, there's less testing and of course less reporting. So it's difficult to actually know and compare to back then, but we are seeing that cases are increasing, especially in Asia and Australia. The genomic sequencing of 181, the prevalence is varying anywhere in South Australia at 10% and greater than 40% in Victoria. But if you look at wastewater surveillance, which is a nice way of standardizing, it's now the dominant variant in Perth and Western Australia. Globally, 181 rose from 2.5% to 10.7% of sequence cases as of April of 2025. And again, as we mentioned, significant spread in Asia, particularly in China, and it's dominant now in Hong Kong and China, and it is making its way over to the United States in major urban centers. There's a consistent upward trend towards international monitoring. It was first detected in China in January of this year, 2025, as a sub-lineage of Omicron. It's actually a mismatch of a bunch of different genetic variants and mutations that has rendered it the ability to actually survive better. That is, of course, what genetic modifications and recombinations is all about. It keeps mixing up until one comes out that's actually able to survive better. It's, as we mentioned, potentially more efficient at infecting cells, and we'll talk about that and the studies that show that its ability to bind to ACE2 is actually stronger. In terms of antibody neutralization, so these are antibodies that are floating around in someone's body that may be the result of vaccination or a previous infection. The previous dominant infection that we've been seeing for the last year or so is LP811. If we compare what MB181 is doing to 811, there is about 1.5 lower neutralization from antibodies. We are seeing increased transmissibility, and that's likely, although there is, again, no increased evidence of disease severity. So we might be seeing more people hospitalized, but it's because we're seeing more people infected, not because it's more likely to put an individual into the hospital. In terms of what symptoms we'll see with this, these are the Omicron subvariant type of symptoms, so sore throat, fatigue, fever, mild cough, muscle aches, nasal congestion. There is some reports of gastrointestinal symptoms, no evidence that this causes more severe disease. I want to make sure that's very clear. The current vaccines that target JN1 around the world and that they're looking at for targeting this winter down in Australia and then six months later up here in the Northern Hemisphere are expected to protect against severe disease, despite the fact that there is a modest reduced antibody neutralization that they see in the preprints. In terms of the public health focus, in terms of what we're seeing here, they are focused on monitoring to see what's going on, genomic sequencing, and promoting updated boosters as one of the tools to mitigate against this. This is a recent article put out by the WHO and I put this up there to show you what they're saying here. The NB181 showed a 1.5 to 1.6 fold reduction in neutralization compared to the one that's circulating, which is the LP811. In mice, previously immunized with SARS-CoV-2 variants, this is about as close as to humans you can get here in testing. Further immunization using monovalent Kp2 or monovalent LP81 mRNA vaccines elicited similar or modestly lower neutralizing antibody titers against NB181 than those elicited by immunizing Kp2 or LP81 antigens. What we're seeing here is that there might be a modest reduction in terms of neutralizing antibodies, which of course is involved with prevention of transmission. In terms of severe disease, the types of immune cells that we're looking at there is not necessarily antibodies, but rather T cell response. And so that might be the reason why we're not seeing any evidence that there's an increased severity of this disease. What about the United States? We've got some articles that I'll put links to that are telling us what's going on detected in China in January. It's now being detected in the United States in March, April, in states of California, Washington State, Virginia, and New York City specifically, and also additional cases reported in Ohio, Rhode Island, and Hawaii. As of Tuesday, May 27th, when we asked the CDC what is the prevalence of this variant being found here in the United States, only 20 cases so far of NB181, so very low, but the red flag is that we're starting to see it in terms of sequencing. And so it may be making its way here over to the United States. And if it's got some of these characteristics, it may be something that needs to be looked at. It's a descent of LP81, which were 70% of the strains. It may be more easily transferred than LP81. We told the reasons why. It binds tighter to ACE2. It may be able to evade antibodies, may be able to spread more rapidly. And this is why we need to have some monitoring of this. Let's look at some data. This is a preprint that we will give you a link to in the description below so you can read it for yourself titled Antigenic and Virological Characteristics of Sarascovy 2 Variant BA32XFG and NB181. So they're looking at NB181 here. In contrast, NB181 retained high ACE2 affinity and humoral immune evasion, supporting its potential for future dominance. This is a potential possibility here and we're actually starting to see it in Asia and Australia. And we're seeing whether or not it's going to happen here in the United States. We don't know yet. So if we look here for NB181, when we're looking at comparison to the wild type or the one that's circulating now, the LP811, and we're looking here at this being one, we're seeing here that this is fairly high, almost up to 100%. Here we're looking at the ACE2 binding KD. So the smaller the number, the more tightly it binds. And you can see here that NB181 is one of the smallest constants in terms of binding. It's going to be binding very tightly to ACE2. I don't want to be alarmist. We look here at COVID-19 early indicators, test positivity, emergency department visits, hospitalizations, and deaths. You can see here that in all of these cases, up until this period of time here as we're entering the summer, it's all going downhill, which is very, very good. This is wastewater. So again, we're not depending on people to test. We're looking to see what the prevalence is in the wastewater and it's all going down. Anyone who is a frequent visitor to Medcram will understand why we might think that that's the case. And I believe it has to do with increased sunlight. We're getting, of course, longer days now. If we're getting it, then in Australia they're not. And it might be the reason why they're starting to see more of that there. This is wastewater going back to 2022. Lots of COVID in the wastewater. This is where we are right now. Fortunately, it's going down. These spikes here are because there are variants that are being produced because of mutations and these mutations land on successful variants that seem to do better. And so these variants will come back around again and infect people again in many cases because the antibodies that are supposed to neutralize the spike don't do it as well because the spike protein is being modified in a way that it cannot be neutralized by the antibody. Let's take a look at the immune system and see if there is a way that we can simply get around it. The immune system is very complicated and these are the cells of the immune system. There's the innate immune system and the adaptive immune system. This is the side that has antibodies. And this is the side that doesn't require antibodies because it's able to recognize molecular patterns and decide whether or not a substance is foreign or if it is self. The only way for a viral invader to get a foothold and get into your system is to have some way of neutralizing many of the arms of this immune system that is there to help fight these infections. Put it this way, if you wanted to rob a bank, you would have to have systems in place to get around the well-known defense mechanisms of that bank to protect the money that's in the bank. For instance, they would have a safe, they would have a security guard, they would have a window or a locked door. If you have any intention of stealing money from a bank, you have to have a plan to get around these barriers from stealing the money. For a virus to infect the human body, it has to have a way of getting around some of these mechanisms and SARS-CoV-2 virus is no exception. One of the major players in the innate immune system is this thing called interferon. Interferon is a protein that is very well tied to macrophages, lymphocytes, and it does exactly what you might think it does. It interferes with viral infections. And there's been a number of papers published on this, this one going back even to 2002, over 20 years ago, and it looked at this issue of viruses and interferon and the fight for supremacy. Interferon works so well at eliminating viral infections. We actually use it today, and we used to use it regularly to fight and to cure hepatitis C. It works that well, that chronic infections with hepatitis C could actually be cured with high doses of interferon. So you can see how interferon is so important in terms of preventing these infections. So let's read what they said here. This is a paper published in Nature that type one interferons are a group of antiviral cytokines that are induced during viral infections by viral replication products such as double-stranded RNA. IFNs exert their biological functions by binding to specific cell surface receptors. In turn, this triggers the intracellular interferon signaling pathway, mainly the Jack Stat pathway, which we'll talk about later, which eventually induces the expression of a large number of interferon stimulating genes. These ISGs, the workhorses of the interferon response, set up an antiviral, antiproliferative, and immunoregulatory state in the host cell. However, most if not all viruses have evolved broad spectrum of strategies to block and interfere the interferon pathway. I can't emphasize this enough. Common viral strategies include A, blocking of the interferon induction expression, B, intercepting receptor binding of interferons through viral decoy interferon receptors, C, perturbation of intracellular interferon signaling pathway, and D, directly downregulating the level of expression of ISGs or interferon stimulated genes. A DAR, RNA-specific adenosine deaminase, IRF, interferon regulatory factor, JACK, MX, Mixovirus-Resistant Proteins, OAS, and PKR protein kinase, stat signaling transdissur active of transcription, all of these things are involved and can be manipulated by the virus so that the interferon response is not as good. This is like if you're trying to rob a bank, you've got the combination to the safe already. You can see how the safe becomes neutralized if you already have the combination to the safe. Here's another paper that was published as SARS-CoV-2 was coming out because they had learned from SARS the original virus back in 2002. Thus, it could be that the patients most susceptible to severe disease are those that cannot mount an effective early antiviral immune response. Well, as it turns out with SARS-CoV-2, we found that that is exactly the situation that mild cases had higher interferon levels than critically severe cases. We saw this also with inborn errors of type 1 interferon immunity and auto antibodies against type 1 interferons. We saw that patients with mutations in their interferon had very low levels of interferons and those that had no antibodies had high levels of interferon and those patients actually did much better. What is it specifically with SARS-CoV-2? There is a gene called Mach 1 and Mach 1 is required if SARS-CoV-2 wants to get around interferon. This is what Mach 1 looks like. It's a gene that's part of SARS-CoV-2 and this is the workaround to get around your body's ability to get rid of it. We could somehow eliminate Mach 1. SARS-CoV-2 would be a very small virus that would not be able to do its job. We can see that here when we incubated the virus in Calu III bronchial cells and A549A2 alveolar cells. This is an in vitro study and we looked at two types of viruses, those with the wild type that had Mach 1 in it and the yellow ones that had a change in Mach 1 so it wasn't working very appropriately. What you can see is that interferon beta, interferon gamma, interferon stimulating genes, and CXCl10 all had higher levels of those concentrations when we used the mutated Mach 1 so that it could not shut down interferon systems. We also saw that again here in alveolar cells. Both bronchial cells and alveolar cells showed this. We saw it also in a number of other genes here as you can tell. So it's pretty clear that Mach 1 confers to SARS-CoV-2 the ability to do a lot of damage in the cells. If we can somehow boost interferon responses and not allow it to be downgraded, you would see the body's ability to deal with any variant of SARS-CoV-2. So let me back that up. All of these variants that we've talked about at the beginning of this video, from the very beginning, they all have a similar gene called Mach 1 and regardless of the variant and its ability to bind SARS-CoV-2, if we could improve the interferon response, it wouldn't matter if we had new variants. We'd be able to battle them. So we saw some evidence of this in an article that was published in the New England Journal of Medicine. It was a randomized controlled trial, almost 2,000 subjects. These are people that were both vaccinated and unvaccinated. It really didn't matter and it was a single injection versus placebo of guess what, peggillated interferon lambda for COVID-19. We're looking to see if we can overwhelm the Mach 1 gene in SARS-CoV-2 by giving it so much interferon that it really cannot protect or break in to your cells. Hospitalization or ED visit within 28 days was the end point and some people got the peggillated interferon lambda. Some people got the placebo and what we found was an absolute risk reduction of 2.9% or a number needed to treat of 35 people to save a hospitalization or ED visit within 28 days. You can see here that there was about A-50% reduction, which actually is pretty nice. For the vaccinated people, it was about A-50% reduction. For the unvaccinated people, it was a significant reduction as well. We went from 4.6% to 2.4, about 46% reduction and here we had 10.2% down to 4.2% which is a 56% reduction. If we looked at COVID-19 related hospitalization or death, there was a credible 39% reduction and if we looked at the incidence of adverse events, there was actually less adverse events in the peggillated interferon lambda probably because it was doing a good job of removing that infection. And so they were able to conclude that the risk of COVID-19 related hospitalization or an ED visit was approximately 50% lower in the interferon group than in the placebo group. Results were consistent regardless of vaccination status. This of course should not be too surprising. We've shown on our channel multiple times this paper that actually goes back several decades that shows that when the core body temperature goes up around 39 degrees Celsius or about 102.2, we see a large increase of interferon which may be enough to overwhelm Mach 1. In other words, might be possible that instead of injecting people with interferon, we can manipulate the immune system to create enough interferon to overcome Mach 1 and to actually make a clinical difference. This is an interesting topic that we looked at before but we'll look at it again briefly. This is published in nucleic acids research looking at the response of just going between 37 and 38 degrees Celsius which is going from 98.6 up to 100.4 approximately. Still within the normal thermic range and what you can see here is up regulation of a lot of these innate immune system genes just going from 37 degrees to 38 degrees and that's a color change that's pretty significant. So they said here that this data indicate that antiviral priming of macrophages specifically by a 1 degree Celsius increase in temperature from 37 to 38 which is the definition of a fever is actually quite astounding. We talked about Jack and Stat. Is it possible that we could up regulate all of these switches that would increase interferon secretion? If you look here at the difference, if you go from 38 as compared to the one before at 37, so just going from 37 to 38, you can see that there's a big jump, a big jump, a big jump, a big jump there, a big jump there, a big jump there. All of this is going from 37 to 38 degrees which is just the beginning of a fever and what we do is we get a huge increase in type 1 response. So what do they see? Indeed an increase in temperature alone without any additional stimulation was sufficient to increase phosphorylation and thus activation of Stat 2, Stat 3 and raw 264.7 cells. So this was an in vitro study. So what I'm saying here is that it may not be a great idea to treat fever. Fever may actually be beneficial. It may be the way that we can get around mac 1, the gene in SARS-CoV-2 as it tries to suppress the interferon response and this is going to become increasingly important as we'll see here. We actually did a video on this called Interferon in COVID and Hydro Therapy, New Studies. We published that about a year ago, got about 35,000 views on that video. This not only is going to work for viruses like SARS-CoV-2 that overcome interferon response in humans, but there are other responses against interferon in for instance, bird flu and that will be important as we'll see here very shortly because what just broke today is that the United States is cancelling more than $700 million funding for Moderna for the bird flu vaccine. So you may recall in our reporting previously that right before the inauguration, the Biden administration and the Health and Human Services Department funded Moderna up to $600 million to look at fast tracking the ability to make a mRNA platform vaccine for H5N1 because of the outbreaks that we've been having in the United States on dairy farms and also seeing it with birds. They say here that an HHS spokesperson has said that after comprehensive internal review of that contract that was already agreed to, the agency has determined that the project did not meet scientific standards or safety expectations required for continued federal investment. The question is whether or not this is going to impact Moderna's ability to make a mRNA based vaccine for H5N1. Currently we do have H5N1 vaccines. They're not mRNA based and they're based on old variants which may or may not work. Moderna says that it plans to explore alternatives for late stage development and for manufacturing of the vaccine. If we were to get an H5N1 outbreak, I'm not saying that it will happen, but if it were to happen, the fastest way that you would be able to get a vaccine is on an mRNA platform. That is not controversial. That's actually very straightforward. If you wanted to build a vaccine on a more traditional platform, that would require more time because the fact that you would have to have the machinery and the eggs for those that are going to be done with eggs, for those that are not going to be done with eggs, you're going to still need machinery, that's going to take some time. So mRNAs are the fastest way to get those vaccines to be available at the scale that you need it. So that's going to be close to 300 million just for the United States. So it may be possible that that is a tool that we may not have. And of course, if we don't have a supply chain, which is very likely in the situation that even if we have vaccines, the supply chain may not be adequate enough to supply it because with bird flu, we're talking potentially anywhere between 30 and 50% mortality for that type of spread. We may need to have the ability to have something that we can do like hydrotherapy without a supply chain if we're trying to save lives in that situation. I bring that up because it's germane to the fact that hydrotherapy and heat, which induce the production of interferon, does not have to do with variants and actually may not even have to do with the type of virus that we're talking about. So just as interferon is so very broad and can basically attack any type of virus, even hepatitis C, the heat that we use to increase that protein in our body has the same non-specificity and may be applicable here in this situation. Obviously, there's going to be more news breaking on that and we'll try to keep you up to date. But for more continuing medical education, I would highly recommend that you visit us at medcram.com. We have a number of educational medical videos not only for practitioners, physicians, PAs, but also for students in those fields. Very helpful, especially on the clinical rotations. Hope this has been helpful. Thank you for joining us. Please subscribe, turn on notifications, and visit us at medcram.com. you