 gram.com. We're going to talk about obstructive sleep apnea and the treatments for it. So people use CPAP, they'll use a dental device, they'll use all sorts of things, and today, we're going to look and see which is the best at reducing the number of times that you stop breathing, known as the AHI, which is the one that will make you the least sleepy, will improve your sleepiness the most, in other words, and which one gives you the best quality of life. There's a really good study that we're going to review review that actually looked at multiple randomized controlled trials on all of this and put the whole thing together. And this just got published. We're going to go over this now. Before we do, we're going to talk about Megcram.com where we explain medicine clearly. We have a number of courses there on the website that you can sign up for. Things like ECG interpretation, Chem 7, medical acid base, pneumothorax and chest tubes, acute renal failure, etc. etc. And apropos to today's topic. We also have our course on sleep apnea explained clearly. So join us at Megcram.com for more continuing medical education and CME units. Alright, let's jump in to today's talk. So really the issue is right here at the back of the throat. So when you go to sleep, your muscles go to sleep and the tongue is going to roll back in some cases or just that area back there gets closed off. So you can see here it's nice and open. So when you go to breathe at night when you're sleeping, air can go back and forth. But then obviously you can see here that things can roll back and you get an obstruction. And that's the issue with having obstruction. There's a number of ways of actually taking care of this. If you were to get a CPAP machine that covers the face, the pressure is going to stent open that airway and make sure that you can breathe back and forth. It's sort of like pumping up a flat tire. Another way of looking at this is with a mandibular advancement device or a MAD. And that's where it basically uses the traction of the lower jaw to bring it forward in conjunction and against the upper jaw. And that's going to bring all of this forward and off the back so you can have a better airway. So that's a dental device or a mandibular advancement device. You could try to lose weight, do diet, lifestyle, exercise, physical activity, things of that nature. And that would get rid of, especially in men, a lot of fat that's stored in the tongue and make it shrink and make it smaller so that you have more airway back there. Another way of doing it is actually stimulating the nerve that pushes the tongue forward. That's called a hypoglossal nerve stimulator. And that's an implantable device. There's a wire that goes up and into your neck next to the nerve called a hypoglossal nerve, which is going to contract the genioglossus muscle and make this tongue contract and come off of the back of the throat. You activate this at night and whenever you take a breath in, it stimulates the tongue to move forward. Another option is actually doing exercises. And we'll talk a little bit more about that. These exercises can actually cause these muscles to be stronger and tighter and more supple and allow more air to move through. At least that is the theory behind it. And of course, there's also medications that you can take to make your brain feel more alert. Alright, let's go through some of these again. So this is a CPAP machine, as you can see here. And that CPAP machine has the hose coming out and it fits onto the face and covers the areas specifically so that you can pump up and increase the pressure in the throat area and keep that airway open. A dental device, as we talked about, is going to jut out the lower mandible and open up that airway back right here where we were talking about so that that airway stays open. In terms of the hypoglossal nerve stimulator, again, this is this sort of implantable device. It can sense when you're going to take a breath in and the wire is implanted up there in the neck and causes the tongue to move forward as we talked about. There's also medications that can help you lose weight. Therzepatite is one. There's other medications that can do it. This one is actually FDA approved. This is the Sermount OSA trial. We've actually gone over this here at Megcram. You can see here in both people who were intolerant of CPAP and people who were tolerant of CPAP that there was a reduction of about 25 to 29 events per hour. That's a pretty significant amount of reduction there. And that was with 18 to 20% reduction in body weight. You can see here from the New England Journal of Medicine, which was approved in late 2024. There is a significant change in the apnea hypopnea index. And we also talked about physical activity, but there are actually exercises. And this is called orofaryngeal myofunctional therapy or OMT for short. In fact, if you take this QR code, it'll take you to a YouTube video where this expert in this orofaryngeal myofunctional therapy steps you through specifically the type of exercises that you can do to strengthen the muscles of your mouth that are involved with sleep apnea. And this is a review and meta-analysis that was published back in 2015 where they found that there was a reduction of about 50% in adults and 62% in children of this AHI. We're going to talk more about that as one of the potential treatments. And of course, we'll put a link in the description below to this YouTube video. This study is published and what it did was registered its activities, which is what it's supposed to do with the protocol. And then it searched PubMed, Mbase, Web of Science, Cochrane to look for randomized controlled trials from 2017 to 2025. And they looked at all sorts of interventions for sleep apnea. So CPAP, mandibular advancement devices, oral and maxillofacial surgery, weight loss strategies with diet and bariatric surgery, GLP-1s, physical activity, positional therapy, hypoglossal nerve stimulation, or pharyngeal myofunctional therapy, which we just talked about, even wake promoting agents like drugs. And what they were looking for here specifically and what we'll go over is the AHI. That's the apnea hypopnea index. And that's going to tell us how many times they actually stopped breathing when they were asleep. We're going to look at the Epworth sleepiness scale score. It's a scale that goes up as you become more sleepy and it goes down as you become more awake. We'd like to see that number go down after treatment. We're going to see which treatment actually had the best impact and then quality of life we're going to look at. So in other words, at the end of the day, how has this actually improved your quality of life? So let's take a look at the data. All right. So this is a big page with a lot of numbers. We're going to zoom in here and take a look at specifically this column. And so what we're looking here is this line in the middle is no difference. We're looking specifically at AHI. So which ones are best at reducing the number of times that you stop breathing essentially? And if the dot is over on this side, then it's going to favor the first thing that we talk about in the this versus that. If it's more towards this side, then it's going to go more towards the favoring of the second thing that we're talking about. So let's take a look at the first thing up. CPAP versus inactive. Inactive meaning nothing. Out of all of the others, CPAP was the best at reducing AHI. Another thing that was pretty close to that, as you can see, was physical activity. By the way, the different colors is just the level of evidence that we have. So you can see here that the ones that are the best at reducing, according to this meta-analysis, is CPAP and physical activity. There's a number of ones that are closer to being minimally improved, but the ones that seem to do well are the mandibular advancement device, the hypoglossal nerve stimulator, and this one right here. And then from there, it starts to get less and less effective at reducing the AHI. So this would be diet and lifestyle measures. There's laryngotide and there's oral surgery versus inactive. You can see the oral surgery is a little bit further down. And then finally, this OMT is probably the least in terms of its ability to reduce the AHI. And so this is the meta-analysis. In the second one, we're looking at active comparators. It's something versus something else. So here is the age-old thing of CPAP versus a mandibular advancement device, which one is better, more effective at reducing the AHI. You can see here clearly it favors CPAP in this case. Physical activity better than diet and lifestyle measures. Bariatric surgery is better than diet, as you can see in these here. And then it starts to get actually kind of equivocal. So a mandibular advancement device is just about as good as positional therapy. Maybe it's a little bit better. Interestingly, physical activity versus CPAP. This is one I wasn't expecting, but you can still see even there CPAP is eking it out. And then, bariatric surgery versus CPAP, it's better with CPAP. Oral surgery versus CPAP, it's better with CPAP. You can see here, positional therapy versus CPAP. CPAP is much better. Oral surgery versus mandibular advancement device. I would go with the mandibular advancement device. OMT versus CPAP. If you think that you can just get away with doing tongue exercises without doing CPAP, it seems that those CPAP is actually more effective. And then physical therapy versus a mandibular advancement device, the mandibular advancement device is better. All right. What about combinations? So here we have CPAP and diet and lifestyle measures versus just CPAP alone. That actually was pretty far out there. So if you're on CPAP, it would be best if you were to add to that diet and lifestyle measures. Now towards the middle here, we have OMT plus CPAP versus CPAP alone. So OMT doesn't add too much to the equation. We have OMT plus physical activity versus just being inactive. And you can see that's pretty much all of these are in the middle. We see here CPAP plus lary gluteide versus CPAP. We can see that the addition of that actually improved the efficacy of CPAP. One thing I wanted to make sure that you understood is that this is in general. This is with anybody that has CPAP and that shows up the chances of one thing working over the other. You may be somebody out there that wears a Dell device and it works perfectly for you. That's great. This is not saying that what you're wearing is not working. This is simply saying on average, the average person, which modality is on average going to be the most successful. Obviously these things can change for individual preferences and for people to have individual issues. This is the reason why we don't practice medicine based on studies. We use studies to inform us about practicing at the bedside in front of a patient that has specific needs and specific risk factors and things of that nature. This is AHI. This is the main way that we measure the severity of obstructive sleep apnea. The next topic that we're going to talk about is how did they perform with the Epworth sleepiness score? In other words, which ones are best at making people the least sleepy during the day? Let's zoom in there and take a look. The one that is actually the best at working is Sol Reamphatol, which is a medication that arouses the brain out of a sleepiness. This one is going to work the best. That's no surprise. But interestingly, some close seconds or very close seconds here are hypoglossal nerve stimulators, which seem to do a very good job in terms of relieving excessive daytime sleepiness. OMT, interestingly, something that didn't do a very good job of reducing the AHI seems to actually do fairly well as a standalone here for reducing the Epworth sleepiness scale score. Of course, CPAP, we would expect to be up there. And if you look, it's probably one of the highest marked ones there on the page. We would expect that if it was very good at reducing the AHI, it's also going to be very good at improving sleepiness. Modafinil, another medication that improves sleepiness as it's pharmacological. You have another one here that is also a stimulant. It's actually a histamine 3 blocker, and it's used in narcolepsy. You can see here they've got good evidence that it actually can reduce daytime sleepiness. What about a mandibular advancement device? Also in there, physical activity, diet, lifestyle measures, oral surgery, rounding out the bottoms there. Now, let's look at some active comparators. So let's compare CPAP with a dental device. You can see CPAP has the slight edge, oral surgery versus CPAP. Not that big of a difference between those two. It looks like CPAP is better than positional therapy. It looks like OMT and CPAP are about the same with a little bit of an edge going to CPAP. Positional therapy versus a dental device. The dental device actually wins out. A CPAP is better than physical activity. Well, no, actually physical activity and CPAP are very similar. In fact, the edge may go to physical activity. Now, that's really interesting that physical activity on here actually improved the sleepiness scale. So they may be doing it through a different mechanism, maybe not through the AHI. That's really something quite interesting. So think about exercise and its ability, maybe working outside of that physical activity versus the mandibular advancement device. Interestingly, the mandibular advancement device seemed to work much better, at least in this meta analysis. All right. What about treatment combination? OMT, which is again, those tongue exercises plus CPAP versus just CPAP, not much of a difference. And OMT versus physical activity versus inactive. And you can see that OMT plus physical activity was a little bit better at reducing apor sleepiness scale score. So pick which one you think is going to be the one for you, see if it matches up and see whether or not you might be able to get some better treatments or additional treatments to this. All right. The last one we're going to look at is overall quality of life. How is this affecting you? I think this is probably the most interesting one out of all of them. Let's take a look here and see which of these things favored in terms of intervention. So notice down here, as opposed to the other things, if it's on the left hand side, it actually favors intervention two. And if it's on the right hand side, it actually favors intervention one. Because this is on this side for this third graph, it actually is favoring inactivity. In other words, the mandibular advancement device doesn't really improve overall quality of life. But as we go over here to this side, we start to see that these intervention ones are actually improved. So we see CPAP improves quality of life. Modafinil improves quality of life. These other stimulants improve quality of life. The hypoglossal nerve stimulator actually can improve quality of life. And check this out. Physical activity versus being inactive has the highest quality of life. Physical activity. Let's go back with the Epworth sleepiness scale score. What was the one that had the highest? It was physical activity and CPAP were about the same in terms of sleepiness scale score. And if we look back here at AHI, notice that physical activity had a huge reduction in the AHI. So again, when we look at physical activity with quality of life, there isn't really one that actually tops that. It's actually quite impressive. In terms of active comparator, we have CPAP versus the dental device in terms of quality of life, not much of a difference in terms of positional versus CPAP. It looks like the CPAP has a better quality of life. And then finally the MAD versus positional, not much difference. Again, if it's on this side, it actually favors intervention two. If it's on this side, it favors intervention one. I'm not sure why they flipped those around at the last graph. The other ones were similar, but flipped. So one is on this side and two is on this side. One is on this side and two is on this side. So interesting findings. If you wanted to know my thoughts here, I would think that if I was starting somebody out, I would start with CPAP. I would start out with physical activity and I would also start out with maybe some OMT. These are things that anybody can do. We're looking at that. We're looking at that and we're looking at that. Those three things together are going to do a lot at reducing our AHI. In terms of Epworth sleepiness scale score, if we did the same thing, we would have this for CPAP. We would have this for OMT and we'd have this for physical activity. These are reasonable things that can reduce your sleepiness scale score. They did not have OMT here with the quality of life, but I would say at this point that CPAP is going to give you a reasonable quality of life and also physical activity, which is really going to improve your quality of life. And I think these two here are another way of improving it. So overall what I would say here is that CPAP is probably first line. And if you can't tolerate it, try to find something else that works, but definitely addition of physical activity, which is very good for exercise and building muscle and strength, but physical activity it seems is also very good for obstructive sleep apnea. Don't forget to come to MedCram.com for more continuing medical education where we explain medicine clearly. Thanks for joining us.