 cram.com. It is the website where we publish our continuing medical education videos, videos for healthcare professionals, but also for laypeople that want to know more about the human body, specifically heart, lungs, learning about COPD, congestive heart failure. We also have a whole category on health optimization as well, specifically on sunlight. So really encourage you to join us at medcram.com. For those of you who have not joined us before or not familiar with medcram, we've been talking about sort of a groundbreaking paper that was published last year in July of 2025 titled Longer Wavelengths and Sunlight Pass Through the Human Body and Have a Systemic Impact Which Improves Vision. That was out of Glenn Jeffries' laboratory which showed that long, wavelength sunlight coming from the sun is able to penetrate all the way through the human body and have effects at the mitochondrial level. And this specifically was measured in this study by looking at color perception, which is very dependent on energy levels produced by mitochondria in the cones. However, it was also shown that this really has effects all throughout the whole body, including mitochondria in other places as well. And that was shown by a previous publication that showed that glucose control actually improved with long wavelength radiation. So we've known that sunlight can actually penetrate through the skull and affect the gray matter, but it doesn't even have to do that because the effects of this paper showed they can be distal, that the light actually doesn't have to be shining on the tissue that we're actually testing. There is a distant effect on that. So what is the question that we're talking about today? It's basically if exercise boosts cognition and nature exposure boosts cognition, do they add together? Does doing the same exercise outdoors improve cognition more than doing it indoors? Here's what they did in the study. They took 45 children aged 11 to 13 from two British secondary schools. This is a particularly powerful study design because it was a crossover design, which means that each individual acted as their own control. So when you do this, you can get very powerful designs and you can find very important things with a small amount of subjects. So what do they do? They did identical 30 minute basketball sessions, which included a five minute warm up drills and a tag style game, a 10 minute small sided match and then a cool down. And here's the thing. They actually did this activity once indoors and once outdoors and they were separated by at least seven days. So pretty good washout period. And then what they did was they tested them three times each session. They did a pre-test so they could see what the baseline was. Then they did it immediately afterwards and then they waited 45 minutes and did it again. These were tests that could measure mental function in general. And we'll tell you more about those tests. So the three tests that they looked at was the strupe test, which actually looks at inhibitory control and processing. And they have both a simple and also a complex level that they did that at. There's the Sternberg, which looks at working memory. And there's different levels of that. There's a level one, which is not as complicated. And then there's three, which is a bit more complicated. And finally the five item loads. And again, we're looking at milliseconds here. So the faster, the better. And then finally the flanker test, which we'll talk about. And this is looking at attention. And there are different types of attention tests. One is called a congruent and then an incongruent. We'll see in both of those situations whether or not there is improvement. So what we're measuring here with each of these three tests is the response time in milliseconds and also accuracy in terms of percent. Let's talk about the strupe test. And this was a test where they would see a word that described the color and then it would actually be in different colors that were not described by the words. And they had to concentrate on the actual color of the letters rather than what the word was saying. Let's take a look here. And what we've got is two situations. We've got the indoor situation here and we have the outdoor situation here. And we have two different types of tests. We have the simple test, which is right here for both of those situations. And we have the complex category here in both of those indoor outdoor situations. There's going to be in all of these basically five rows that we're going to look at. There is the milliseconds before they did the test. There is the milliseconds after they did the test immediately. And of course the difference between those two. And then finally the 45 minute post in terms of milliseconds. Of course these here are the plus minus milliseconds, which are the standard error deviation from that. So let's actually take a look. In terms of the simple test, indoors versus outdoors, the difference went from basically increasing by eight milliseconds indoors to increasing by 59 milliseconds outdoors. So that actually kind of goes against what we were hoping was happening here in terms of outdoors. And this was actually statistically significant. However, if you look at that situation in terms of the accuracy, maybe the way that they were doing the test, you'll see here that the accuracy dropped by seven percentage points immediately afterwards. Whereas it only dropped by one percentage point immediately afterwards. And then 45 minutes later on the simple test, there was not much of a difference. 43 here and 57 there. But if we look at the complex strupe test, notice what happens here with the complex. We see here that 45 minutes post, there is an improvement of 20 milliseconds indoors. But for the outdoors, there was a 94 millisecond improvement, which was statistically significant. Now you might think, well maybe the accuracy went down. In fact, the accuracy actually improved outdoors. Instead of a 0.1% improvement in accuracy that they saw indoors, there was actually a 2% accuracy with what they saw with the complex strupe outdoors. So what are the conclusions that we can say? We can say, number one, that outdoor exercise produced a larger delayed improvement on the more demanding inhibitory control condition. And that outdoor improved correctness on the hard inhibition condition both immediately, as we can see here, and also 45 minutes later here. So overall, what do we say from this? You can say here that outdoor exercise done in a randomized controlled crossover way improved cognition and inhibitory control in the complex strupe test, both immediately and also 45 minutes later. Next let's talk about the Sternberg, which is working memory and there's different levels one, three, and five. They briefly see and hold a set of items in their mind and they must decide if a probe item was in the set. One item is a low working memory load, three is a moderate load, and then five is a high load. And so when you see the numbers here, the milliseconds are actually a reflection of working memory search and verification. So they encode the probe, compare it against items held in memory, decide yes or no, respond. And basically as the load goes up from one item to three items to five items, typically the response time is going to increase obviously. So let's see how they did. So looking at the response time and accuracy, and so what I've done here, again, we see our same five rows. The blue squares are indicating specifically that it was not statistically significant and then everything else that I did not highlight is not statistically significant. The ones that are statistically significant are the ones in red. And so if we take a look at this and we compare a low complexity here or low working memory speed, we can see here that immediately after there was a 29 millisecond reduction in number one and a one increase, although that was not statistically significant. So we can say really that there was no shift. However, when we get to the 45 minute post, when we compare the one versus the one inside and one that was outside, you can see here that it went from increasing to 71 milliseconds to reduction of nine seconds. And so that was statistically significant here at P is equal to 0.026. When we go up to three, you'll see here that it went from 14 increase inside to a negative 34 millisecond decrease outside. So that improved. That was statistically significant, by the way, at 0.001. And that was the immediate. If we look at the actual 45 minute post, you can see that inside it increased to 69 milliseconds, outside there was a reduction in 37 milliseconds. And that was also statistically, very statistically significant. When we get to the highest load at five, what we start to see here is that these results were not statistically significant. And there wasn't much difference, which seems to indicate that as you increase the load, the difference between processing becomes less significant. So what we can say here is that outdoors improve working memory speed. Outdoors actually worsened at the moderate load, especially at 45 minutes. Even low load working memory speed held up better outdoors. At the highest load, either the task was too hard or variable, or the acute intervention wasn't enough to shift performance reliably. So we did not see statistical significance. And if we look at the accuracy here, none of these were statistically significant. So we can say here that the outdoor effect shows up mainly in the speed of working memory and not the accuracy at least in this data set. The last thing that we're checking is the flanker attention with congruent and incongruent. And the outcomes that we're measuring are the response time once again, and also the accuracy. So specifically, they respond to a central target while ignoring distracting flankers. That's why it's known as a flanker test. If it's congruent, the flankers point in the same way. It's easier and it's a potential efficiency. If it's incongruent, the flankers are conflicting, requires more control to ignore the distraction. So this is again looking at control. And so with the milliseconds here that you're going to see reflect is the reaction time and reflects attentional selection and conflict resolution speed, especially for the incongruent trials. So let's take a look at the data. We see here the congruent and the incongruent and then the congruent and then the incongruent. This is supposed to be inside here on the first two columns and then outside here on the last two columns. And we'll take a look here. After 45 minutes post, you can see that the speed went down by 14 milliseconds, whereas outside it went down by 44 milliseconds. So again, we see superior reaction time outside versus inside. If we look at the incongruent, you'll see here that it's a little bit higher in terms of the absolute numbers, but you can see here they got better at 45 minutes post inside exercise, 39 milliseconds. But outside there was a much bigger and statistically insignificant, however, decrease in the millisecond. So again, blue represents not statistically significant in the incongruent, but it was statistically significant in the congruent. So we can say here that the outdoors produced a stronger delayed improvement in the basic attention efficiency, the easy attention trials, whereas not in the more difficult or incongruent. There was a trend, however, toward better improvements in higher conflict attention trials, but it was not strong enough to meet the cutoff of 0.05. You can see that probably if we had more students, we might have made that or maybe not. You can see there it was just over 0.05. However, this one here in the congruent was statistically significant. What about accuracy? All of these are not statistically significant except for two. And you can see here, negative is actually a bad thing in this accuracy category. There was no drop in the accuracy of the incongruent model, but there was a drop in the accuracy when we got to the incongruent insight. So we can say there that outdoors actually help kids avoid accuracy drop on the hardest attention condition after 45 minutes, suggesting better sustained control. Let's summarize this again and put it in context. What are these milliseconds actually telling us? They are basically just a behavioral proxy for how efficiently the brain is handling information. This is really important to understand because as we've said before, mitochondria are responsive to infrared rays from the sun. And I believe this is likely what is happening when these students are actually getting outside. We're just measuring it in a particular way, looking at milliseconds, but I believe the whole thing is actually improving. So again, a behavioral proxy is the key here. What are we looking at? Inhibition, the ability to inhibit themselves from doing things. That's the strupe complex. Working memory search. That's the Sternberg. And then selective attention conflict resolution. That's the flanker. So you can actually do better on these and be less accurate. And that's influenced by a number of different things as we talked about. There's motor speed, fatigue, posture, there's strategy shifts as we talked about trading speed for accuracy, and then the arousal level immediately post exercise. This is the reason why the most convincing pattern and what we're seeing here is where the reaction time improves and the accuracy improves as well. And that's exactly what we're seeing here specifically again in complex strupe reaction time and accuracy better outdoors in the flanker incongruency accuracy. We saw that it was preserved accurately at about 45 minutes afterwards. And then finally the Sternberg three item reaction time, it was in the large and it was consistent. So I think the key here is that if you have a choice about where you can exercise, certainly exercise should be done and it should not be avoided if you can only do it indoors. But if you have the opportunity to go outside, you're going to get better effects cognitively based on this randomized placebo control crossover trial. So even though there are a diverse set of exercises that you could do in a gym, including resistance training, etc. Think about if you have the opportunity to get outside and do some aerobic exercise and get the benefits of not only fresh air, but also infrared radiation. I enjoy your thoughts and comments. Leave it down below. There is a link to the study below. Leave us a comment, subscribe, join us at Megcram.com. Thanks for joining us.