 medcram.com. Welcome to another MedCram video. It's been a while since we did a COVID-19 update, but I think it's time based on this randomized clinical trial that was published in JAMA in September of 2025, looking at a zealostine nasal spray for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2 infections. This is a pretty interesting study we're gonna get into this. But first, I wanted to talk to you about medcram.com, if you are a healthcare provider, or if you're just interested in medical videos, join us at medcram.com for the latest in medical education and continuing education units. Medicine explained clearly, medcram.com. So let's get back to this idea that a antihistamine nasal spray can actually prevent COVID-19 infections with SARS-CoV-2. This was a paper that was published in January of 2021, titled Identification of Antiviral Antihistamines for COVID-19 Repurposing. And basically at the time, people were looking at different shapes of molecules and how they could fit into the ACE2 receptor, which was seen at the time and is true as the receptor for the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. And this is what they found. I will give a link to this paper in the description below. But as you can see here, the crystal structure of the human sigma one receptor bound to a ligand that was used as the basis for molecular docking with autodocked venous. This is a ligand and what they found was that the molecular docking here predicts binding of diphenhydramine or benadryl and azelastine to the ligand binding pocket of the sigma one receptor. And this is one of those receptors that is associated with the binding receptor for SARS-CoV-2 enters into the cell. So people were looking at this and actually testing it and lo and behold, in vitro, there was some activity as well as other molecules, specifically with this antihistamine molecule, azelastine, that actually had some efficacy in vitro. But it's one thing to have efficacy in vitro and quite another thing to actually see that efficacy in randomized control trials. Just a couple of years ago, there was another paper that was published. And of course, there was other papers that were published that we're not gonna cover here. This one was early intervention with azelastine nasal spray may reduce viral load in SARS-CoV-2 infected patients. So this is people that were already infected and they divided them into three groups. Those that got placebo, those that got 0.02% and those that got 0.1% azelastine. Now this is important because this, as it turns out, is gonna be the strength that we're gonna see in our study today. And they took it for 11 days. So these were people that were not negative and wanted to see whether it would prevent infection. These are people that were already infected to see whether or not the viral loads as assessed by quantitative PCR would actually get better. And what they found was is that it actually did, especially in the highest dose there of the 0.1%. Enter this phase two randomized clinical trial looking to see whether or not it would actually have the same benefits. Azelastine nasal spray for prevention of SARS-CoV-2 infections. Here we're gonna be looking at people who have not been infected, who just start taking this nasal spray and to see whether or not you can prevent getting COVID in the first place. This is called the contain trial. Let's take a look at some of the features. This is a phase two double-blinded placebo controlled, 450 volunteers, and this is in Germany. These are people that are 18 to 65 years of age. They're healthy. They're actually been shown to be negative for SARS-CoV-2 at the beginning of the trial. If they're already using anti-histamine or nasal product use or they're pregnant or breastfeeding, they were excluded. And what they did was a one to one randomized control trial where they put people on either the 0.1% nasal spray or placebo. Now it's not clear exactly which placebo it was. I think it's probably gonna be some sort of inert substance. This will become important slightly because there are other inactive and active substances that are in this azelstein nasal spray. And the question is whether or not they're actually an active ingredient or not. We'll talk about that in a little bit. This was essentially located and it was double-blinded and the intervention was routine, which was one puff per nostril three times daily. Normally it's two times daily, but here they did it three times daily for 56 days. Now I say that normally it's two times daily because this medication, which is the prescription strength, which ironically is actually lower in strength than the one that you can get over the counter, it's the 0.1% nasal spray. This is actually used twice a day for people who have allergic rhinitis. In this case though, they did it three times a day and they did it for 56 days. If they felt like they were having symptoms or they confirmed an exposure to somebody else that had COVID-19, then they did it for five times a day for three days. Twice a week they would have these rapid antigen tests to see whether or not they were positive because that was easier to do, less expensive. And if any of those turned positive, then they would confirm it with a PCR. The question is, what's the difference between the intervention group and the placebo group? Is it possible that antigens here in this nasal spray might be triggering some of these? Well, I would say that the chances of a false positive are pretty low because they're all gonna be confirmed by PCR testing. So if there was something either in the placebo or in the treatment group that would have triggered this, either one way or the other, it would have been fine tuned out because it would not have turned a PCR test positive. If they were symptomatic and they were rat negative, then they did a multiplex. That's where they do a whole battery of tests to check for things like the flu, anerovirus, et cetera, et cetera. They also check for symptoms and adverse events. Those are AEs. So what was the endpoint? Who actually got infected by day 56? And the secondary endpoints were were there symptomatic infections, time to infection, duration of positivity and other things. And then of course safety. So let's take a look at some of the data here. Here were the primary and secondary outcomes of azellustine therapy for pre-exposure prophylaxis. Here is the intervention group. Again, this is the 0.1% group and this is the placebo. And then of course this is the difference with the 95% confidence intervals. So what did they see? They saw that out of 227 in this group, only five or 2.2% got infected. Whereas in the placebo group, 15 or 6.7% got infected. That's an odds ratio of 0.31. That means that if you were in the intervention group, you had a 69% less odds ratio of getting infected. We're gonna go through those numbers here in just a second. What about symptomatic SARS? It was four and 14, about the same as five and 15. The time to SARS infection was actually much longer in the intervention group than it was here. And you can see here what the distribution was. And what about the duration of rat positivity? Well, it was less when you were on the azellustine, which is sort of commensurate with what we saw on the previous examinations. What about secondary endpoints in terms of overall infections? You can see more infections in the placebo group. Participants with greater than one laboratory confirmed infection, radar again. And then self-reported days of illness was greater in the placebo group. Let's actually go through and calculate some meaningful numbers here. Let's make a table, which I always like to do. What we have here are those that have disease and those that don't have disease, those that were being treated with the nasal spray and those that were not being treated. How many were treated that got the disease? There were five. How many were treated that did not get the disease? There were 222, making a total of 227. And how about those that had disease that were not getting the actual intervention nasal spray? There was 15 of those. And this was 208 and this was 223. We need to look at how many with disease out of the whole group. So this would be five divided by 227. Otherwise known as the treatment event rate. The treatment event rate is five divided by 227. This is the total here. What about the control event rate? Well, that's just gonna be 15 divided by 223. Okay, so five divided by 227 is 0.02203. Or another way of saying that is 2.20%. 15 divided by 223 is 0.06726. Which is about 6.73%. So the control event rate was 6.73. The treatment event rate was 2.20. So what we wanna do is figure out what was the relative risk reduction. In other words, if you were to take the nasal spray, how much could you decrease your infection rate by? And to get that, we simply take 6.73, subtract 2.20 and divide it by our denominator, which is 6.73. And what we get there is actually 67.3%. So taking this nasal spray can actually reduce your chances of getting SARS-CoV-2 infections by 67.3%. Let's look at the absolute risk reduction. Now to do that, it's simply 6.73 minus 2.20, which is gonna give us 4.53%. This means that if I were to give everybody in the population a nasal spray, I would be able to reduce the chances of anybody in the population getting that disease by 4.53%. This is the difference between the relative risk reduction and the absolute risk reduction. The relative risk reduction is probably a better measurement of the efficacy of this intervention. And the reason is, is because the particular endpoint that we're looking at here is an infectious disease that can actually fluctuate very greatly. The thing that you need to know is the absolute risk reduction is extremely dependent on the prevalence of the disease in the population. This 4.53% absolute risk reduction is only correct at this particular time with this prevalence in the population. If the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 goes up significantly, if there's a surge, these numbers here are gonna go up very high. If these numbers go up high, the difference between this is gonna be very, very high. And therefore the absolute risk reduction is also gonna go up very high. The nice thing about relative risk reduction is that this relative risk reduction does not change regardless of what the prevalence is in the disease population. And that's the reason why I like to go with the relative risk reduction when we're talking about a disease that can change in the prevalence. If we're talking about coronary artery disease, things that don't change dramatically in terms of prevalence, then I would prefer the absolute risk reduction. It's a little bit more robust. But if you're talking about a disease which fluctuates widely, then the absolute risk reduction doesn't have a lot of validity outside of the prevalence situation in this particular study. However, you can take the relative risk reduction very easily. So there's actually a video that we put together that talks about this more if you're interested and specifically about COVID-19 vaccines and the absolute risk reduction in those and why it's different than the relative risk reduction and which is the one that you should use depending on what it is that you're looking for. How do you calculate then the number needed to treat? In other words, what is the number of people that you need to give this prescription out to to prevent one person from developing COVID-19? And it's simply one over the absolute risk reduction. So in this case, it's one over 0.0453, which as it turns out is about 22.08, but we always round up what the number needed to treat. So the actual, the number here is 23. That means you would have to give out 23 prescriptions to people in 56 days to prevent one COVID-19 infection. Now realize that that's what the current published absolute risk reduction. If the prevalence of the disease were to go up hugely, then this thing would absolutely change. This absolute risk reduction would go up dramatically, which means that the reciprocal of it would cause this 23 to probably drop to something lower, obviously maybe 15 or even 10 or even lower than that. If the disease is prevalent in the population, the number needed to treat is gonna be much lower. So I hope that's helpful in terms of the statistics with regards to using this nasal spray. And you can see here over time how this got better and better and better with the azelostine here at the bottom in terms of the cumulative infection rate and placebo up here at the top. We've talked about the efficacy. Let's talk about the safety. When we look at adverse events, we can see that there was actually more adverse events in the placebo group than there was in the intervention group. And that might be because of the amount of COVID that was going on in the placebo group. However, if we look at related adverse events, like things having to do with the nose, we saw that there was more in the intervention group. Participants with greater than one adverse event was about the same, greater than one related adverse event was higher in the intervention group than it was in the placebo group. And you can see the rest of these things. What were some of the side effects that we saw? Adverse events for the azelostine compared to placebo, we saw that bitter taste was one of those side effects. We're gonna talk about this in a little bit. They have taken this prescription nasal spray and made a over the counter version called ASTAPRO, which is sweeter and it actually is stronger instead of 0.1%, it's 0.15%. And instead of having to take it twice a day as a prescription, you can take it once a day because it is a higher strength. And as a result of that, we see much less bitter taste in the over the counter version of this prescription medication. But realize that in this study, they use the prescription medication. And they also noticed here that nosebleeds was significantly higher. There was tiredness, headaches, and Hashimoto's Thyroidose in just one. They did not feel that that was actually related to the nasal spray, it was just by chance. Any treatment related AE, it was 26.9% versus 11.2. So there are some definite side effects with this formulation. Let's look and see what's actually in it. The active ingredient is azelostine hydrochloride. Some points to think about here is this is an antihistamine. Things like Benadryl and traditional antihistamines also have anticholinergics. And so that is important to understand because chronic use of antihistamines have actually been implicated in Alzheimer's disease. Azelostine, the nasal spray, is actually less anticholinergic than Benadryl, does not cross the blood-brain barrier. Nevertheless, there have not been long-term studies on azelostine. What are some of the other, quote, inactive ingredients that is packaged with azelostine when you pick it up from the store? There is an additive that's supposed to keep bacteria and viruses out of that solution so you don't spread it around when you're storing it. And it's this benzalconium chloride. The question is whether or not this is the thing that's actually doing the heavy lifting with this study. It could be, but one of the reasons why I think it may not be is because we see this in a lot of different nasal sprays, even steroid nasal sprays. And there's actually been studies that have shown that the use of steroid nasal sprays in COVID-19 was a wash. There were some studies that showed that there was a slight benefit, some studies that showed that there wasn't. If this was actually doing what it was supposed to be doing, I would have expected those studies to show a benefit in those nasal sprays where it actually is used. Couple of other things here that I don't think would be very beneficial, and I think those are more for preservative. Let's talk a little bit about the use of this. So practically speaking, if you wanted to use this nasal spray, you would need to get a prescription from your doctor to get it. The good news is that this very same medication is available over the counter in a higher strength, and one that is given once a day. Let's look at this. The prescription for a zealostine, which is 0.10%, originally branded as Astolin, not Astopro, but Astolin, was FDA approved back in 1996 at 137 micrograms per spray, designed for twice daily use to balance efficacy and safety in treating allergic rhinitis. Astopro evolved from this in 2008. It reformulated the 0.10% version with taste masking agents like sucralose. Remember we told you that one of the big side effects of the prescription, a zealostine, was its bitter taste. In 2009, a higher 0.15% strength, so one and a half times the strength, which was 205.5 micrograms per spray, Astopro was approved. This is once daily dosing for improved compliance and 24 hour relief. At that point, it was actually so safe that it was given OTC approval because of this and also customer demand. However, the 0.10% just by legacy is still prescription only. This is why it doesn't make any sense that the lower strength requires a prescription and the higher strength doesn't. It's not for any other particular reason, it's just for legacy reasons. The over the counter is not weaker, it's actually stronger, it's once a day, and it is better tolerated because they've added some sweetness to it so that when it goes down, it's not so bad. Let's take a look at the two that are available right now. This is the prescription, I'm gonna put an RX here, and up here I'm gonna put OTC just like it says right there. So the concentration for the over the counter is actually one and a half times what it is for the prescription. The availability, it's over the counter, this is prescription only, but this is the one that was actually used in the study three times a day. What would you have to use here to get that? You probably have to use the over the counter dose probably two times a day. That would get you up to about the same concentration. The over the counter is for adults and children as is the prescription. Here they usually do two sprays per nostril once daily, and here they would do one to two sprays twice daily. So you can kind of see what you would need to do there if you wanted to prevent COVID-19. In terms of the indications, they're pretty similar. In terms of the taste profile, they are very different. Remember we said there was a more bitter taste with the prescription, and more of an improved formulation sweeter with the over the counter, where only three to 6% of users will actually have that bitter taste. Side effects, the bitter taste is only up to 6%, whereas over the counter it's up to 20%. Something that may actually make a difference for you, especially if the bitter taste is an issue. In terms of effectiveness and onset, the over the counter can start working in as little as 30 minutes. There is no real timing on the prescription. There is a similar effectiveness for allergies, but the onset duration is tied to the twice daily dosing. What about the cost? The over the counter is actually more expensive at $20 to $30 for a 200 spray bottle. If you can get a prescription and get the generic prescription for it, your prescription plans will often make it as low as $10 to $20. So you can make a decision there. So what they believe is going on here is that the antihistamine molecule, a zealostine is actually blocking the ability of the SARS-CoV-2 virus to bind the ACE2 receptor. And as a result of that, it's reducing its ability to cause infection. And it brings up a good question. When should we use this? I think it might be beneficial if you're going into high risk situations, if you're going into a crowd, if you're flying, there's been some sort of exposure. It might work in that kind of a situation. It seems to reduce at least the time that you're positive. Should you go on this indefinitely? I don't think for this indication, it would be a good idea. We don't have a lot of long-term studies. There are people with allergic rhinitis, however, that do take this on a regular basis. It would be interesting to see those people from a historical observational standpoint, whether or not they were less likely to get SARS-CoV-2 infections in COVID-19. But I think that more research is needed in the long-term effects. I hope you enjoyed this video and bringing this to your attention. It's been really busy. Hopefully you can get some more videos up and we'll talk a little bit more about light and some infrared light photography that I've been playing with. If you've enjoyed this, please subscribe, turn on notifications, leave us a comment, tell us what you think. And join us at medcram.com for more continuing medical education and medicine explained clearly. Thanks for joining us.