 cram.com. Welcome to another MedCram video. If you didn't already know, we were on probably one of the most watched podcasts in the world currently, the diary of a CEO with Stephen Bartlett. We talked about a lot of our favorite things like sunlight, hydrotherapy, things of that nature, and if you want to check us out, we will put a link in the description below to that video. Today we're going to talk about something that you can actually do to improve the performance of your retina and therefore your ability to discriminate between colors. This is a preprint that has come out of Glen Jeffries Laboratory at UCL. And if you want to support our channel, please head over to medcram.com for continuing medical education videos, not just for healthcare providers, but also for the lay public. If you want to know, for instance, about ECG interpretation, or if you want to know more about, for instance, the labs that get back on my chart and your CBC, you can learn all about that at medcram.com. We've also heard that these videos are really helpful for people who are starting off in residency and want to know more about things like vasopressors on their ICU rotation, hypertensive crisis, etc. We have about 60 hours of continuing medical education videos, so join us at medcram.com. Let's start talking about this paper that was submitted by Glen Jeffries Laboratory titled LED lighting undermines visual performance. And if that doesn't say it, I don't know what does. The concern is, is that the environments that we're in with LED lighting may be dumbing down the mitochondria because as we've talked about multiple times, the retina is one of the tissues in the body that has the highest concentration of mitochondria. And that's important because color perception is highly dependent on energy. And that's why those mitochondria are needed in the cones. Let's take a look at the study and see what they did. There were 22 subjects in this study and they worked on the campus of University College, London in this building, which was pretty dark in terms of light coming from the outside. As you can see here, this is an infrared photograph and the windows that are installed here have a coating which essentially reflects all infrared light coming back. This is a photograph that has a filter just in the infrared portion of the spectrum. And for those that are unaware, infrared is an invisible light to our eyes, which is a long wavelength energy that is beyond red. So this is not something that you will typically see, but as we're finding out, infrared lights can penetrate deeply into the body and even go through it out the other side and has beneficial effects not just on the tissue that it irradiates, but also on tissues that are distal from that. We talked about that in the previous video on our MedCram channel. Here is an infrared photograph of what it looks like inside the building. As you can see, most of the infrared light from outside cannot come in because of that reflection. Here you see the door is open and most of that light is in the outdoor environment. Here once again is the spectrum. We're seeing here that they use two spectrophotometers to look at an incandescent bulb for contrast. You can see here that it goes clearly into this infrared spectrum, whereas the LED bulb, which is right here in blue, is countered and is concentrated into a very narrow spectrum of visible light that we can see. This is important because when you process light, light that is visible is going to go back into the retina at the back of the eye and interact with these cones. And these cones have to do a lot of work and that work is processed by energy that is produced by the mitochondria. Looking a little closer, we can see that the cones, which are the things that are responsible for looking at light, specifically the L cones for red, the M cones for green, and the S cones for blue, are going to require a lot of mitochondria. And we see that here concentrated in the bodies of these cone cells. Unfortunately, if you are living in an environment that is bereft of infrared light, these mitochondria are not going to produce as high enough energy to support what's going on here in the outer segments of these cones. And as a result of that, they're not going to work as well, and you're not going to get that neurostimulation to the brain to tell you exactly what color it is that you're looking at. If you can somehow improve the output of energy from these mitochondria in the cones, that's going to decrease the threshold of the color blindness associated with these different three types of cones. In this study, they looked at just two types of cones. Specifically, they looked at the red proton and the blue tritan type of color blindness. Let's go back to that study. So they took these 22 subjects that were all working in the same building and in the same environment where they were there for eight hours a day. These LEDs had been installed for over two years and had been working in that environment for two years. Then they randomized them to receive these 11 subjects, a 60 watt incandescent lamp on the desk that was added, and it was on for two weeks while they were at work. The control group did not have any extra intervention. There was no lamp sitting on the desk that was on. The lamp was there, it just wasn't turned on. Here in the 11 subjects, it was on for two weeks at work. And then they did the color testing. And again, what they're trying to look for here is that the infrared light, which is included in incandescent light bulbs as opposed to LED bulbs, would be working on the retina and allowing the mitochondria to ramp up, allow proteins to make the mitochondria more efficient, make more energy, and then we would test to see whether or not color perception had improved after two weeks time. And if it did, we would continue to watch it for four weeks and even six weeks after the fact to see if anything had changed. Let's take a look at the results. First of all, let's look at these pictures at the top. Here in A, we see a regular photograph of the work environment at UCL in this building. Because all of the light in picture A is coming from an LED bulb, when we take an infrared picture here in an environment where there's no sunlight coming in at all, it's going to appear black. And that's because there is no infrared light coming in. When we look at C, notice this area right here. Whereas before, there was an incandescent lamp with a bulb at 60 watts that was turned off. Notice here in C, it is turned on. So here it's on. And so when we do our infrared photograph, it is lighting up pretty well. By the way, this person over at this desk also has their turned on, whereas over here, it was turned off. And that's the reason why you can see light here at this desk and light here at this desk. All of these lights were there, but were randomly turned on so that we could see exactly what happens. So here A and B are the control groups, and we can see the results here in the control groups below. And so we have two rows because we have two types of tests that we're checking for. We're checking for the proton and the triton types of color blindness. And similarly, we also have over here the intervention group. So we can see here, and those are being looked at both in the proton and in the triton. All right, let's take a look at the control group first. Notice the threshold, which is at 100%, it's set at 100%, did not change. It was statistically not significant, so it did not change. And also in the triton group, there was no change. And that's something that we would expect, right? If someone's in a lighting environment for two years, and we check to see how their eyes are doing, and we don't do anything for the next two weeks, we wouldn't expect much to change. Let's take a look here in our test group with the incandescent bulb, which is giving infrared light and purportedly should be helping the mitochondria in the cones in the back of the retina. And what we can see here are individuals. Notice here with the individuals in black, what happened to the threshold for the color blindness? And in all of these cases, it dropped. You can see here in people who are very young, even in people who are older, they still saw a drop in the threshold, which is good. That was for the proton color blindness. Triton, which is blue, you can see here they checked for that. And there was a drop here for the proton. There was also a drop for the triton, black to blue, black to blue, black to blue, black to blue. And that was in the younger cases and also for the older cases. Generally speaking, mid-20s improvement in visual perception when they had incandescent light bulbs, specifically a 60 watt incandescent light bulb sitting on their desk. Let's see what Glenn Jeffries says here is going on. He says, we demonstrate that the visual performance of those working under standard LED is significantly improved by exposure to incandescent lighting. Obsstensibly, you could go out and get a 60 watt incandescent bulb to make sure you have it on at your desk. And at least some of the issues related to LED lighting can be mitigated in terms of visual performance. And he says that these data are consistent with the hypothesis that LED lighting undermines human visual performance. This result is consistent with laboratory experiments where specific red and infrared wavelengths ranges generated by LEDs have been used to improve visual function in animals and humans in a conserved manner. And he's referencing previous articles that he published. So how is this study different? It's different in three ways. First, he says, we have simply changed environmental lighting in a free moving work environment. These people are not sitting in front of a light in a very controlled manner. This is simply putting the light in an environment where somebody is working and seeing that there's actually an improvement. That's one way this study is actually different. A second way that this study is different is that they were able to see an improvement in both the proton and the triton range with an incandescent light bulb, which has more width in terms of wavelengths. Glenn Jeffrey has published a study before where he used 670 nanometer light in the retina of an eye in the morning, which showed improvements there, but particularly with one type of blindness over the other here, they're showing a much more balanced improvement. And again, it's not with 670, which is in the red spectrum. Here we're actually using infrared lights, but not just infrared light, light and a very wider spectrum that's consistent with the incandescent light bulb. You're getting visible light and you're getting many different types of wavelengths from infrared lights, not just a specific 670 nanometer. It looks as though a broader spectrum is better. The third thing that's actually really interesting is something that we need to go back and look at the results again. Notice that there was improvement after just two weeks, but when they looked at it at four weeks and even at six weeks, notice that there wasn't really a falling back or a recrudescence of this type of misperception of color. And it could very well be that the increased production in energy is also helping to create long standing proteins that actually may be beneficial in these patients. And then he finishes up and saying these three features change the way in which long wavelength light may be applied to improve human physiology by delivery in normal environments with lasting balance effects. These results are novel and may have public health implications. In our environments at work, in the hospital, at home, in many of these places, especially at places outside of our home where we can't have much control, there is a lot of LED lights. But what do we do in our homes? There's some people's homes that have the ability to switch back to incandescent light bulbs and I know some of you are doing that, but some live in new constructions where they don't allow you to screw in light bulbs. They actually come with LED lights already installed and so you can't switch those out. It appears, at least based on this, one way to mitigate the visual perception issues associated with chronic LED light exposure that simply the purchase of a 60 watt bulb that sits in your environment can actually mitigate at least some of the issues related to LED bulbs. However, this is a moving target. We've actually published a video not too long ago looking at the new rule change that will go into effect in 2028 that will make LED bulbs even tighter in terms of the narrow spectrum that is being broadcast from these LED bulbs. These are not situations where they can be overturned by an executive order. This is actually the outcropping of legislation that was initially discussed and signed in 2007, but has been refined since that time. So I highly recommend that you watch that video. I recommend that you look at this study. Its links are in the description below and don't forget to follow us, turn on notifications, subscribe and visit us at MedCram.com. Thanks for joining us.