 cram.com. Welcome to another MedCram video. Today we're going to talk about an intervention that actually can have a lot of benefit in many different areas. Now what we're looking at here is an Egyptian artifact. It's actually a bed. And if you notice, you'll see here that the head of the bed is in this area, and it's actually elevated, and then it goes to a flatter area where the feet are. And you can see that there's a board here at the actual foot of the bed to make sure that the person sleeping on this bed doesn't fall off and go down. We're going to talk about the intervention of elevation or tilting the head of the bed up above the heart, and what type of benefits we might see, and what is the evidence for those benefits. So let's take a look in multiple different areas in terms of health of elevating the head of the bed and seeing what happens. So one category is better breathing, sleep, and less snoring with elevation of the head of the bed. Let's take a look at the evidence for that. So this was a paper that was published in 2022, and the title that was Sleeping in an Incline Position to Reduce Snoring and Improve Sleep. It was a relatively small study, but what was nice about it was that it was the same participants where they did four weeks flat and then four weeks at a 12-degree incline. They analyzed about a thousand nights of data. What they found, there was a statistical significant reduction in snoring, about 7%, 4% fewer awakenings, and a 5% increase in deep sleep. And consistent with these objective findings was the subjective reporting of the people sleeping. So this was a positive here in terms of elevating the head of the bed, but what about in people who are actually diagnosed with obstructive sleep apnea? There was another study that was done looking at that. So in this study titled The Influence of Head of Bed Elevation in Patients with Obstructive Sleep Apnea, they took exactly 52 subjects with an average BMI of 29.6 and an Epworth Sleepiness Scale Score of 15, which is pretty high, and they did an intervention with them. They looked at them laying flat, and then the intervention was head of bed elevation at 7.5 degrees incline. And so they reported on three different issues. The AHI, which you may recall is the apnea-hypopnea index, and it simply tells us about how many times per hour someone stops breathing or almost stops breathing with desaturation. And it went from 15.7 down to 10.7. That was statistically significant. Remember that the normal is 5, so it didn't reduce it down to absolute normal, but there was a significant reduction both statistically and also clinically. The insaturation nadir, or the lowest, actually came up from 83.5% to 87%. That was also statistically significant. And sleep efficiency improved from 87 to 88.8%. That was also statistically significant. If you want to look at it pictorially, again, looking at the apnea-hypopnea index, it's best to be low. And you can see here with the head of bed elevation at 7.5 degrees incline, even though there was some people that got worse. The overall condition was generally a reduction from here down to here in terms of the apnea-hypopnea index. What I've done here is highlighted the statistically significant events. Sleep efficiency improved. AHI events went down both overall and also in the non-supine position. By the way, we also noticed it in the supine position as well. And also, as I mentioned here, we've talked about the HI or the events per hour and also the improvement in the saturation minimum. So that was one study. They also did another study. This one titled head of bed elevation for improving positional obstructive sleep apnea and experimental study. This had 45 subjects in it. And this time they elevated it to 30 degrees. And here you can see with table three the statistically significant endpoints. The biggest one, of course, being it may be hard to see here, but 23.8 was the AHI, which would be in the moderate range. And it brought it down to 17.7, still in the moderate range, but it is reduced. All of these were statistically significant. The percentage of apneas, the percentage of hypopneas, the oxygen desaturation index, which is very similar to the AHI. The average SP02, the lower oxygen saturation, CT90, and the snoring percentage. And overall, the conclusion was that by adopting head of bed elevation, position with 30 degrees elevation of the head and the trunk, it is possible to obtain a reduction in upper airway collapses and an improvement of apnea hypopnea events. Here is another study that was published looking at this except instead of a 30 degree head of bed elevation, it was only 7.5 degrees head of bed elevation and 23. And again, there was a statistically significant difference between the AHI, which was 18 in the control group and 10.8, which was in the head of bed elevation group. So it kind of brings up the question for snoring and for airway, how high should the head of bed be? And they did this interesting study where they could actually measure the amount of snoring and use infrared technology to see what the position was of the patient. They had an automatic device that could increase from 0 degrees to 10 degrees to 15 to 20. And what they found, when they looked at 22 subjects, which underwent randomization, they were able to see that 22% of them stopped at 10 degrees, but 67% of them stopped at 20 degrees, indicating that you can get the majority of the people to have a benefit in terms of snoring when you hit about 20 degrees. Based on the evidence, it seems to indicate that elevation of the head of bed does have some impact in terms of snoring and even obstructive sleep apnea. Let's move on to improved digestion and reduced acid reflux. Now this actually may be a little bit bound up in obstructive sleep apnea, but we're going to try to look at it here from a different standpoint and realize, of course, that when you are laying down and when the head is above the stomach, it's going to be more difficult for stuff to reflux up the stomach and into the esophagus. So you can see already a benefit there just anatomically. We can't just assume that it's going to work. We actually need to have data. So here we have a subject heading under the Mayo Clinic in terms of gastroesophageal reflux and what some lifestyle and home remedies could be. You can see here they have elevation of the head of the bed. They say here, if you regularly experience heartburn while trying to sleep, place wood or cement blocks under the feet at the head of your bed. Raise the head by six to nine inches. If you can't elevate your bed, you can insert a wedge between your mattress and the box spring to elevate your body from the waist up. Raising your head with additional pillows isn't effective and that's an interesting thing here. So we're talking about elevating the bed about six inches. Another thing that you could potentially do is to get a wedge so that you are laying up like this. Very similar to what we saw in the Egyptian artifact, which was also a bed. So here's a study titled, Impact of Head of Bed Elevation in Symptoms of Patients with Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease, a Randomized Single Blinded Study. Now what they didn't say here was they actually did a crossover. What happened was they recruited about 1,100 subjects and they had a number of exclusion criteria which excluded many of them. So people that were on CPAP, oxygen, had COPD, had shortness of breath when they were laying flat, had abdominal surgery or some other reasons or didn't agree to do it. And then what they did was they randomized the 65 that were left and they randomized them to head of bed elevation versus no head of bed elevation. And the head of bed elevation was 20 centimeters, that's almost 8 inches. And they did a washout period of two weeks after these people were on this for six weeks. So they did six weeks, six weeks, they did a two week washout here as you can see and then they did it again for six weeks except they flipped places. So what's interesting here is that each subject is acting as a control group for himself. So this makes it a very powerful study. You can get very good statistical analysis when you do it this way. So here are the results of that study. What we have here is a RDQ which is a questionnaire looking at the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. The higher the number, the worse the symptoms. And as you can see here, there is statistical significant difference between what happened with no head of bed elevation, which is a higher score, versus head of bed elevation, which gives you a lower score. And that's with the protocol analysis and also is seen with the modified intention to treat analysis, meaning that looking at even the people that drop out, there's still a statistically significant difference between these two. What about quality of life? Because again, people can have erosion of quality of life if their head of bed is elevated and they're slipping down or they have back problems or things of that nature. So it's important to look at the overall quality of life. And in this case, whereas up here a high score meant worse symptoms, here a high score is good, meaning that you have a good quality of life. So you can see here that head of bed elevation showed that there was a higher quality of life. So if you look at the p-value here, it was not statistically significant. Same here, the p-value is greater than 0.05, meaning not statistically significant. What you can say here for this bottom portion in terms of quality of life is that those that had an elevated head of bed did not have a reduced quality of life, but did have a reduced symptomatology based on this survey of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Even more literature has been looked at and in this case this is a systematic review of the literature related to elevating the head of the bed for patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease, applications in patients after esophageal cancer surgery. And here they did a literature review of 37 articles and they looked through a number of different libraries, including the Cochrane Library, ProQuest, PubMed, Medline, etc. And what they found was that an elevation of the head of the bed anywhere between 20 and 28 centimeters, and that's approximately 8 to 11 inches, is recommended in the literature. They found that it was easy and most importantly effective at alleviating symptoms of acid regurgitation. We've talked about the effect of head of bed elevation on obstructive sleep apnea and snoring and now we've found that it's also beneficial for the alleviation of symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. What about in the realm of sinuses? Another aspect of benefit from elevating the head of your bed is reduced sinus pressure and congestion. As you can see here, the frontal and the sphenoid and what you can't see is the maxillary sinus. These are areas that drain and may drain better if this is elevated. The American Academy of Otolaryngology had a neck surgery foundation suggest that elevating the head of the bed as a measure to relieve chronic sinusitis symptoms. And of course we need better research to actually formulate how well that actually helps. Another potential area is not only pressure in the sinuses but also pressure in the eyes or the globe of the eyes. And as we know that if there is an increased intraocular pressure in the eyes, that can lead to a condition called glaucoma. So this is an interesting study titled Effective Sleeping in a Head Up Position on Intraocular Pressure in Patients with Glaucoma. So again we're looking at the pressure of the fluid that's inside the eyes. What they did was they recruited patients, about 17 of them, with new disc hemorrhage despite well controlled intraocular pressures. And they put them into a sleep lab on two separate nights. The first night laying flat and the second night in a 30 degree head up position. And then what they did was they measured them at different times. So 6pm, 8pm, 10pm and 8am. These are awake times. And then the asleep times were 2am, 4am, 6am, etc. And so these times right here was when the patients were asleep. On one of the nights they were sleeping flat and on the other night they were sleeping with the head of the bed elevated. And specifically it was a 30 degree head of the bed up. Like this versus like this. When they were sleeping like this they noticed that there was a difference between the intraocular pressure when they were laying down completely like this and when they were sitting up. So in other words there was no significant differences when they were sitting up during the awake period. 6pm, 8pm, 10pm and 8am. However, during the sleep period there was a statistically significant difference between sitting up and laying down. And specifically there was a reduction in the intraocular pressure of 20% or more in 35% of the patients. 6 out of 17. Even though there was no difference in the blood pressure or the ocular perfusion pressures. In other words how much blood was getting to the eyeball. So it wasn't because of that. It was because of potentially the drainage out of the eye that was allowing that pressure to be relieved. And so they concluded that a 30 degree head up sleeping position lowers the intraocular pressure compared to the flat position of course when they were sleeping. Not to beat a dead horse here but here was another paper that was published in 2018 titled the effects of different sleeping positions on intraocular pressure in secondary open angle glaucoma and glaucoma suspect patients. They looked at 24 patients and they looked at both eyes in most of those situations. 44 eyes they said here. And they looked at the intraocular pressure in different positions and especially with the head of the bed elevated. And what they found was that a 30 degree elevation showed that there was a significant decrease in the pressure in the eyes on measurement. To the point where they said that patients should consider sleeping in a bed that allows a head elevation of 30 degrees. What about pregnancy? How was that affected by head of bed elevation? Here's a paper that was published in 2015 titled elevated upper body position improves pregnancy related obstructive sleep apnea without impairing sleep quality or sleep architecture early after delivery. This was done at Mass General. They looked at 55 patients and they randomized them to either sleeping in the bed 45 degrees with the head of bed elevated or flat in the first 48 hours after delivery. What they found was that the AHI or the amount of times that they stopped breathing went from 7.7 per hour down to 4.5 per hour when they slept going from flat to elevated. They also found that the cross sectional area of the airway increased from 1.35 to 1.54 during wakefulness. That was actually a difference even when they were awake. It seems as though there is quite a bit of a difference in terms of the health benefits when we elevate the head of the bed. This has a lot to do with gravity and how the gravitational forces of the earth exert an effect on the human body. One must ask the question what would happen in space flight or space travel where there is microgravity? This is a paper that was published in May of 2024 showing sleep and optic discadema in space flight associated with neuroocular syndrome. While we don't have data about what happens if the blood goes away from the head and the neck and goes down into the body, what we do have is some information about what happens when that stops happening in space. The blood doesn't come back to the heart because of gravity. It just stays around. We can see here in this article that was published that says that as soon as astronauts arrive in microgravity and while they remain on the International Space Station, blood and other body fluids are pushed, quote, upward. That means towards the head, from the legs and abdomen, towards the heart and the head. This is kind of the opposite of what we would see in a head of bed elevation situation. We've been talking about the benefits of elevation of the head of the bed. What are the risks? Potentially, there is a risk of quality of life erosion where you're falling down the bed or you're having back pain or things of that nature. But there are other risks that actually can happen. We've already shown you that the quality of life actually did not degrade much. But there are some risks in terms of elevation of the head of bed that need to be talked about and specifically in the pediatric population. And sleepers and soft nursing pillows and other baby products can actually cause death in some of these neonates. And I say here that having a baby is of course exciting, but you have to be concerned about some of the things that you might put into the bed. The best way to have a baby go to sleep is to have the baby go to bed on its back and not on its belly and for that bed to be absolutely, completely flat. There's actually some items that were recalled because they were inclined sleepers and these were associated with fatalities. For instance, there was Fisher Price's massive rock and play recall and there were actually additional fatalities after the recall that may have been associated with the Fisher Price recall. So the bottom line again is that there should not be any loose bedding. There should be no soft objects, no toys, no pillows and no incline. In terms of the adult population, we don't see a lot of risks for incline. So in terms of the vocabulary of what we're talking about, you can see here is a wedge pillow that you can get that sometimes beneficial and adjustable bed can actually be very beneficial but also pretty expensive. A mattress tilter goes under the mattress allowing the body to be at an incline can also be beneficial as well. An incline bed where you can actually incline the bed itself and also bed risers. You can see that here with this where you can actually go out and buy a bed riser that will elevate the head of the bed. That's also beneficial as well and it's a little bit cheaper than finding some of these other things that can elevate the head of the bed or the foot or things of that nature. However, if you want the ability to adjust specifically and go between for instance, 5 degrees, 10 degrees, 30 degrees, depending on what it is that you want the incline for, you can see that you can purchase some of these beds that are very specific and variable in terms of the incline. So this is the iTilt incline therapy comfort lounger. There's other ones that are like this as well. And here is Medcram co-founder Kyle testing out this bed frame. He likes how this model is very sturdy and has an option for the entire bed to tilt at an incline as opposed to some models that only allow a third or a half of the bed to tilt which can create an uncomfortable angle for the back especially for side or stomach sleepers. A nice feature in general about these remote control beds is that you can easily adjust the height if you want more incline and return the bed to flat after you get out of bed in the morning. And there's also a variety of other incline options that may work as well for back sleepers. For example, this one is called 0G and is meant to take pressure off of the back. And you can see here that you would put forth a bit of an investment for that type of benefit. Regardless of how much money you pay, you can be guaranteed that it's not going to be as much money as it would be to get this bed. I hope this has been helpful. Thanks for joining us.