 cram.com. Welcome to another MedCram lecture. Today, we're going to talk about the flu and also a little bit of COVID and updates, and specifically about fever. So here we've got a graph looking at the estimate of flu-related hospitalizations by week. And as you can see here, we are well into this time period here, right around mid-January. And we can see where the 2024 to 2025 season is going. This is cumulative hospitalization. So as we start to get less and less, it's going to level off. And asymptote, I have no idea where it's going to go. You can go any place, and you can see these were the dates in previous years where these things ended up as low in 2021 to 2022 or as high as it was in 2017 to 2018. It looks as though we are starting to peak in mid-January. So hopefully things start to come back down. So what we're going to talk about today is fever and a recent article that I think was really astounding in terms of the power of having an elevated body temperature and why it's important to have an elevated body temperature when you're dealing with viral infections. Now, obviously we don't want to take that too far because elevated temperatures that are in excess of 104, 105 degrees Fahrenheit can actually be pretty dangerous. Let's talk about this temperature scale. We've got a number of things that can measure our body temperature. By the way, if you're interested, I'm going to put a link to an article here from the Mayo Clinic, how to take your temperature to make sure you're taking it accurately because we're going to be talking about your temperature. I want to first of all go over this. There are certain benchmarks, 37 degrees Celsius, 38, 39, and 40. And these translate into in Fahrenheit 98.6, which you may recall is a temperature that's considered normal, but of course it can vary. 38, interestingly, is what we define as being a fever. So 100.4 or above, or 38 is actually where we determine somebody has a fever. 39 is 102.2 and 40 degrees is 104. So these are important benchmarks, especially as we go forward. Because 38 degrees Celsius is where we determine a fever, we will not say that somebody has a fever unless it's above that, and therefore we're not inclined to treat a fever for those that actually do treat fevers until we get to that point. And then when we do give a medication, whether it be acetaminophen or paracetamol in Europe or ibuprofen or other NSAIDs, it's going to be sort of between this range of 38 degrees and 39 degrees in here, where you have sort of a low grade fever, and that's to try to get the temperature back down because people feel better when they don't have a fever. When you start getting up to here, up into the 102.2 to 104 or 39 degrees to 40 degrees, that's where the fevers can get pretty high. Whether or not you give a temperature reducer or not is kind of optional. Certainly, if it's above 104, I think no one's going to really complain if you were to give it at that point. There are ranges here. This is the point that I want to make. We don't give any treatment here, generally speaking in the hospital, between 98.6 and 100.4, no treatment. However, once it gets above 100.4, I've seen this practice often, especially in the hospital, we'll give Tylenol or something else, generally it's Tylenol, to try to treat this number. It's just the number, it indicates that there's a fever, certainly if it starts getting above that. The thing about giving medication between 100.4 and 102.2 is that it may drop it down even further. And the question is, what are we doing? Why are we actually treating this fever? It's one of those things, it's a philosophical issue. Why do we have a fever and should we be getting rid of it? Is it a problem? Is it a sign of an infection? Yes. Is it also a sign that your immune system is actually doing something and you're actually getting a benefit? Well, we're going to talk today about that very issue. And the question is, is when should we be giving these types of medications and should we be giving them at all at certain ranges? And when is a temperature too high that we really should be giving these medications and we should be seeking medical attention? I don't think there's any great, hard and fast rules, but there are some generalities and we'll talk about that. The first thing you have to understand is your immune system. Whenever you get infected with something it's your immune system that's going to be doing the heavy lifting. And there's two types, there's the innate immune system, which looks at generalities, things that look foreign, not because you've been exposed to it before, but because your body just understands those pathological patterns. Also the adaptive immune system. So this is what uses antibodies that are specific against viral proteins that you've seen before in the past. This is the whole basis behind seeing this ahead of time so you have antibodies and that's the whole purpose of immunizations. These cells though are what we're going to be talking about today, the monocyte and the natural killer cells. These go on to make macrophages and dendritic cells. These are really important in the innate immune system and that's what we'll be talking about today is the innate immune system. And one of the things that is the product of the innate immune system is something called interferon which is extremely important. And we've talked about it before and I'll refer you again to our video that we did on hydrotherapy and interferon. Really important video that talks about this. Highly advise you to watch that video and get some background information. What we talked about in that video was that high temperatures are really important in terms of interferon gamma and other interferon type responses. And we showed in this paper previously that when your body temperature gets up to about 39 which is certainly a fever. Like a fever would be right here at 38 but when it gets up to 39, so when you're up to 102.2 you're gonna be getting a 10 fold increase in interferon which is gonna be really important. They've done randomized placebo control trials on this already. This one was published in the New England Journal of Medicine and it showed that in terms of hospitalization or death from COVID-19 that there was a relative risk reduction of about 39% when people were given infusions of pegulated interferon lambda. And we also talked about historically how this dichotomy of whether you treat a fever or encourage a fever played out. This was a non-scientific paper that was written up by Wells Rubel, a physician back in 1919. He published it in May 1st in Life and Health where he compared what he did and what many others did in the sanitariums in the Northeast with what the Army hospitals were doing. So the Army hospitals were using lots of aspirin. And the reason is because aspirin got rid of fevers, it got rid of body aches, people felt better when they had the flu, but unfortunately it reduced fever and it led to about a 6.4% infection fatality ratio. Whereas in the sanitariums where Wells Rubel was the medical director of the New England sanitarium, their strategy actually was to increase body temperature not to decrease it. And they found a significant reduction in early pneumonia. And even though they had a slightly higher death rate from pneumonia than the Army hospitals did, their overall infection fatality ratio was almost 1-6th of that of the Army hospitals. It was labor intensive because people had to be given hydrotherapy, that's where you warmed up these towels and placed it on the patient so that they were sweating. And the whole purpose of this was to increase body temperature up because this seemed to improve the innate immune system. There's a new paper that was published that we're gonna go over. It was in nucleic acids research, so we're looking at transcription factors. And what they showed was that even subtle temperature increases strongly increase the expression of antiviral genes. Let's read here in this paper and we'll give you a link to it in the description below. They said remarkably, when comparing genes with altered expression between 37 and 38 degrees. Now remember what we said, we're not even calling it a fever until we get to 38. In the temperature leading up to even something called a fever, there's actually a lot of changes occurring in the body. They say here that the majority of the genes showed increased expression at the higher temperature and the strongest changes were observed for genes related to innate immunity. But not only that, interferon response, which should not be surprising, and antiviral response. And that's what we're looking at here. These genes did not show a change in expression between 34 and 37, suggesting a specific activation of innate immunity and antiviral pathways at an elevated temperature. And by the way, I would note at a temperature that's not even considered a fever. Going from 37 to 38 degrees, notice how a whole host of these genes turn from blue, which would mean low level, to red, which means high level. So there was a definite increased expression of antiviral response genes. They say these data indicate antiviral priming of macrophages specifically by just a 1% Celsius increase in temperature from 37 to 38 degrees Celsius, which represents the normal thermic range at the transition to mild fever, which we already talked about at 38. As we go from 37 to 38, even before we're calling it a fever, there's already a revving up of genes that are gonna be responsible for fighting the infection. And so you can see that it may even be beneficial to increase temperature even up to a slightly higher temperature, even though we can't say that it's actually a fever. Really actually kind of exciting. So this is a busy slide that I don't really need you to know completely about, but just know that we're talking about Jack Statt signaling. And this is really important with antiviral responses. And notice what happens here. This is a whole bunch of pathways that are going on, but I want you to notice a couple of things. It's really hard to see, but these are temperatures here on the x-axis and the second one is 37 and the third one is 38. And I want you to notice in all of these graphs that there are two that are low and two that are high. What does that mean? That going from 37 to 38 degrees Celsius, you're having a huge increase in the activation of these enzymes just going from 37 to 38. Now we'll talk about other genes that get activated at 39, but there's a whole host of these, too low, too high. And where's the transition between 37 and 38? Same thing here, same thing here, same thing here, same thing here, same thing here, all over. So in other words, just going from 37 to 38 degrees Celsius, so just getting into a fever range is sufficient to increase phosphorylation and this activation of stat two, stat three, and these, what they call raw 264.7 cells. A lot of these experiments were done in mice and in hamsters and they have the same temperature ranges, generally speaking, that we do. If anything, the hamster may have a slightly higher normal temperature, which makes these data even more impressive. We're not even saying it's a fever until you get to 38, but there's a whole host of changes that are occurring on the way to 38 degrees. What about nitric oxide production? Elevated temperature increases antiviral genes and NO production in primary mouse macrophages. Mice have exactly the same temperature thresholds as we do, 36, 37, 38, and 39 as we talked about. And again, what you can see here is these enzymes and these proteins, all of them very different. What do you notice? That as we go, in this case, not to 38, but as we go to 39 degrees, when we have a temperature and we add the presence of an infection through LPS, which is a way of stimulating the immune system, lipopolysaccharides, antigenic on bacteria, in this situation, notice what happens. Positive LPS and 39 degrees here on the last one, you'll see in every one of these cases, there's an up regulation in these genes. Doesn't happen otherwise, but this is what happens when you have 39 degrees Celsius and LPS positive. And they say here that together, these data showed that in macrophages, two critical antiviral pathways, type one interferon response and nitric oxide production are primed by elevated temperature and that these mechanisms are also active in primary macrophages. So now we're seeing that it's not just activities that are increased going from 37 to 38, but also from 37 to 39. And that's well into this fever. So the question is, should we be giving Tylenol to reduce fever at this point? That's a good question. Now, every patient is different. Some people have low thresholds for seizures, for rapid heart rates, for all sorts of other things. There are a lot of complications that occur with fevers as we've talked about in the past and we'll talk about. I've never seen any of those manifest up to 102.2. It's usually well over 104. Question mark between 102 and 104. I've never really had use in my clinical practice for giving Tylenol to someone with a fever up to 102.2. And it seems as though this is data that's showing that when you allow the temperature to be increased in this range, there can be some beneficial up-regulation of the innate immune system. So what is it that actually is going on? In this situation, they had these enzymes at 39 degrees Celsius and they allowed it to go there. And it wasn't until about 12 hours into it that we started to see increasing amounts of this product that is being transcribed and translated. Same here with B, again, except now we're going back down to 37 degrees Celsius. And it takes a little bit of time for these enzymes to down-regulate. It does take time for these things to come back down. When they checked the RNA transcripts during this period of time at various degrees, they were all stable. In other words, these mRNA transcripts were not being degraded. This is not the reason why there was increasing or decreasing. But rather what they found was that at these temperatures, 37 and 39, it was actual transcription of the DNA that was causing the elevation in these transcript products or enzymes. So what do we know here? We know that temperature-controlled stat too, pre-mRNA processing can induce transcription of antiviral genes at elevated temperatures. So in other words, increased de novo or brand new transcription of antiviral genes. This is how this is happening. So it's kind of amazing that as the temperature increases in your body, all that's needed is an increase in temperature and this will cause transcription of genes in the nucleus of your immune cells and a production of increased enzymes and proteins in the innate immune system to do its job. So here are some cell cultures that are actually looking at an example in vitro and in vivo. Here was SARS-CoV-2 infections. And here we're using different cell cultures. This is Calu-3 and Keco-2. And what you can see here in 24 hours post infection, when we go from 37 to 39, there is a definite reduction in the viral count. Same thing here, 37 to 39. This is 48 hours post infection. You can see there's also a statistically significant drop. We say the same thing in these cells as well at the 24 and the 48 hour mark. When we look here in Syrian hamsters, which again have the very similar temperature benchmarks as we as humans do, you can see that as we go down in temperature, down here to 36, we're gonna see very high viral titers. But as we increase the temperature up to even 37, so just going from 36 to 37, what are we seeing here? We're seeing a dramatic reduction in viral titers. And this is happening both in young and in old as well. Interestingly, it's in the young that have typically higher temperatures and the old that have lower temperatures. The authors of this paper surmise that the reason why SARS-CoV-2 was so much worse in the older population was that they were unable to increase their body temperature as well as those in the younger population. And that may have to do with the efficiency of the mitochondria, which actually makes the heat. This is what they said, building on previous theoretical and basic scientific research on fever, recent observational trials in humans have examined the use of antipyretics and fever on disease outcomes. Inhibition of fever with acetaminophen has been linked with delayed recovery, including from chickenpox and malaria. The use of NSAIDs has been linked with complications, including empyema and prolonged hospitalization in children and adults with lower respiratory tract infections reviewed in. And there's the article there. Potentially beneficial effects of fever have also been reported in observational trials in a prospective trial that examined the effect of mitochondrial genetic variants in patients with sepsis. The mitochondrial haplotype H was linked with higher febrile temperatures and improved survival. Now, let's just stop right there. Is it possible that if we have better mitochondrial health, we'll be able to mount a better fever because it's this short circuiting of the mitochondria, the ability to create heat, especially in the brown fat that we see in infants, but also later in life, this shivering and this mitochondrial powerhouse that's able to generate this energy. This is what's responsible for making fevers. They say overall the best survival occurred in those with the highest core temperature within the first 24 hours. In two studies of sepsis and severe infection in Sweden and Denmark, each involving more than 2000 patients, fever was associated with lower mortality. And those with the highest body temperatures had the best survival. Young at all showed that lower temperatures were associated with higher mortality among a cohort of 269,000 ICU patients with infection in New Zealand and Australia. And the same result was seen in a cohort numbering 366,000 in the UK. In a recent observational study of patients with COVID-19 pneumonia, it was found that having a fever was associated with a better survival. Although another study involving COVID-19 showed a positive association between fever and more severe cases. So it looks as though more research needs to be done. The question is whether or not we should give Tylenol at all. And I would say here, let's not throw the baby out with the bath water, no pun intended. There are some negative effects of hyperthermia. When the temperature goes up, remember that metabolism also goes up with it, heart rate, heat exhaustion, heat stroke, organ damage, muscle breakdown, impaired cognitive function, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, rapid heart rate, confusion, seizures, and in severe cases, even death. Particularly if left untreated with the most critical effects being on the brain, the heart, the kidneys and other vital organs due to reduced blood flow and oxygen supply. So everybody's a little different and each person has comorbidities that may make you more tolerant of elevated temperatures or more intolerant of elevated temperatures. And so you have to figure out exactly how the patient is benefiting in that case with or without antipyretics. But generally speaking, and I say this not as medical advice, but generally in the patient populations that I have seen, here we've got no fever. So there's really no reason to use an antipyretic. In fact, it may be beneficial to try to increase the temperature using things like hydrotherapy or sauna. Now we talked about this, please again, review our video that we did on hydrotherapy where we talked about this. This is nothing new. People have been doing this actually for over 100 years. In fact, the Nobel Prize in 1927 in medicine was offered because of this very thing. It was actually able to cure neurosyphilis doing this. No fever here. If we were to consider it doing it here, we actually have a fever. In my estimation, there's really very little risk in allowing someone's temperature to go up to 102.2. There's actually some benefits of getting the fever up this high. As we showed in the paper that we reviewed here, there's a number of transcripts that get elevated and that help the immune system. We see an increase in interferon. However, once it gets above 39, we're now starting to get into the range where we might start to see some risk with elevated temperature and considering using an antipyretic like Tylenol or ibuprofen or other NSAIDs may be beneficial. It just depends on what's going on in the patient's body. Food for Thought? If you found this helpful, please subscribe, turn on notifications, leave us a comment and go to MedCram.com for more continuing medical education on various topics. Thanks for joining us.