 I have a 20-mile run today, and I thought it'd be a good time to finally bring back some long-form videos for the first time in many years. I have already sunscreened. I'm applying anti-chafing balm. This is the brand that I use. Here is where I like to put it. Definitely inner thighs for sure. I've also learned the hard way that balm here for myself and here is really important. I am six weeks out from the London Marathon. This is going to be my very first ever marathon, and today is a 20-mile run. 10 of those miles are going to be at marathon pace. Pretty scary. So not only is this a hard run, it's also going to be the longest distance I've ever run in one go without stopping. It does take me some time to get ready for my long runs because there's a lot to prepare. I take my hydration and fueling very seriously, especially for long runs. I've got two liters of water in this bladder here, and I'm going to put in four scoops of this intros. One scoop is 15 grams of carbs, so that'll be 60 grams of carbohydrates in this bladder alone. And then I'm also going to take some gels and maybe some gummy candies with me too. Four. Close this sucker. I have some tight. There's already ice in here. Put the straw on. Oh my God, I'm spilling everywhere. Don't do that. That's good. I think that's good. And then other fuel I'll be taking. I'm going to do some gels. The Humor Brand is my favorite. I like the Ferdy ones. We also have these. This one I got when I was in Germany recently at the Adidas World Headquarters. It's pretty okay. It does not upset my stomach. And then for fun, I'm also going to toss in some prissy pigs. For fueling during long runs, you want to go for low fat, low fiber options. Ideally a combination of glucose and fructose because the combination versus strictly glucose alone increases the oxidation rate. I'm going to measure out the prissy pigs. I'm playing on fueling every 30 minutes during my run. So it'll be like 30 minutes, one hour, hour 30, two hours, two and a half hours. And then I'm expecting to go roughly three hours. So that should be fine. But obviously in addition to this, I have 60 grams of carbs in the fluids as well to help top things off. Let me run you through all my gear. This is the High Support Sports Bra from Adidas. I've got some running chores also from Adidas. The shoes I'll be wearing today, freaking so good. This is the Adios Co4 from Adidas, obviously. I've worn them once as a practice run on my 17 mile run a couple of weeks ago. These are the shoes I will be running in for the London Marathon. These are so fantastic. So I want to take them out for one more spin before the big day. Hydration vest is Adidas Terrex. I've got the two liters of fluids in the back. In the front pocket on one side, I like to put all my gels in one pocket. It's quite deep. And then in the other side pocket, I like to slide my phone in there. I also bring along a mini anti-taping bomb in case I need it during the run. And here's Ollie, who's not going to be coming on the run with me. But he's very cute. Some glasses from Amazon. Clip my bangs back. And we're dressed for the run. We're a little under two miles in so far. Feeling pretty good. I have five miles chill pace, ten miles at race pace, then five miles again at chill pace. It's been super interesting and fun learning about the importance of proper fueling for long runs. And longer endurance events in general. Also cool to implement the changes with intentionally eating more carbs and feeling the performance improvements right away. We're nearing the end of our five mile start at chill pace. And then we're going to go into ten miles at race pace. Two miles in. All four. I'm running out of steam. Not hitting target pace, but that's okay. Six miles in. Eleven total. Four harder miles to go before I cruise. But man, I'm getting tired. I'm thinking hindsight. I didn't eat enough carbs yesterday. Good learning lesson. Oh dear. I have to walk for a little bit. Alright, the ten mile block is done. We have less than five easy miles remaining. My body feels okay besides the fact that I feel like I'm a bit depleted of carbs. But my mind is tired. I want to stop to walk. The temptation is very strong, but I think I'm going to try and finish off without walking. Eighteen miles in. Last two. Come on, I can do it. One mile remaining. I have a whole deal week after this, so I can go for a little bit longer. Almost there. I feel strong. It's finished strong. Finish it up. Finish it up. Workout completed. I've been picked up because I finished at my warehouse, so my husband picked me up to take me back home because it's an uphill to return home and I don't feel like doing that. Back home, let's do a very quick debrief. First of all, I feel actually really good. My husband was quite surprised when he came to pick me up. He thought I would be looking a lot more rundown. But the reality is if you're feeling properly and hydrating properly and obviously running conditions outside are okay, you're not supposed to be feeling super drained at the end of a long run. You're not supposed to be completely wiped out for the end of the day. And so I did consume all my two liters of fluids. I ate all my fuel. That's probably around 180 grams of carbs total I consumed during the 20 miles and it ended up being a 10, 23 minute mile pace on average. And my total time was a little right under three hours and 30 minutes. So that was 327.52 for 20 miles total. Now I did want to run faster during the middle 10 mile block, which was supposed to be at race pace. But in hindsight, I think that everything felt great. I slept really well. My recovery was good. Joints felt awesome. Lungs were great. I think that in hindsight, I didn't eat enough carbs yesterday. So my carb loading was a bit insufficient and I could feel it today during the run. I know I have the fitness to do race pace for 10 miles because I've done faster before in half marathon races and whatnot. It's a matter of I think next time being better prepared. All in all, I'm still super happy with this. Still definitely a lifetime distance PR. I'm very proud of myself. I walked twice during today's run, but I didn't stop at any point and I felt super, super solid even at the end. So for that, I am very happy. I'm going to take a D load week and then I'll come back and in two weeks time I have my longest run, which is going to be 21 miles. And then we'll start to decrease the mileage going into race day. Thanks for tuning in. I will catch you next time.