 Before I begin, I do want to emphasize that I am not an eating disorder specialist. And even though I have personally gone through eating disorders myself, that does not make me automatically the expert on how to recover from your own eating disorder struggles. There are a few reasons I wanted to film this video. One, I wanted to take the shame and the stigma out of eating disorder struggles. I want to shed some more light on how debilitating it can be. And I want to normalize admitting when you're not okay, and when you need help, and get that help. I've only started opening up about my personal struggles from my teens and my early 20s. More openly in the past couple of years, because I want to help people. But it is difficult to talk about. It brings up a lot of sadness and a lot of pain. But I think that's what makes it that much more important. Okay, so someone asked me, how did my eating disorder start? And it's hard to pinpoint an exact moment, right? Because a lot of times when we go through eating disorders, we're not really aware that it's happening. And we're not aware sometimes of how bad it's gotten. I do want to say that having an eating disorder is not always about your body. It's not always about food. It's not always about your body image. For me, I believe it was primarily about acceptance, I think. When I was in my young teens, I grew up in very, very heavy diet culture. And the kids my age, my peers, 12 year old, 13 year olds, 14 year olds, and this is so heartbreaking to think back on. But even back then, we were talking about who has the smaller waist, who has the skinnier legs, and oh my God, I want to look just like her. And it was this idolizing of people who were skinny, thin. And I think that really got to me. So I guess that would be my answer. It was about acceptance, I think. I had very strong perfectionistic tendencies, which in many ways go hand in hand with anorexia and with bulimia. And it can really spiral out of control when you get the praise, the compliments, the positive feedback that you so crave from people. It's hard to pull yourself out of it, right? It's almost like you're doing a great job. Keep starving yourself. Keep skipping meals. Oh, and it's so fucked. It's so fucked. The analogy that I would draw would be that it feels like you're in a brightly lit room pre-eating disorder and the lights slowly dim and it gets gradually darker and darker and darker until the room is completely dark. And in some ways it's happened so slowly that you kind of just are accustomed to it. And you don't always realize when you're in it the extent of how serious the matter is. And that was me for a long time. So as I went through anorexia, as I went through bulimia, then, you know, binge eating, then later bounced to the other extreme and became orthorexic, it felt like I just got used to being in a really dark room. That was my world. That was my reality. And of course every now and then you'd have a flicker of light in the corner of the room, but most of the time it would just be dark and I'd just accept it at. And for me it was pretty easy to hide because I excelled in school and then after school I excelled at my work. And so because I was seeing a lot of academic and professional success, you know, being very high achieving and so on, it kind of takes the spotlight away from everything else, from the dark stuff in your life. And in yesterday's video that I put on my feed, I talked about how my anorexia disorder coupled with my depression really led me to being very antisocial. And I just wish that someone had told me that it doesn't have to be this way. This is not the definition of being healthy. You're missing the point. And maybe that's why I feel so strongly about repeating these kinds of messages now. And maybe some part of me is like, these are the things that 14-year-old Sohi, that 18-year-old Sohi, that 20-year-old, 22-year-old, 25-year-old, 26-year-old. My God, that version of me needed to hear from someone who understands and someone who cares. I don't really feel like I got that. Or at least not in a way that, you know, really came through to me. I went through many years, felt not really having friends and it led me to think, well, I must not have friends because there's obviously something wrong with me. And the more I thought these kinds of things, the more self-conscious I would become. And of course it would make me more antisocial than I get more self-conscious. And until by my late 20s, I fully believed you don't have friends because you're boring. You don't have friends because you're not fun to be around. There's nothing interesting about you. And it also led me to be in situations where people did not treat me very nicely. And because my self-esteem was so low, I didn't know how to stand up for myself. I didn't know how to set that boundary. I didn't know how to speak up. And yes, thinking back, it's very sad. But I also know how fortunate I am to have gotten out of it and to be much happier now. I will reiterate my point that if you are struggling now with whatever mental illness, with whatever is going on with your life, maybe some part of you is convinced that there's no way your situation can ever get better, that you're going to feel lonely and sad for the rest of your life. That doesn't have to be true. That doesn't have to be your story. So how did I improve my personal situation? A number of things have helped. One, I changed the people around me. For me, it was quite literally moving to a new city, picking up my life, starting over, basically. And those of you who have been following me for the past year and a half or so or longer will have probably seen a pretty drastic change in my demeanor, in my energy, all of it. So it is a pretty extreme example, and that's not what I'm saying you should do. Maybe you can join a virtual community if you don't have anyone local to you. Virtual community with like-minded people. I do think that social media is here to stay in many ways, but it can also be really, really harmful. So if that means going ahead and unfollowing any accounts that make you feel bad about yourself, for any reason, do it. You need to protect yourself. It is okay to set those boundaries. Two, I had to really make it a point to change my own narrative, change the voice inside my head. Because the more I told myself you're boring, you're uninteresting, you have nothing valuable to say. Of course, the more I believed it, so I would say different things to myself. You're creative, you're funny, you are fun to be around, you are so loved, and of course you don't have to say it out loud. But maybe if you have a journal or a diary, write that down, put a sticky note on your mirror, make sure that people you're hanging around or interacting with are supportive and encouraging and do not tolerate any kind of negative self-talk. And finally, of course, getting professional help is always a good idea. Therapy has helped me immensely, immensely, immensely. And know that the healing process is not linear. It is not going to be an overnight process. It is not going to be every day you make the same amount of progress, nothing like that. I hope that by being here and, you know, following me on my social media platforms, digesting my content will have a positive impact on your mental health and well-being. Because even though I started out in this industry nine plus years ago as a fitness professional who touted being lean all the time, getting that shredded six-pack, I've shifted my focus a lot because I just don't think that's what we're really after at the end of the day. Anyway, I'm happy you're here. Thank you for watching this video, for listening to my words. So let's keep talking about it. Let's keep talking about prioritizing mental health. Let's keep speaking up about these kinds of issues, the stuff that really, really matters. Alright, thanks for tuning in.