

=== FILE: 10k Steps a Day is Easy？ [Rno7r5sFzZM].txt ===

 anaphylp******** Let me walk you through one of my days. I wake up early, so I'm an out-of-the-door by 6am to be at school before 8. It's an 80 mile drive, so I'm sitting that whole time. In between participants, I am scoffing down food, squeezing in some work for my business, maybe taking a quick nap, and sometimes, depending on that day's schedule, I'm able to go out for a short walk, which is lovely. Then after I train everyone, I drive back home, which takes anywhere between an hour and a half to two hours. So at 7 or 8pm, by the time I'm finally home, I will have gotten usually four to five KS during the day, as is and that's only because I'm on my feet training people. Then I have a couple hours to eat dinner, spend time with my husband, maybe lift weights, finish up my work and get ready for the next day to then try and be in bed at a reasonable hour. I'm able-bodied, I have a walking pad, I live in a safe neighborhood with nice weather and it is still hard for me on some days. I promise you it is not because I'm lazy. Now imagine if I live with chronic pain or even getting out of bed feels hard. I had a long commute to work every single day, I worked a sedentary job, I had children, the weather was iffy and I didn't feel safe walking around my own neighborhood. I think it's great if you're able to consistently hit 10k steps a day. However, it's genuinely not so easy for so many other people and giving out this blanket recommendation does not make sense. This isn't to say we shouldn't encourage movement. Of course we should. The vast majority of adults are not exercising regularly, but we can do it in a way that recognizes people's barriers and provide realistic solutions and work around.

=== FILE: 20-Mile Run - 6 Weeks Out From the London Marathon! [uyRQ_cdaWCQ].txt ===

 I have a 20-mile run today, and I thought it'd be a good time to finally bring back some long-form videos for the first time in many years. I have already sunscreened. I'm applying anti-chafing balm. This is the brand that I use. Here is where I like to put it. Definitely inner thighs for sure. I've also learned the hard way that balm here for myself and here is really important. I am six weeks out from the London Marathon. This is going to be my very first ever marathon, and today is a 20-mile run. 10 of those miles are going to be at marathon pace. Pretty scary. So not only is this a hard run, it's also going to be the longest distance I've ever run in one go without stopping. It does take me some time to get ready for my long runs because there's a lot to prepare. I take my hydration and fueling very seriously, especially for long runs. I've got two liters of water in this bladder here, and I'm going to put in four scoops of this intros. One scoop is 15 grams of carbs, so that'll be 60 grams of carbohydrates in this bladder alone. And then I'm also going to take some gels and maybe some gummy candies with me too. Four. Close this sucker. I have some tight. There's already ice in here. Put the straw on. Oh my God, I'm spilling everywhere. Don't do that. That's good. I think that's good. And then other fuel I'll be taking. I'm going to do some gels. The Humor Brand is my favorite. I like the Ferdy ones. We also have these. This one I got when I was in Germany recently at the Adidas World Headquarters. It's pretty okay. It does not upset my stomach. And then for fun, I'm also going to toss in some prissy pigs. For fueling during long runs, you want to go for low fat, low fiber options. Ideally a combination of glucose and fructose because the combination versus strictly glucose alone increases the oxidation rate. I'm going to measure out the prissy pigs. I'm playing on fueling every 30 minutes during my run. So it'll be like 30 minutes, one hour, hour 30, two hours, two and a half hours. And then I'm expecting to go roughly three hours. So that should be fine. But obviously in addition to this, I have 60 grams of carbs in the fluids as well to help top things off. Let me run you through all my gear. This is the High Support Sports Bra from Adidas. I've got some running chores also from Adidas. The shoes I'll be wearing today, freaking so good. This is the Adios Co4 from Adidas, obviously. I've worn them once as a practice run on my 17 mile run a couple of weeks ago. These are the shoes I will be running in for the London Marathon. These are so fantastic. So I want to take them out for one more spin before the big day. Hydration vest is Adidas Terrex. I've got the two liters of fluids in the back. In the front pocket on one side, I like to put all my gels in one pocket. It's quite deep. And then in the other side pocket, I like to slide my phone in there. I also bring along a mini anti-taping bomb in case I need it during the run. And here's Ollie, who's not going to be coming on the run with me. But he's very cute. Some glasses from Amazon. Clip my bangs back. And we're dressed for the run. We're a little under two miles in so far. Feeling pretty good. I have five miles chill pace, ten miles at race pace, then five miles again at chill pace. It's been super interesting and fun learning about the importance of proper fueling for long runs. And longer endurance events in general. Also cool to implement the changes with intentionally eating more carbs and feeling the performance improvements right away. We're nearing the end of our five mile start at chill pace. And then we're going to go into ten miles at race pace. Two miles in. All four. I'm running out of steam. Not hitting target pace, but that's okay. Six miles in. Eleven total. Four harder miles to go before I cruise. But man, I'm getting tired. I'm thinking hindsight. I didn't eat enough carbs yesterday. Good learning lesson. Oh dear. I have to walk for a little bit. Alright, the ten mile block is done. We have less than five easy miles remaining. My body feels okay besides the fact that I feel like I'm a bit depleted of carbs. But my mind is tired. I want to stop to walk. The temptation is very strong, but I think I'm going to try and finish off without walking. Eighteen miles in. Last two. Come on, I can do it. One mile remaining. I have a whole deal week after this, so I can go for a little bit longer. Almost there. I feel strong. It's finished strong. Finish it up. Finish it up. Workout completed. I've been picked up because I finished at my warehouse, so my husband picked me up to take me back home because it's an uphill to return home and I don't feel like doing that. Back home, let's do a very quick debrief. First of all, I feel actually really good. My husband was quite surprised when he came to pick me up. He thought I would be looking a lot more rundown. But the reality is if you're feeling properly and hydrating properly and obviously running conditions outside are okay, you're not supposed to be feeling super drained at the end of a long run. You're not supposed to be completely wiped out for the end of the day. And so I did consume all my two liters of fluids. I ate all my fuel. That's probably around 180 grams of carbs total I consumed during the 20 miles and it ended up being a 10, 23 minute mile pace on average. And my total time was a little right under three hours and 30 minutes. So that was 327.52 for 20 miles total. Now I did want to run faster during the middle 10 mile block, which was supposed to be at race pace. But in hindsight, I think that everything felt great. I slept really well. My recovery was good. Joints felt awesome. Lungs were great. I think that in hindsight, I didn't eat enough carbs yesterday. So my carb loading was a bit insufficient and I could feel it today during the run. I know I have the fitness to do race pace for 10 miles because I've done faster before in half marathon races and whatnot. It's a matter of I think next time being better prepared. All in all, I'm still super happy with this. Still definitely a lifetime distance PR. I'm very proud of myself. I walked twice during today's run, but I didn't stop at any point and I felt super, super solid even at the end. So for that, I am very happy. I'm going to take a D load week and then I'll come back and in two weeks time I have my longest run, which is going to be 21 miles. And then we'll start to decrease the mileage going into race day. Thanks for tuning in. I will catch you next time.

=== FILE: 3 Reasons Why I Don't Compliment Weight Loss [xqX9Fv6NM6Y].txt ===

 when someone tells me they've lost weight, I reply with, Oh, you're happy? To which they'll say yes, and I'll say, I'm so glad that you're happy. The reason I say that is because I know that the amount of praise you'll receive for your weight loss will have a direct impact on the amount of shame you'll feel if and when you gain weight again in future. Let's talk about this as I peel this pomelo. First off, I know this is a topic that gets a lot of people riled up, because complimenting weight loss is very much the norm, but really, it just goes to show how much we, as a society, glamourize fitness. Here are three reasons why I do not compliment weight loss. One, someone's weight loss can be due to unhealthy reasons, grieving someone's death, depression, cancer, disordered eating, and I see people say that they will compliment their weight loss if they know what was intentional, but my thinking is, it can be intentional and still accomplish via unhealthy means. Two, it perpetuates the thin ideal and encourages shame with weight gain. A thinner body is not always a healthier body, and making people feel like they necessarily look better than before, that they have more value than before, now that they're smaller in body size, is a harmful notion. Additionally, it can make people feel terrified of gaining the weight back. It can feel intense shame and guilt if scale weight creeps back up, even if they're actually healthier now. But regardless, I don't think it's helpful to tie people's self-worth to their body size. And three, it is none of my business. There is no need to comment on someone's body size. And remember, the way you look is the least interesting thing about you. Hmm!

=== FILE: 4 Behavior Change Myths [dsq1lZDcu4k].txt ===

 let's talk about behavior change! Understanding behavior change as well as how to effectively implement new behaviors are crucial components to making progress in every area of life. But, there may be several myths that may be holding you back. Let's go over some of them. Myth number one, motivation is everything. The first myth is that you always need high levels of motivation to change your behavior for good. The problem is, motivation levels are naturally fluctuating and unreliable. The reality is, you do need some level of motivation to conscientiously execute a behavior that is not yet automatic. A behavior that's automatic is called a habit. There's a little bit more to this, but I'll get more into it in future videos. But, you don't want to have to rely on motivation for lasting behavior change. Myth number two, it's all about self-control. After falling off, let's say the diet bandwagon, have you ever said to yourself, Ugh, I just need more self-control. I have. I did this for so many years at the beginning of my fitness journey and I was wrong. Self-control is the capacity to alter or override dominant response tendencies and thoughts, behaviors, and emotions. It's oftentimes used interchangeably with willpower. While self-control is important for many areas of life and has been correlated with increased well-being, better academic and work success, and better interpersonal relationships, that doesn't mean that changing our behavior for the long haul requires high levels of self-control all the time. In fact, most of us are misapplying self-control. Peep this quote from a 2012 mud analysis. The main value of self-control may lie more in creating the healthy habit than in regulating behavior each day anew. Emphasis mine. What this means is, we shouldn't be focused on white-nuckling our way all the way to the finish line. That sounds exhausting. And it is. Not every step has to feel so damn taxing. Use self-control in the initial habit formation process. Not to do hard shit all the time. Myth number three. It takes 21 days to form a habit. This one, uh... This one really gets me. Habits are not one-dimensional. They're all different. These graphs are from a 2010 study that looked at healthy behaviors that participants want to turn into a habit. Now remember, a key feature of habits is that they are automatic. You can see here how automatic each of these sample behaviors became over time. What do you notice? The trajectory of each behavior is different. Meaning the rate at which these behaviors became habits differed. This study found that it took between 18 to 254 days for a behavior to become a habit. That's a huge range. The average was 66 days. This is a far cry from the 21 days that we're told. The reality is, some habits actually can form instantly. Some are more complex and take several months. And myth number four. Forming habits should be hard. No. Well, yes. If you don't understand how behavior change works. But you're working on that with my help. If there's one thing you take away from my content, let it be this. Smarter, not harder. Change might feel uncomfortable at first, but to say that it should feel hard, it's a bit of a stretch. Feeling hard is not a requirement for change. In fact, you can make a remarkable transformation to your life without feeling like you're walking up a super steep slope all the time. What can help? Removing as many obstacles as possible. Not blindly forging ahead. Be methodical. Use a sound strategy more on this later. So there you go. Hopefully this cleared up some misconceptions for you. And if you see anyone promoting these myths, feel free to direct them to this video. Stay tuned for more content on habits and behavior change.

=== FILE: 4_45a.m. Workouts？ [6ZE3DbFZZ_o].txt ===

 I see you. Last week, I was so freaking tired. I was up at around 5.30 AM most days and was busy every waking moment. My sleep was absolute doo-doo, and when I went to do my workouts, my warm-up sets felt super heavy. I also felt like my brain was functioning at half capacity, and overall, I did not feel great. This week, I'm sleeping a lot more. I feel way better, better energy, better mood, better productivity, better creativity, better strength. Everything is better. I feel like that sleep deprivation is linked to many detrimental health effects, including but not limited to increased fatigue, decreased energy expenditure, decreased strength, increased risk of cardiovascular disease, increased risk of death, and overall deterioration of health. If you can and prefer to wake up super early without it taking a toll on your well-being, go for it. But for many of us, this isn't really an option. Maybe you're a single parent and you're already up super early getting your three young kids ready for school. Maybe you're a full-time student working two full-time jobs, and you need adequate rest to keep up your grades and job performance. Maybe you cannot function without a solid eight to nine hours of sleep a night. Personally, I would rather get in more sleep each night and have fewer but higher quality workouts because I'm well rested. I'm so over the glorification of sacrificing sleep and the air of superiority surrounding hustle culture. You do you, and don't let anyone make you feel guilty for resting.

=== FILE: 5 Reasons Why Health & Fitness is Easier for Someone Like Me [Bw8CL1o619c].txt ===

 I'm a fitness coach of 10 plus years, and I don't believe we all have an even playing field when it comes to pursuing health. Nor do I believe it's all about discipline. Here are five reasons why pursuing health and fitness is easier for someone like me. One, we are a dual income, no-children household. This means that we have more time, energy, and resources that those with kids may not have. It is much easier for us to get in and uninterrupted in prompt-you-workout, for example. And do things on our own schedule without having to consider the needs of a small human. Two, I am able-bodied with no health complications. I don't have any health barriers that make it harder for me to get out of bed, for example, or prepare food or use the equipment at the gym. Three, I work from home with a flexible schedule. This gives me so much freedom in terms of when I want to work, when I want to exercise, when I want to go to the grocery store, and so on. Most days I can do things just about whenever it's convenient for me. Four, I have a home gym. Not having to drive to a gym, not having to share a room with others, are massive benefits. Five, I live in a safe neighborhood with nice weather and lots of walking paths. This makes it far more likely that I will want to be outside staying active. I can go for a walk, go for a run, play pickleball, and so on without having to worry about whether or my safety the vast majority of the time. Many people face far more obstacles than I do, and someone who has more discipline and works harder than I do may still have a more difficult time practicing health behaviors. So rather than just telling people to work harder, you can recognize these different barriers and find solutions to make health more accessible.

=== FILE: 5 Ways to Make the Thing You’re Trying to Do Easier to Do [2Vec__kvBs0].txt ===

 five ways to make the thing you're trying to do easier to do. If you feel like you have trouble getting a target behavior stick, keep these strategies. Let's use Walk More as an example. And by the way, it's not about just trying harder. One, get specific. Walking is great, but what does that look like as a part of your day? Where will you go? For how long? I can say I want to walk around my neighborhood walking paths for 30 minutes. Two, scale back the size of the behavior. I want to make the behavior easy enough that even on days I'm tired and busy, it doesn't seem so overwhelming and I'm still willing to do it. Does 30 minutes seem doable on days I have a lock going on? Maybe not. But 5 to 10 minutes, that I can do. That's just my minimum target and I am of course allowed to exceed that when I want to. Three, re-engineer your environment. These are my environments set up to make walking more likely to happen. I can keep my walking shoes right by the front door and make sure I have comfortable walking clothes readily available. This reduces the effort required to get the target behavior going. Four, habit stack. Pair it with an existing habit you already do all the time. Warnings are pretty busy for me, but lunch is a good time for me to take a break. This works well because lunch is already an ingrained part of my day. So I can say, after I finish my lunch, I will go on a 5 to 10 minute walk around my neighborhood. And five, temptation bundle. This is where you pair a less pleasant or less habitual behavior with a more desirable behavior. Maybe I can call a friend or listen to an audiobook or podcast while I'm on my walk. I'm coupling a should together with a want. Remember, it's not about sprinting out the door. It's about building momentum and keeping it going over time. Follow for more.

=== FILE: Did I Pass My PhD？! [SYfp4jbCH2M].txt ===

 it's Thursday, March 27th, 2025. I am four days away from my PhD examination. This is the culmination of six years worth of painstaking work. And I am preparing for the examination by reading through my entire thesis in full. And then also, I'm going to read through the anonymized exam reports, the feedback that I got from my two examiners after this. I've been told that there is a very good chance I will pass on the big day, as long as I am not woefully underprepared and I don't completely bomb the examination. The title of my thesis is called the effect of high intensity circuit training versus traditional strength training on physiological and psychological responses in healthy, recreationally active women. Basically, I'm studying lifting weights in women. It's something I've been very interested in for a super long time. I am excited that I'm nearing the finish line. I do have a number of manuscripts in different stages of publication right now because we've done some interesting research that I would love to get out there. Right now, I'm going to read my entire thesis from beginning to end. It's now Friday, March 28th. We're three days out from the examination. And I'm going to finish reading my thesis, this close to being done. And then I'm also going to read through the feedback from the anonymized exam reports so I can be prepared for a mock examination that I'm having in a little over four hours today with my primary and secondary supervisors to make sure I'm extra prepared for Monday. This is my Ollie, he's 12 and a half. And also this is my morning routine. Hi, Jelly. Hello, that's Jelly. She likes to be under the covers. There she goes, back down. And then when I'm home, this is my work setup. I'll read out some snippets. Examiner one said, this project was extremely well-developed, thoughtful and thorough women's health and health wellness issues should continue to be a priority in research as findings are necessary to reveal consistent patterns about gender-specific health disparities. Super agree. The candidate showcases strong foundational knowledge of on this topic and variables of interest. This multifaceted approach is necessary at this degree level and this candidate demonstrates an appropriate level of mastery. Yay. There's more, obviously, but so far, the feedback is encouraging. There is some minor feedback with small changes they want me to make, which is totally fine. Briefly, I wanted to come back because I wanted to read out this portion of the exam report. Overall, the candidate has demonstrated the qualities that are required for consideration of the advanced degree doctor of philosophy from the Auckland University of Technology. General qualities and abilities related to advanced critical thinking, professional curiosity for acquisition of knowledge and discipline-specific mastery. I've been at my office at the warehouse that I'm renting for the past few hours, preparing for my upcoming mock examination call. In AOT, the examination is considered a Viva, a celebration, it's not a defense. So the vibe is very different from what I'm told a lot of US PhD processes are like. It's more about having a conversation amongst academics. It's not supposed to be a stressful adversarial process and we have a convener in place to ensure that it does not become that way and they will intervene if it starts to do that. I've been told over and over throughout my entire PhD journey that this is more of a relaxed conversation and should be not that unpleasant, but we'll see. How you doing? I'm doing. I'm scared, but it's okay. I have gotten off my mock examination call with my primary and secondary supervisors. It was 80 minutes long. Overall vibe is they feel that I am prepared. I need to brush up on my qualitative analysis questions. I have one chapter on the answer that's open-ended questions to the participants and then they were freeriding their responses in paragraphs and then we analyze their responses like that. So I need to be able to adequately answer why did I use this qualitative method? What is the benefit of a qualitative approach as opposed to a qualitative approach and things like that? Friday, 5 p.m. spending some time at the park with Ollie, Jelly, my husband's here too. We're gonna do an early dinner, probably a movie and call it an early night. It's Sunday, March 30th. We are back at the warehouse office. Yesterday I took as a pretty chill day. Saturday, well, I ran 21 miles. So that part was not chill, but I'm preparing for the London Marathon. So yeah, London Marathon Prep plus PhD oral examination prep simultaneously, fun times. So I have a few hours today. I'll probably do a max of roughly four hours of my final oral exam prep because in less than 24 hours, I will probably wrapping up the examination this time tomorrow, which is well to think about. I really think the vast majority of the prep has already been done and at this point I'm brushing up on the different questions that I think they might be asking me. So I need to obviously be sufficiently prepared to answer those competently and confidently. It is Monday, March 31st, 20 minutes before the big oral exam. I have been reviewing my thesis once again, reviewing the examiner's feedback, making sure I really know my stuff, but I'm feeling pretty good. I'm hoping for a good vibe. So I'm gonna go ahead and do some crazy PhD. We're gonna start back up. I'm gonna start back up. I'm gonna start back up. I'm gonna start back up. I'm gonna start back up. I'm gonna start back up. So I just want you to know you did some real, real good, legit work. Thank you. They threw you a lot of curve balls and you did well. Yeah, a lot of stuff that wasn't in the reports that I had to think on my feet. I was like, oh, I didn't prepare for this. But hopefully, I mean, I guess the answers are at least adequate. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Bye. Ha ha ha ha ha! Ha ha ha ha! Ha ha ha ha! Ha ha ha ha! Ha ha ha! Samantha, they said Dr. Cochran! Ha ha ha! Ha ha ha! Ha ha ha! Ha ha ha! Ha ha ha! Ha ha ha! I did it, I did it, I did it! Ha ha ha! I did it, I did it! As soon as they started saying like, we are very pleased with them. Ha ha ha ha! I'm proud of you. Mmm! Dr. Cochran, tell her. Ha ha ha ha! That felt like a proper examination. Okay, I did it. Dr. Soheely Carpenter. That's me. That's been the whole PhD journey, almost to the end. We have some revisions to make, and then graduation in August. But, I did it. Bye!

=== FILE: Eating Disorders & Mental Health： Remove the Stigma [bOJEuDpmocQ].txt ===

 Before I begin, I do want to emphasize that I am not an eating disorder specialist. And even though I have personally gone through eating disorders myself, that does not make me automatically the expert on how to recover from your own eating disorder struggles. There are a few reasons I wanted to film this video. One, I wanted to take the shame and the stigma out of eating disorder struggles. I want to shed some more light on how debilitating it can be. And I want to normalize admitting when you're not okay, and when you need help, and get that help. I've only started opening up about my personal struggles from my teens and my early 20s. More openly in the past couple of years, because I want to help people. But it is difficult to talk about. It brings up a lot of sadness and a lot of pain. But I think that's what makes it that much more important. Okay, so someone asked me, how did my eating disorder start? And it's hard to pinpoint an exact moment, right? Because a lot of times when we go through eating disorders, we're not really aware that it's happening. And we're not aware sometimes of how bad it's gotten. I do want to say that having an eating disorder is not always about your body. It's not always about food. It's not always about your body image. For me, I believe it was primarily about acceptance, I think. When I was in my young teens, I grew up in very, very heavy diet culture. And the kids my age, my peers, 12 year old, 13 year olds, 14 year olds, and this is so heartbreaking to think back on. But even back then, we were talking about who has the smaller waist, who has the skinnier legs, and oh my God, I want to look just like her. And it was this idolizing of people who were skinny, thin. And I think that really got to me. So I guess that would be my answer. It was about acceptance, I think. I had very strong perfectionistic tendencies, which in many ways go hand in hand with anorexia and with bulimia. And it can really spiral out of control when you get the praise, the compliments, the positive feedback that you so crave from people. It's hard to pull yourself out of it, right? It's almost like you're doing a great job. Keep starving yourself. Keep skipping meals. Oh, and it's so fucked. It's so fucked. The analogy that I would draw would be that it feels like you're in a brightly lit room pre-eating disorder and the lights slowly dim and it gets gradually darker and darker and darker until the room is completely dark. And in some ways it's happened so slowly that you kind of just are accustomed to it. And you don't always realize when you're in it the extent of how serious the matter is. And that was me for a long time. So as I went through anorexia, as I went through bulimia, then, you know, binge eating, then later bounced to the other extreme and became orthorexic, it felt like I just got used to being in a really dark room. That was my world. That was my reality. And of course every now and then you'd have a flicker of light in the corner of the room, but most of the time it would just be dark and I'd just accept it at. And for me it was pretty easy to hide because I excelled in school and then after school I excelled at my work. And so because I was seeing a lot of academic and professional success, you know, being very high achieving and so on, it kind of takes the spotlight away from everything else, from the dark stuff in your life. And in yesterday's video that I put on my feed, I talked about how my anorexia disorder coupled with my depression really led me to being very antisocial. And I just wish that someone had told me that it doesn't have to be this way. This is not the definition of being healthy. You're missing the point. And maybe that's why I feel so strongly about repeating these kinds of messages now. And maybe some part of me is like, these are the things that 14-year-old Sohi, that 18-year-old Sohi, that 20-year-old, 22-year-old, 25-year-old, 26-year-old. My God, that version of me needed to hear from someone who understands and someone who cares. I don't really feel like I got that. Or at least not in a way that, you know, really came through to me. I went through many years, felt not really having friends and it led me to think, well, I must not have friends because there's obviously something wrong with me. And the more I thought these kinds of things, the more self-conscious I would become. And of course it would make me more antisocial than I get more self-conscious. And until by my late 20s, I fully believed you don't have friends because you're boring. You don't have friends because you're not fun to be around. There's nothing interesting about you. And it also led me to be in situations where people did not treat me very nicely. And because my self-esteem was so low, I didn't know how to stand up for myself. I didn't know how to set that boundary. I didn't know how to speak up. And yes, thinking back, it's very sad. But I also know how fortunate I am to have gotten out of it and to be much happier now. I will reiterate my point that if you are struggling now with whatever mental illness, with whatever is going on with your life, maybe some part of you is convinced that there's no way your situation can ever get better, that you're going to feel lonely and sad for the rest of your life. That doesn't have to be true. That doesn't have to be your story. So how did I improve my personal situation? A number of things have helped. One, I changed the people around me. For me, it was quite literally moving to a new city, picking up my life, starting over, basically. And those of you who have been following me for the past year and a half or so or longer will have probably seen a pretty drastic change in my demeanor, in my energy, all of it. So it is a pretty extreme example, and that's not what I'm saying you should do. Maybe you can join a virtual community if you don't have anyone local to you. Virtual community with like-minded people. I do think that social media is here to stay in many ways, but it can also be really, really harmful. So if that means going ahead and unfollowing any accounts that make you feel bad about yourself, for any reason, do it. You need to protect yourself. It is okay to set those boundaries. Two, I had to really make it a point to change my own narrative, change the voice inside my head. Because the more I told myself you're boring, you're uninteresting, you have nothing valuable to say. Of course, the more I believed it, so I would say different things to myself. You're creative, you're funny, you are fun to be around, you are so loved, and of course you don't have to say it out loud. But maybe if you have a journal or a diary, write that down, put a sticky note on your mirror, make sure that people you're hanging around or interacting with are supportive and encouraging and do not tolerate any kind of negative self-talk. And finally, of course, getting professional help is always a good idea. Therapy has helped me immensely, immensely, immensely. And know that the healing process is not linear. It is not going to be an overnight process. It is not going to be every day you make the same amount of progress, nothing like that. I hope that by being here and, you know, following me on my social media platforms, digesting my content will have a positive impact on your mental health and well-being. Because even though I started out in this industry nine plus years ago as a fitness professional who touted being lean all the time, getting that shredded six-pack, I've shifted my focus a lot because I just don't think that's what we're really after at the end of the day. Anyway, I'm happy you're here. Thank you for watching this video, for listening to my words. So let's keep talking about it. Let's keep talking about prioritizing mental health. Let's keep speaking up about these kinds of issues, the stuff that really, really matters. Alright, thanks for tuning in.

=== FILE: Eating for Practical Hunger [8KJy_wDsd2w].txt ===

 honoring your body's internal hunger and satiety cues is a great skill to work on, and generally speaking, it's something you want to do most of the time. With that said, you don't always have to wait until you're physically hungry to eat. There's another type of hunger known as practical hunger. This refers to planning ahead with your eating so you're not ravenously hungry in the future. If I'm about to go watch a soccer game at 7, that's usually when I have my dinner, it might be a good idea for me to eat an hour earlier, just so I don't have to wait until after the match to eat, because I might be uncomfortably hungry by then. Basically, you're eating to mitigate future physical hunger. There are lots of other situations in which eating for practical hunger can come in handy. Some people lose their appetite in response to height and stress or depression, in which case it would be helpful to continue eating despite the lack of appetite. People who are neurodivergent like I am or have another medical condition may have a hard time regulating their eating behaviors, or they may need to eat an abnormal regular schedule to help manage their symptoms. Individuals who are recovering from an eating disorder or disordered eating may feel like their internal hunger and satiety cues are completely off. So for them, eating at regular intervals can be immensely beneficial. Ask yourself, is it practical for me to eat now so I'm not ravenous later on? And if the answer is yes, go ahead and have a snack or a meal.

=== FILE: Home-Friendly Lower Body Workout [cEotS2jkx3c].txt ===

 e learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning

=== FILE: How to get better results in the gym #FitnessTips [ja-iNV0GSss].txt ===

 You'll get better gym results if you hire a person with crana, but maybe not just for the reasons you think. A new research study tested what would happen if your workouts were supervised. Now, here's the interesting bit. Both groups followed exactly the same workout program. Both groups were told to lift to failure. And the exercises were mostly machine-based. The participants who were supervised got better results in most strength and muscle growth metrics. This means you could get better gym results simply because someone is hyping you up. Even if they aren't designing you some uniquely scientific training program, or coaching you to use the most optimal technique for every exercise, or even spotting you to make sure you're safe. My theory? People tend to push harder when someone is there. You'll often lift more weight in the gym just because someone is watching you. Obviously, personal training is a luxury service that many people can't afford. And if that applies to you, maybe training with an enthusiastic friend might be worth a crap. Alternatively, you can be your own height man or height person, and make up that deficit on your own.

=== FILE: I'm Managing, Not Thriving [5fhhbjYe8pU].txt ===

 Lately I've been feeling a bit meh, you know? Maybe it's the weather or the fact that the past few months I've kinda kicked my ass. I'm a lot busier than I'm used to being and a lot busier than I would like. With my PhD data collection, I've been finding myself feeling very time-poor and really not a lot of bandwidth left for other things, even though I want to do all the things. But also, I've noticed I've been comparing myself to other content creators as I scroll social media and I'm thinking, wow, they're so creative, they're so funny, they're so witty. And I definitely admire it and I find myself thinking, I wish I could be more like them. And then I feel like I shouldn't be posting on social media unless I can think of something that's high value and entertaining and educational. But the truth is my battery is feeling pretty damn low lately. On school days, I come home in the evening feeling like I'm at like mentally 20%. And on my days off, I feel like I'm just trying to recover. My ring is nice though. And I don't know, I'm tired of feeling like everything needs to be so polished. And I know it doesn't actually have to be and that's just pressure I'm putting on myself. I don't want to have to use a nice camera and a microphone and a script every time I want to make a video. Sometimes I just want to be mean. Just whip out my phone and chat. Anyway, I've been wanting to get this off my chest for a while and ironically I was waiting for the perfect opportunity and the perfect way to communicate this whole message. I would not say I'm thriving, I'm more managing. And that's okay. I know I'm not alone in this. Okay, that was too much. Bye.

=== FILE: ISSN Social Media Behavior and Leadership [vyMYBSb1k2E].txt ===

 I have been a member of the International Society of Sports Nutrition since 2015. I have spoken at the annual conference two different times. I have plugged the ISSN countless, countless times, and I have recommended to so many people that they join the ISSN. There are also many other fellow members of the ISSN whom I highly respect, admire, and like up to, and up until recently I have been a very proud member of the organization, which makes me all the more disappointed at the events that I have transpired over the past week. Amanda Howell is a public health professional with an active social media presence who was alerted to an inappropriate remark that was made on one of the ISSN leaders, social media pages. She called it out, they had a conversation, it seemed like that was resolved, however, events escalated from there. She then noticed that there was other inappropriate content being posted on the ISSN Instagram page, which as of this time has been and is still being run by Dr. Jose Antonio, who is one of the co-founders of the ISSN and also is the CEO. She attended to contact the person running the page, we realized it was Dr. Jose Antonio. Then she went to his Twitter page, which is linked from the ISSN website and found some highly alarming, very biased content. From there she emailed numerous co-founders of the ISSN, alerting them to what she had found and basically asking them to look into this. She received no response. After that she was belittled online and overall mistreated and some of this mistreatment did come from ISSN leaders. This is what I saw that stopped me in my tracks. From my understanding, the tweet has been deleted, Amanda has been blocked by the ISSN Instagram page from everything that I've seen and Amanda has been nothing but professional. To this day, no one in the leadership position at the ISSN has reached out to her over the events that have transpired and that's not okay. I became involved when I saw Eric Bustillo, who is the co-vice president, making a post on his Instagram page on International Women's Day saying that he supports women. This was right on the heels of all of these events that I have just summarized. I thought this was a little bit tone-deaf, especially because he was plugging an upcoming ISSN Women's Seminar. I asked him very professionally, very nicely, will you be making a statement as the vice president of the ISSN, will you be making a statement addressing the events that have transpired in recent days and how Amanda has been treated? I then emailed Dr. Trisha Van Dosseldorp asking her to do more. At that point, she had been made aware of the situation and as far as I was able to see, all that had really been done so far was a diversity statement had been posted in the about us section of the ISSN website. So I expressed to her that I was genuinely hoping for more to be done. Is anyone going to make a public statement on behalf of the ISSN directly addressing the way Amanda was treated? Directly addressing the content that's been posted on the social media pages linked through the ISSN website. I have been very underwhelmed by the response. I have held out on making this video because I was really hoping that someone in the ISSN position would step up and say, you know what? This is not okay. I am taking a stand, but that has not happened. And it became clear to me that that's not something that they wanted to do. They wanted to deal with it internally and quietly sweep it under the rug. Now, the problem with this is when you try to keep things quiet, when you don't speak up, you are allowing that kind of behavior to continue. What I want to know is one, why has the ISSN not taken a public stand on this matter? And two, why has not one single person from ISSN leadership reached out to Amanda regarding the way that she was treated? That's not okay. I expected more. I expected more from the ISSN. It's not enough to say you support women. Support women even when it gets uncomfortable. Support women even when you have to stand up to someone. That's when it really matters. That's the kind of stuff that makes us feel safe and protected. I was going to come out to the annual conference again this year. I was going to bring out my whole coaching team too, and we were all very excited about it. And that's not happening anymore. I don't trust that if I were at an ISSN event and something were to happen where someone would harass me or bully me, I do not trust that I would be protected. I don't trust that anything would be done about it. I am asking the ISSN leaders to step up. Amanda deserves to have someone reaching out to her at the very least. I understand that this was handled internally, that there were conversations that happened at the top about why this kind of behavior was not okay, and I guess the leaders and the people up top are in agreement and have said that this won't happen again. But what about Amanda? What about the rest of us? We want to know where you stand. For those of you watching this, please go show your support to Amanda. She has been incredibly courageous and incredibly brave for standing up to this over the past week, mostly by herself. Things don't change for the better unless people are taking a stand, and that's what I'm doing now. I am not okay with this. If you're someone who supports women, this is the kind of situation where your actual support really, really makes a big difference. I don't want you to simply say that you support women and say that you're inclusive. Know it.

=== FILE: Intermittent Fasting and Disordered Eating [rEmmmaFsNPI].txt ===

 what is the relationship between intermittent fasting and disordered eating? First off, intermittent fasting is a popular dietary trend where you alternate periods of fasting with periods of eating. Less than two months ago, I made a video sharing a new systematic review which found no significant differences in multiple health outcomes between intermittent fasting and continuous energy restriction. Another new study published this year finds that individuals engaging in intermittent fasting report elevated eating disorder symptomatology, including heightened weight and shape concerns, greater binge eating behavior, and even self-induced vomiting and laxative use compared to community norms. Over 60% of participants cited weight loss or fat loss as their number one reason for intermittent fasting. They also reported a daily intake of 1100 to 1200 calories on their fasting days, which is indicative of how restrictive many of them are. It is important to note that these findings were based on a survey and that no causal relationship can be established between intermittent fasting and ED symptomatology. It is possible that one, those already engaging in disorder eating behaviors or more prone to disorder eating or eating disorders are more likely to adopt intermittent fasting. Two, intermittent fasting triggers or exacerbates ED symptoms. Or three, some other third variable is at play. When we talk the health benefits of popular eating strategies, we too often overlook the psychological implications of dyes that restrict what, how much, or when we eat. Given the apparent increased association with ED symptomatology, extra attention should be paid to how any kind of restrictive eating may impact your relationship with food.

=== FILE: Leaner is Not Always Healthier [kjPz614bJT0].txt ===

 Recently, I did a post about how being leaner does not necessarily mean you're healthier. And on a similar note, sometimes complimenting someone on their weight loss is not really the right way to go. So I thought it'd be good for us to kind of elaborate on this, because we both have personal experience with having lost weight in the past and being complimented on it when it was not for healthy reasons. I had, when I was ill and I came out of hospital, I had lost 50 pounds and I was very malnourished. I was not in a healthy way. And the first time I went back to the gym, I was weaker than ever. I was the healthiest I've ever been, but I was obviously very, very slim. And I remember someone commenting and saying how shredded I was, as if that was a good thing. I was like, I'm really, really, really malnourished and really, really not healthy. But they just saw six pack and thought, he's lean. I like that. And when I was 14, and many of you guys know my eating disorder background, but I was starting to skip lunch because I was under this idea that being thinner was prettier, more popular and so on. And almost right away, I started being complimented on my weight loss. Keep in mind, again, I was only 14 years old. You're looking so much prettier lately because you're skinnier. And naturally it made me think, well, if I look prettier now that I've lost a little bit of weight, imagine how it'll be when I've lost even more weight. So of course I kept going down that path and eventually ended up at just over 80 pounds, which is very, very light. And everyone was saying, you're so pretty, you look great, you look so healthy. And I wasn't healthy. I was not eating. I was anorexic. I was binge eating. I was bulimic. I was just nothing healthy about anything that I was doing to have accomplished that much smaller size. And yet that's the response that I was getting from the general public. I think there's a kind of assumption that there's a linear relationship between body fat levels and health. And especially in the bodybuilding world and the fitness world, when someone is at their best condition, it's always when they're leanest. So both of us have dieted down to very low levels of body fat. We are both very aware that chances are most people at that point feel like shit. That isn't necessarily the pinnacle of health, even if it's the pinnacle of aesthetics in the competition. I think there's a kind of reinforcement factor that happens in the fitness industry a lot, especially people that compete or do fitness modeling or anything like that, because they have their in season shape. They have photos on social media and this was the same with me, where they were looking their leanest. And because this is a kind of competitive world, you're inviting comments like bodybuilding especially is about being judged. You post photos and people like critique your physique. That's part and parcel of the culture. And I think what happens for a lot of people is when they diet down to this level because they're seen as like being at the pinnacle of their sport, when they start regaining weight afterwards, it's a very different kind of difficult psychological thing to get to grips with. And then suddenly they feel out of shape compared to where they were before. So it's almost like if someone's body weight starts here and they diet for a contest, this for them shows them at the pinnacle. And then when they start regaining, even though this is a very healthy, normal part of the bodybuilding cycle, it's almost like when their body fat gets up to here, suddenly they feel out of shape, even though comparatively they feel they're still a lot leaner than they were. And I think this is part of the reason why people kind of idealize extreme thinness within our industry. It's really nice to see in recent years people have started to shift away a little bit from the heavy diet culture message and talk more about the importance of healthy behaviors over just the way that you look. And so to reiterate the points from my recent post, rather than relying just on someone's body fat to judge their health or to assume their health, there are many other variables to consider, including but not limited to their relationship with food, relationship with their bodies, relationship with exercise, the quality of their overall diet, what else? Hormonal health, mood disturbances, quality of life. Am I missing anything? Probably by car. Remember the list that you've been to libido is another one. I think it's important to take all of these into consideration rather than jumping to the conclusion that someone is or is not healthier simply based off how they look. Something to think about.

=== FILE: One Donut Does Not a Bad Diet Make [ZsIY_sGabCg].txt ===

 I recently received a comment on one of my posts talking about why the use of the term cheat meal can be potentially harmful. And in this post, I was using a donut as an example. Now here's the reply. They said, an article based on a study proves that a bad diet is worse for your health than cigarettes. Okay, and then provided a link to the study. Perhaps you shouldn't be advocating this message. All right, now his argument seems to be that we shouldn't be encouraging consumption of nutrient-devoid foods in any capacity because it is worse for your health than cigarettes. And I was like, okay, oh my God, this is a bold claim. And if that is actually the case, if that is actually supported by assigned research, we should think about changing our practical recommendations to the general public. So I pulled up the study. This one is, it was published in 2019. It is a systematic analysis for the global burden of disease study looking at 195 different countries. Impressive. Okay, I read through the paper. Now I'm specifically looking for where it says one donut is worse for your health than smoking cigarettes. Okay, I am not seeing this anywhere. The findings do say high intake of sodium, low intake of whole grains, low intake of fruits, or the leading dietary risk factors for deaths and disability adjusted life years. Right. Okay, now I'm looking for where it says eating the occasional donut means that your fruit and vegetable and otherwise nutrient-dense food consumption sucks. And I'm not seeing that here, which is a bit odd given what this user said. So I specifically asked this person, what constitutes a bad diet? What do they define in the study as a bad diet? Of course, he didn't actually directly answer that question and kept going on about how bad diet is so terrible for you and etc, etc, etc. Now you can assess the quality of someone's overall diet based on one food and isolation. So if I consume one donut or two donuts in a day, but everything else I eat is nutrient rich, nutrient dense, is that a bad diet versus a diet filled with nothing but donuts and chips and cookies and, and pizza and deep fried foods? That's probably not going to be ideal, but I'm not seeing anyone recommending that kind of diet. I'm certainly not doing it. Restrictive diets are more likely to backfire in the long run. If you have a more rigid mentality towards foods, you are more likely to experience eating disorder symptoms and behaviors, including binge eating, neurosis, obsession, guilt, anxiety, depression. And ironically, he cites my own quote, there's a lot more to health than nutrients alone. And then says you got that part right though. Yeah, I did. But you didn't. And finally, he comes back with this gem, stick to fitness, let the professionals handle dietary advice. Now, I don't like using appeal to authority to try to win arguments because it is a logical fallacy. You should be relying on sound evidence to support your points and not resort to titles and qualifications, things like that. But since he went that route, I am a certified sports nutritionist. I have done my master's degree in the psychology of eating behavior, studying exactly this type of thing. Not only that, but I quite literally study this kind of stuff as part of my career. If he wants to say, let the professionals handle dietary advice. Yeah, maybe, maybe I agree. And in any case, hopefully this gives you guys an idea of how sometimes people can, even if they are citing research, they might take a small kernel of truth from that and then inflate the conclusions or use it to support their biases, even when the research doesn't actually say what they're saying. So no, I am not saying eat nothing but donuts all day long. Eating a donut does not mean that you are not eating fruits and vegetables. You can do both. And this is a classic example of missing the forest for the trees.

=== FILE: POV Husband Acting Like Me [kbA5inLVGjE].txt ===

 emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions Where is my phone? Got it! Got it! Okay, ready for the movies. Let's go, got your blanket. Time to go. Back doors locked, garret doors locked. Stoves off, let me check. Okay, yep, let's go, let's go. Are you all in the house? Olly, jelly, Layla, Olly. One, two, three, one, two, three. Okay, one, two, three, see you later. Bye, look after the house. Did we lock the front door? Yes, we did. Could we go back and check just one more time? Okay. You had a really good impersonation of me, that was really good. What is my life, what can I say?

=== FILE: Self-Compassion & Intuitive Eating [bio3Ap2qqGU].txt ===

 new research on intuitive eating just published, and I'm listed as a co-author. Yeah! In the study, which involved over 3,000 women taking a series of online surveys over the course of eight months, it was found that higher self-compassion scores facilitate intuitive eating. Great, what does this mean? First, intuitive eating involves practicing food neutrality, honoring hunger and satiety cues, choosing foods you enjoy while also taking your health into consideration, and more. It's been linked to a number of mental health benefits, including reduced eating disorder behaviors, fewer body immiscerate surbrances, improved self-esteem, decreased depressive symptoms, and more. Self-compassion is about having a caring attitude with yourself, especially in the face of perceived failure or personal suffering. Its three main components are self-kindness, a common sense of humanity, and mindfulness. Self-compassion can help prevent you from acting on negative thoughts and feelings via impulsive eating behaviors such as binge eating. So, self-compassion when it comes to eating behaviors, very good. Intuitive eating and its impact on mental health, excellent. And listen, I know that practicing self-compassion can be so f***ing hard sometimes. It can be brutal out there and in here. Even so, with a growing body of research on these topics in particular, it's safe to say we should be making continual effort to encourage self-compassion rather than being so dumb hard on ourselves all the time. Okay!

=== FILE: Take the Slack Out of the Bar [2SqY4Emmv20].txt ===

 let's go over taking the slack out of the bar. A lot of times when people are deadlifting, people tend to jerk the barbell. You see this happening when they start out in a good position at the bottom. However, as soon as they start pulling, you see this happen, or you might see it happen when their hips shoot up first. So, what we wanna do to remedy this is to make sure that we have tension in the barbell and also in our bodies before we pull for every repetition. The way to do that for the barbell is to, and I'm gonna show you with the semi-simo stance, which is my preferred way of deadlifting, one, think of bending the barbell before it leaves the floor, okay? That's gonna help create tension here. The other thing too is to load up the hamstrings, create tension in the lats, and I'm going to shift my weight back onto my heels, okay? Using the barbell as a counterbalance. Instead of just thinking of pulling up, I'm going to shift my weight back. And then from here, I have tension in my lats, tension in my hamstrings, everything's loaded up. And I can lift the barbell off the ground. There is no slack in the barbell, okay? So, another cue that I like is to listen for the click of the barbell against the plate. So, did you hear that? So, this is the click that you wanna have before the pull. So, it should not be here, like that, right? So, that's an example of jerking the barbell, where you lose tension in your body as you pull. But if I first make sure I hear the click, shift my weight back onto my heels, load up my hamstrings, there's a click, and I can do my rep, and come back down. So, that is what we mean when we say, take the slack out of the bar, or don't jerk the barbell. I hope it helps.

=== FILE: The Dose Makes the Poison [scoQ5oeUTco].txt ===

 If you paid attention to every dickhead on social media, you would think that every food is trying to kill you. Here's what you need to understand. The dose makes the poison. If you zoom in closely enough, every food can sound terrifying, even nutritious ones. Mercury is a known neurotoxin. You would never eat it directly. But you can find trace amounts of mercury in fish and other seafood. Arsenic is so toxic it can literally kill you. But it occurs naturally in many grains, including rice. Does this mean we need to avoid fish and rice forever? Obviously fucking not. Both are known staples in healthy dietary patterns. The point is, something being harmful in large quantities doesn't mean it is equally harmful in small quantities. Some people love catching your attention by yelling about potentially harmful compounds, even in nutritious foods. Oxalates and Coitrogens in vegetables. Lectons in beans and nuts. Heterocyclic Amines in cooked meat. Acrylamide in cooked carbohydrate. When so many people are screaming at you about which foods to avoid, it can become confusing and unnecessarily anxiety inducing. For any ingredient or compound to harm you, you need to consume it at a high enough dose for it to exert a harmful effect. If you are someone who worries a lot about what you are allowed to eat, stop following scare mongering shit stains who make it sound like every food is killing you.

=== FILE: The Truth About Clean Eating [zDrGnVARzjI].txt ===

 the truth about clean eating. Let's talk about it. First, what is it? The reality is clean eating is a broad term with varied interpretation and without a clear definition or shared understanding. Is this caught as cheese considered clean? What about this non-organic pasta that has gluten or this curry that comes in the package? It depends on who you ask. It's oftentimes interpreted as consuming only whole, unprocessed, natural, organic foods, but can also tap more extreme strategies such as eliminating gluten, grains, and or dairy. By and large, clean eating is viewed favorably by the general population, and many individuals see it as a sort of lifestyle to adopt. So what's the problem? Despite the fact that many people see clean eating in a positive light, it's actually linked to greater eating disorder risk and preoccupation with body weight and fat. It's also correlated with impaired work, social, and emotional functioning. On social media, viewing clean eating content paired with FITSPO is associated with compulsive exercise and athletic ideal internalization. Clean eating can increase harmful dietary restriction and obsession with healthy eating and also can promote all-in-nothing thinking, which has been tied to more overeating and binge eating, as well as increased neurosis, anxiety, and depression. Not to mention there's an element of moral superiority associated with the term, and many definitions of clean eating exclude cultural foods like this Korean seaweed soup or myokuk. But with all of that said, is clean eating actually better? Let's be careful not to confuse clean eating with healthy eating because as it turns out, the two are not synonymous. One study found that clean recipes were higher in protein than others, but not necessarily lower in total calories, sugar, or sodium. Ironically, some forms of clean eating can actually lead to more nutrient deficiencies depending on the degree of dietary restriction, especially the ones that omit entire food groups. And let's not forget the health halo effect, which can influence people to consume up to 35% more of a food if we slap a label like clean on it and thus we perceive it to be healthier or superior. What does this mean for you? It's important to keep in mind that research reports averages. So just because the science has one thing, doesn't necessarily mean it's going to be the case for you as an individual. Nevertheless, the research has found strong links between clean eating and some pretty major red flags. Let me repeat that clean eating is not the same as healthy eating. So I'm not saying we shouldn't strive to consume a nutritious diet. It's entirely possible to eat all the things we deem nutritious, broccoli, carrots, salmon, and so on, but also include foods that fuel our soul, like ice cream, which by the way still has nutrients. It doesn't have to be a binary either or situation. And in fact, you may find that a mindful inclusive diet that emphasizes foods to add rather than omit is better for your mental and physical health. Ultimately, both from a personal and professional standpoint, I am not a fan of the term clean eating. We can encourage health without using that kind of language. Follow for more.

=== FILE: These Foods Are KILLING You! [5pBqZdIkNQM].txt ===

 don't eat these foods. Good start, but we need to terrify people. Okay, these foods are killing you. Better, now let's toss in some buzzwords. These are full of chemicals. Isn't literally everything made up of chemicals? Yes, but the word is scary. Um, okay. These have toxins. Shouldn't I say what the toxins are? No, no, don't worry about that. We are just using the word for impact. Okay, but shouldn't I at least see that dough set which an ingredient is harmful? Nobody even knows what toxins means, but it's provocative. Keep going. Okay, what else should I say? Mention hormones. These ingredients will disrupt your hormones. So, like, which specific hormones? Who knows, it doesn't matter what else. Um, processed. That's a good one. Process. Artificial, inflammation. Oh my god, so scary. Artificial, inflammation. Not natural. Gut microbiome. Gut microbiome. Cursnogenet poison. Yes, yes, excellent. Isn't this the definition of fear-mongering? Shouldn't we be teaching people how to have healthier dietary patterns without unnecessary food phobia? No, f*** that. Fear is great for social media engagement. Like and follow for more vague yet unnecessarily terrifying food posts.

=== FILE: Weight Loss is Not Synonymous with Improved Health [2Mx0m8pPn9k].txt ===

 Okay, healthy behaviors, what do you mean by that? Healthy behaviors are ones that add to rather than take away from your health. So weight loss, right? Well, weight in and of itself is not actually a behavior. And weight loss can actually occur to the detriment of your health. I don't see how exercising more and eating better is bad for your health. Ah, you're conflating healthy behaviors with weight loss. There are actually many times when weight loss can be the result of or lead to worse health. Like when? You might lose weight because you have a serious illness, such as if you're struggling with depression or cancer, or maybe because you're experiencing other major trauma in your life. Okay, I can see how that's not a good thing. And when you do lose weight as a result of unhealthy behaviors, such as weight overdoing it on the cardio or overrestricting your diet, you may experience more anxiety and worse obsession, mood disturbances, loss of menstrual cycle, decrease in energy and quality of life, and more. All right, that's definitely not healthy. So what are some healthy behaviors? Going for a walk, strength training, eating protein in most meals, adding fiber stretchies to most meals, getting adequate quality sleep, reducing alcohol consumption. That's a start. Wouldn't that lead to weight loss? It may or may not. It depends on the person. But the point is you can improve your health independent of focusing on weight loss. Remember, weight loss is not synonymous with health improvement. I think I'm understanding. So rather than obsessing over only how much weight I want to lose, I should emphasize habits I can keep up on a regular basis. Is that right? Yes, you're getting it.

=== FILE: What You Need to Know About Creatine [whlToWXrjHY].txt ===

 creatine is one of the most well-researched supplements out there. I take it every day, as do several other fitness buffs, so let's talk about it for a few minutes. What is it? Creatine is a molecule produced in the body that plays a role in energy production, via donating a phosphate group to ADP, allowing it to become ATP. It's produced in the body primarily in the liver and kidneys, but also the pancreas, at a rate of roughly one gram per day, and is stored predominantly in the muscle. In foods, it can be found in meat and fish, and yes, this does mean that vegans will have lower resting concentrations of creatine. Supplementing with exogenous creatine can increase your levels by 20-40%, as you can see in this graph. Okay, great, but what does it do? Creatine has been found to increase exercise performance, and is especially recommended for strength and power athletes. Following creatine loading, high intensity and repetitive exercise performance can increase by 10-20%. Check out this list of the many performance-enhancing benefits of creatine supplementation. These benefits have been shown in adolescents, younger adults, older adults, and in both men and women. Further, it's been shown to enhance recovery by maintaining optimal glycogen levels, reducing muscle damage, increasing tolerance to high volumes of training, and more. What about that muscle gains? For resistance training individuals, creatine supplementation can help increase muscle mass. Here's a graph from a study on 25 football players after four weeks of creatine supplementation. As you can see, the creatine group shown in teal experience a significantly greater increase in lean body mass compared to the placebo group. But wait, there's more! Did you know that creatine has cognitive benefits too? Supplementing with creatine can increase creatine content in the brain by 5-15%. This can help improve working memory, increase cognitive function, reduce mental fatigue, and also improve cognitive performance in response to sleep deprivation. Also, during pregnancy, creatine supplementation has been found to promote fetal growth, development, and health. In aging individuals, it can help lower cholesterol and triglyceride levels, reduce fat accumulation in the liver, enhance glycemic control, minimize bone loss, and more. Phew! There's actually quite a bit more, but for the sake of not dragging out this video, I'll end this section here. Okay, what about non-responders? You may have heard about non-responders to creatine supplementation. This simply means that some people don't experience the benefits I just went over. From the studies I've read, roughly 20-30% of people are non-responders to creatine. Check out this study from 2004. You'll see here that the participants in purple saw little to no changes in their intramuscular creatine content after 5 days of creatine loading. Unfortunately, there is no easy way to test for this, besides simply taking creatine, more on this later, and seeing if you notice the positive changes over time. By the way, responders are those who have lower resting initial levels of total muscle creatine content, greater type 2 fibers, and higher potential to improve performance in response to creatine supplementation. That means that non-responders will be the opposite. And before you get upset, before you find out that you're a non-responder, think of it this way. It means you already have higher resting total muscle creatine content levels to begin with, so you don't need to supplement. Now you may want to know, is it safe? Today, there have been over 1,000 studies on creatine conducted in infants to the elderly at doses ranging from 0.3 to 0.8 grams per kilogram of body weight per day for up to 5 years. The research has consistently shown that there are zero adverse health risks and a plethora of performance and health benefits. And despite anecdotal claims, there has been no research demonstrating increased risk of musculoskeletal injuries, dehydration, muscle cramping, GI upset, or renal dysfunction. The only consistently reported side effect in some individuals is weight gain due to water retention and protein and or glycogen accretion. But don't let this stop you from taking creatine, it is not body fat. So the answer is yes, supplementing with creatine is safe and healthy individuals of all ages. How do I take it? There are two primary ways to take creatine. The first is creatine loading, which saturates your body's creatine levels a lot quicker. This entails ingesting 0.3 grams per kilogram of body weight per day split into four to five daily intakes for five to seven days. After that, you can drop your intake down to 0.03 grams per kilogram of body weight per day indefinitely. Without the loading phase, it may take three to four weeks to increase your muscles' creatine stores. According to the ISSN position standard from 2017, you can simply take three to five grams per day indefinitely. Also, taking your creatine supplement with a carb or a carb and protein seems to increase your muscular uptake of creatine, so maybe take it with a meal. When should I take it? In a 2013 study on healthy young male bodybuilders, taking creatine immediately post-workout as opposed to immediately pre-workout was found to be possibly more beneficial. If you look at this graph here, which shows the participants' changes between the two groups over a four-week period, the post-workout slope is ever so slightly greater. The authors thus concluded that taking creatine post-workout may be superior in terms of fat-free mass gains. The next year, another study was conducted this time on adults between ages 50 to 64. By the end of this 12-week intervention, there was no difference in lean body mass or strength changes in those who took creatine immediately before versus immediately after their training session. Then another study looked at creatine taking immediately pre- and post-workout compared to morning and then late evening. After 10 weeks, the first group taking creatine immediately before and immediately after their workout led to significantly greater intramuscular creatine content, lean tissue mass, and muscle cross-sectional area of type 2 fibers. And then there was this meta-analysis, albeit in only three studies, from 2018 that found a slight edge on taking creatine post-workout. So this is what the research says is optimal, but I'm gonna throw in my two cents. Successfully taking creatine regularly is more important than splitting hairs over the timing. If you're more likely to take your creatine consistently at a certain time of day that is not pre- or post-workout, then do it. Given all the benefits that creatine has to offer, I think it's safe to say that taking creatine daily, regardless of timing, is going to be more beneficial than not taking it at all. What brand should I take? The only supplement company I trust and recommend is PE Science. I am sponsored by them, full disclosure. They carry creatine in two forms. This is the capsule form, which is what I take. Here's what it looks like in my hand. And they also have a powdered form, which you can mix with water or blend it in with your protein shake. You can use my code SOHEFIT to get 15% off. That's all for today's video on creatine. I hope you guys learned a lot. Please leave your questions in the comment section below. I will answer them to the best of my ability. Thanks for tuning in.

=== FILE: What You Need to Know About the B-Stance [NnDx7G5qNCg].txt ===

 Let's talk about the B-stance. The B-stance or kickstand is a supported single leg exercise. Unlike a true single leg exercise, however, you're removing balance out of the equation, so it no longer is a limiting factor for you. And rather than all the work being done on one side, you have the majority of the work, probably around 80% of the work done by your working side leg, and then about 20% of the work done by your non-working side leg. Compared to the bilateral version, the B-stance is going to be a lot easier on the spine due to reduced total loading, so if for any reason you need to go lighter in weights, or if you have a limited selection of weights to work with, the B-stance is a great option for you to try. I'll show you the B-stance Romanian Deadlift first. For this one, you first wanna just do the bilateral version, watching from the side, you can see that this is how my form looks. I'm hinging back with a soft bend in my knees, chest up, neutral spine. For the B-stance, all I'm gonna do is take my non-working leg, slide the toes back until it's roughly in line with the heels of my working side leg. If you'd like to scoot back a little bit farther, which I've seen people do, if that's more comfortable for you, no problem at all. So you can be back here if you'd like, so anywhere from here to about here. And otherwise, honestly, form looks the same. So I go from bilateral like this, to B-stance like that, but you will feel a big difference. So I went from weight distribution, roughly equal on both sides, to now feeling it mostly in my left side posterior chain. And of course, I can grab some weights and show you what it looks like. So bilateral, two, B-stance. And I'll do the other side as well. Bilateral, two, B-stance. You can even do this as a good morning, so you can pretend this is a barbell across my back. If I'm hinging back like this, I can use the same foot stance and do a B-stance, good morning, like so. If you wanted to do a B-stance squat, I'll show you the B-stance goblet squat, but you could even do a B-stance back squat, or even a B-stance front squat. So of course, you have your weight in position. Here's how your regular reps might look. And similar to the Romanian deadlift, I'm going to slide the toes of my non, in quotes again, non-working side back a little bit and bring it in a little bit closer to me. And then as I do this, I'm going to drive the weight up using mostly my left side. So I'm thinking of pushing into my left side as I come up, so I can still feel my right side doing a little bit of the work, but it's mostly coming from my left side. I'll do one more rep. So that's the B-stance squat. Last but not least, we of course can't forget the B-stance hip thrust. So once again, you want to start off with the bilateral version first. So here's what I look like with both feet, roughly hip width apart in front of me, push through both heels as I extend my hips, keep my eyes forward, chest and ribs down, just like that. So what I want to do if I want to make it a B-stance is I'm now going to take the heel of my working side foot and bring it in a little bit closer to the center. It doesn't have to be fully in the center, but just slide it in a couple of inches. And then I'm going to take the heels of my non-working side foot and actually scoot it forward away from my body until my heels of my non-working side leg are roughly in line with the toes of my working side. So I am from here to here. Okay, once again, from here to here. And now what I'm going to do is push through primarily my working side heel, in this case, pushing through my right side with a little bit of support coming from my left side. So here's what that would look like. Just like that. And I'll show you with a weight barbell or a dumbbell across your lap. Get back into your B-stance position. Most of the work coming through my right side. And that is the B-stance. Give it a try, I hope you like it.

=== FILE: Why I No Longer Use Weight Loss Transformation Photos [iaxv8ecaWDI].txt ===

 I no longer use B4NAF for photos to sell my products and services. Here are three reasons why. One, body transformations are not the main selling point of my brain anymore. We are big on body neutrality and placing so much emphasis on the way your body looks directly opposes that. Our focus is on helping you improve your relationship with food, exercise, and your body, and that is definitely not the same thing as promising extreme fat loss results. Two, I don't want to perpetuate the idea that health has one look. Over the past few years in particular, I've come to learn that yes, someone could be in a small body size and still be healthy, but it's also entirely feasible that what's healthy for another person is being less lean. We should stop assuming that we can glean someone's health status by their body size alone without also taking into consideration other variables such as eating behaviors, exercise habits, mental health status, genetics, and more. And three, bodies change and that's okay. Just because you're not currently at your leanest does not mean you are a before photo. And I also don't want anyone to feel like they have to be so fixated on the way their body looks. Okay, let's mix it. As a fitness professional, health comes first to me and fat loss transformations don't always reflect health improvement. So good.

=== FILE: You can NEVER eat processed foods again？ 🤯 [XHRhpPm9_To].txt ===

 Some people really missed the point of the video. These balls represent the entire adult population of America. 90% don't eat enough fruit and vegetables. Over 90% don't eat enough fiber. Roughly two-thirds exceed recommendations for both added sugars and saturated fats. By some estimates, nearly 100% do not meet all dietary guidelines. Basically, all of us have room for improvement. But this still doesn't excuse hardcore health influencer Ellen's from dishing out unrealistic advice. You can never eat processed foods again. That's full of toxins. It's my birthday. Here, have this instead. Instant diabetes and cancer. You're welcome. When people say you have to avoid these foods completely, they're telling you you can't eat any of them again for the rest of your life. Oh yeah, there it is. If these balls represent more and less nutrient-dense foods, yes, we want you to improve your diet quality. It is obviously good for your health. But you don't have to abruptly cut out all your favorite foods to accomplish this as it's oftentimes unsustainable, and you can improve your diet incrementally. So you go from this to this over time, instead of expecting to go from this to this. Which also saves you from diving headfirst into a soul-destroyingly restrictive diets that ruins your relationship with food. We are not encouraging poor diet quality. We are discouraging, unhelpful, unrealistic nutrition advice.

=== FILE: ＂Add Don't Restrict＂ for Fat Loss？ [3oW_3ls8hBE].txt ===

 I want to share with you a snippet from another creator talking about the habit she implemented to lose 30 pounds over the course of a year. I searched my perspective from instead of removing everything that I used to like and completely doing a 180, I started off eating the same types of things that I was eating before, but I was adding in more veggies to every single meal. I just picked one food group, veggies, add in more at every meal. The other two habits she implemented were walking more and eating breakfast. I love the add-don't-restrict guideline that I've shared numerous times before, which emphasizes what you can add to your diet rather than what you can remove. I've gotten numerous comments and questions about how this would surely lead to weight gain, or how can this possibly work if fat loss is the goal. Add-don't-restrict is not only about adding nutrients to your meal to boost the satiety and satisfaction factor. It's also about helping you embrace more of an abundance mindset rather than scarcity mindset with food. What happened in this case was subtraction by displacement, hence the fat loss. I especially love that this person achieved the weight loss by emphasizing healthy habits rather than sacrificing them. And remember, this is not a strict rule, so you don't have to do this every single time. You do have permission to eat the ice cream on its own anytime you want. Add-don't-restrict is one nutrition tool of many. It is not anti-fat loss, it is pro-health.

=== FILE: ＂You Deserve to Be Fat＂ [O5cBFW-nJNY].txt ===

 if you're not disabled and are just too lazy to walk 7500 steps a day, you deserve to be fat. This comment was an experience to read. Here are a few underlying implications I'd like to address. Getting in a lot of daily steps is about being not lazy. This goes back to the all too common, it's all about discipline advice, which overlooks the many, many real life barriers that people face that make movement more difficult for some than others. It is a lot easier for someone living in a safe suburban area with lots of walking paths and flexible hours during the day to get in a lot of steps compared to someone who works two full-time sedentary jobs and doesn't feel safe leaving their home. It is about so much more than working hard. People who are not fat all walk 7500 or more steps per day. We know thin people who are completely sedentary and bigger people who are highly, highly active. Walking is definitely a solid way to burn calories, but that doesn't always mean that people who get in a lot of steps won't be fat. Fat people are lazy. This is weight stigma and is untrue and unhelpful. Let's not forget that obesity and weight gain are highly, highly complex matters. And yes, while calories in, calories out does apply from a strict energy balance standpoint, there are so many variables that impact this equation. I can guarantee you there are people out there who are bigger than you and work harder than you. Last but not least, you deserve to be fat as if it's some kind of punishment. There are many worse things to be done fat. For example, a judgmental, fat phobic belling. I am all for encouraging movement, but I would argue that the way we go about it is key. Let's move away from this stop being so lazy mentality and remove the stigma around people in bigger bodies.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.348542Z ===
