 the truth about clean eating. Let's talk about it. First, what is it? The reality is clean eating is a broad term with varied interpretation and without a clear definition or shared understanding. Is this caught as cheese considered clean? What about this non-organic pasta that has gluten or this curry that comes in the package? It depends on who you ask. It's oftentimes interpreted as consuming only whole, unprocessed, natural, organic foods, but can also tap more extreme strategies such as eliminating gluten, grains, and or dairy. By and large, clean eating is viewed favorably by the general population, and many individuals see it as a sort of lifestyle to adopt. So what's the problem? Despite the fact that many people see clean eating in a positive light, it's actually linked to greater eating disorder risk and preoccupation with body weight and fat. It's also correlated with impaired work, social, and emotional functioning. On social media, viewing clean eating content paired with FITSPO is associated with compulsive exercise and athletic ideal internalization. Clean eating can increase harmful dietary restriction and obsession with healthy eating and also can promote all-in-nothing thinking, which has been tied to more overeating and binge eating, as well as increased neurosis, anxiety, and depression. Not to mention there's an element of moral superiority associated with the term, and many definitions of clean eating exclude cultural foods like this Korean seaweed soup or myokuk. But with all of that said, is clean eating actually better? Let's be careful not to confuse clean eating with healthy eating because as it turns out, the two are not synonymous. One study found that clean recipes were higher in protein than others, but not necessarily lower in total calories, sugar, or sodium. Ironically, some forms of clean eating can actually lead to more nutrient deficiencies depending on the degree of dietary restriction, especially the ones that omit entire food groups. And let's not forget the health halo effect, which can influence people to consume up to 35% more of a food if we slap a label like clean on it and thus we perceive it to be healthier or superior. What does this mean for you? It's important to keep in mind that research reports averages. So just because the science has one thing, doesn't necessarily mean it's going to be the case for you as an individual. Nevertheless, the research has found strong links between clean eating and some pretty major red flags. Let me repeat that clean eating is not the same as healthy eating. So I'm not saying we shouldn't strive to consume a nutritious diet. It's entirely possible to eat all the things we deem nutritious, broccoli, carrots, salmon, and so on, but also include foods that fuel our soul, like ice cream, which by the way still has nutrients. It doesn't have to be a binary either or situation. And in fact, you may find that a mindful inclusive diet that emphasizes foods to add rather than omit is better for your mental and physical health. Ultimately, both from a personal and professional standpoint, I am not a fan of the term clean eating. We can encourage health without using that kind of language. Follow for more.