 Let's talk about the B-stance. The B-stance or kickstand is a supported single leg exercise. Unlike a true single leg exercise, however, you're removing balance out of the equation, so it no longer is a limiting factor for you. And rather than all the work being done on one side, you have the majority of the work, probably around 80% of the work done by your working side leg, and then about 20% of the work done by your non-working side leg. Compared to the bilateral version, the B-stance is going to be a lot easier on the spine due to reduced total loading, so if for any reason you need to go lighter in weights, or if you have a limited selection of weights to work with, the B-stance is a great option for you to try. I'll show you the B-stance Romanian Deadlift first. For this one, you first wanna just do the bilateral version, watching from the side, you can see that this is how my form looks. I'm hinging back with a soft bend in my knees, chest up, neutral spine. For the B-stance, all I'm gonna do is take my non-working leg, slide the toes back until it's roughly in line with the heels of my working side leg. If you'd like to scoot back a little bit farther, which I've seen people do, if that's more comfortable for you, no problem at all. So you can be back here if you'd like, so anywhere from here to about here. And otherwise, honestly, form looks the same. So I go from bilateral like this, to B-stance like that, but you will feel a big difference. So I went from weight distribution, roughly equal on both sides, to now feeling it mostly in my left side posterior chain. And of course, I can grab some weights and show you what it looks like. So bilateral, two, B-stance. And I'll do the other side as well. Bilateral, two, B-stance. You can even do this as a good morning, so you can pretend this is a barbell across my back. If I'm hinging back like this, I can use the same foot stance and do a B-stance, good morning, like so. If you wanted to do a B-stance squat, I'll show you the B-stance goblet squat, but you could even do a B-stance back squat, or even a B-stance front squat. So of course, you have your weight in position. Here's how your regular reps might look. And similar to the Romanian deadlift, I'm going to slide the toes of my non, in quotes again, non-working side back a little bit and bring it in a little bit closer to me. And then as I do this, I'm going to drive the weight up using mostly my left side. So I'm thinking of pushing into my left side as I come up, so I can still feel my right side doing a little bit of the work, but it's mostly coming from my left side. I'll do one more rep. So that's the B-stance squat. Last but not least, we of course can't forget the B-stance hip thrust. So once again, you want to start off with the bilateral version first. So here's what I look like with both feet, roughly hip width apart in front of me, push through both heels as I extend my hips, keep my eyes forward, chest and ribs down, just like that. So what I want to do if I want to make it a B-stance is I'm now going to take the heel of my working side foot and bring it in a little bit closer to the center. It doesn't have to be fully in the center, but just slide it in a couple of inches. And then I'm going to take the heels of my non-working side foot and actually scoot it forward away from my body until my heels of my non-working side leg are roughly in line with the toes of my working side. So I am from here to here. Okay, once again, from here to here. And now what I'm going to do is push through primarily my working side heel, in this case, pushing through my right side with a little bit of support coming from my left side. So here's what that would look like. Just like that. And I'll show you with a weight barbell or a dumbbell across your lap. Get back into your B-stance position. Most of the work coming through my right side. And that is the B-stance. Give it a try, I hope you like it.