 What are you going to expect from TRT? Today we're going to talk about the top 10 changes to expect from 12 weeks to 6 months on TRT. To keep watching. In previous videos we've discussed what to expect from TRT at 2 weeks and what to expect at 6 weeks, so today from 12 weeks to 6 months, we're going to go through these 10 changes to expect from 12 weeks to 6 months on TRT. Today we're going to talk about the top 10 changes to expect from 12 weeks to 6 months on TRT. To keep watching. In previous videos we've discussed what to expect from TRT at 2 weeks and what to expect at 6 weeks. So today from 12 weeks to 6 months on TRT.! They can have a surge in things like mood and energy and sex drive. But for the majority of people at that 6 week point, things are beginning to change a little bit. So when you get to 12 weeks, you know, you would have had your blood test already. The doctor would have checked your blood markers, seen how you're feeling, and made some changes to sort of steer you in the right direction or, you know, or give you advice to stay on track where you are with the aim of heading in the right direction. So by 12 weeks, you know, it's been a bit of time since that point. This, I'd say, that sex drive is where this begins to change in some way for a lot of people. So not everybody, and that's something, you know, there's still outliers with this general sort of consensus of things. But the feedback that I get is that sex drive, starting from this point onwards, is when more consistently it begins to happen. Not necessarily like a switch that turns on, that it's, you know, I'll have, you know, out of a month, maybe instead of a day where I had a better sex drive, it's now 5, 10, 15, and it's improving. I think people think they have more sexual thoughts, their libido starts to go up. I mean, is that what you sort of experienced? Yeah, but I don't think it's always a linear improvement. No. I think there can be times when, you know, even after 25 years on TRT, there are days that your sex drive isn't always getting better and better every day. You might have a day that it's not good. And there are so many factors that affect sex drive, and it's not just hormonal. Yeah. In general, the thing that we've seen that you could expect from TRT would be a general, that's a very generalized way to say, sex drive improvement. But you can't expect every day and keep a scorecard. And if you didn't fall into that very highly strung sexual day, then somehow the treatment failed. Yeah. So you may be one of those guys where your sex drive isn't changing massively at this point. You may be one of those guys. So it's not, if you're not in that group, something's wrong. You know, if you're working with the doctor and steering you in the right direction, you may have really great levels. It may just be that you need to be on therapy, you know, longer to have that effect. Would you say that? Yeah, I think so. Yeah. So you, when you started, you were about this point, you were noticing some changes, sex drive wise? Yeah. At six months, I noticed before six months that the sex drive was improving. Yeah. And so I was perhaps an outlier where, you know, things seemed to be working in the right direction. I mean, I'm nearly the beginning. Yeah. Yeah. See, for me, I mean, you know, Mike talks about things being multifactorial with sex drive. I mean, I think the initial, this happens for quite a lot of guys, the initial part of starting therapy, if you've been feeling pretty anxious or stressed about the whole situation, you know, running up to finding out potentially this is why you've got symptoms and then starting therapy, you can still feel anxious, you know. So lots of guys are, and anxiety can be triggered by, you know, just, I suppose, your normal thought process of why am I starting this? Is everything right? How long will this take to work? I've heard, and this is, I think is real big cause of anxiety is like forum spaces and things like that. And things like that. I mentioned that before, but if you, if you're, if you're constantly reading about people that are having problems or are having great changes, then you start questioning whether it should be happening for yourself. So I think that happened for me a lot, you know, 12, 12 weeks onwards, there are people, you know, saying things are going really well for them. And why is that not happening for me? And I think just the stress of, of thinking that it wasn't happening, that can affect sex drive. You know, you're not focused. You're not, you're not mindful of what's going on around you. You're in sort of, you know, thinking what might be happening or should be happening. So that's definitely something, you know, to be aware of that if you're, and it's not abnormal to not, you know, to feel anxious, you know, at the start of therapy. So it is a new venture, as it were, a new treatment, you know, of a hormone therapy that is, is lifelong, right? Absolutely. Yeah. So I think the second item to consider of the top 10 things that may be, you may want to expect on TRT at six months would be changes in your erections. So in many times, and what we've heard in patients is the erections may be the last thing to come online. But I think it's so variable based on where you started from when you started treatment. So if you had atherosclerosis, cardiovascular issues, epithelium problems, you've gone a long time with erectile dysfunction, which may also go hand in hand with having a long time with low testosterone. There may be damage that takes longer to heal and repair than if, you know, you, you didn't have those issues for as long. So in some people, it may have had a dip in the testosterone levels, short-term erectile dysfunction, and that gets corrected and sorted, you know, quite quickly within the TRT treatment. But at six months, you should start seeing erections starting to come back. Yeah, I mean, yeah, like you say, it's variable, isn't it? And something I think about is everyone's variable, like you said. But if you've had, let's just say for 10 years, you've not had sufficient levels of your hormones, that means that you've not had regular erections, right? So let's just say in your prime of feeling great, you had one a day, you know, and then you've gone from that to two every six months. And then over the years, that frequency of blood in and out the penis, you know, and the functionality of the organ has now changed because you've not had that function happening. If you then start TRT and, okay, maybe the hormones, you know, improve how you feel. Obviously, they can improve blood flow and, you know, the hormones have that effect. And the cascade is needed to get that going. It doesn't necessarily mean that suddenly everything's going to start working again, you know. And that's where things like low-dose Cialis, you know, some guys have, you know, used low-dose Cialis, Tadalafil, you know, PD-5 inhibitor alongside, you know, their TRT. And that can actually, we've seen that that's helped restore function and get things back faster. And some guys have then not needed to be on it after that, you know, once things get going. I mean, lots keep going for sort of their own confidence. Yeah, I mean, other people could help rehabilitate the weak erections of the past or if you're frustrated because your morning erections aren't coming on as quickly or as strongly, having some vasodilation occurring because of increased nitric oxide from the PD-5 inhibitors, the Viagra, Cialis, Tadalafil, Sidenafil. These can help with rehabilitation and, you know, there's some studies out there that talk about men who have had nerve crash after prostate surgeries. And as a result, part of the rehabilitation treatment is some of these PD-5 inhibitors. So for these men, some people have this thought that if I'm on this erectile aid, I'm either always going to need it or I guess I have ED, which can be quite embarrassing. Yeah, or you need to have the tablet to function, right? And then they feel like, oh, well, I won't take that because then I'm, it's a crutch and I'm responsible on it. But the rehab part. But the rehab part is important. I mean, I used to know an ophthalmologist of all people and she would say that it should be put, Viagra should be put in the water supply. So, you know, because it has such an impact and improvement on health or maybe it was just to make her happy. She loved Viagra. Yeah, she was happy with her, but her partner was happy. So she was happy. But weirdly, like guys with autoimmune conditions like Reynolds and things like that, I know, you know, a few people have said that actually women and men with autoimmunity can use that to actually help blood flow. And a few, you know, cardiologists say it's one of the few drugs that systemically increases nitric oxide and it can have its benefits, you know, in the blood vessels. Absolutely. I mean, the recovery thing, I mean, that makes sense to me. I mean, when I used to work in the NHS, I asked an old patient of mine, he's in his 90s and I was like, what's like the best, you give me any advice, you know, just being a person in a different generation. He was literally like, look at this. He's like, if you don't use it, you lose it. And I was like, fair enough. But now you see it that when guys have not used it for a while, you know, you can lose the effectiveness, but it can be restored through those things. And also, I think it's important to distinguish between morning erections, nocturnal erections, spontaneous erections and erections on demand when you need them. And I think that kind of all falls into one of the things that can improve. You know, morning erections are sometimes envisioned that, you know, you're going to the toilet in the morning and you've got to fight to keep your boner down or you can hang a towel from it and it won't go down at that particular point in time. Like me, myself and Irene, when he's got like the picture frame. And that very well may happen. But in many cases... It never happens to me. It may just happen nocturnally or may happen in the early hours of the morning and you're still unconscious to recognize it or you might kind of have it incorporated into a dream. And so all these are still positive effects of you getting the blood flow to your penis and the erections. And I think that could all be classified as a morning erection. Yeah. Would you agree? Yeah. So I think there's a doctor that said actually morning erections are just sort of leftover nighttime erections, nocturnal erections actually. Right. So if you don't wake up with one, it doesn't mean that there's something awful that's not working. Exactly. So it's no time to panic. Yeah. Then there's the erections that are kind of the on demand as you need them erections. And that could be complicated from psychosomatic issues. If you have gone through the past of having the low testosterone, it not working for you when you need it. And, you know, you're mentally, you think in the game, you're not sure, and your anxiety gets the best of you. So then, you know, even with the Viagra, Cialis, and Alpha, Ludvitra, any of those, it still may not be enough because your anxiousness is going to cause vasoconstriction, which would be the opposite of the vasodilation that you need. Well, you know, if you've had episodes of ED in the past, so, you know, talking about these timelines of things, this doesn't matter from, you know, from in therapy at any point. If you've had the trauma of not having got an erection before in a situation where there's associated shame and criticism and things around it, you know, there's always that, the risk that because you've had that traumatic situation that obviously you're going to have that negative reaction when approaching this absolutely self-pressure that happens. And I know lots of guys that actually it can be that, you know, by themselves they can get an erection, they're getting nighttime erections, you know, semis during the day, things like that. But then because of the old traumatic situations of having, you know, it not worked with someone in the past, the pressure then builds up. So they're like, I've got ED issues and the testosterone may not be working, therapy may not be working, HRT may not be working, but actually there can be definitely a psychological aspect. And that's where guys have seen sexual therapists, you know, it's absolutely something that they can work through. Psychologists work with that as well. So that's just another part to consider, isn't it? Of course, you can also not fancy a partner. Yeah, that's true. You might just be tired or not be in the mood. Yeah, exactly. Or something that kind of becomes the same or it becomes a routine. But yeah, there's lots of factors. But I think, and we talk about it more, like when we get, we talk about it in other videos, but the normal expectations here are generally you should start noticing something. But don't get, you know, bothered if you don't, if you're not, if you're not noticing those things. Right. Because they're so multifactorial. So much so. Yeah. So the next item that you should be able to expect as far as a change around the six month period is muscle, muscle mass and strength. And lots of this is dose dependent, of course, based on certain studies that I think was the same. Bastion had studied men over 20 weeks who were given various levels of testosterone and found there was an increase in muscle mass and strength, especially in the lower leg strength in particular. But in general, we kind of all expect, we think of testosterone, one of the biggest targets for the androgen receptor is muscle mass. Okay. So in general, we know that muscle mass can increase on TRT. Yeah. So, yeah, I'd say this is where people start to notice that difference again. And particularly, it's like, oh, yeah. The thing is, people either go, yep, I've trained before. I know what I'm doing. I'm eating right, all those sorts of things. I've got good sleep hygiene. And they're like, yeah, and now I'm noticing results that I used to notice before I had all these issues. So there's that. But there's also guys that maybe it's been so long or it's unfamiliar to them. And they're like, and actually lots of guys go, I'm not happy I've put on weight. So they're on the scales. And they're like, yeah, I'm putting on loads of weight. And I don't know what's wrong. You know, I say loads, but a good, a substantial amount of weight. And, you know, it can be that actually, because we've had guys do it where they have done, you know, the scans where it separates the fat and the muscle and the bone and all these sorts of things. And it's actually that they've put on muscle mass. They don't look massively leaner. They've not lost body fat. But actually just starting getting optimal testosterone just started to put on muscle mass. And some guys, you know, they can put on like 5 kg and sort of by the first 12 weeks. It can be quite shocking for some. Yeah. Because they weren't expecting that or they didn't want to get that big in particular. But that's, I think, in the culture of gym goers and et cetera, it makes people think, oh, is this just for muscle mass and strength? But this is very important for your generalized health as you age to have the appropriate amount of muscle mass. Otherwise, you're going the opposite direction and going into more of a wasting type of disease. So having a proper amount of muscle mass, I shouldn't really talk about it. You're the ex-physio. So, you know, I think it's one of those things where, I mean, there's lots of teenagers as well, right, that have great, great testosterone levels. There are lots of, you know, say teenagers, there's lots of guys with great testosterone levels that aren't doing the right things. So it's very much, you know, if you're still eating crap and not exercising correctly, sensibly, you're not sleeping, you're boozing a lot, you know, all those sorts of things. All those other factors, like with any other normal person, you know, with a normal working hormonal system, they're all going to affect those sorts of things. Just because you add in TRT, it's not suddenly going to magically override all the normal things that you need to put on muscle mass. No. And if you're running a calorie deficit and you're just literally not eating, then you can't expect to put on a lot of muscle mass. But this assumes that, you know, all things being equal to what you were doing before with a normal kind of diet that, you know, you could expect to see some increase in muscle mass as a function of testosterone. Yeah. So, yeah, that's a good point. So the next thing is energy levels. Okay. So energy levels, I would say, again, it will keep saying the same things, but the point has to be driven home that it is a real mixed bag with this, right? Right. You, you know, you can have, start to see improvements in energy levels, like we said in the other videos earlier on. You know, some guys are suddenly like, wow, I'm up early. I feel like I can do things. I can do more with, you know, less sleep. But then, you know, you've still got guys that maybe they've been affected for so long from lack of hormones and lack of recovery and that their body's just not conditioned. Right. It's not suddenly going to spring everything back to life. No. And they can also have low cortisol issues. So if they tend to be more tired in the morning after starting TRT, you know, then that could actually drive it down even lower. Or they'll have thyroid issues. Yeah. It can affect energy levels. We talk about TRT, right, but actually it's HRT. You need to make sure the effects on the other things are happening. You may have thyroid issues because you've had other hormone issues. So on this particular video, we're talking about just TRT, but all the other hormones can be considered. It has to be considered. It has to be considered, absolutely. True. So I think another really, really important part is because I did this was that I got excited, you know, like getting testosterone back in my body. It was a real issue without it for a few years. But then I got the testosterone. So I was like, yep. So I've got a bit more energy. I'm going to train like an absolute beast. So I was sort of trying to, I'll say that for me, five days a week. Five days a week. Do some weights. But yeah, I did that. And I had an incardio. And I was like, well, I'll... And you lift heavy as well. I train with you. And you go a lot heavier than I do. You're just really weak, mate. No, I just got more joy. I'm joking. I'm joking. And the... So yeah, so basically what I did was I was also like, I'm carrying a bit of fat, so I'm not going to eat much. You know? So I was, like you said, on a massive calorie deficit. So actually by the time I got to like 16 weeks, I was knackered. And I was really concerned like, you know, what's going on here? My energy's gone. And I've, you know, been doing everything right. But I'd just not been eating enough. I'd started really early because I got excited. So I actually took a dip between sort of 12 and six months where I had to be, you know, I think it was actually you actually that said like, you know, sort out. Because you're sort of questioning what I've been doing. You can't do everything. You can't expect you're going to be Superman after you're doing testosterone treatment and then do all these things. Your body's still going to be knackered. And so you have to have the proper recovery, the proper rest and diet and don't overdo it at the gym. Yeah. You're not that weak, mate. I was only joking. Thank you. I know. So look at the size of it. So yeah, so I think that's important. Be aware of those other things that can cause, you know, tiredness and lack of energy levels, you know, across the board. You know, not enough food, not enough rest, all those sorts of things. So the fifth item on the list for what to expect at six months would be a change in mood. I mean, a lot of men come looking at TRT as an option because they've either been depressed, suffer from anxiety, they've got brain fog. And the generalized mood isn't always where it was when they were younger or at an earlier state. So on TRT at six months, we've seen, and I can see it myself, a noticeable improvement in mood overall. You feel a bit more uplifted. We know that testosterone can affect the dopamine levels. And the dopamine is the pleasure hormone, right? And you feel a bit better with dopamine. And so that's one positive change. Yeah, that's a lot of guys say. So there's lots of guys that if they are comfortable with the therapy, so I talked about me feeling anxious and there's definitely a whole group of people. So you feel anxious on TRT initially. You're not alone. You know, your mood can be lower because all of those other factors, you know, the classic questioning of, you know, my hormones are all over the place. Should I be on this? Should I be on that? Should I be on daily injections? Should I be on weekly? Should I be on HCG? All those sorts of things can create anxiety and actually lower your mood, right? But if you're in a place where maybe you're not analysing things a lot, this is where things start to change, I'd say, the most for mood. That's what I've witnessed with guys. I mean, I was fortunate that they'd just invented the internet when I was starting. It's in a great mood because you were... And, you know, there was a few muscle forums. You know, you get some information, but I didn't even... It did not exist like it does today. So essentially, I started testosterone treatment. I just cracked on with it. I didn't know the difference. Things seemed to be getting better. I had more resilience. So everything was as I thought should be. So I didn't have anything to compare it with as people do today. And they can... Yeah, so maybe that's the difference because we talked in the other video about how quickly you felt different. I mean, before I'd even started, I had a view of what may or may not happen, good and bad, because of forums. I was like, I may feel like I've got these bad symptoms because my level's maybe too high, maybe too low. I might get this, that, and the other. I may feel good. I may, you know, and why is it not feeling good? So I arrived like a bit of a wreck, ready to go. But you probably just cut into it and didn't have all that. No, I didn't. And that's on both times because, remember, my story is, you know, the first time I started treatment, it was the back-to-back injections. And then I was just pretty much left stranded by the doctor who didn't... He said, okay, that's enough. That's all you get. Your body should have just ballooned back into this new level that I got used to. So I had to go through a whole period of being even lower than when I started, even more depressed. And things just didn't work for a good six to eight months before I was retreated and restarted on the testosterone treatment with patches for a while, which then improved the mood. And then restarted again on another treatment with topical scrotum, testosterone cream, testosterone cream. So I had all these different restarts on my TRT. And every time for me, it was, you know, without testosterone, I felt rubbish. And with testosterone, it was just a continuous improvement. You know, there were times that, like, you know, we can go into another video, but, you know, 12, 15 years down the road, something wasn't right. But we now know that there are other hormone factors at play, like thyroid, that needed to be adjusted. But overall, straight up TRT did make a massive difference in my life. And hopefully it makes a difference in other people's lives as well. Okay. So number six on the list of things to expect between 12 weeks and six months is your testicles may shrink or atrophy is the medical term. Yeah. Right. So some men, and obviously there's a difference between people anyway and what this happens to, when it happens, rather. And if you're on HCG, obviously your risk from the start, your risk of testicular atrophy is probably lower. Yeah. It can be a lot lower. But some men, if they're overstimulated, understimulated, they don't always meet the expectation. I think there's an expectation out there that you'll do HCG or even HMG, for that matter, is going to just balloon up the size of their testes and they're going to have these massive egg-sized testes. You've got those, don't you? Absolutely not. Never did. But that's not always the case. And I've been prescribed for fertility HMG and HCG. And I'd noticed that, especially after years of not being on any HCG at all, or LH or FSH or gonadotropin, that they felt a bit heavier. But the actual size and shape changed massively. And I think it was negligible. But what I did notice is a fullness, a heaviness, to the scrotum and, in general, I could say the testes. And when I got a blood test, I found that, not blood test, when I got a fertility test, my testes were producing around 156 million sperm, of which 72% were motile. So they're moving in the right direction. That's on your LinkedIn account, isn't it? Yeah, that's going to be. Yeah, Instagram too. I might have pictures. Yeah. So, I mean, I've been on HCG and off of HCG. And I did get atrophy off HCG. But it wasn't as terrifying or as uncomfortable that I thought it would be before I started. I thought, you know, they were going to disappear inside me and it was going to be horrendously painful. But it wasn't. I got some tightening of the scrotum. Things shrunk a little bit. Made the penis look bigger, which is what lots of guys say is a win. And particularly for me, it was incredible. So there's that too as well. And then going on HCG, again, it didn't get huge, you know. And my sperm count is fine now being on HCG. But testicles aren't like super huge or anything like that, you know, but bigger than where they were before. Yeah. And that's the thing. You may have an image in your mind. For me, it's been so long ago. It's hard to remember if they were much, much bigger in the past. That's cool. I mean, it's personal whether your testicles are going to shrink and then how much. There are lots of guys that are on just testosterone alone and that they don't notice a massive amount of atrophy. Sometimes it can happen. It can plateau a little bit. But obviously, if you're working with the doctor, if you're concerned about that, you know, there's HCG that can be used to help with, you know, testicular size and not just fertility, just for aesthetic reasons. So that's basically something that you can expect, right? So do you want to go for this one? Yeah. Well, actually, you should talk about this one. And this is what happens to your skin on TRT or testosterone treatment. And well, for me, I did get... What can happen. What can happen. Yeah. So it doesn't always happen. Some people have no problems at all. I think there's a generalized increase in oil in the skin or sebum. And some people are more prone to acne with this increased oil in the skin. Some people have dry skin. It could be a godsend. Other people, it could be a nightmare because the amount of acne really increases. And I think, Sam, you can talk about that more. Yes, I've always been a bit acne prone. And when I started TRT, I had some flare-ups and it did get worse at one point. You know, there's some great stuff on the Lifting Dermatologist channel, Stephen Devos, about some acne things on TRT. So you can always look at those videos. Yeah, we'll put a link over here. Yeah, put a link up here or something. Or in the bottom. But yeah, that's good information. Lots of the topicals, there's like, you know, Differin and Retin-A, I think, is good. And then there's obviously like the oral type medications, antibiotics. I know they're sort of going a little bit out of favor with some of the doctors. But there's also Accutane and things like that. You know, we could do a whole video on that. But that happened to me. And I got a bit more acne on my back in particular. But I did find that when I started like a – well, I probably should have started. I do tell a lot of guys that there's something to help. It's like a preventative acne protocol. So some good stuff on Excel Mail actually about what guys do. And that's the forum, Nelson Virgil's forum. And I just found a few good threads on there initially. And it's just making sure. Like most guys can't scrub the middle of their back. I definitely can't. So just getting to that middle part. Like, you know, I'm sat in a chair now. That's where there's a bit of sweat. Just making sure that during the shower you give that a bit of a scrub. You know, we could do a whole video on sort of maybe acne protocols. But there's some good soaps like Salfree, sulfur soap you can use. You know, there's some good sort of combinations of things. But showering twice a day as a preventative measure. You know, washing bed sheets every week. You know, that sort of thing can be quite helpful for acne-prone guys if they're worried about it. But it can happen. It doesn't happen to everyone. To be fair, I've not heard of a lot of guys that have acne that's unmanageable in CRT. It's usually just during the changes. Yeah, or a few spots on the shoulders. More than you had a few on the back. Yeah. But, you know, with the skin you can also get an increase in body hair as well. I've known people, friends of mine who started TRT that had, you know, quite smooth on their chest. And they would grow some more chest hair out of nowhere. So, well, it's from the androgens, obviously. But this is something to look out for. I know when I started I didn't have very much facial hair. And obviously I've got facial hair now. So, you know, I think it can thicken that facial hair on some people if you're prone to having more of a beard. So, you know, yes, androgens, testosterone has an impact on your skin. It can thicken skin as well, I believe. I mean, my face has been pretty, like, smashed up from rugby repetitively over the years. I did have really thin patches of skin. I've definitely noticed it's now thicker. You know, it's almost like it's healed better. I know there is some evidence out there showing that it can thicken the skin and improve skin. Increase sort of its... Speaking of thickening, do you know what else it could thicken? That's for another video. Yeah. Nothing in my case. But, yeah. So, obviously, you may lose... So, number... Talking about hair, right? Yeah, I forgot about this. But it's just become part of me now that, you know, I had hair when I was younger, in my 20s. And over time, I was probably prone to losing it anyway. And, you know, by my early to mid-30s, I started shaving it. So, I'm a right slap head now. But, you know, I own the look. And, you know, I had to look back and say, right, it's better to have a healthy libido, you know, a decent amount of muscle mass to go into aging. And the hair, you know, it didn't bother me. Yeah. And you save money on haircuts. Yeah. And shampoo. Yeah. Yeah. So, you can... I mean, that hair loss is one of those things where, you know, the advice from the doctor is that you can get some hair loss, right? But it's basically if you genetically are predisposed to it. You know, I mean, you see lots of guys who even abuse hormones and, you know, anabolic steroids and things like that that are very strong and are very harsh on your hair. And they don't lose their hair, right? But you get some that do. And I think the general consensus is that if you're going to lose your hair, you're going to lose your hair. Yeah. Right? You definitely are going to lose your hair. Yeah. But if you go from a low level of hormones to an optimal or higher level of hormones, you're going to lose it faster, right? Than you were if it was low. You would have reached the state that you would have reached had you always had those optimal levels of hormones. So, if you were always meant to have a high level of hormones in your 20s, you may have lost your hair in your mid to late 20s. If you're meant to lose it in your 50s because you had a little drip feed of testosterone, but because it's now brought up to a normal healthy level, you may lose it a little bit earlier. But in general, there isn't a whole lot you can do. There are some topical formulations. Of course, there are the approved licensed formulations like finasteride, but that would go counter to many people having improvements of their libido and their erectile quality. And that can have lasting impact as far as people having finasteride syndrome. Yeah. I mean, none of the doctors use oral finasteride. That's not usually recommended in people that are already having issues with their testosterone treatment. So, some people may, as an option, have topical finasteride or topical finasteride with latanoprost or bimatoprost, which are prostaglandin analogues. Do you say minoxidil? And regain a minoxidil. Yeah. I'll say with the counter as well, so you can use that. And guys have had some good results with that as well. They're a bit prone to it. So, yeah. I mean, those are some kind of techniques or options to maybe kind of hold on for your hair for a little bit longer. So, what's next on the list, Sam? So, number eight on the list is lipid changes. So, on blood work, changes in your lipid panel. So, these can normally be in the right direction. There are many other factors. Obviously, they say if you're a high saturated fat diet, you may then increase your LDL. But in general, testosterone treatment, replacement treatment, can bring your lipids into better balance, if you will. You tend to see a decrease in overall cholesterol. Okay. But then sometimes you can also see a decrease in HDL, the so-called good cholesterol. And then there's also been cases of reductions in triglycerides. And we've seen patients who claim within the first six weeks or six months even a reduction in triglyceride levels. Normally, at six months, we would see it because that's when the six-month blood test occurs. And it's a nice drop from baseline. It's like you said, if you're still doing the wrong things, you know, in terms of drinking, eating poorly. And to be fair, you know, at this point, it can be pretty hard. Like, if you're not feeling better and people haven't managed to change their diets yet, I think it's really important that if you haven't managed to, like, get your life on track in terms of right diet and exercise and things like that, it's not something you should be ashamed of, right? You've been coming from, like, a lower level to feeling better again. You've just got to, like, give yourself time. There's plenty of time the rest of your life to try and work on it. So if you are someone that hasn't, you know, got an improvement in lipids or blood profile or even body composition or things like that or energy even, and it's because maybe you haven't corrected some of those factors yet, I think it's important to know that, you know, that it may not happen and that, you know, you shouldn't really be ashamed of it yet. You can work on those things, right? Yeah. And also, a side note to, you know, lipids, you can also talk about both glycemic control and diastolic blood pressure. They're known to decrease when on TRT. You know, obviously there's other factors, but in general in some of the studies and some of the patients that have come through, diastolic pressure can be lowered as well as improvement in glycemic control. If your blood sugar was, you know, usually above the normal threshold, those patients have tended to see the greatest improvement in blood sugar levels on TRT. Okay. Okay. So, number nine? Number nine is improvement in bone density, but that would go without saying that testosterone is the precursor hormone for two metabolites, estradiol and dihydrotestosterone. Estradiol being the sex hormone that is known to increase bone density. It also closes the kind of bone plates when you're growing into adolescence. But, yeah, estradiol, as an adult, can maintain increased bone density. So, that's why, you know, with guys that come through and they're like, well, I want no estrogen, please, and lots of testosterone, you know, it's not how it works. I think there's plenty of topics and discussion of the benefits of estrogen. So, you need that for bone density. I mean, bone density, you know, even without hormones, you know, the evidence is there. If you do load-bearing exercises, you know, compound movements, you know, there's studies in elderly people doing that that they can increase bone density and it's very much dependent on activity, you know. But if you're doing those right things, you know, those things right, rather, and you do have optimized hormones, that is going to be improved if you've got a good amount of estrogen. So, again, multifactorial, you know. And there's many factors for, you know, the increase of your bone density. And I have seen guys who've done scans that have come through before and after and definitely seen an improvement in bone density. You know, something to consider, though, some people, before they get on TRT, they actually have low estradiol, which would make sense because the substrate, the testosterone, is also low. So, if you have a low amount of testosterone, you'll probably have a low amount of estradiol before you start, which is why there's so many benefits to being on testosterone treatment because you can bring your estradiol up into a normal balance. I mean, I think in young people, if they have a lot of fractures, you know, over the course of time, hormones, obviously, is one of the factors that they look into because it is needed to maintain bone density. Okay. So, finally, we've got number 10. So, sleep is a really important one. Lots of guys before therapy are affected with poor sleep. Yes. I remember this. When my levels went low a few times, just sleep was awful. In some cases, I felt like I had a little bit less sleep. I couldn't actually get proper good rest on sleep. So, sometimes I would just wake up really early and I knew that's when I was really low. Something just wasn't right or I'd have the night sweats during the sleep. Before TRT? Yes. Well, yes. When levels got really low a few times, yes. In between. Oh, yes. When I was on treatment, I came off. And then you could really, it becomes very noticeable. Sleep is not right. Yes. But on TRT, sleep can get better. Yes. I mean, obviously, again, sleep has lots of factors, right? You've got a good sleep hygiene and not being on your phone and things like that. All the things we get told about. But if people have poor sleep before, actually, it could be anxiety. It could be things like that. And if your anxiety levels begin to improve at this point on TRT, you might notice an improvement. But there are also guys that their perception of what good sleep is, is maybe different. So they're like, I should be absolutely nailing, you know, 10 hours every night and I'll be super recovered. And that's what I'm expecting from TRT. And actually, it can be that people start to sleep a bit less. So some guys say they wake up at like 5 in the morning, you know, when they're used to sort of dragging themselves out of bed. They feel rested. They've slept less, but if they're looking at the amount of time they've slept, they're like, well, I'm not sleeping. I've got insomnia. You know, so there's that as well. And so it can vary. But we're talking about the 12 to 6 month mark. Yeah. And that leads us into with sleep, you may also have sleep apnea. And to say that you may have had an apnea already, but wasn't that noticeable in some cases, it may become unmasked. Yeah. So just to simplify it, just because I know some guys don't know, sleep apnea is when you have an apnea episode in your sleep. Either you stop breathing or is classified if you've got turbulence through snoring, where basically the resistance in your upper airway causes you to have low oxygen levels in your sleep. Right. So you keep waking up. You keep waking up and lots of guys don't notice it, but TRT is associated with sort of unmasking mild sleep apnees that people aren't aware of. It becomes more obvious. So you may have suffered through it for years. It's just about bearable. Or you've got it already. And then sometimes testosterone, you know, if you already have it, will bring it to light. Yes. And so the benefit is, well, maybe you can get treated sooner now because you're now a more obvious case to the NHS for those who are treating sleep apnea. And if you are a sleep apnea patient that is being treated and then you start TRT because of, they think, because of how you sleep, maybe deeper sleep, but particularly because if you have larger neck muscles and you've got more tissue because the testosterone is affecting you, you might need adjustments of your current therapy. I mean, I've got CPAP, you know, and some people say the only two things keeping me alive are the CPAP machine and the testosterone. But yes, it's a good point. If that's allowing you to breathe properly when you sleep and get restful sleep, you know, you might need it adjusted if you're currently on therapy and you may unmask something like that, you know, if it's mild. So particularly at this point, if people are starting noticing that they're a bit more tired, it's absolutely something to, you know, speak to the doctor about. As well as on the blood test of six months, it will pick up if your hematocrit and hemoglobin and red blood cells are abnormal. If they're abnormally high, it may be due to a sleep apnea that's happening that hasn't been corrected or treated yet. And that's because testosterone, you know, through EPO, doesn't it, if you are going through low oxygen episodes or hypoxic episodes, you will make, or you should make more red blood cells to carry more oxygen in the blood. So obviously the body just doing what it needs to do and reacting is if you do start to get, you know, low oxygen in your sleep, you can get higher hematocrit and hemoglobin. So that's why that's obviously monitored on therapy too, right? So this wasn't an exhaustive list, but we thought we'd bring it to you and give you some of the big topics that you could expect at six months on TRT. What to expect six months on TRT. We will do another video. We're always going to do another video. Yeah, we'll keep doing videos. So we'll do a year. We'll do six months to a year and then we'll do another one. We'll do a year. Should we do that? I'm tired of talking about this. I think it's important to do a little bit longer. Okay, one year on TRT coming up next time. So please like and subscribe. If you like the content, please leave us a comment. If you've got any suggestions, you know, please pop them in the comments as well. Ring the notification bell if you want to be notified of more content coming up. Well, great, just take care of you. You didn't let me do anything. All right, you go on, do your one. No, it's all right. Thanks for watching. See you next time. Bye. Thank you.