 cɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫɫ Welcome to Balance My Hormones. We're on holiday. Now, we've got a TRT with us. So there's five things we had to remember to ensure that we travelled safely and easily with our TRT. Number one, make sure you've got enough of your medication. I know it sounds pretty simple, but you want to make sure that your dosing schedule and the time that you're away, that you have enough of your ampoules or cream, whatever your administration technique is, to last you over that time. And when I came on holiday, I basically made sure that I had one extra just for my own peace of mind, just in case there was a delay. But that's just how my own mind works. So that's number one. So number two, make sure you bring your travel letter. The travel letter should have the details of your name, your doctor's name, your prescription items, and any syringes or other items that are needed that might be looked at by customs. And it has to match your prescription label on the boxes of the medications that we just mentioned. So, number three. What's number three? We said five. We've got to make five now. Okay. All right. Number three is... So number three is make sure that the country that you're going on holiday in doesn't have any specific requirements for travelling with testosterone or any other sort of controlled medications like this. An example being, I know Norway in particular only allows a certain amount of time in... Just one month. Just one month. So you've got restrictions there. If you're going to Australia, I know they're absolutely fine with it, but there's some specific requirements like you have to have the exact number of items written on your doctor's letter. But the main thing is just to check. Obviously, there are certain areas in the world, you know, the EU and things like that. Obviously, when we were in the EU, it was easily travelable. I don't know what's going to happen now. I wouldn't even take my doctor's letter, actually, when I went in the EU. But if you're going to a certain country, I would just check that there's not any specific requirements. So just check with customs of that country. So number three is... That was number three. That was number three. Yeah, yeah. Number four... I lost count. Number four is what to expect as you go through security. And this is a big thing people always wonder. They say, oh, I'm going to go to security. Everyone gets so anxious about it. I still get anxious about it. And especially if you're traveling with testosterone. But remember that they're not looking for... To see if you have testosterone. They're looking to see if you've got anything like a bomb or something on you. So make sure you have all your documentation from the doctor. And remember that you're on a prescription medication item. And that you've got a right to carry your medication. It would be no different if you were a diabetic and on insulin. So you've got a right to bring your medicine with you as you need it. So, yeah, it's just making sure that you've got... I think preparation makes you feel more comfortable. So making sure you've got your medications. I mean, I put some in my hand luggage. But I also put some in my hold luggage. Take some extras just so I'm covered either way. But, you know, like Mike said, you're going through the airport. It is a treatment for a medical condition. You have your doctor's letter. You've got the reason why you're being treated. You know, you're not smuggling a bomb or some description through there. It really is medical treatment. So there's nothing to be worried about. Number five. Four or five. Medication, travel letter. Don't worry. Don't worry. Number four. Okay. Number four, how to bring HCG with you. Mmm, that's good. How to bring your HCG portion of your TRT. And what I find is the best ways to, one, remember, whilst you may store your HCG in the fridge for long-term storage, I try to time my trips, depending on how long I'm going to be away, with using an unopened vial of Ganazi or HCG, and then reconstituting it when I'm on location. So I bring what I need. I bring the box. I bring the label from the pharmacy. I bring the unopened or unreconstituted vial of HCG, and I bring some diluent or Torbac or other bacteriostatic saline with me so that I can prepare it right then and there. And then when I do reconstitute it, I make sure I put it in the fridge through the duration of my trip. That's good. Okay, so number five is if you are using needles, obviously, it is important to either take a small sharps bin with you. You can get some travel-sized ones. But actually, most hotels, if you ask them at front desk, you know, a lot of people are diabetic, require injections. If you ask for, you know, somewhere to dispose of needles because of medical treatment, they will usually have it in most hotels. So that's number five. Number five? Do you want to do another one? What I was going to say was the cream and getting in the pool and stuff. Yeah, that's an important one. Do you think it is? Yeah, I think so. I think if you're on testosterone cream, you apply it to your scrotum. You do it in the morning on holiday. You let it absorb for the next hour or so. Then you can jump in the pool. I think it's just, it's not, I think people can get quite, you know, anxious about whether it's absorbed, has it washed off, those sorts of things. But generally, you know, once you've applied it, once it's dried, you know, leave it a good hour. I know they say four hours, right? Yeah. But most guys who've done that, you know, you don't want to be bothering your holiday with worrying about things like that. So, you know, again, if you were applying your cream early in the morning, actually, you know, once you, if you have a shower in the morning or whatever, or you apply your cream and you've been to breakfast and you sort of chilled if you are going around at the pool or whatever you're doing for holiday, obviously we're just, you know, referring to a beach holiday like this one. But the, you know, really, you know, by the time you're going to get in the pool, it's usually okay. Right. So one other tip that you should be aware of is when you're going through security, as it can be a bit unnerving for many of us, you know, especially when you're fiddling with your laptop and all the other stuff that you've brought with you on holiday. And then you also have your bag of your medications with you. And these are a few tips that Sam and I have come up with on going through security. So I just have the, and I know it's liquid in ampoules, but obviously I have my boxes and I have the doctor's letter also slid into one big plastic Ziploc bag. So it covers all bases. It's obviously in a plastic cover. I actually never take it out of the bag. You know, I know you're supposed to put it in the tray. I know it's supposed to be, obviously, if it's 100 mils and there's sort of maybe a question there, should I take it out? Obviously, it's a very small amount of liquid, but you may have multiple ones of them. So I just leave it in the bag. Doctor's letter's in there. If anyone wants to say, what's this? You know, you say, this is my medication. You've got a company doctor's letter. You're accompanying prescription labels on there. And I think the other thing it goes for, you know, if you're, people ask, you know, when they're coming out the other side, you know, do I go through something to declare or nothing to declare? It's always been nothing to declare. I've never had any issues. No other guys have, they've always done that. It's not something that's questionable. You do have your, you know, your medical travel letter. Everything's bagged. And then remember, as long as you've checked with that specific country, you know what's going on with regards to, do you have any specific requirements for that? And they may give you instructions otherwise, but I've never heard of anything different. No, especially in the UK as you come back. Yeah. I'm more than happy to go through. Yeah. Nothing to declare or back from the EU. Mm-hmm. So thanks again, Tim, for requesting this video. We enjoyed making this one. And if you have any other comments or any other ideas for the videos you'd like to see, please don't hesitate to leave your comments below. If you've not subscribed to the channel, it'd be very helpful if you would subscribe. And if you do like it, give us a like. If you don't like it, give us a don't like. And ring the notification bell for notifications on further content. So thank you. Thanks. Bye.