 N-byadibuzze, talk about what to expect at six weeks into your TRT journey. So six weeks after starting. So keep watching. And don't forget to like and subscribe. Oh, yeah. And the notification bell if you want more content. Okay, the music's already started. Oh, all right, sorry. Okay. So six weeks into starting TRT treatment. This is a time that I can remember barely because it's been so long ago. But for me, things kept moving along in the right direction. I was cracking on. I was feeling good. Colour television at that point? Yes, of course. Colour television and VCRs. Oh, really? DVD players. Walkman. No, actually, the internet was relatively new. Yeah. Electricity. Yeah. But no, in the first six weeks, in the way that my treatment was done, like I said earlier, it was, you know, every two weeks I was getting an injection. A couple of times I'd be cheeky and then back in the doctor's office because I felt it dip. And then he gave me another booster injection back to back, week to week. Okay. So that helped me along the way. Yeah. And I definitely noticed an improvement in some lean muscle mass. But for my story, I was already very fixated and focused on that being a young 22-year-old. You know, I was already eating healthily, what I thought was healthily. I was, you know, training. And, you know, overall, it, you know, it seemed to work. And so I did feel better. You know, for me, I felt a little bit of slight mood swings with the treatment. I don't think I ever told you that. But I felt a little bit more agitated and aggressive kind of around the six-week mark. So that would have been... You getting some weird injection protocols as well. Well, he was giving me 200, 250 milligrams of testosterone anathate with little B12 for good measure. And that's what he said. And then, you know, that was... I remember because I started the treatment sometime in November of 1996. So this had been shortly after Christmas. So maybe into the new year. And it was... So, yeah, so you're starting to... It was starting to... You're feeling something. To feel this. Yeah, so that's different to me. I mean, at the six-week mark, I was... I suppose I'd experienced some tiny snippets, some little insights into potentially what I was going to feel like, which was normal again. But it hadn't been for that period of time, you know, before, a quite long period of time. So it was in no way consistent for me yet. I, you know, I was doing, you know, injections every four days. And, yeah, it didn't... It didn't... I was expecting from, you know, what you see on the internet and things like that. And, you know, this is quite a long time ago now. But I was expecting, you know, big changes there. And, you know, like everyone was like, my bonos are awesome. And, you know, I'm shagging all the time. And I don't feel scared of anything. And I'm great. I've got all this energy. So I was a little bit disappointed, actually. So towards the six-week mark, I was like, this isn't working for me. You know, something's wrong here. So I suppose, actually, my anxiety about things went up a bit more, overanalyzing things in my brain, what it could be. And then, obviously, you have your six-week blood test, you know, point. And it showed things were on track. And I was told to leave things in as they were and just stay at that point and just being there for longer. Yeah, we can show the test if you like. Yeah. Yeah, if we want it, if we've got it. Okay. Yeah. So, you know, being there for longer at that point, actually following on from that, I started to feel more consistent in lots of different areas. And what I have feedback-wise is that, actually, this six-week point, you know, most people are still worried about, you know, erections and libido. And they're like, it's not happening consistently. Let's see, I'm expecting all these dramatic changes. But they do, quite a lot of people, and I wouldn't say everyone, lots of people at six weeks aren't really feeling much at all. But there are some people that, like me, felt some snippets, like, you know, occasional day of feeling, like, more energetic, a bit more talkative, more energy, you know, focused, brain fog lifting. But it would happen for a day, and then a day afterwards, you wouldn't feel as good. And then because you don't feel as good as you did the day before, you're like, oh, I did feel good, and now I don't feel good. You know, that might happen for a week, that might happen for a few days. I did feel good, now I don't feel good. There must be something wrong, you know. There's nothing wrong with my treatment. Yeah. I'm not getting in. So lots of people say to the doctor at six weeks, you know, you are, you know, that I'm not feeling good, or, you know, what else could I be doing here? Is there something wrong? I think it's a bit early at six weeks to change, because I've also seen the people in the role of supporting, seen them, if they stay the course, without making any dose adjustments with the doctor, they do get better. But, you know, it's an individual case. Well, that happened with me. So my dosage didn't change at six weeks. So I wasn't feeling good. There wasn't, okay, you need to change. I think that's important to note, there is real, you know, benefit to just having enough of these hormones for long enough, you know. And we can go into that in some other, there's some outliers where guys have been at a certain level for a long period of time before they've noticed it can take up to a year for some people, you know. And sometimes we've heard people report, and again, this hasn't happened for me personally, but, you know, through supporting our clients and patients, they say they feel like they've regressed a little bit. So like you said, some days they felt better than others. And so around the six-week time is when, is really the best time to have your bloods done. And when we have those blood levels, what we've seen quite often is an elevation of prolactin, which may be, but not always, the source or the cause of them not always feeling great. And it could also be the lowering of the LH and FSH, which is completely natural. You would expect to see lower LH and FSH between the six weeks and six-month period whilst being on TRT. So in those cases, you would have had this honeymoon period where your testosterone is more elevated, you've got your exogenous testosterone on top of your endogenous testosterone, and then as the signal starts slowing down from the feedback loop, you end up getting less of your own endogenous testosterone and it's just the exogenous testosterone doing heavy lifting. So you had your little bit before that wasn't enough for your body and then you've added in an outside source, the exogenous injection or cream, and then that's happened for a while. But then obviously with enough time of the body now detecting this outside source, this shuts off, and then you can be left with a lower level. So you've gone through more and then you've ended up with a little bit less afterwards, so you then maybe can take a dip. So maybe it's prolactin. You often see prolactin elevating at the start of therapy in a lot of people. And it also depends. A lot of people panic about it, don't they? Yes, yes. But some people at the start of treatment, even before, might be slightly higher. And that's why the doctor will ask on the forms, are you on SSRI? Do you have hypothyroidism? Are there any other medications that can elevate this? This is why you might be asked if you've had an ejaculation at the time of the blood test, if you were stressed. All these factors play a role in potentially elevating that prolactin level. Was there tests done in the morning? Because sometimes during the end of the day you're very stressed and you see this reaction to the prolactin level. So that all has to be taken into account. But there are studies that show that even being on testosterone treatment, when the pituitary axis switches off, I believe the lactotrophs just kind of freak out and release more of this prolactin. So it's a bit of a reaction. A reaction because an LH and FSH from it is being stimulated and supposedly this response happens. So you get a spike in prolactin. But most people, what they do is if they see that blood test, they panic. They Google high prolactin and then everyone goes, I've got a prolactinoma. I've got a pituitary tumour, which is really common for people to have. It's not going to be when it's slightly over the borderline. I think on the NHS test, the high end of the range is like 400, 420. On most of the commercially available tests, it's like 350 for UK ranges. And it's not until it starts getting into the 1,000 above range where the doctor may be concerned and request an MRI or even higher. But that would have already been determined usually before you start TRT treatment. Screened for that, aren't you? You would have been screened ahead of time. So, yeah. So, I mean, if you're on injections or creams, you're probably getting a handle on how to do those correctly. And if you're not, you can watch our video on how to do it. So, you can do that. And you might be feeling snippets of things. But the majority of men, again, that I've heard, are feeling something maybe, but a lot of them, not much at all. But there are definitely outliers. There are guys that by six weeks, they're like, yes, things are improving. You know, real, maybe not a lot of anxiety to start with. So, that's out the window in terms of worried about starting treatment. Maybe they've been on a type of treatment before that's similar. You know, then they get massive symptom resolution very quickly. And then it stays. And they feel normal again. And, you know, they're feeling optimal themselves. And they can start working on those things in their life that having normal testosterone, optimal testosterone, allows you to focus on. So, I mean, it can be life-changing even in the early days of six weeks. But, you know, there's more to come. And we can go further with the six-month, how you feel at six months. Because at that point is where you really see a lot of change in many people, but not everyone still. And there may be other outliers, like hypothyroidism could be a play, autoimmune disorder. There can be other things that are affecting you getting better on TRT. So it's not as easy as just, you know, going on TRT and expecting all the problems to go away. It's very complex. And this is why you should go to a specialist. And it could just be that just having the, you could have none of those other issues, but it could just be you need to be on TRT for a longer period of time to start noticing it. And that should be sort of advertised by people when that happens to them. But you're not going to go, if you get an improvement in erections and libido, you're going to go on to a forum and be like, yes, that's awesome. You know, I'm two to six weeks in and I'm noticing something. You're not going to really go on there and sort of go, yes, I'm really enjoying this long waiting time of me getting better. And, you know, you might do it retrospectively, but there are, you know, a few people that it can, you just have to be on it longer. It seems to just have the benefit of doing it. And I've spoken to a couple of guys that 11 months in, you know, everything was good and they were sticking at it. And then they suddenly just, things switched and the mental health changed and the energy changed and they got back to where they were before. So next videos, we'll do sort of 12 weeks to six months, that sort of period. So if you want to find out what to expect in TRT, 12 weeks to six months, join us for the next video. And don't forget to hit like, subscribe, and the notification bell because that allows you to get the latest notifications for when our next video is going out because we've been working really hard this year to make more videos and more content because we want to be able to reach out to our friends, client base, and just the general TRT community to let you know that here in the UK, we do offer American-style TRT with British and European sensibilities. Hope you like it. Hope you like these videos. You know, if you'd like to see more, press those buttons. Thanks. Thanks. Hope you like this.