 naringin, брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос брос Some of them have come from our Facebook group. And so we'd like for you to, if you can, subscribe and also put some comments for other content that you would like to see. So we'll start with George. George Tiliatos is a TRT specialist based in Greece and one of the directors of Balance My Hormones for Europe. And we're here to talk about a few interesting topics today. Hi, George. Hello, Michael. Have a good evening. So it's been a while since we were in Columbus, Ohio. We had our last show, which was the HRT in May. It was a pretty successful video. I think so. I think we had thousands of views on that one. 6,000, yeah. I was counting. And that was such a surreal time. It was right before the coronavirus. And, you know, we were in Columbus and had some freedom to mostly go about, even though most of the expo for the Arnold Classic was cancelled. It was the last column before the storm, you know. Exactly. But we had some fun, nonetheless. And now you're back in Greece and Athens. I'm back in the UK. So it's good to finally get back to doing some of this and offering content. And good to see you. So one of the first topics that we wanted to discuss was, you know, you have a background in bodybuilding. And bodybuilding is a peculiar sport. I mean, many young men get involved in bodybuilding, either for, you know, the pure competition for it. I'm not really sure. But they're drawn into it maybe for the look. So let's talk a little bit about your background in bodybuilding and then your evolution into helping men reduce harm as a doctor from the effects of either anabolic steroids or some of the negative parts of the lifestyle that go along with bodybuilding. So can you tell us a little bit about how you started with the bodybuilding and the interest and how it kind of moved into you wanting to help men reduce harm related to the more anabolic steroid abuse? Yeah. Yeah. So it started, as we mentioned in our first, very first video, I started as a competitive bodybuilder at age 26, right after I finished my obligations with medical school and I was practicing in the country as a general practitioner. And my career finished at right. I was ending my residency in 2013 at the age of 40. Okay. So, yes, I wanted to become the doctor of the bodybuilding community. And since I worked the talk, so I started experimenting with endogenic anabolic steroids right after med school. So I had some background, some scientific background. I was able to examine myself in the clinics, in the public clinics, hospitals I was working at. So since I could walk the talk and, of course, writing down my experiences as an author in Greece and later in the U.S., in books and online. Yes. So I wanted to become the doctor of the medical of the bodybuilding community. Now I have the shows, of course, with the MD. But you have to know that 99 or 100% of the bodybuilders face later the anabolic steroid-induced hypogonadase, which is a late onset hypogonadase. And all of them will eventually need some of the testosterone, either 100 or 200 milligrams. And most of them use 250. So one of my patients is a legendary FAB pro with 48 shows. And actually, he won one in 2012 in Spain now. This guy, he's A-50-year-old guy now. And he told me that he needs at least 250 a week. So, of course, this dose is super physiological because roughly at 200 milligrams you reach the levels, of course, according to your metabolism or to your BMI. But 200 milligrams are fair enough to reach 1,100 picograms, which is the highest dose in the States. Of course, according to your age. 1,100, you're talking nanograms per deciliter. Total deciliter. And that's usually measured on trough then, at the lowest point. And so, the thought of it would be higher when it peaks. Yes, yes, of course. Because when you inject, for instance, on Monday, then on Tuesday, Wednesday, it's going to spike. And on the weekend, it's going to be low. So shooting once a week has this kind of disadvantage and fluctuations. But it kicks your sex drive two days later. However, your free testosterone will be at the lowest level to one or two days before. Yes. Yes. So, bodybuilding, of course, is a multi-stack of other testosterone derivatives that obviously they deviate the standard labs, such as liver panel, kidney panel, heart panel, and cholesterol. You know, CBC also, homocysting, all these evaluations are messed up during steroid abuse. And of course, HRT and TRT is about optimization and physical mental health. It has nothing to do with super muscle gains, you know, and extreme performance enhancement. So what's the motivation for other younger people, I suppose, you saw when you're younger, to get into bodybuilding? And what is, is it more of a psychological desire to? Yeah, I think so. Bigorexia or some sort of reverse anorexia? Or is it a pure sport where it's the drive for competition to, you know, shape the body like a sculpture? Well, actually, it's all of them, but I believe, according to a study that was in Harvard, there is, how you say it? The muscle dysmorphia is the reverse of anorexia nervosa, but mainly is a loss of self-confidence when someone needs to build his self-esteem through the use of steroids for his own reasons, because he's not so good looking or perhaps he's no other directions to educate himself. But anyway, he wants to improve his sexual performance. He wants to improve his personal relationship, even his performance at work, you know, to become more attractive and have more self-confidence. But also, it's a matter of competing in sports. But of course, as Rick Olin said, 90% of the majority of anabolic androgenic steroid users are not athletes, because those agents are banned from sports, you know, IOC and WADA-USADA. So, the majority of them are people, recreational users who want to improve their lifestyle and for their ego and self-esteem, you know, issues. So, these are the recreational bodybuilders, the weekend warriors? Yes, the average gym rat guy, you know, who faces the gym five times a week, you know, wants to socialize and have a better sex drive, you know, and be more attractive to his girlfriend or to the other sex. So, could it be, when you say they want to have a better sex drive, that maybe there's some deficiency in the first place? Maybe it's not just psychological, but perhaps there is a linkage. If these young men, you know, had tested their levels before they started taking anabolic steroids, then perhaps we would have a different picture to say, well, maybe these are the men who aren't being treated by the medical community. Do you think there's some validity in that? Yeah, well, we have to know that abusing steroids does not always lead to beta sex drive because there are other hormones that fluctuate, such as estradiol, folactin, you know, and these play also an important role in sex drive, and SHBG also plays a role. Of course, if you abuse several grams of testosterone, generally androgens will crash on SHBG and will liberate more of free testosterone. But also, there comes to play other factors such as IGF-1, prolactin, DHT levels, and estradiol that affects perhaps gynecomastia or libido issues. So, after a while, there is the need for HGG in order to keep your own production. Okay, so there are some bodybuilders that complain of poor sex drive even though they are blasting two grams of testosterone, and then you have to use some HGG for your own production, you know, and better semen production, you know. So, it's multifactorial. It doesn't mean that you are using a lot of gear. Of course, Trembolone and Nandrolone, the 9-0-0 derivatives, suppress the natural production, you know, and it's multifactorial. Do you think that Trembolone and Nandrolone are some of the contributing factors for the diminishment in sex drive for some men? Or have you heard of those helping, you know, men have even better sex drives? Because I've heard of people having mixed messages. However, from the trend, one is always, it's never prescribed, and two, you don't know what you're getting. So, I suppose the question is, when you go outside, when we're talking about anabolic steroids, we're not talking about natural TRT to social replacement. The dosages and the drugs are vastly different. Is that right? Yes. Actually, when you're using Nandrolone, the derivative of it, which is Trembolone, the ratio between testosterone and Nandrolone should be 2-1. So, if you use 1-1 like the other drugs, DHT derivatives and other steroids, then you may have experienced an issue with sex drive. Of course, the natural production of testosterone is completely shut off from day one because of testosterone use, okay? But still, we need more elevated testosterone, the androgen part, to be higher than the anabolic part, okay? And especially with those two drugs. So, George, tell me, when you're doing the anabolic steroid harm reduction program, what does that normally consist of with a patient? I mean, what sort of techniques do you apply or recommendations do you make in general for one who's... So, yes, the most important and significant system is the cardiovascular, because frankly, you die in a heartbeat with an acute myocardial infection or a cerebral stroke. So, we have to take care of certain parameters, such as homocysteine that predicts stroke and also heart issues. So, homocysteine is a compound that elevates with anabolic steroids, with also smoking, and it has to be below 10, so single digits, at least before the steroid cycle and after, of course, it's elevated. We have homocysteine and then we have to lower it. Also, the lipid panel, that consists of the lipoprotein fractions of high-density and low-density lipoproteins, known on others, the good cholesterol HGL and the bicholesterol LDL, through glycerides, total cholesterol, and some genetic factors, such as LPA lipoprotein A, apolipoprotein A, APOA, and apolipoprotein B, APOB. So, all this panel is in regards to the cardiovascular, but also a CBC where we calculate and we measure the hemoglobin and the percentage of the hematocytes, but also thrombocytes, prelural for thrombosis, you know, and coagulation, blood viscosity. So, this is also a part of the CBC, you know. The C-reactive protein also may reveal some inflammation in the endothelium variettes, you know, and especially the high-sensitive C-reactive protein. So, this is the cardiovascular panel. Now, then, we have the lipid panel, the, I'm sorry, the liver panel, that consists of the liver enzymes ALT and AST or SGOT, SGOPT, and also the cholestatic enzymes, the GGT and the ALP alkaline phosphatase, and also the bilirubin, the total and the indirect bilirubin, okay. And then we have also the renal panel, which consists of urea, creatinine, uric acid, potassium, and also glomerulofitracian rate, which is a formal, actually. The GFR, is that right? GFR, yes. And we also measure the clearance of the creatinine in 24 urine collection. In case GFR is low, you know, below 60, for instance. That is also related to serum creatinine. The creatinine also elevates by BMI. The more muscle you have, the more creatinine it possesses in the muscle. That metabolizes to creatinine, you know. That's why huge guys of BMI is over 30, for instance, 2 meters tall and 150 kilograms. They have a highest range of creatinine to 1.5 in regards to other people who are of smaller size than it's 1.2, for instance. But doesn't that throw off the eGFR calculation when they take into account urea and creatinine? I mean, is there a special way to look at the bodybuilder who has more muscle? Yes, of course. Yes. So more muscle means higher creatinine, okay? And more abdomiolysis, more CPK, means also higher creatinine because the more muscle you have, the higher the CPK, and the excreted hemoglobin for the muscles is more toxic to the kidneys, you know. But would the eGFR measure, for someone who has that high amount of musculature, actually, with the thresholds that are set to say, oh, you might have degrading function of your kidneys, would that actually apply to someone who's more muscly than the average person? Yes. It isn't so accurate in a huge guy, in a bodybuilder, so you have to measure the 24-hour urine creatinine clearance, collecting your urine in a bottle for one day, 24 hours, and they measure the clearance of that. Of course, along with kidney function, also blood pressure comes into relations because kidneys regulate blood pressure, and if you're using drugs that elevate blood pressure, such as Trembluron or CNS stimulants, actually, all these steroids elevate blood pressure through Adolcerin, but especially Trembluron does, and when it's through the Iranian angiotensin system, and when blood pressure rises, then the glomerulus becomes harder. We have the hardening glomerulosclerosis in the kidney, and then that's why Trembluron affects the kidneys through the elevation of the blood pressure, the systemic blood pressure. So I read a paper the other day about a case study of a young bodybuilder who was admitted to hospital with various issues, pain in his abdomen, and he was scanned by his ultrasound by his GP and couldn't find anything but was admitted to hospital. Well, it turns out he had further scans done, further testing done. He showed he had kidney damage, eventually liver damage, and as it turns out, the substances he was taking were laced with arsenic, was responsible for his death, so it's really poison. Arsenic is a heavy metal that was used as a poison. Yeah, but I guess the point is, the substances people are taking, obviously, they can't go to a doctor and say, hey, I'm a bodybuilder, can you help me with a hormone treatment? Obviously, that's something that would be considered doping and that doesn't happen. It's unethical, yes. Yeah, so they're forced to go on to the black market. So just by the very nature of the system, some of these poor people are put in harm's way because their overriding desire or their overriding condition of either bigorexia or desire to go in that direction leads them down a dark path of getting very much tainted poisons, essentially. Testosterone that in and of itself isn't bad, it's what it's been tainted with, some sort of heavy metal. There are some underground materials, as Bill Welling also said, that they contain heavy metals inside. They're also contaminated. And about the doctor community, the medical community, it's prodigious and suspicious about the steroids because we bodybuilders gave it a bad name to the abuse. And testosterone is not a villain. Testosterone is a drug that is not replaceable under hypogonics. For instance, clandifortis syndrome, which is primary hemoglobin, you are born like this. So you need testosterone for life. But testosterone, it's blamed because of its abuse. And actually, it's a familiar hormone. It's not a synthetic derivative that's supposed to be toxic. So yes, another reason is because the medical community does not train at all. Does not have any connection with physical activity. So they are totally clueless about what the benefits of in performance enhancing effects of steroids. So they have this kind of darkness. They do not know about anything of the benefits in self-esteem or even in physical appearance or in body composition. So how many people would you estimate that end up going down that route may have actually had a kind of pre-existing hypogonadism and didn't even realize it. It almost as if in nature they sort out... You're talking about bodybuilders? Yeah, bodybuilders. I mean, could it be... I mean, I've always had this thought that, you know, someone goes into the gym, they see their mate making loads of muscle gains and their mates may actually be completely natural because they're genetically gifted. They're not getting to the same point. So therefore, they seek out these substances to kind of level the playing field. But in reality, perhaps they were deficient in the first place. Are we to completely beat them up over that decision? Or I mean, what is the... I mean, what can we do to kind of... I suppose help these young people get back to level of normality? I mean, what's your recommendation? Well, when somebody wants to become jacked, you know, and veiny and have the six pack, it's obvious that no matter what is your normal testosterone, your own production of testosterone, even if it's 900 over 1,000, it still is not enough to make those muscles. It's just about sex drive. Okay? So I remember one of my patients now who's an amateur bodybuilder, he's into cycles. The very first time we met, 2015, five years ago, he had a super hot girlfriend and he was very sexually active with her and he thought that the testosterone was 950. But still, this was not enough for him to build this exceptional body that he was dreaming of. After he was blasting steroids, then his own production started to diminish, you know, and after PCD protocols, he couldn't satisfy his next girlfriend. So, I mean, it's not enough your own testosterone to build this body that you are dreaming of. It's just about having self-esteem, a good health, and a good sex drive. But, making this kind of body with extra muscle and low body fat, then it's required for external androgen supply that later will lead to primary, after secondary, and latent set, hypergonadines, which is a combination of primary, secondary, this is what I had also after 15 years of on-offing cycles. And after seven months, I couldn't recover. And I remember, in particular, I was waiting for 30 weeks and my total testosterone was about 150. And then I realized it was inevitable to, I mean, I couldn't wait for another six-month period, you know? So, yes, I started using testosterone, but of course, this has nothing to do with the grams I was abusing, two grams a week, for instance, in my prime and in my peak. It's about physical and mental, mental and physical health and optimization. It's not about the silver bullet you're transforming, you know? But in case you're hypogonadal, then you're gonna feel a substantial improvement in your levels, okay? And going from 200 to 800 is a major difference, you know? So, part of the program for anabolic steroid reduction is really to help men who, I suppose, hang up the towel on their thoughts of bodybuilding in the way that they did it before. After doing multiple cycles, they're looking for a route to being, I guess, healthy again. And so, you're saying, after so many cycles, after so much PCT, they can't get their levels back to normal. So, the only healthy route is then to do TRT. Yes. Yes. And that's one way to help them to do it safely. Actually, some doctors believe that PCT is a waste of time, you know? But, you know, frankly, PCT is a good refractory period between the two cycles. So, in order to satisfy your girlfriend to have a decent recovery at the gym, you know, and not to crash as hypogonadal. So, it lifts your own production. The point is, we're not sure if it's going to stay there. So, if PCT is going to work. It's supposed to be HG and SIRM's combination. And, of course, time is a healer. But, you're not sure that it's going to take up to the levels that you initially started before abusing. Do you think because the body gets spoiled on a higher level whilst they're on injectable or topical testosterone, usually they're injectable, I believe. I believe after our age we decline. So, after 35 or 40 as we approach to underpose the natural endogenous testosterone production shuts off. But, of course, after repeated abuse of steroids, then there is not only saturation of the androgen receptors, but there is gradual hybogonadism that takes place with the shrinkage of the testicles, but also the hypo, the hypoopsin, the hypothalamus cannot kick. Do you think it's because you actually get more androgen receptors from the continuous use? Yes. Also, another reason, yes, a major factor for HPTA suppression is the androgenicity of the particular steroid. So, Trembolone, Halotesting, and testosterone itself that are high androgen, that are considered as high androgens, they suppress because they bind tightly to the androgen receptor in the brain and this is a factor for suppression. Other factors are estrogen production that are negative feedback for GNRH and LH production. Also, prolactin like 19-0, Deca, and Tren. All right? Of course, time abuse and dose abuse. So, all these factors come into play. What have you seen as far as the effects of testosterone causing these elevations in prolactin in men? What's the percentage of men that you could say you've seen the effects of testosterone? Do you think it's just related to the exogenous androgens raising the prolactin? I mean, what do you think are the factors? Reasons to have high prolactin are also use of opiates, marijuana, excessive stress and insomnia, hypothyroidism, also, not just about using Deca or Tren. By the way, it's more favorable for prolactin to elevate when it's also already in estrogenic environment. So, it's multifactorial. And, as a matter of fact, prolactinemia leads to, I mean, primitive ejaculation is treated with SSRIs that lead to prolactinemia. So, with elevated prolactin, you cannot have, you know, you have an orgasmia which is, you cannot finish, you cannot ejaculate. Ejaculate because of the high prolactin, yeah. So, what are the treatments then normally? Coburgolum? Coburgolum, which is a dopamine agonist or bromocryptine. Okay. Okay. To lower... You prefer one over the other? Sorry? You prefer one type over the other? Yes, I prefer Dorstenix which is cobergolum brioz bromocryptine has a plethora of side effects. You know, Parladel is bromocryptine. So, Dorstenix comes in half milligram and one milligram tablets. So, yes, you choose a low dose. You can cut it in half either so you get a quarter of a milligram. So, you can manage the dose. All right. So, any other recommendations you have for men that are seeking advice from reducing harm related to anabolic steroids. I mean, what could they look for? They have to use some auxiliary supplements as precautions, you know, for the lipid panel. So, instead of statins that I do not recommend within the cycle because statins are also they are hepatotoxic. They also induce rhabdomyolysis which is also a fact under heavy training that also are the myeltsis further affects the liver and strains the liver and also the kidneys. So, I tell them to use red-bite yeast that acts as a phytosterol without the nasty side effects. Bergamot, polycosinol, phytosterols that are phytoestrogens, essential fatty acids and krill oil, niacin also for the HDL. eat plenty of essential fatty acids from flaxseed, from peanut butter, from macadamia oil, you know, olive oil, avoid trans fat, avoid saturated fats, mainly with simple sugars. So, follow a pure Mediterranean diet, hydrate in low sodium water and you can take some glutathione injectable or NAC along with some glutamine, some milk thistle for the liver, you know, alpha-lipoic acid also is a protein antioxidant. You can also deny it before starting the cycle in order to get rid of the extra blood, you know, and also take precautiously one milligram of, I'm sorry, 80 milligrams one baby aspirin in case your CBC is elevated, so over 18 or 54% hematocrit all right. Pendoxyphilin also might help circulation, okay, in case your hemoglobin is elevated. Check out your blood pressure, okay, stop using exogenous salt, you know, table salt and sodium. Yes, these are factors in order to lower the harm, you know, and preserve health and longevity. Okay, sounds like a good plan. All right, well, so that's the topic, anabolic steroid reduction, sorry, that's the topic, anabolic steroid harm reduction with Dr. George, one of the services he offers to patients that are interested. Thanks again for coming on to another episode of Dr. Tudiatos' question time with balance my hormones. So, thanks again for watching. Press like if you like the video and please subscribe to the channel and we hope to see you next time. Thank you.