 Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Marketing and science often look the same on the surface, but they're not. And as people get older and they make more money, they have more interest in not tying. So it doesn't surprise me that there's a lot of these systems being set up to capitalize on that field. What about the biohackers in this particular breakfast? I know in the area of longevity medicine, different areas like senolytics or one of the first areas of longevity medicine was caloric restriction. But who wants to eat hardly anything and always be in a calorie deficit? Does that make life worth living? Will there be other memetics that could do some of the same things? Let's talk about, you know, how the metformin and the mTOR pathway, you've got friday-erabamycin as an approach. So you've got senolytics, you've got, you know, blocking the mTOR. What about telomeres? This was talked about back in the 1990s and there's another approach. So there are, for those who don't know, the telomeres on the end of your chromosomes, the caps at the end of your shoelaces. And as we age, these telomeres get shorter. And these shorter telomeres may affect your quality of life and your health. So they're having a couple of studies. And there's a company called telomere, T-E-L-E-O-M-I-R. Not how it's always spelled. But that's this particular company. But we see companies in the past that have started like Buranos. They're promising you can do a blood test with this or a drop of blood. And that turned out to be a complete scam. So how do we distill down, you know, and debunk some of the myths? And how do we know what was real? Which is the path this is taking? Because all of us, you know, many of us will want to do the work. But how sustainable is it every day? And is there something? Is there a strategy that can really, you know, bring it home so that we would do X, Y, and Z? And now we've got this healthy living into our, you know, hundreds, almost like sci-fi. I know what do you guys think? What's the latest and greatest out there? And what do you think is the best strategy for going about healthy aging and longevity? I think it's about not being insulin resistant and then having optimal hormones to offset the effects of stress. I think that's a good foundation to start with. I'm sure everyone will speak on some different things that can be done. But I think that's the most important foundation to get all of this to work. You know, obviously there's the, you know, what you do with, you know, 24 hours a day, seven days a week for years. You know, it's about the day-to-day eating, the exercise, all that kind of stuff is. Goes without saying because you can't out buy a hat treat. You're a bad diet. But I think on top of that, one of the most interesting areas to look at is optimizing all your hormones and then making sure you don't have this underlying systemic inflammation, which would prevent those hormones from working properly. And what we're doing with optimizing all hormones to the body. So when I say all hormones, the man, I'm talking about things like testosterone, but also things like frangent alone, DHEA, thyroid, melatonin, growth hormone altogether. Creating this optimal hormone environment, what these all do in synergy is they pull the marionette strength at the top of the systems in the body in terms of impacting how everything's going to regulate tau strain. And one of the most important roles of all of these hormones, and we're kind of thinking about a Venn diagram, you know, where all the cerebrals cross over in the center, one thing that they all do that's really important is they offset the effects of cortisol and stress and they're anti-catabolic. So this is essentially preventing what's driving the underlying diseases of aging, which is chronic inflammation and catabolism, where the body starts to break down and age, which is really what it's doing, rather than heal and thrive and regenerate. So I think one of the best things that people can do is maintain healthy insulin sensitivity, because insulin resistance is often driving the fires, the fuels, the fire that's causing these diseases of aging for pathing. And then as we get older, maintaining the body's resilience to remaining robust or remaining healthy, which is having optimal levels of all of these hormones. And I think that testosterone is often the hormone that brings people into this. It's like the gateway drug of HRT. But testosterone is very important for men. You know, it's a sexty molecule. Speaking of sexty-wapaloo, sexty molecule. It's something that works extremely well in a man's body to maintain these life force. But when we're looking at these other hormones, things like thyroid, genelone, DHEA, nootone especially, what these are doing is reducing a whole lot of the immunitaries that is in the body, allowing the body to be in a state where it's more able to regenerate and thrive, and ultimately allow people to have the healthiest immune systems, the healthiest glomerular density, the greatest ability to synthesize protein and do muscle, and all of these factors to prevent neurodegeneration, cancer, cardiovascular disease, is from having these optimal hormone levels. So the older you are, especially if you're deficient in testosterone, the more likely it's going to be the other hormones are going to start to decline as well. So it's very important that we're not just looking at one hormone, but we're looking at the entire cascade, and then how the hormones are supportive and facilitated through a healthy body, unpinned by diet master. I think they put it right on that one of the big things that we lose as we age in our immune system, there's not going to be one, it's not going to be stopping telomerase, it's not going to be, it's not going to be always turning off mTOR, there's not going to be one solution to aging. We're going to have to look at all these different pathways that are being infected. But if you bring it all down to sort of one thing, it really is the failure of our immune systems that actually ends up killing us. If our immune systems fail, we can't, there's natural filler cells that attack cancer, and that's one of our primary ways to stop cancers from growing. We have cancers growing all the time. If our immune systems are failing, we can't stop that. The number one reason older people die is things like COVID is their immune systems have failed. Young people don't die of COVID, older people do. Why is that? Because your immune system failed. So if you kind of put it all into where am I going to focus first, if I'm going to really stop aging, I'm going to have to focus on keeping my immune system healthy. And you're right. You can't do that without alcohol. It's one of the reasons women get autoimmune diseases early on. Men don't get until they're later. Lots of times it's because we don't have as much testosterone. So testosterone is very key to immune systems. So it's progesterone in both men and women. So you really have to optimize the hormones to keep the immune system healthy. But you're going to have to do a lot of other things as well. Because the immune system is, despite your, keeping your hormones optimal, despite doing all that, we are getting our immune systems attacked all the time. And unfortunately, COVID was a huge blow to us and our immune systems across the board. And all of us, whether you got vaccinated, didn't get vaccinated, got COVID, didn't, you know, most of us had COVID, we all sort of hit to our immune systems. So we're going to have to really sort of focus on how do we bring that back. And I do think that's where we're going. We have to start looking at other things that we can bring into play. And that's where I think sometimes if I, when you're boring of this giant gland in your chest, it's called a thymus gland. It's huge. So babies have this, this developing immune system at puberty that your immune system is best. The instant fail actually at puberty. Because your immune, your thymus gland starts to shrink. So now you have this little tiny nub of a thymus gland that's not doing anything. By the time you're old like me, you have no thymus gland working at all. So your thymus gland is producing one of the main things that tells your T cells what to do to go fight out all this bad stuff you're supposed to and you don't have them. You're not going to replace that by taking testosterone or taking growth hormone or any of those things. But can I do things to help my thymus gland? Yeah, because I can give back, for instance, the peptides that thymus gland makes. Thymus gland makes something called thymus alpha-1, thymus beta-4. It backs in these peptides, thymus, and it backs in these peptides to replace what my immune systems and phalens do. So I do think there's going to be a place for things when these peptides are useful. It also is where things like rapamycin. So rapamycin is, if you look at mTOR, it stands for mammaly torgative rapamycin. Rapamycin binds to that. It blocks mTOR. When you turn off mTOR, you basically facilitate longevity. But if you don't want to turn off mTOR all the time, if you have no mTOR, you're not going to have any muscles. Everybody here has got big muscles. You need mTOR for muscles. So you've got to turn it off and on. So basically, by using rapamycin, I can turn up mTOR, turn it back down. When I do that, I actually stimulate my immune function. So by turning things up and down, it's my fasting and refeeding. It's really important. I think we have to serve. I don't think we're going to get there with just hormones or living in blood. Like if we are going to really want to look at optimal longevity, as we have focused on our immune system, I think we are going to have to look at some of these things that are coming up. I don't think we can. And it's not going to be one thing. It's not going to be one answer. It's going to be a combination of all of these. But I think we're going to have to be a little more progressive in our thoughts that we can't do it all, just the things we know right now. And we have to keep an eye open. It's one of our, our clinic, one of our passions, is actually exploring new things that are coming up and, and new ingredients and new supplements and new peptides that are coming up so we can actually do this. But it's going to be using a combination of things. And I don't think we can do it with just sort of saying, okay, keep everything, you know, keep everything stable with hormones. You're probably not going to do it. So I think we're going to have to keep our minds open to where, where we can go with some of these biohats. That sounds good. It actually reminded me of this. You heard of the TRIM trial. Yeah. So the TRIM trial, they use a combination of growth hormone, metformin, I think some other goodies like DHEA, and every vitamin D3 and, and some zinc. And in that the whole thought about it was, how do we rejuvenate the thymus gland, just like you had mentioned? And they found that even a year of hormone therapy had helped rejuvenate the thymus gland. So more to your point that that will be a good start. But then there's been some recent studies about IL-11, you know, a hinge of inflammation. How do we, do we create a monoclonal antibody to quell the IL-11 in the body? I guess it was too soon to know, but that's something that's on the horizon. So. Yeah, same title of interest. So agreed. I think inflammation is probably one of the biggest drivers of aging and all diseases for that matter, and certainly improving insulin sensitivity, reducing inflammation are key to that. And so I agree. When it all comes down to metabolism, having an optimal metabolism, our body wants to grow and heal without, kind of like a, think of it like a car. You want it to take the fuel, make the engine go without all the bad exhaust. The bad exhaust is the inflammatory products of reactive oxygen species. So we want the metabolisms running smoothly. So the size of immunometabolism is what, that's what's your list of, the immune system and how that relates to the metabolism. I think we're all learning how intricately it's related to that. So two of the big things that, again, I think are, we've heard a lot in the last number of years, but we're still learning is the microbiome and this immune, immunometabolism. So immunometabolism is a whole topic in and of itself. But again, like Betsy was saying, that's improving our immune system. And again, it comes down to treating at the cellular level, giving it what it needs, taking away what it doesn't like. And again, that's consistency with your diet, with nutrition, with sleep, all the things we've been talking about, you know, gut health, microbiome, we're wearing more every day, what we don't know, right? But massively important. There's a lot of things you can do where everything kind of starts in the gut, right? So you can actually manipulate your hormones, your reclamatory markers from the gut, different things you can do. You know, people might mention about fasting. I mean, some people love it, some people hate it, but you don't even have to. If you eat a certain way, you can actually prime your gut to make more certain bacteria and more products to get kind of an, it's called an amplified fast. So you don't have to fast that long and still get all the benefits the next day, simply by feeding the gut what it needs to make these things like bifidobacteria and acromancy, all these different micro-bombs. A lot of things that we have in our body comes from the bacteria in our gut. So by optimizing our gut health, reducing inflammation in the gut, getting the right bacteria grown, we can actually change a lot of these inflammatory pathways, change a lot of these form of peptides that are made in our body. I mean, we make our own GLP-1. You know, people talk about the Ozympics and the Majora's, but et cetera. But we make a lot of these things in our gut. So optimizing our gut health is number one. And one of the more important things, along with the immune metabolism, getting our immune system back on track. And again, like everybody said, I agree, hormone optimization was key. Diet, lifestyle, sleep, reducing stress, massively important. You know, we talk about that every day. You know, we live in a very stressful environment. You know, again, this artificial world, the toxins we're exposed to, it's beating us down. And so resistance is getting worse with all the food, the crappy food out there, right? So it's about getting our immune system in sync. And then yes, we can get into, you know, bioregulators and peptide therapies to augment what we're missing. But I think if we can improve that immune system function and then get our gut health in line, I think a lot, a lot of people have been learning more and more of it about gut health and reducing and inflating to our process and getting things in line, that can go a long, long way. And again, there's no, there's no one thing. Like we, everybody said, I agree. It's a multiple process. It's about consistency, doing the same thing every day with your health. But on the flip side, there's going to be some rotation too, right? You don't want to take X peptide every day of the year. You can rotate it out. There's some, you can do that. And there's some, you want to rotate on, rotate off. Or most of the most people you're on it, right? Diets. Some people like to be the same thing, but sometimes again, like I was talking about earlier, if you vary your diet in a very strategic way, you can optimize your gut microbiome to do certain things for you. So there are some things you're going to want to rotate and mix in. So keep your body sharp, keep it guessing. Our body needs to be challenged, but challenged in the right way. So a lot of us don't challenge our bodies enough with, with the right kind of stress, you know, with the right kind of hormetic environments. But a lot of us get too much stress, right? We're not eating, right? We're in an artificial inflammatory environment all day long. We need to cut that out. So it's a big process, but it's a, it's multiple, multiple steps. We know that insomnia makes it more vulnerable to infections. And this is the fact that it disrupts cortisol, of course, it was responsible for stimulating the immune system. Another thing is that growth hormone can proliferase a T in the beta cells from the famous one. So growth hormone plays the role of immunity. And it's funny how I haven't been infected from COVID so far. So I've been following HRT for the past 10 years. I've been taking every single antioxidant. On a daily basis all year round. And I've been watching my diet to lower the trance, to lower the refined sugars, to increase the omega-3. So I follow basically a low carb Mediterranean diet. I watch out my sleep, as I said, from 11 to 7. And the testosterone plays a fundamental role in the immunity because it was proven in 2021 that many with low testosterone in the ICU have less chance of survival because as you all have brought testosterone, you develop visceral fat that releases inflammatory side of the veins, TNF, and interlaping 6. So you're going to do a minute and enter the ICU have more chance of surviving through COVID. Basically, you're more fit with higher testosterone. You have less visceral fat that creates the, that is, which is the strong, but also the inflammatory cerebrans. So I believe the, part of the, of the immunity, but also the inflammation is multifactorial based on sleep, diets, supplementation, HRT, and exercise. What we're really, all of you is that, you know, it's multifactorial. The different factors that are involved in improving longevity and, and, and health. And one of the points that you made, Eric, was about the gut health. And, an area that I've looked into is an area called cytobiophase, which is a certain, improving microbiome through kind of a probiotic that you can put in yogurt that will enhance certain neurotransmitters, help with longevity and reduce inflammation. I don't know if you guys have seen some of the papers on, on those. One, one area of fault is, you know, can we improve dopamine or serotonin through the gut? You know, this is mind, gut mind connection. So I thought it was very interesting. And in George, what you had talked about, you know, reducing the inflammation on, on sleep, if you know, through proper sleep, it almost, almost reminds me, I don't know if anyone has, has followed that at Ryan Johnson, he's got quite a program. And there's a tool that you can measure your age. Have you guys used that in practice? Like there's a true age and there's different, let me know what you guys think about that. I, I did this true age test in part of it. I liked it and part of it I didn't like. It uses a combination of metabol, a metabolomics they call genomics and other kind of hormones. I don't know how they do it. They do from like your drop blood. So I, that goes on the card. One of the things to say about me, I don't know if you guys have measured yours. I had age, a race of 80 and 0.8. So I'm quite, quite happy with that. But there was some, maybe past damage or, you know, past years not living as healthily, that they didn't look as good as well. But what, what do you guys think about the role of these measures, these tools to measure aging? Do you think it's kind of premature? Is it, is it ready for crime time or what do you guys think? We actually are doing a study right now, actually where we're measuring, we're doing a true age test three times a day on, on people. And that this, the early data shows that three times a day, you would come out with 10 year difference between the tests. I think they're a very little value. They're based on some very flawed science. And unfortunately, a lot of us are all basing a lot of things. I don't think right now, we have a great way. The problem with looking at, so a lot is looking at methylation markers. We're looking at aging. And that's based on actually a premise that now has been, has been disproven. So I think that unfortunately that's an expensive test. That's probably not worth your time. I don't think right now we have a good test. There's a company right now called Generations. It's coming up with a very interesting test. It's actually looking at some biomarkers that for each organ system that shows pathology of each organ system. That's a little more interesting. So we're, we're doing some work with them too. We'll see what that, that pans out. I don't know if we have a great tool for measuring aging. And that's unfortunate because it'd be great to be able to do a test and, and know, you know, and know exactly that what we're doing is working. I don't think you can trust a lot of these tests right now or, you know, or these age Olympics that people are doing. I think it's worthless. There's also some interesting theories that, you know, if you should, my age markers look the same as when they were 20. I should not be the same as when I was 20. I should actually have changed. I shouldn't have matured. I should have, that's how I've adapted to life. Should our cells do the same thing? If at 60, my age markers look like a 20 year old, are my cells actually not adapting appropriately? Have I done something to make them not adapt appropriately? Because our cells should be adapting to the stressors that have been put on them so that I can respond, learn, and move on and live a long time. I think it will, we will eventually come up with a good age marker right now. I think you can look at a lot of simple parameters. You can look at things like a neutrophils and nemocyte ratio and your simple laughs. You can look at, you can look at your APO B to APO A ratio. You can look at, at your means of all you, there's a lot of really simple things that will tell you whether you're dictating, you know, where you're improving your health without having to spend $800 on these, these age testing that is really not, are not handing out probably appropriate. I'll keep you posted as soon as we finish this study. But the early GATT was very dismayed. I couldn't agree more with that. I'm so glad you brought up the methylation stuff, B, the bunch. It's my ears. Yeah, this stuff all sounds great, but exactly as I was just said, marketing and science often look the same on the surface, but they're not. And as people get older and they make more money, they have more interest in not tying. So it doesn't surprise me that there's a lot of these systems being set up to capitalize on that fear because fear is a very effective way to get someone to do something. It hijacks the brain, it activates the amygdala, it shuts down the prefrontal cortex. So if you can sell fear, you can create impulse purchases that are very expensive. And I think a lot of people fall for this stuff because they're wanting to get some kind of objective, quantifiable hope that they're not going to untimely demise, which is understanding. So one thing that I encourage people to do, you know, and I think everyone has different opinions on this. I think the wearables and the tracking and data can be really cool for a lot of stuff, but I also don't think you need to track every metric of every hour of every day. If you're a recreational athlete, you'll think this is a hobby. I think that can lead to more neuroticism and anxiety than it solves. I think people sleep well, they know they're tracking their sleep. I think everyone knows that. And so I think that you getting these data points can be really useful for a birth, for a period to be like, okay, you know, for a week I'm going to run all this stuff. Or if you're trying to solve something specifically, that's where this data can be really helpful. But I think people should be conscious of, you know, just listening to everybody and getting good proper feedback on what they're doing and on these things. And if people are wanting to, you know, you get into like, you know, whatever age you're interested in longevity, there's a whole bunch of really useful evidence-based tests that you can do. You know, I see people fretting all the time about, you know, what could my lipids mean? What does this lipid mean? Does this lipid panel mean you have a heart attack? Just get it scanned. You know, get scans done, get comprehensive blood work done, get a proper workup done. And you'll be able to see if there's things going on just with things like scans, MRIs, blood work, you can find out something really, really early that you can treat a result before it becomes a huge problem. And, you know, one comment that I made in the US speech I gave you last year was that you should check your blood work more often than you sew it to your car. So I'm not a car rester, but you should probably get a minor sewage on that thing, like at least every six to 12 months. And I think the same should be said with your blood is if you start measuring data. Now, if you start getting everything checked and if you look for these things, there are ways that we can pick these things up, understand different mechanisms of aging that are evidence-based, that are affordable, that have been around a long time. They're not just these new gadget gizmos, which cost $2,000. We don't have any peer reviewed evidence-based support. Yeah. Let me quickly comment on, cause I love your scanning thing. So it's all scary about cholesterol. And you know, I'm a big advocate that cholesterol is a good thing, not a bad thing. You don't want a little cholesterol that's actually a bad thing. It's a marker of health. You want good, high healthy cholesterol levels, but you want the right type of cholesterol. But even in people who have really bad markers, we actually do have really good abilities to scan. I have people who look horrible on their lipid profiles. And I do what's called a clearly scan, which is a very cool new AI technology that allows you to see, those of you who are getting calcium scores, they mean nothing. Calcified plaque is not dangerous plaque. It's C. It's once the plaque's calcified, it doesn't move. It doesn't migrate to a little artery because of stroke. So you really want to find a soft plaque. And soft plaque, you can't find on a coronary calcetan score. You can get it on a coronary angiogram, but you can now use an AI technology to actually look for what type of plaque it is and how dangerous it is. Because I have people who, you know, their dots have recommended all sorts of medications because their lipids look so bad. And when you scan them, they have zero soft plaque. There's no concerns. So we have the ability to get the data and decide what we need to treat. And you're exactly right with that. So many abilities to scan these things and look at them with really good, well-established tests. And the clearly scan, for you guys that don't know about it, it's a really cool test because you can totally quantify your cardiac risk. And so if your doctor says, you've got to understand the before and get a clitoral scan. And if it looks great, you have zero soft plaque, you do not need to be treating this. What are your thoughts on the PCSK9 inhibitors over the statins? I'm going to be found PCSK9 inhibitors, I think. So what about the cardiologist? I don't know if you can get that. You turn the soft plaque to a hard plaque that is not detached through the static. This is the main point. I think there's better drugs. PCSK9 inhibitors. Different, but nobody... It's very expensive. We know. It's very expensive. That needs to be prescribed, of course. Yeah, PCSK9 inhibitors or low-dose colchicine, however, is not expensive. And we'll do the same thing. You can merge soft plaque to hard plaque. And you're exactly right, George, that your bolus actually could raise the coronary calcium support because it's becoming a safer plaque. And that's what statins are working with. They're trained soft plaque to hard plaque. If you have no soft plaque, you can use that drug. You guys are being put on statin drugs for abnormal cholesterol levels, and they have zero soft plaque. Why are we treating? I think their... Your life, statin drugs are cheap. I think a low-dose statin in some cases may be necessary. I'm not going to say that they're always evil. If you can get a PCSK9 inhibitor, there are much better drugs. Epidoic acid, Nexlatol, is also a cheap drug. At least in the U.S. country, not so much in the U.S., but you can get it in Canada for very cheap. And that's a drug that does not have... There's also a test to see if the RDL clippopotene is oxidized and much also with HAPOB. So this could be a problem. The oxidation of the LDL, not just the number of the LDL, or the 12 of LSO. Right. It's evil if you treat HAPOB, right? But even if people have a bad HAPOBA ratio, sometimes for whatever reason, have zero soft plaque. So should you be treating them? You should probably be trying to modify it a little bit depending on what you... So, Janet, it's very well if your parents are high-dating cholesterol, then you're most likely going to inherit this. Well, if you're 50-year-old, you have my cholesterol and you have zero soft plaque. Yeah. Right. I mean, that tells a story of my mom. She has a very high cholesterol level and she did do a score, the calcium score. Right. And she had zero calcium, but I don't know if she's out in the woods then. How will we measure what her soft plaque is when you use this device that you had mentioned? What is it again? Right. So it's called Clearly Scan. But you can just get a coronary T-scan too and it'll show you... It doesn't quantify the soft plaque. It doesn't say how risky the soft plaque is, but will tell you the soft plaque. You cannot... You can have a zero coronary calcium score. I have so many patients with a zero coronary calcium score and a soft plaque and are very high risk because soft plaque is a great soft because it's a stroke causing the heart attack. That's good to know some of the nuance in all this. Eric, did you have something there? Sorry. Yeah, no, I agree with everything I said. I agree with Patsy about the plaque. Clearly Scan is great and I won't believe with the point about the testing. I think we don't have a perfect test yet, but I agree that, number one, get the data, right? Get the stuff that we know works, you know, blood work. You get it done on a regular basis. Some things, obviously, you have to repeat your insulin, your hormones, etc. The other thing is just getting feedback, right? We talk about data and devices. I agree with David that you don't want to be neurotic about it. Use it for a while, don't use it for a while. But also get feedback from other people too, right? Talk to your practice. Talk to your class. Am I acting better? Is my mood better? Am I sleeping better? Am I snoring less? How do I look in the mirror? Do my clothes fit better? How is my mood? How is my sleep? Get feedback from other people. How do you react? Sometimes those are things that get provided and they're free, right? Get your VO2 max. I think your exercise capacity has an immense benefit on your longevity. Improving your VO2 max and your current rest of your fitness can do more for your health and longevity than practically anything. And there's no limit to the upside, right? So that's something else you can get. So tracking that is another one that you can do too. So I think tracking the data at Rooster's websites and how you can plug in your labs and kind of give you some numbers. And it's good to track it. If you don't get hung up on it, again, you know, do you look at your track or, you know, everything. Your insulin sensitivity, your inflame foreign markers, your VO2 max, your sleep, etc. And then see how you feel. And again, everybody's an N of one, right? How do you feel on it? You know, there's many, many different ways that we can try to improve our quality of life. It sounds like that's the goal. Obviously, we'd like to live a longer life with that, right? Not me and the cars for others, but through diet, lifestyle, exercise, hormones, future technologies and treatments, future therapies. We might get to that goal of what have us? Guys in them, 120 healthy, still looking like we're in our 30s. That would be certainly a nice goal. What's this about inflammation and animal protein that you get a more complete diet? I know who has the thoughts on that. I don't know. Yeah, I agree. I think you, the animal protein is going to be a better source of many nutrients, you know, lactoferrin, iron, et cetera, et cetera. But again, N of one, if somebody does a vegan diet and it works for you and your numbers are good, everything's great, then great. I think for most people, there are some missing things that you can get that you need to supplement with getting on a more of a non-nominable vegetarian or meat-based diet as opposed to vegan. I'm not a, you know, I might be a person, I'm not a fan of the for that reason, but if one person does bruise really well, great. I think there's probably the exception rather than the rule, but it can work, but I think there's a rush. Probably the vegan diet has very few advantages or more disadvantages. So, people can follow the vegan diet to lower the urea, the graphing, the ureclastic, and perhaps the cholesterol. But we know that without any cholesterol, we don't have stored in molyglyphal synthesis, including testosterone and vitamin D3. Now, in the red meat, you can find things like zinc, creatine, or losing the PCAs, that is hell and abolic. So, in the absence of the high quality animal protein, you develop psychopenia that leads to insulin resistance because the less muscle you have, the more visceral fat will develop. Classes to epine because the stronger the muscles, the stronger the dors. And now, people can follow a vegan diet, but seriously, you're going to have some physical performance to the diabetes. Without the hemi-chir, you cannot increase your chemotherapy and let you have less than an endurance. But, some people that meditate or are very religious follow this vegan diet, but we can see it through the very tired of ski fat in the body constitution. Well, that concludes the topic on jealousy. If you want to watch this video, if you like this, what we have, we have it on video on YouTube. You can subscribe if you want to Carlos and My Hormones. That's where we'll be hosting this, and then, obviously, we might have Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza Gaza