 p processor processor processor processor, processor processor, processor processor, we hear from patients and others, what's the best type of testosterone to use? Perhaps they're asking about what the right ester is or what the right treatment modality is as far as is it topical, is it injectable. We're going to discuss if there is the best ester or what that even means or if there is a better treatment after this with Dr. T. So keep watching. Hi and welcome to Balance My Hormones where we support men and women on their journey to optimal hormone balance. If you're new to the channel please press like and subscribe so you don't miss future content. So today we're here with Dr. George Tuliatos, a TRT doctor in Greece and our European Union Medical Director for Balance My Hormones. Dr. Tuliatos has written numerous books on bodybuilding and hormones and he also goes by the name Dr. T. So welcome back Dr. T. How are you today? Hello Michael, thanks for the invitation. So today we're talking about you know is there this perfect ester, this gold standard regime of treatment, what's the best ester to use, is there a best ester, is there best even treatment, what are your thoughts? I don't think so, even though I've used all the esters, propionate, enumphate and undercalonate, I've realized that after a while all the esters and testosterone circulates into your bloodstream. However, there are some benefits of the fast-acting ecto esters because introduced to the system rapidly from the first day you know, they peak way sooner than the slower esters. And allegedly you can use the propionate propionate on a more frequent protocol rather than the enumphate for instance. But I've used the enumphate on a daily protocol as well, even the undercalonate, and I realize that it takes more time of course, but it takes some time and after a while there are the equal levels with equal doses. But of course you know that propionate releases 80%, enumphate 70%, undercalonate 60%. But after a while, no matter how the, if the dose, I'm sorry, is equal, then you're going to have equal total testosterone levels. The point is, in the, in the very beginning, the half-life plays a role until you reach the adequate levels in the serum. So steady state, a steady state level. Now, we know that enumphate has a half-life of one week, let's say, I mean, five to seven days. Okay, we will, it will spike, it will peak on day two to three. Okay. Unlike the propionate that will spike a day after. Let's talk about propionate as a potential modality for some sort of micro dosing. We know that there's been some, you know, false rumors and misunderstanding by some people who, maybe in the bodybuilding community, maybe just patients that have read something on forums. And one of those, I guess, fallacies or falsehoods about testosterone propionate is that it burns and it stings. And, you know, one of my, from my knowledge, I had been prescribed testosterone propionate is that, that's not really true. It's, it's, I think it because it is a very... I never heard something like that. I mean, I never experienced something like that. So perhaps it's, it's something spread falsely, you know? Yeah, nor have I. I never heard something like that. I mean, I never experienced something like that. Well, I, I think the origin of that comes from the, the fact that sustenone contains propionate. And then some people have falsely made this link that the test prop in the sustenone makes it burn and sting. And we know in fact that for sustenone, we'll talk about that later, that it's actually the arachnid soil and the concentration of benzoyl alcohol that may cause some of the burning and stinging. Yeah, benzoyl alcohol also may give you some coughing, you know, some cough. And you get that, they can get that swelling from sustenone. But from the patients that have used testosterone propionate daily or every other day, along with HCG, they, they've not reported any post injection pain, none. And, and that's because I, I believe that the, the product comes very diluted with a one mil volume rather than, and in a small, small amount, like 25 milligrams for one mil versus maybe some underground, you know, steroids that are, are not made properly. May have too high of a concentration of a bacteriostatic agent. Who knows what that, what's, what's in there. So maybe that's why these falsehoods are made about, about testosterone propionate. Um, do you agree? Yes, certainly. So the oil plays a lot, a lot of role, you know, some people are, um, they cannot tolerate arachidonic oil, I think. Okay. And, uh, they cannot stand this. I mean, uh, they're, they're, uh, how you say? Oh, arachnid soil. Yeah. The peanut oil. Yeah. So, well, let's talk about sustenone then, and then we'll go into the other esters. So, um, we know that sustenone is a blend of, um, testosterone propionate, phenylpropionate, uh, what else is, um, isocaporate and, and, and decanoate. Uh, I think I heard that. So you've got a blend of esters and we've, I mean, I, I use, I'm, I'm prescribed sustenone now and usually, you know, four or five days after the, after the uh you know testosterone injection 100 125 milligrams we i've seen it myself and other patients you can normally see a testosterone level between 25 and 30 35 nanolos per liter that's that's just kind of what you see the norm when it's done on trough which is how we measure is on trough so um yeah it seems like it does does the job uh though on you know it's been originally developed to be lasting three weeks which is insanity because you know after about seven to ten ten days depending on the dose it may it may you know leave the system not giving someone you know optimal levels so i mean what's your experience for sustenance i never used justin bodybuilding you know i was taking two shots a week but uh referring to undercounted i've used an abito but not under the standard protocol of 90 days you know but i was taking a video as it was an athlete so for instance so it took a couple of months in order to reach out to to pick up uh you know to catch up uh the the levels but after i think the the third month it was okay and the other one's testosterone sipionate uh which is much more readily available in the united states i've been using sipionate underground bodybuilder yeah it has a similar effect to anything i can also say when we looked at blood tests uh you know patients about you know five days post you know 100 milligrams of sipionate uh usually works out about similar to 125 of the sustenone blend and uh and the levels are exactly where where they'd be expected to be uh so there's no no surprises there and it comes either to one or two hundred milligrams you know unlike the nf8 that is 50. so yeah in in europe it comes in 100 milligrams per two mls or it's made in 250 milligrams per two mls so it's highly diluted uh you know compared to others and obviously in europe there are no uh multi-dose vials uh eight way i think with the exception of nabida and then we talked about nabida which is to solstron and decanoate which is a big large injection that's supposed to be injected every about 12 weeks which leads people with a very slow ramp up to a peak followed by uh being short and not having any or hardly anything of hypergonadal levels by week 12 and supposedly after a year years worth of going back to the clinic and having injections is supposed to reach a steady state but in practice we get many many patients who aren't happy with that particular regime and suppose it was developed just around to satisfy the clinics to maybe make it easier to administer but in practice uh i think it's uh it's a painful injection because of the volume four milliliters to over the thousand milligrams have to be injected so so it's not really an advantage and then finally finally there's the testosterone with no esters testosterone gels or creams obviously those are two different animals or gels and the creams are something that are bespoke compounded uh to uniquely for each and every patient with various different uh liposomal bases to allow for the absorption through the skin uh where the uh deeper layers the skin act as a reservoir for the testosterone the bioidentical testosterone or the unesterified testosterone uh to reach the bloodstream so i've what are your what are your experiences with testosterone creams well the premiums have the benefit that they are introducing a minimal dose daily they have stable levels they spike way lesser than the injectable ones they're smaller doses and they cost more of course so you need more of the material in order to reach out the same levels with the injectable so i i can tell you from some of the bloods it's it's like anything um yes i guess you could say horses for courses there are certain benefits uh for for each and on the creams we've seen some uh patients do really well and they get a really good absorption level i've seen levels of you know 30 to 35 12 hours post application that's an animal as per liter so a very optimal level it depends where you apply this in which spot because you need low fat but i'm telling that uh it's the way of the administration of the cream that costs has higher cost rather than to the injection okay and that's true and when you think about it you're saying you know cream is going to have uh 100 milligrams per yeah but it does help those patients who have a needle phobia it's more expensive way of TRT so i've always said with the creams that uh you're slightly tethered to your to your cream pump you if you if you're without the creams you might last two or three days before your symptoms return if you're without the injection you know depending how it's been dosed you're you're essentially can last you know seven to ten days without really starting to feel the the symptoms of low t i suppose the caveat is if you're doing daily doses then obviously you've now gone back to the uh having less of a cushion if somehow you were separated from your hormone or from your treatment so that's um there's always the pros and cons to each so i suppose the premise was you know the best ester the best treatment uh for TRT but really everyone is so different everyone's desires the goals what they're uh willing or able to do to stick and be compliant with the treatment varies so i can't think of there being uh a perfect uh protocol or a perfect or ideal or gold standard treatment it's this that treatment that is the best or gold standard is one that's best for that individual there are some patients that prefer every seven uh because they just can't be asked to to to to do an injection there are others who prefer every five every four uh we we can tell by looking at the blood levels and do they feel good the day before the the weekly dose sometimes yes uh you know the longer that you're on it when when you first start on on on the testosterone initially by week six you know some people say oh they feel like it's uh not not as good on the day of the injection or the day before the injection but if they continue do they spike the two days after well they all do even the creams will spike a few hours after right so they all spike to a lesser degree if you use smaller dose to a lesser degree if you use smaller dose of course but you can you you won't get as high of an amplitude of course but you're still seeing um you're still seeing you're still seeing a spike and you're still seeing a trough and if you're having less of a spike that means you're short in the time i mean it's just that's how it works but no my personal thought is there is no perfect ideal esther it's what works best for the patient it's about the dosing uh and how you dose it and it's very much individualized for every patient would you say that's that's where you have to look at what the patient's goals and needs are yes also it depends what the patient wants if he wants um to be injected daily if he can afford this i mean if he can if it's bearable for him okay some people hate needles some people cannot be so obsessed and following a daily protocol you know okay that's well said i agree so anyway let us know how you do your TRT if you're on testosterone treatment let me know if you um if you prefer injections or topicals if there's a particular ester that you're using you can leave those uh in the comments below and again if you like the channel please uh let us know by pressing like if you don't like it also let us know by in the comments and uh and don't forget to subscribe and we'll see you next time thanks dr george