 So what are the top supplements do I take for TRT, and should you take the same supplements? Because these may be precursors to dopamine, and also help the mood. And glutathione is one of the more powerful antioxidants in the body, and NAC acts as a precursor. There's always a risk if you get too much B6 in any form. And for others who can't get too much B6 in any form. And for others who can't get to sleep, there are supplements like Apigenin, which may cause a more calming effect. So what are the top supplements do I take for TRT, and should you take the same supplements? I think in the area of supplement and supplementation, it really is individual specific. But are there certain supplements that are more or less universal? BMH, we have certain supplements available through our pharmacy, and we usually use the Pure Encapsulations brands and other brands that are GMP. But in particular, what micronutrients or what supplements can help? And we've got to almost break it down into various different types of supplements. I mean, there are your vitamins and minerals that you may be replacing because you're not getting enough in your diet, and many of us will use them as an insurance policy. Many articles and stories are written on, you're just pissing away these vitamins and supplements or these vitamins and minerals because your body should get enough through food. There are other arguments that say, well, the nutrients in the soils are depleted, and so we can't depend on just getting enough from our food of these minerals and vitamins. So what really is the answer? What should you do? And what should you take? Or should you not take anything? Now, obviously, one point of view is the easy life, the simple life, don't worry about it and just crack on and whatever happens, happens, and that's it. For others who are in the world of optimization and trying to maximize the most out of your health, if you have a deficiency, then yes, the deficiency can be reversed by having supplements. For instance, if you're deficient in vitamin D3 and you're not getting enough sunlight and you may supplement with additional vitamin D3, K2, and magnesium because those have to work in combination. So one of the supplements that I use every day is vitamin D3, K2, and magnesium. So that's in my morning. I kind of cycle on and off with multivitamins just usually because I forget to reorder them. Some men are recommended not to take any multivitamins with iron, and other men who are deficient in iron may end up taking some multivitamins with iron. And those multivitamins, you want to have a much lower level of beta carotene. Some of these vitamins you have to be careful of because they have been linked, associated maybe with not having the best health outcomes. For instance, some studies had shown that I think men that took high doses of beta carotene maybe had a higher linkage to lung cancer, but they were just associations. But in general, I think if you, we look, I said we use a pure encapsulations brand that has a nice balance of all the vitamins that you would want to take and a few other things like lycopene or lycopene as well. So anyway, vitamin D3, the multivitamin, kind of the core. I also use ubiquinol because that's the reduced form of coenzyme Q10. There's also a supplement that has CoQ10 and PQQ. PQQ is also another, I say, mitochondria type supplement that's becoming more popular and has more evidence around it for a subtle bit of energy, improving your ATP and mitochondria. So I would say those are kind of the core. Other people will focus on more of the cognitive supplements, things like L-tyrosine. Some will trial acetylacarnitine. These can be also good for brain health. And some go as far as supplements if they're low in uridine or CDP-choline, because these may be precursors to dopamine and also help the mood. Other supplements that also may help dopamine, which is why they're offered for patients who may have slightly higher prolactin levels, would be P5P. But you should be careful with P5P because this is actually a B6 vitamin that's in this reduced form, basically it's a form that your body would have that's bioavailable. There's always a risk if you get too much B6 in any form, though it's thought that the P5P form is less likely to do this, but we still don't know 100%, is that you may get some neuropathy, which you don't want as a result of too much of the B6 or the P5P from the B6. So sometimes those can be taken every so often. Other brain boosting supplements in some patients could be something like NAC, N-acetylcysteine. This is an interesting one because N-acetylcysteine in some men can actually mildly improve mood, potentially increase libido. It might be having something to do with the dopamine level. I know personally it's been quite a good one for me. However, when I have taken it, for me personally, you may be experiencing, you may experience some, some people will get palpitations from the N-ac and some people don't. Other men may see an increase in their hemoglobin from N-ac. But N-ac has been used widely in some countries. It's considered a medication, a drug, and is used in areas where people are having issues with lots of mucus or issues with their lungs. So N-ac is an interesting one. It also is important for boosting glutathione is the N-ac. So there's a connection between that and glutathione is one of the more powerful antioxidants in the body and N-ac acts as a precursor. Then you can get into the supplements that have to do with, again, more of the mitochondria and the N-A-D and the sirtuin pathway, potentially resveratrol, which some say is fine. Some say it's quite a weak effect. Or the N-M-N and the N-R. So these are N-M-N and N-R are the precursors to N-A-D. And by potentially boosting those, you also may get some mood benefit as well as some purported anti-aging benefit, all kind of hopefully building up in the long run. But many of these can also be cycled. Other supplements are 1-M-N-A. 1-M-N-A is supposed to preserve the N-A-D. And there's nighttime supplements, you know, supplements that one may take to help improve sleep. One of the biggest ones, the most effective ones for many patients would be magnesium glycinate because the glycine is released slowly with the magnesium helping possibly to lower your heart rate and help you stay asleep and have a more well-rested sleep. And for others who can't get to sleep, there are supplements like apigenin, which may cause a more calming effect. Apigenin is found in chamomile. And if you use chamomile teas or chamomile flour that you infuse into your tea, this also releases a lot of apigenin. Apigenin is also can help, I think, against the CD38, essentially preserving your N-A-D. So this is all part of that pathway. And then I think L-theanine is another supplement that helps, is very calming. And this is found in green tea extract, but it shouldn't be stimulating, but rather it should help kind of calm you and improve your GABA state so that you might be ready for sleep as far as supplements go. There are others who try glycine. Now, there are some studies that show as we age, L-glycine is actually diminished. It actually goes down as we age and adding in more glycine can improve it. And in fact, there are some studies that have studied L-glycine and NAC together for an anti-aging benefit. Glycine is an interesting one. Now, my own experience, I have used glycine and I follow the guidance for, you know, between one and three grams nightly. And it does calm you. It does have an anti-anxiety effect. But then it can also push in some individuals too far where you feel a bit numb to things. You feel a bit dull. You feel like you can't feel things over time. It may in some people delay ejaculation because of the way it can decrease the sympathetic state. So, but for others, there's no, they don't notice anything. And the reason is, and you have to be careful with L-glycine. L-glycine is a co-agonist of the NMDA receptor. So it is partially acting as a form of a neurotransmitter. It's agonizing your NMDA, which is one of your neurotransmitters that could be affecting your mood. So you may need to slowly dial down the dose and taper if you use L-glycine over a longer period of time, or you might be able to stop and have no issues whatsoever. So it's very individually focused for L-glycine. And again, there are some studies that show it depletes as you get older and topping it up may help in some cases. And some signals from some of these studies show that it may have an anti-aging effect. So anyway, those are the top ones, top supplements that I can think of that can help. My big ones, like I said, vitamin D3, magnesium, magnesium glycinate, and some K2. Sometimes a multivitamin. Sometimes we'll do a PQQ. Definitely ubiquinol. And make sure you get enough of the B-complex vitamins. I'm also on metformin. So having enough B12 is really important to help offset any decrease in B12. We also have specific vitamins. So if you are in the UK or Europe, we do have some blood tests that we can do that looks at not just your B12 level. Everyone's doing active B12. But we can go further, look at homocysteine. And we can look at MMA, which is a measure of how B12 is being absorbed in your cells. It requires a urine test done over 24 hours, as well as a serum test, blood tests for these particular biomarkers. So we can organize a kit for you if you contact us. Comment below on the supplement that you find the most important, or if you take it at all, we want to hear from you. And if you have any questions about other supplements, feel free to contact us at Balance My Hormones. You know, we spend a lot of time trying to put together information that will benefit you. And the best way for other people to find it is for you to subscribe. It doesn't cost anything. Just a quick click. I mean, sometimes it's difficult if you sit, depending how you watch YouTube, if you're watching it on your sofa, you're flipping it through one of the apps, you know, from your telly, usually with the remote, you should be able to hit subscribe. Obviously, it's a little bit easier if you're on your computer or your phone. Either way, just a quick click. And that really will help us get more noticed on YouTube. So thanks for subscribing in advance.