 N-sauvordreordre, N-bordreordre,~" whether it's long term? That's a great question. Most of the studies are short term like anything in psychiatry, but there are studies going up to three years on Cranbopexol with no problems. The raw material, the API, have lost the license to make it and they don't want to spend the money to make more. And so now it's no one's going to make it because the fatigue and the tiredness was just intolerable. And I didn't enjoy that. Tiredness, nausea, you could get dizzy on it. And possibly blood pressure drop and fall. Yeah. So it's called Pramopexol, brand name Miropex. Go to the Robin Williams movie Awakenings, which shows a doctor in the 1960s giving patients dopamine for the first time. And they're able to move for the first time from their Parkinson's disease. So this amazing miracle cure, of course, the name Miropex kind of conjures that up. My personal experience, they used to call me Miropex Mike. How is that Miropex? I had restless leg syndrome and it made me very, very sleepy. The Miropex Mike part was because it also made me a little bit, just a tiny bit impulsive and slightly made me a bit more eager to try things and do things. It actually wasn't a bad default. I have to remember those two years with great fondness, two or three years. And eventually I had to wean myself off of it because the fatigue and the tiredness was just intolerable. And I didn't enjoy that. And in the areas of prolactinomas, the taber golein is the one of choice because you can take it in frequently or a couple of times a week. And that doesn't show to cause any valvular defects like at that low dose, like the Parkinson's dose was over time. The risks with primopexil, tiredness, nausea. You could get dizzy on it and possibly blood pressure drop and fall. Congestive heart failure should not take it generally. It can cause edema in that case, but generally not a lot of risks. And the other risks that I think has gotten psychiatrists scared, if you think about fear, I do hear about this one, is it can cause something called, I love this name, hedonistic dysregulation disorder, HDD. And that's the Mirapax mic thing. So, you know, a little too pleasure seeking. And what they, that's the real name for it. What they call it in the warning is they just say it can cause pathological gambling. Well, this is very rare, somewhere around one in 300 or one in 600. It was a little more common, like one in a hundred in Parkinson's disease. And that's because people with Parkinson's disease, their brain is breaking down in a lot of ways. So they're more prone to this gambling problem. But I'll tell you the paradox in psychiatry. We do have now three D3 agonists. And you're right, Michael, that it's the D3. D3 is what you might call the pleasure center or the reward center. I'm not really, I don't think it's really about pleasure. To me, it's about meaning and motivation and drive and reward. So, so your audience can relate to that. Suppose you clean out your closet. Do you feel good after cleaning out your closet? Do you feel like I accomplished something? Or you just feel like it's another miserable day and I just did a miserable thing and life is blah. So if you feel like everything in life is blah, that's anhedonia. That's where your reward center is not lighting up. So Pramapexole, for someone with depression, it improves that motivation. And this is unique because, you know, the serotonin ones, the way they're probably working is making you less reactive to stress. So when your boss comes in and yells at you or you have trouble in your bank account, you don't get as stressed out and you're less depressed. Hence, Pramapexole is not doing that. It's helping you be more motivated, more driven, like you were saying, Michael, to do things like I'd see people come back and they have literally organized their room for the first time, cleaned out their garage. It's not a feel-good medicine. It's a do-more medicine. But that drive to do more can go too high sometimes. And that's where we see people spending too much money on eBay, gambling, sometimes masturbating at work. So, you know, sexuality can get a little high. But strangely enough, and this I cannot explain, I have never seen anyone turn to drug use and there are no reports of drug use on it. So it's not doing that kind of hedonism. It's more just doing money and sexuality kind of hedonism. I think if people are aware. And are rare. Yeah. Yeah. The irony here that I meant to get to is psychiatrists now have three drugs that affect dopamine 3. They are aripiprazole, Abilify, cariprazine, Vralar, and Brexpiprazole, Rexalti. They are all approved for depression and they're used very commonly in depression. And they all have a warning that they can cause pathological gambling. So we're already giving something with that mechanism, with that warning. But these drugs I've mentioned, they also have about five to 10 other major warnings on them, including diabetes, weight gain, tardive dyskinesia, permanent muscle movements, big problems. Pramapexol has no major warnings on it like that. It doesn't cause weight gain or impair your sex drive. It doesn't cause diabetes. It doesn't disrupt your muscle system in any kind of permanent way. So Pramapexol, much safer than the ones I quoted, which are antipsychotics. But doctors are more comfortable with the antipsychotics because they're FDA approved. And doesn't it also increase BDNF like some of the other dopamine organists? Which is improving the brain health. Pramapexol does. Yeah, that's extremely, how do you say, reassuring to me because I know I'm giving a dopamine agonist. I don't want to fry their brain in some way that causes long-term damage to their dopamine neurons. But the studies in animals show stronger dopamine neurons when you've taken Pramapexol for a while. So it's having some BDNF increase and that's increasing the strength of the dopamine system. So we don't see any long-term brain problems with it. And is it a long-term treatment? Because, you know, years ago I came across this doctor who was treating, I think, restless leg syndrome. He was on YouTube and he was using this word. I know in psychiatry, when you add a medication or something else, you call it augmentation. But he was referring to augmentation in restless leg by adding more and more of the drug to have an effect. And then, you know, mentioning the tardive dyskinesia. I forgot that risk. So let's talk about that risk because augmentation, which you're right, is a different use of the word. This was seen in the restless leg syndrome patients and it gave the drug a bad name, Pramapexol, is some people, it just made them have, instead of restless legs at night, they would now have it in the morning. It's augmenting, it's pushing them into the morning. And that's very rare in mood disorders with depression. Like you might see it once in a couple hundred patients, but I would be concerned if someone started to have restless leg syndrome in the morning after starting this drug. So that is a reason you might want to come off at that augmentation. So you couldn't induce the restless leg syndrome in a person just by putting them on a dopamine agonist. That would be unlikely you either have it or you don't. There would be another mechanism to... You know, I hope you're right. I hope you're right. There are no cases of it that I know of in the literature, but I've heard, I think I've seen one case and I heard about someone else who had it happen. So it is possible that it could. So I'd say that that's kind of an unknown. So it's going to be very low risk, but just to be aware that we should, you know, strange things happen in medicine. We need to know the possibility. And if I saw that happening, I'd want to come off the drug. Yeah. That is another thing. If you come off a dopamine agonist, you need to have a very long withdrawal, a long tapering, if you will. Yeah. I don't think it's a big deal. I like to taper everything anyway, but I've not seen much problems with suddenly stopping it. To your question as to whether it's long-term, that's a great question. Most of the studies are short-term like anything in psychiatry, but there are studies going up to three years on Primapexole with no problems. I've treated people for five or 10 years on it. I've treated probably about two or 3,000 people on it. So a lot that I've either supervised the treatment or done the treatment. You know, the thing is we're only using it in severe depression that didn't respond to other stuff. So most of these people have recurrent depression. They're going to just, their illness lasts a long time. So they're going to need it long-term. So that's, it ends up being a long-term treatment for most people who need it. Okay. So that's interesting. So, I mean, I guess we have to watch the space. I mean, there'll be maybe new dopamine agonists that come out that may be superior to Primapexole or Primapexole because I notice the side effects of the fatigue. I've always tied that to most of the D3, not the D2, at least from my experience with Aquiniglide that had very little D3 compared to the D2. I mean, even I think Abrogoline has a little bit of D3, but not to the degree that Prima does as far as the fatigue and just a sudden onset of sleep, which to me that that's not worth it. Then you drink so many coffees, it still doesn't help you stay awake. So, yeah, most of my patients take it at night and they don't get fatigued in the morning, but I have seen it happen. And very rarely people can get sudden attacks of fatigue, like sleep attacks on it. Yeah. So that would be great to work around that. Yeah. I used to take it at night to the tiniest, tiniest dose. When dopamine increases, when it breaks down, it creates the hydrogen peroxide, which can be damaging. To the cells, right? And that's one of the areas, again, where I've kind of looked into, I thought the MAOB inhibitors, either the ones we have now, probably not selegiline, because that metabolizes into a methamphetamine, right? And it's not quite as sensitive as, I think, the resagiline. And I think there's a new... Sort of. Yeah. Yeah. But let me clarify that, because it's actually interesting. It metabolizes into levomethamphetamine. And if any of your readers have watched Breaking Bad, you know, the whole plot of Breaking Bad is they're trying to get rid of the levomethamphetamine and just do the dextro. That's his whole, like, secret formula. Walt's trying to purify it. And the reason they're trying to get rid of that is levomethamphetamine does not get you high. It does not treat ADHD. It really doesn't do much of anything, maybe cause a few side effects, and then it goes out of your body. So yeah, that's a good point. And selegiline does create a little bit of that levo, but nothing to be concerned about. Although I've seen some people get kicked out of pain clinics because it causes a false positive on their drug screen. And then the pain doctor won't give them opioids because they think they're using meth. Because wouldn't that also cause a bit of vasoconstriction? So you're right. Those MAOIs, they have like... Oh, sorry. Wouldn't that some kind of... I don't know if it does. I do know it can cause... Yeah, the levomethamphetamine can cause some cardiac side effects. I'm not up to date exactly how it does. So... But back to that, you know, this whole MAOI field, these are just wonder drugs for many people. They're really fairly... I would say fairly well tolerated. They're about as well tolerated as the SSRIs or maybe a little better depending on the drug. But nobody uses them because, again, the fear factor. We're afraid of that tyramine cheese effect. Here's a little fact. Before 2000, doctors had no idea how much tyramine was in food. So they were just guessing. But after 2000, we have very accurate measurements and we don't have to be as restricted on the MAOI diet. So if your listeners have severe depression, they want to try an MAOI, they should reconsider that. They've done studies where they ate half of a large double cheese and pepperoni pizza. No problems. So as long as you stay away from the gourmet cheeses and the very unusual things like banana leaves and, well, Vegemite, Marmite, I guess, don't use that. So some rare foods to stay away from. You can do an MAOI now with much greater ease. And that's for the MAOI. It's the ones that basically are inhibiting serotonin and norepinephrine. And that's the path. And the pure MAOBs. And some of them a little dopamine. A little bit of dopamine, but not like the MAOBs. That's right. And not at all like that. No, not a lot. Just a little bit. So the MAOBs, you're right. I'm not as versed in those because we don't have as much research in psychiatry. I think there's a lot of potential for them, but we don't know as much about how and whether they work in psychiatry. So we're stuck with the classic. I'm sorry, the MAOIs. Yeah. There's, I don't know if you've heard of this one because you've followed some of the latest literature. HDS 2010 is a new development from a South Korean company, a pharmaceutical company, and it's looking at it from Alzheimer's to improve Alzheimer's and dementia, looking at the MAOB, but not an irreversible MAOB. So that's, they're looking at it as more of like a daily, daily dosing that feels. I guess we can watch the space. That could be another option. And maybe it will also help some with the resistant depression, or maybe even an option for depression or depression that's tied to Alzheimer's. So I don't know. I think it's interesting because we start with testosterone. We start with testosterone and that also affects the brain, the body, as we discussed earlier. But sometimes there are other things that go on in people's lives, you know, whether it's traumatic brain injury, whether it's dysregulation of mood. Sometimes it helps a lot, makes a world of difference for many of our patients who watch, but sometimes there are these other bits, you know, even from our patients' point of view, the ones that need cabogoline for elevated prolactin that sometimes occurs as well. And I think you've also had some experience with cabogoline as well in treating some patients. Is that right? You want to talk about those experiences? I think I pronounce it cabogoline, but it's the C-E-R, right? Is that the one we're talking about? Yeah, just different pronunciation. But yeah, that one... Yes, cabogoline, cabogoline. It's used in Parkinson's. That's what it's developed for. And, you know, when you give people antipsychotics, which we do a lot in psychiatry, one of the unfortunate side effects, it can raise your prolactin causing breast milk secretion, causing breast enlargement in men, causing bone mineral problems and potential tumor. So we really want to catch that and address it if it happens. And these dopamine agonists are one of the best ways to just... Because that's how it works. These things are blocking dopamine, causing increase in prolactin. So if we just give a little dopamine agonist, it might ease that and stop it. But if your listeners are in that situation, there's also vitamin B6, you know, natural, like 600 milligrams. It's kind of a high dose, but that can reduce it as well and reduce a lot of antipsychotic side effects. So another underutilized trick because it's natural, it doesn't get as much coverage. Yeah, B as in boy, vitamin B6. Yeah, no, we talked about that as well. Sometimes there's the metabolite of the B6 is the P5P, which may, but you know, you got to be careful on the dose because you can cause neuropathy, which wouldn't be ideal, you know. So... Above a thousand. Yeah. Yeah. So I'd stick to 300 to 600 range. Because it helps the release of dopamine, I think. And there's some other interesting... I mean, in the world of... Do you follow the world of nootropics at all? Nootropics are... It's a really weird... A little bit. Just a little bit. Yeah. I think the methylene blue is supposed to fall into that. You know, there was some research drug called 9MEBC that... I don't know if you've come across that. That's supposed to help resensitize dopamine neurons, maybe even act as a MAO being to a certain degree. I don't think they really know. And they just stop, again, with all these things, if it doesn't hit certain milestones, the pharmaceutical company may drop it or not research it or if it's falling off a patent. Another one was bromantain, which I think is related to adamantain, which is also affects dopamine. And we didn't really talk about that pathway. Was it adamantain or was it a... Well... There's another one that was... It was an antiviral that also hits the dopamine. Am I... Is that the... But you're correct because you're pronouncing the class of the drug. The drug is classified as an adamantain. Amantadine. Amantadine. I... But its name is amantadine, just to confuse everyone. And what... This is a real wonder drug that's totally underutilized. I think of it as a poor man's ketamine because it's a generic drug from the 1960s that has ketamine-like effects and dopamine effects. And when you think about increasing dopamine and ketamine-like effects, we're talking this drug has a lot of potential in depression. And there's some studies showing good effects in depression, but they're very small studies. So not a lot of people are using it. But I have seen some... Those rare miracle cures, you know, when I've seen people with 10 years of depression and nothing moved it. And then amantadine moved the needle for them. And... But they... Are they stuck on it though? Because once you... I mean, if you... Yeah. Yeah, they are. You know, that's the thing about chronic depression. We've not figured out any way to treat it that you're not stuck on it. Although some people might call me up, rightly so, and say, no, Dr. Aiken, TMS, transcranial magnetic stimulation can get them out and they stay out. They don't really stay out. They might need another, sorry, another magnetic treatment once a month or so, just really stay out of it. But imagine that. If you want a med-free solution for depression, it would be, of course, aerobic exercise first, but also a 20-minute magnetic treatment once a month. There you go. And it's pretty side effect free. It just activates the brain with the magnet. And they have some devices in the UK as well that I think they call the flow device that sends out some electrical... You put some pads on the head and send those out. NHS has supported that. But then there's the big ones are the magnetic ones. Okay. Yeah, you're right. That's called TDCS. Yeah. Yeah. So that's called transcranial direct current stimulation. It's a terrible name because it's so long and it sounds like transmagnetic stimulation, but you're right. The TDCS, which you mentioned is available, that's like at-home use and it's lighter. It's not as powerful. So it'll help mild depression, but the TMS is going to help the big depressions and help people stay out. So both of them are similar. Yeah. Interesting. And I suppose finally, you know, if someone is in a really bad depressive disorder or the quality of life isn't there, I mean, on testosterone treatment patients, some of the fear is, do I have to be on treatment for life? And you say, well, yes, you know, this improves the quality of life. I think we're okay with that because it also improves your metabolic health. Like we said, it improves the physiology of the body and the mind. So I guess the alternative, you know, for some of these other medications, whilst they might not be the bioidentical hormones that testosterone is, sometimes these other treatments are needed because what's the alternative? You know, your quality of life and mental health suffers and that's not living either. So I think that's important. You know, I guess if you're a psychiatrist, you must talk the patients through that. Yeah. And since you're talking a lot about prevention, I do want to lay some new research out that isn't getting around is that psychotherapy, so weekly counseling or aerobic exercise, that's 30 minutes, I'm sorry, 45 minutes every other day of aerobic exercise. These two things do a much better job at preventing depression than an antidepressant. So we need to get the word out that antidepressants will get you out quickly, but they don't do a great job of keeping you out. Psychotherapy and exercise better job at keeping you out. All right. Well, that's it. Always back to exercise and healthy living, making a big, big difference. So it raises dopamine. Yeah. Absolutely. That music, there's so many things. And I've been on a journey, I'd say myself in a couple of years, you know, seeing from our patients that they've gone through, even myself, as I think I should get older. Is there not an increase in depression? I'm turning 51 tomorrow. But when we get older, they say, as you get into more senior years, is there a higher risk of depression as we age? Jeez, Michael, you're a month older than me, I got to tell you. Yeah. And I'm glad you brought that up. Maybe, you know, let's talk about two opposite things. One is happiness. So happiness follows a smile face curve where it peaks in your teens and then goes down. People are least happy in their 30s and 40s. And then after age 50, happiness goes up. So if we talk about happiness, it's going to go up after age 50 because you have less responsibility, less demands. You're more free, you're more secure in your personality. But depression, depression can go increase after, you know, as you get older. And if you find that you're getting new depression after age 55 or 60, a very likely cause is vascular disease. Your vascular system is not healthy enough and it's causing very small, teeny strokes that you don't feel in the brain. And as you can imagine, when your brain gets these like 10 or 12 little teeny strokes, it's going to be depressing and you're not going to know why. So that's a very common cause of old age depression that doesn't get addressed enough. When I say common, I'm talking like 50 to 90 percent, depending on your age. Very high. There are a couple of tools that we've seen in, I guess, in the TRT world. One of them is what I've kind of brought out was the ones for intermittent claudication, pentoxyphiline or pentoxyphiline, which may help with vascular dementia. But the other one, going back to the theory, and I don't keep meaning to harp on this, but it's something I've, sometimes I pick up on something and I stick with it, was the, that as we age, that MAOB enzyme climbs compared to when we're younger. We have something else on the channel that we talked about this with a guy that runs, a doctor who runs the channel called Desmolesium. And MAOA is quite stable, doesn't rise as high as MAOB as we age. And one theory was perhaps this elevation MAOB is gobbling up a lot of your dopamine, not to mention the effects of the dopamine breakdown as the MAOB rises. I don't know if you have come across anything on that theory. No, I'm not familiar with that. I've seen a lot of older people on MAOIs, but that's because they're older drugs. So older people started them when they were younger. Yeah, yeah, of course. But I'm not familiar with that. That's very interesting. Maybe you come across some new literature, you can do another podcast. It's something, you know, I guess we watch the spaces. It's always developing. We would today try to, you know, talk about some of the key points, some of your expertise. Chris, where can people contact you or you want to talk a little bit, kind of plug some of the work that you're doing? Sure. Yeah, there's three ways to contact me. If you like the internet, it's chrisaykenmd.com, where I have some of the things I've written on psychiatry and a lot of stuff on lifestyle for psychiatry. And if you really like hard-nosed psychiatric research, you can get that in the podcast form. That's the Carlatt Psychiatry Podcast. Every Monday, we put out new research summaries. Or every day on social media, I post a new research update every day on LinkedIn and Twitter and Blue Sky and Facebook under Chris Aiken, MD. Oh, brilliant. Thank you. So I guess we tried to really bridge the divide between, you know, dopamine, testosterone. We wanted to put psychiatry under the spotlight today, and we're always, you know, having a go at the endocrinologist. And now we understand why I think psychiatry has been a bit more cautious. So we can let you off the hook because it looks like at least psychiatrists like yourself are at the forefront of your field trying to kind of move things forward in a different direction than just the serotonin reuptake inhibitors. And again, the reason why it's so, I guess, personal for us as a clinic, we come across so many patients that almost feel like they've been damaged by the SSRIs. And I'm glad that you're speaking up about the overuse of SSRIs and where maybe dopamine might be the missing thing. So hopefully, people watching have come away with a lot of learning and options. And perhaps they can contact you within the USA. And if patients have issues with testosterone treatment and innovative treatments in the UK, they can contact us at Balance My Hormone. So thank you, Chris. Thank you very much for being on. You're welcome. And for that note, I'll leave you with this. No serious psychiatrist thinks that serotonin causes depression, but we do know the SSRIs indirectly, like very indirectly, increase dopamine. So they may even be treating depression through dopamine if they do any good for that as well. Interesting.