 Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts Ts alternative to lifelong TRT. You'll want to see this all the way through until the end. All right, so good to have you back, Dr. George. Glad to see you again in Athens, Michael, and welcome to my home. Yeah, thank you. Thank you for hosting us over here. It's a lovely show. Yeah, thank you. Yeah, speaking about this hormonal boost. Firstly, before we talk about that, I guess I suppose the question is, why do men need the testosterone in the first place? Just a really brief overview. Why do you think? Well, in the lack of testosterone, we speak about this several times, several things develop like depression, erectile dysfunction, lack of sex drive, body composition and visceral fat accumulation that leads to insulin resistance and obesity that create the metabolic syndrome, all right? All these age men because lack of testosterone, hyperbenters, is an inflammatory disease, all right? But unfortunately, the medical board and all gyrologists hesitate to administrate testosterone for their own reasons, but it seems that it's not about the levels of testosterone because we have a certain level, let's say 250 nanograms. As the treatment level, 250 nanograms. I've seen levels below 150 that get denied to receive testosterone. And I think they have an agenda for this. They don't want testosterone for sure in order for a man to be miserable and receive under-depressive, statins, semaglutide and, of course, erectile dysfunction medications. It's actually interesting you mentioned semaglutide because that's the newest latest, the GLP-1 agonists. So if you're fat, if you're obese and with low testosterone, they prefer to give you semaglutide, but you're going to waste your muscle, apparently, because you don't have any testosterone to preserve your muscle during the diet. They just give you the order diet. But the point is, you cannot diet if you are low energy with low testosterone. And 99% you're going to waste your muscle. That will create more insulin resistance. And more body fat. The perfect combination is testosterone along with semaglutide, low-carb diet, cardio, lifting weights, and then you're going to preserve the muscle tissue, kill the fat, improve the body composition, okay? And you're going to be much happier, of course, with higher testosterone. Anyway, now, the commitment with TRT is something that not many people can address. All right, so let's say we have a 30-year-old guy with 200 nanograms, okay? It's very demanding to say that hopefully, if you live up to 100, you're going to receive testosterone for 70 years. And if you are planning to become a diet at 40, you need to use alongside HG for 10 years. This is something very demanding and expensive, of course. And not many people are willing to do this on a weekly basis or even on a daily basis with a cream. But there's a growing number of people that do say, no, just give me the testosterone. But you're right. But still, some, they hesitate and they freak out and they panic. Well, my point is, if you go to the end, they give you the T4. Are you saying, I'm going to keep it forever? Of course you will, because it's something that you need and it works. And it feeds your deficiency. So taking your cream simply is like brushing your teeth every day. Do you ever stop eating? No. And if something works, why to stop it? But many people are not that committed and freak out that I have to do this every day for the rest of my life. So we have an alternative thing to increase your own endogenous levels. Even though below 300, it's not very promising, yet I've saved many cases of people that even prefer a temporary solution rather than go to the permanent TRT. The point is, you're going to feel much better within a month with the TRT. But many people yet prefer to boost the endogenous production with two kinds of protocols that I have created. And 90% of work. They don't work when you don't sleep well, when you don't consume cholesterol, and if you boost. So the main factor is sleep from 11 to 7, the psychotic rhythm, okay, when testosterone is elevated. Then avoid alcohol that aromatizes in the liver and lowers testosterone. And also eat cholesterol from steak and eggs in order to synthesize the testosterone. Also, you shouldn't overtrain because after half an hour, 45 minutes, then cortisol is released to suppress the inflammation in the muscular joints. And then testosterone is inhibited. But anyway. Well, a quick question about cortisol. But before we do, something that raises my cortisol is when people don't subscribe to the channel. So look, if you've been looking at the channel and you've enjoyed the content, please, why don't you subscribe to Balance My Hormones to our channel so you can get the latest. And hit the notification bell so you don't miss when the videos drop. So anyway, George. As a matter of fact, cortisol elevates when you also stay up all night because cortisol is at the lowest levels. You know, at night, it should elevate and spike AM. And you want it to spike because that helps you wake up. Yes, but you shouldn't have raised cortisol at night. No. This is what keeps you alert. Yeah. And then cortisol, of course, creates insulin resistance and so on. So the protocol is, first of all, we have the clomiphene, but preferably the N-clomiphene that increases LH testosterone. Now, the regular clomiphene has a disadvantage and one benefit. It raises LH testosterone. But as the late John Chrysler mentioned, it raises also SHBG, which is inhibitory to the free testosterone, the one that works. So in the paper, you may have an elevated total testosterone, but the patient does not feel that well because SHBG traps the free testosterone. Right. So as a balance, we use also Mesterolone, low dose, in order to have this balance between SHBG and free testosterone. So preferably, I use low dose of N-clomiphene, as Chrysler said, 25 milligrams. Clomiphene or N-clomiphene? N-clomiphene, sorry. Along with Mesterolone, 25 milligrams. There also, I throw some DHEA at 25 milligrams that has benefits for the stereogenesis. Then the most vital mineral, which is zinc, at 25 milligrams as well. Then also, I give the steroid vitamin D3 at 10,000 I use. And finally, I add the boron, the mineral that does the same job as Mesterolone at 6 milligrams, which is a higher dose. Okay. So this protocol for 20 days, for three weeks, why? Because the providory comes in 20 pills and I don't want to do any kind of addiction to the medication. So within 20 days, we can double or even triple initial testosterone levels. 90% of the cases, it works. The 10% that doesn't work is when the patient doesn't focus on the sleep, doesn't eat well, over trains, or drinks. All right. Now, the other option is to add some HG. HG kicks the balls. All right. At which point? In the beginning of the protocol? In the beginning of the protocol. Okay. HG, small doses, 1,000 I use every three days for one or two weeks. All right. And after that, you throw the enclomethane with the rest of the supplements. So we have first the stimulation of the balls. Right. And then the stimulation of the hypothalamus. All right. In that particular order. Okay. And the final result is very promising. I mean, people have reached over 1,000 nanograms. All right. But the point is, it's not going to last. So if you have stress, if you have insomnia, if you have a fight, if you work too much, if you are not living well, then it will rebound. Okay. And after a couple of weeks or even months, the patient comes to say, well, I feel tired again. And then the final option, the inevitable TRT. So they come back to when they've stopped the protocol. So you do this? Yeah. Right after. The day after, taking your labs. And then it doesn't hold? I mean, do you have a... Well, it lasts, but it depends on the patient. Yeah. How he lives. Okay. If they're not living healthily, then they give you right back to where they started. And so is that, I guess, promising to continue? Do you continue to do cycles of this boosting? I mean, no. I mean, well, initially, we have the plan A, the plan B. And if it doesn't work, you move to TRT. Do you have any case studies? Or can you tell us about a patient that this has worked for? I'm obviously not really revealing their name, but do you have any sort of story about a particular patient? Several. I mean, everything that I upload on the social media is about the endogenous testosterone reaction. Okay. And people ask me, do you introduce the social media? No. This is the endogenous one, which is the real deal. Actually, it's much better to increase your own production rather than depend on exogenous levels. Yeah. Well, because some people, they are freaking out with medications and lifetime treatments. All right. But we're not sure that it's going to last and if it works, you know, forever. That's true. The long-term effects of, because you're still taking an exogenous substance, which isn't even natural to your own body, which would be clomiphene or enclomiphene. To get your body to... You give a boost, you know. You don't rely on this for life. Yeah. So it might be just awful when you need fertility as well. Well, actually, as a matter of fact, both HG and enclomiphene increase fertility, right? Yeah. Yeah. Well, it increases intratesticular testosterone that will mature the sperm, all right, through the latex cells. So, yes, they can increase fertility, but if you want the real deal boost of these are totally cells, yeah, you need to add some HG. So the fertility protocol is 1,000 I use of HG every three days, along with 150 of HMG every three days for one month. And then I give low dose of enclomiphene, along with tamoxifen low dose. I will also do a similar job as Cermos. For the LH, yeah. Yes. Tamoxifen is sensitized as the LH. But that one has some more side effects on the tamoxifen. Well, tamoxifen and enclomiphene do the same thing, but at a low dose, they work synergistically. Synergistically. But you can do the same with enclomiphene. And so I guess there's one mistake that most guys then do make when they're on clomiphene or enclomiphene. What would that be? Well, enclomiphene has a side effect of blurred vision because it causes retinopathy, moodiness because it lowers the estrogen, and also it raises this HBG that makes you lack of sex drive, actually, because this HBG traps the free testosterone. You know, and I think we'll talk about this in a moment, but what do you think about when you inhibit the estradiol in the brain? Essentially, that's what you're doing with clomiphene or enclomiphene. It tricks hypothalamus by lowering the estrogen in hypophysis, and then this is a kick for GNRH that will kick LH and testosterone afterwards. And that's what it's known to do. But what is it doing to other neurotransmitters, do you think? Do you think it's affecting your dopamine or serotonin? Perhaps, because they feel moody and crappy on clomiphene, and they feel depressed after a couple of times. And I remember bodybuilders used to use up to 100 milligrams of clomiphene, which is a crazy dose, and tapered down to 50 or 25. But this is crazy stuff. I mean, Chrysler said, go low for a brief period of time. You just need a kick. You shouldn't use this for a prolonged period of time because you have the side effects. So the PCD protocol works as a stimulation, not as a permanent thing. Okay. Then, obviously, with time, you're going to have the recuperation and recovery. So what have you seen different between the clomiphene and the n-clomiphene? N-clomiphene is much more expensive and lacks of the side effects. You don't get as many side effects from the n-clomiphene? You don't have the blur vision, the mutiness, and the elevation of the SHBG. Okay. You've seen that? Yes. That's really good then. Yes. So less side effects. And do people tend to stay on the n-clomiphene longer than the clomiphene? Yes. One month. Two weeks, the HG, one month. So it's six weeks totally. Okay. And then they stop. Yes. And then so you're on your own. You can keep, for instance, zinc, boron, D3 vitamin, you know, but the medication needs to stop eventually. Would you recommend if a patient wants to stay on it for six months, the n-clomiphene? No, no. I don't. I don't. You should stop. Come on. You should rely on something. Besides clomiphene, we know it's thrombotic, pre-thrombotic. And even the n-clomiphene? No, the n-clomiphene. The clomiphene. The normal clomiphene, yeah. I'm not sure about the n-clomiphene, but to me, the PCT is just a kick. Just a kick. You should rely on this. So you're on your own. You're on your own? Yes. You should be on your own, actually. Okay. So you're recommending the clomiphene and clomiphene mostly for, I guess, post-cycle recovery. Not just that, but people who never touch steroids are around 450, and they don't want to use the stress, or 350. Or even 250 have worked. But it's not that promising as the initial starting level. Okay, so now getting to the one mistake people make. My thought is, and tell me if I'm wrong, this is what people have been waiting for. If someone has elevated LH to start with. That looks like primary hypergonauts. Yeah. But many people are taking the aspartic acid, frivolous terrestris, long jack, or fenugreek. Is that doing anything? Because if these are guys- No, listen. It works in the paper. It elevates LH. But in the paper, it gives you perhaps a better sex life. But if you have primary hypergonauts- No, it looks like in the paper as a primary because it kicks you, you have an LH of 8, for instance. Right. That it's because of the supplements. Right. That supplements kick the LH, okay? They skew it. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. But there are some patients who aren't on supplements. They have- They come to you and have an elevated LH. Yes, indeed. They have around 8, for instance. Do you think this protocol would work for them? Well, it will be even higher with the serum, right? It'll go even higher, yeah. Because after the clomiphene, you have LH of 12, for instance. But how much more do you think- I mean, how much more juice out of the orange can you squeeze on a guy that has an elevated- The point LH will kick the testosterone. A bit more, a bit more. But there'll be diminishing returns, won't there? Like, if they're already at the top of the line- It's not a promise in there. There's no promise that it's going to be effective long-term. Actually, the clomiphene is good for the secondary hypergonauts that has switched off the LH. Yeah. All right? But that's not that common, is it? The secondary. Yeah. You know, the secondary happens to people that have abused steroids. Right. All right? And it's called late-onset hypergonauts. Late-onset hypergonautism. Yeah. And recently, I've seen a 60-year-old guy who had LH of 0.7 and a total testosterone 0.15. A woman has 50. Oh, my God. He had 0.15. And he told me he feels very weak. He couldn't wash his hair. What Mokitalis said. He could barely stand and walk. Of course, nothing to do with sex. Of course, yeah. He was overweight. He was around 95 kilograms, 170 tall. Okay? And, of course, he is TRT because it's the lowest levels I've ever seen. Crazy, yeah? Yeah. And how is he doing now? You said he's over 60. He started using the enothate. All right? He waits a little bit to kick. All right? And it's never late. I mean, he's 60. He should use it. All right? So it's not too late, you're saying. Yeah. Well, I mean, live with dignity for the rest of his life, of his years, because he's really pathetic. So you've seen him. He's happy, this patient. Well, he's willing to use the testosterone, but, of course, it's too soon now until the enothate will kick. But he has no other solution. I mean, what else will work to him? In doing this protocol, would you say the biggest mistake, and we talked about it earlier, is someone not actually getting, would you recommend them getting sperm counts and sperm analysis whilst you're on this protocol? Yes. I mean, if they have not created the family yet, I'm telling them to do a seminal diagram. Check it afterwards also and compare because it will apparently will improve. Okay? HEG and clomiphene will improve the sperm. So, yes, I'll tell them to check it out. And, of course, before jumping to TRT, you should have also a seminal diagram. If you want to preserve your fertility, if it's decent, you need to use HEG. So you're saying it's good to have a baseline and know where your sperm count is? Of course. Then you shouldn't blame testosterone if you're already at oligospermia in the first place. But if you already fathered children, I mean, you could assume that you don't have an issue. And then if you start a TRT after, you don't necessarily have to have a semen analysis. So we can provide those that balance for hormones if people need them through one of our partners. So, all right, so that's a good plan. So I guess there's pitfalls to avoid that this protocol isn't really for life like TRT. There's a couple of solutions for someone who wants to avoid the permanent TRT and freaks out with his lifetime treatment. So I guess you can, at least in the short term. Postpone a little bit. Postpone having to go on a lifelong of TRT. So for final reassurance, you can boost your testosterone. You can preserve your fertility. But you have to do it correctly. You have to do it properly. And maybe the best option is not to expect to be on testosterone or to be on this protocol for life. But to use it to see where you are starting from and maybe preserve that fertility. So in the next video, do make sure you subscribe because we're going to talk about all sorts of things, TRT-related health and wellness optimization. Look, if you want to see if this protocol might be right for you, check out the links below in the description and contact Balance My Hormones. And we can also put you in touch with Dr. T. And don't forget, to your health, to your hormones and to your future family, it all starts with the right protocol. So if you want to preserve your fertility, if you want to improve your quality of your testosterone levels, remember, there is no magic bullet. And then whilst this protocol can improve your testosterone levels and potentially improve your libido and your mood, it might only be short-lived, especially if you're coming off an exogenous testosterone or steroids. If you're trying to maintain fertility or increase fertility, these protocols can work. And Dr. T has shown that they can. And for more content like this, if you really want to learn more about health, wellness and all things TRT, really do subscribe to the channel. Hit the notification bell and hopefully we'll see you next time to your health, to your wellness and to your hormone balance.