 struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling struggling sometimes I would be really tired during the day so the sleep doctor had prescribed the daffinil. It's a dopamine reactive inhibitor currently in existence since it was taken off the market 20 years ago. So I'm back with Mo. He has a website called Desmolicium. He is finishing up his medical program. It would like to be a doctor at some point in the space of longevity, longevity medicine, which is really the next step. It's not just a matter of fixing a problem like traditional medicine does when it arises. It's more than just functional medicine. It's actually looking further afield and seeing what treatments, what options, what lifestyle interventions, what hormones can get involved now to ward off signs of aging later. Is that right, Mo? Yes, I would say that when it comes to longevity, there are obviously countless different ways when I can approach this from what I think what's very neglected is the vitality component. Vitality do not mean cellular mechanisms of autophagy, of aging, of degeneration, but rather how vital is a person because a lot of our longevity is connected to lifestyle and behavioral choices. So simply purely from a perspective of how do I behave, it makes a lot of sense to make people feel good, which means basically increase energy, mood and motivation. And I would say that this is a very neglected area. And once I'll have my longevity practice, this is also what I'll focus on. So the good side of psychiatry in the sense, not treating disease and pathologies, but how can I maintain the vitality of the twenties for a lot longer? That's very important, the vitality, because some of the, uh, these so-called anti-aging treatments, the resveratrol and the soot one and, and, you know, NAD pathway, but, but even going back to the caloric restriction that David Sinclair shows in animal studies and some people studies, it's all about breakdown and catabolism and you've got to feel miserable. It just sounds miserable. Even if the thought of autophagy kind of makes sense, you get rid of the senescent old cells and clear it up. But even that just sounds almost like you're giving someone chemotherapy. And I think in some cases that is, that just sounds awful, right? You don't feel great if you're on those treatments necessarily, or you might not feel anything, but an area that we had discussed before, and I had also come to the realization, uh, partly due to this whole internet buzz around big talk around methylene blue and, you know, talking about MAOI, uh, MAOBs. I thought, well, there's gotta be more to this whole picture than, than just feeling rubbish. So you can live a long time, but to feeling optimal, healthy, like I said, uh, vitality. And, and that's through, I think the dopamine pathway. And what, I mean, you, you, you write about that on your website, Desmolesium, and it's, it really stands out because there aren't a lot of people that really talk, uh, in, in those terms. And now we approached many topics and I can go in a manner of directions. Let's talk about the dopamine pathway. Uh, your dopamine house connected dopamine, libido, and wellbeing. We just briefly, since we are TRT channel, many times testosterone replacement therapy is considered, uh, the hormone that makes work feel good, but really I, I would think, and you might agree with me that it's done through the pathway of, of dopamine testosterone, uh, special injections, but other forms of testosterone can, uh, can boost dopamine to certain degree serotonin. It's probably the dopamine at the end of the day that's making work feel good or easy. What, what do you think? Yes. So if you talk about in terms of hormone replacement therapy, so there's definitely a lot of estrogen receptors sitting in the ventral, which is the area in the midbrain that's producing dopamine. Firstly, going into the limbic system, basically making the basal ganglia loop and finish completing movement, which goes around Parkinson disease, but then also going into the mesocortical system, which is the prefrontal cortex, which is connected to focus and attention mainly. And these systems usually work together. So the one system that's going into the, it's called the ventral tegmentum, the nucleus accumbens that's producing the motivation and not pleasure, but rather the wanting quote unquote, because there's a misconception dopamine causes pleasure. It's rather the wanting at the same time, the mesocortical system makes the organism or the mammal more focused. So it's better at pursuing the wanting. And this is what both systems together. It's what we call motivation. And it also feels good. So it basically, let's say you have fasted for two days and you're sitting in front of your favorite dish. And that's what dopamine feels like. This is craving, this wanting, and it has a lot to do with wellbeing. And it also has a lot to do with agency. So as people age, we lose about eight to 12% of dopaminergic neurons per decade. So simply due to that, it makes sense that dopamine enhancement brings back some of the vitality that's lost as people age. Obviously there are many other things that change, but dopamine is definitely neglected because you mentioned testosterone. There are two hormones that increase dopamine quite a bit. First one is cortisol. It increases it even more than testosterone. And what the honeymoon phase people feel at the very beginning of starting on a testosterone placement is usually due to dopamine hypersensitivity. So basically all these dopamine receptors and all the dopamine signaling cascade hasn't been turned on as much for a long time. And whenever neurotransmitters change, so the rate of change is very important here, it makes people feel good until this encyclization of these receptors will make the answer an equilibrium. It's probably still elevated above baseline, but it's not as pronounced as it was at the beginning. And that's why some guys are always somewhat chasing that initial feeling that they had when they started. And I don't understand why it doesn't continue, but that could also happen with other dopaminergic agents. I know it's part of homeostasis, but it is quite a nice feeling when you can reach that point. Sometimes I would be really tired during the day. So the sleep doctor had prescribed modafinil. I think it's a dopamine reactive inhibitor currently in existence since it was taken off the market 20 years ago. What was it called? The other one? Tin. Tin was basically, it's very old and they used it quite a lot in Europe as an antidepressant. It's a pure dopamine reactive inhibitor and feels like modafinil with a punch. They've taken it off the market because obviously it's faster molecule peaks in the bloodstream, the more pronounced the euphoria. For example, modafinil peaks very slowly. There's comparatively little euphoria. Cocaine peaks very fast. There's a lot of euphoria. Amineptin is somewhere in the middle. And there were people reporting of spontaneous orgasms, for example, on Amineptin. They had taken it off the market mostly because of the risk of addiction. There were some other medications. I think there was something called nomofensin, which is an offensin card. But that was taken off because it created an immunological response. And some people, they couldn't determine which. It created this complex of the white blood cells and got attacked by the immune system. And they had hemolytic anemia. Now, for some of our patients on TRT who end up having high stubble ER hemoglobin hematocritin red blood cells, that might not sound like such a bad thing. But I think the off target effect is probably damage to the kidneys as a result of the breakdown of your red blood cells and probably no way to actually control how many red blood cells that it eats through, it burns through. So there were some more, I guess, the stronger, the quicker the rush into boosting dopamine, the more likely it has more of an addictive property, which would make sense. And then it does, it's not very long lasting. And then even then, right, you would, you have the risk of desensitization of those dopamine receptors. And then in which case you would, it wouldn't have the same effect, right? And you would need more and more of a given amount of medication to get that effect, which isn't what we're trying to go for here. We're trying to maximize youthful, healthy dopamine. Now, what are the, you said dopamine decreases about 13% per decade. And we're talking about, there are certain enzymes in the body that break down dopamine, so it limits its availability. So monomines, so serotonin, dopamine, or adrenaline, they need to be metabolized because simply it does the way the body deals with things. It just loses things, then breaks them down again. And there are two enzymes that evolve by a gene duplication. One is monamine oxidase A, which breaks down all three monamines, probably roughly equally. And the other one is monamine oxidase B, which breaks down dopamine and trace amines. Trace amines would be phenylotilamine, for example. So they're chocolate amphetamine. Right. It's located in different neurons. So monamine oxidase A is located in pretty much every neuron. Monamine oxidase B is located more, it's more located to dopamine pathways. And these enzymes, of course, they go up and down with age and et cetera, but there's also a lot of change that happens to the dopamine synthesis, the dopamine signal along these pathways. But all else being basically inhibit monamine oxidase B, you have more dopamine available that's packaged into the vesicles, which has been released and can signal on the target neuron. It's probably the most natural way to increase dopamine levels because let's say you use a dopamine-reaptic inhibitor like modafinil or amineptin. B-propion. B-propion only has a, they say, 300 milligrams, so a standard clinical dose. Only 20% of that. So dopamine transporters are occupied, which is quite low. But with modafinil, it's 50% to 60%. With metilfenidate, it's even higher. With cocaine, it's even higher. But bupropion is more a no-adrenaline-reaptic inhibitor, which increases dopamine in prefrontal cortices. But in terms of the mesolimbic increase in dopamine levels, bupropion is not very good. For some people, it's better than others because it ends on what enzymes you have because bupropion has quite an affinity for dopamine transporter. Going into a little bit of pharmacology here. The major metabolite, the hydroxybupropion, which is five to six times higher in the bloodstream once steady state levels are reached, is mostly a pure noradrenaline-reaptic inhibitor. So most people, the noradrenaline pathway is much higher than the dopamine pathway. But here comes the thing in the prefrontal cortex, that dopamine transporter expression is very low. It happens via the noradrenaline transporter. So if you inhibit the noradrenaline transporter in the prefrontal cortices, you elevate dopamine selectively in the prefrontal cortex, not in the mesolimbic system where most of the dopamine reuptake is done by the dopamine transporter. Where in the brain do you want dopamine to be the highest form of libido? In the mesolimbic system. So basically, the dopamine, so there are three dopamine pathways, there are four dopamine pathways. We'll just neglect the oleactin pathway for a second. So there's two dopamine pathways in the mesolimbic system, and there's one that's going in the cortical system. So basically, there are two, there is in the, in the, in the midbrain, there are two nuclei. There's the substantia nigra, and then there's the ventral tegmental. The substantia nigra is what's producing dopamine and shooting it into these motor loops of the basic ganglia. If that's broken, then you have these Parkinsonian symptoms where you're jerking and where you can't move automatically. So the automatismity of movement is less. Then the other two is one is the same thing as the motor pathway, but going into the emotional areas of the brain. So in this case, the ventral, which is the nucleus accumbens, first and foremost, but also the anterior cingulate cortex, which has a lot to do with emotional processing. The orbital frontal cortex also with a lot to do with emotional decision-making. And dopamine in these pathways, obviously there's a lot of different things, but it, among things, it elevates the perception of motivation, agency, libido, and also modulates appetite. So basically all the, the wanting and all the, the goal oriented behaviors take place in that. And the dopamine in the prefrontal cortical system, basically dopamine at the same time as it goes into the mesolimbic system. So the whole motivation, libido, everything stuff. And it also goes into a mesocortical system. So in the prefrontal cortex where it activates attention, selective attention, planning, simulating, all these things. So which makes sense evolutionarily because the wanting is triggered. So let's say you want to crave chocolate and at the same time, the pathways are turned on that help planning, that basically help creating a goal or a directed plan. How do I get to the chocolate? Do you want to elevate it mostly in these, in the mesocortical and the mesolimbic system? Yeah. So the, the substantia nigra is just the normal movement kind of thing. Right. The other way to, I guess, boost dopamine or the dopamine receptor is with dopamine agonists, and which can be, uh, some, well, are prescribed in those who have elevated a prolactin or prolactinomas or prolactinemia. And I don't know if you had much experience with dopamine agonists at all. I personally don't have much experience with a colleague friend who is a psychiatrist. He does a lot of research using these drugs for treatment resistant depression. And they can be quite powerful because as said, depression is a super heterogeneous term. And dopamine is definitely one of these, the Cinderella transmitter has been neglected. So a lot of focuses on the serotonin system, which is a hundred percent important. Also the Northern Ireland system. But the dopamine and neurodegenerative system has been mostly of limits partially because it's dopamine agonist or dopamine reuptake inhibitor or anything dopamine modulating many times causes self-administration in rats. And whenever a compound causes self-administration in rats, it's thrown out before it's used or before it can be studied simply because it's an indicator that it may be causing addiction. I like that. It's probably not the smartest way to go about to find life enriching molecules, because obviously it's just a limitation to the research. But the dopamine is super important for depression, because if one could argue that certain forms of depression, especially the apathetic kinds of depression, if you increase dopamine, then you just have this more wanting, you get more joy, you get more life force. You can see what happens when people are giving antipsychotics. So whenever I worked in psychiatry, usually when people are giving antidepressants, they change a little bit. But with antipsychotics, it's a huge effect on personality. So antipsychotics usually will prevent the receptors, but they particularly block the D2 receptor. The D2 receptor is the receptor where Promipexil, for example, works on. And these D2 antagonists, one could argue that they take out quote unquote life force. People become anhedonic, they just want to lay around, do nothing, which is good if they are suicidal or if they are psychotic, but it's not a great way to for taking. So if there is the faucet drips, it's not a good way to basically turn off the whole water supply to the health. If you found this video helpful, hit the like button and subscribe for more content on hormones and men and women's health. And until next time, take control of your body and your health.