! so you don't miss future content. So today we're here in Miami, lovely day. We're here with Dr. Rudy Eberwine, who is a doctor and a medical doctor in the United States who specializes in TRT at the Medical Health Institute. And we're really happy to be at his home today with this lovely background to film and answer some of the questions that you may have asked is, and this is a constant one, it gets many, many searches, is, you know, what should I do about hematocrit? And we know that men who are on testosterone replacement therapy, you know, may have a rising hematocrit, you know, due to sleep apnea, or just the reaction to rising levels, because it's a good thing, isn't it, that testosterone rises because many people who are deficient on testosterone tend to be anemic at times. So I'm gonna let you discuss, you know, what, I guess, what is the basis for, or should there be a basis for treatment? Should you do any treatment? And what should that be to control hematocrit when you're on TRT? Very good. That's such an important question, and such a question that still, we don't have great answers for. So first, let's define hematocrit. So hemoglobin slash hematocrit, it's the measure of the volume of your blood, your blood count, how much blood do you have? So hemoglobin is the actual measure of the blood cell mass. It's usually up to 18.5, which is the normal, and the hematocrit is a ratio. It's usually times three of the hemoglobin, something close to this. So the normal up to 18.5 of hemoglobin and hematocrit up to 48, 49 usual. So with the testosterone replacement, there's a pretty high incidence. It can be anywhere from five up to 40% of patients may experience an increase in their red blood cell mass that we see on our blood test has an increase in hemoglobin and hematocrit. So there are a lot of factors that may contribute to this. For sure, one of the important things is hydration. So if you're not hydrated, you go and do the blood test, you were fasting, you didn't drink much water, it's possible that you see a higher hematocrit as compared to your hemoglobin. So I always tell my patients, make sure you're well hydrated when you're going to do your blood test. But if you have a patient that you see that their hemoglobin slash hematocrit and their red blood cell mass is consistently elevated, and in the US, the American Endocrine Society and American Urological Society recommend that up to 52% of the hematocrit. So we go with hematocrit because it's a cleaner number. The European guidance is up to 54%. Exactly. And then have some sort of pre-optimate or intervention or dose lower. Yeah. So in the US, we have 54%. In European units, 54%. So basically… 52% in the US. In the US. And 4% in the US. Yeah. So again, no consensus because we don't have great studies on it. But there are a couple of studies that show that if you have a higher blood count, a higher red blood cell mass that correlates to a higher viscosity of the blood, can there be bad consequences like a stroke because of diminished blood flow? And there's a study that hinted at this. And that's why there's a lot of fear when you see a higher hematocrit level. Was it in patients on TRT or were patients with kidney disease? No. It was mostly on patients who weren't doing well. It wasn't just on TRT. So higher blood viscosity in sick patients only that they studied tends to have prognostic consequences. They've never studied it on patients who are healthy and on TRT. So that's why what's bad for us, we can talk a lot about anecdotal evidence, but we don't have any long-term study. Again, I'd like to talk about Dr. Ramasamy. So it wasn't an interventional study, are you? It was not. So lots of it is where everyone is speculating on a potential threat, but not understanding the full science or the full outcome because there hasn't been an interventional study done. Exactly. And they are doing a study now at University of Miami, Dr. Ramasamy, where he is looking at patients who are getting testosterone replacement therapy. What's the percentage of them that will have a higher hemoglobin hematocrit? They've done studies on that where they see, and it's a pretty, it could be anywhere from 5% to 40%, and it depends on the patient characteristics. Definitely, if you have underlying sleep apnea, if you're a smoker, if you live in high altitudes, you tend to have a higher baseline hemoglobin hematocrit, and you tend to have a higher response of those parameters to your testosterone. So if I see a patient that's coming in already as a highest level on his hemoglobin hematocrit, I may want him to do some more testing and to check for sleep apnea, I see if they are smoking, but that's still not a deterrent for me to start them on testosterone if they really need it. Now, the way we do at our clinic, we do follow-up blood tests two to three months later, and three months later after that. So the studies that they are doing at University of Miami is exactly this. Patients on testosterone replacement therapy, let's see what their levels, what's the percentage of patients that will go a significant increase in their red blood cell mass hemoglobin hematocrit, and what are the consequences of this. So until we have those studies, we're kind of lost. And I'm going to tell you my personal history of this. Again, I've been doing testosterone replacement prescribing for a patient for about 13 years. I went on treatment myself when I experienced low T symptoms about three years ago when I was 48, and I've never had problems with high hemoglobin. Until last year. I'm not sure why I had a moment where my hematocrit went up to 54, 55. It was a time where I was really, maybe I wasn't eating as well. I was definitely, I went on the higher dose also. What year was this? About three years ago. So it was before we wore masks. There were some people who were saying if you wear masks. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, hypoxia, could it be? But, and my levels went up. But I went and checked because I wasn't feeling good. And I had symptoms of our hemoglobin. So for me, what I experienced, and a lot of patients will tell me, I felt a heat sensation. I thought it was my estrogen. My estrogen was fine. Did you shower or just randomly? No. Randomly I would have, I would feel the feeling of head. My head was full. Sometimes anxiety. A little shortness of breath. So I got a little more winded with lower activity that I used to do. And I was like, and I was like, got a little anxious. I'm like, what's going on? And they're very nonspecific symptoms and they may affect patients differently. So, but for me, when I experienced that, I was like, who could it be? Yeah. I kind of watched. I changed my diet. I hydrated more. I was like, let me repeat it. I confirmed with all this. I was in the 55. No. So baby aspirin, really, the studies are not really showing us anything. And if, if as physicians, we tell go on baby aspirin, it's because we know, oh, so there is a risk of stroke. We haven't proven that yet. So for me going on baby aspirin should not be until we've proven that there's something. Sure. Because baby aspirin, I don't know if you've seen the latest reports, it's no longer recommended for primary prevention of heart disease. Right. Because of the higher risk of bleeding. So for me, what I did, once I, wow, that really happened. I went and donated blood. Okay. And they were able to donate. One, one unit, two units. I donated, the standard is two units. Okay. And within three, not even the same day, within two to four days, it changed. I didn't have that head, full head sensation. Um, you know, on testosterone, your metabolism goes up. A lot of guys may get some little heat waves, heat flash. Um, I used to have that more under high hemoglobin. I have them way less now. And that little anxiety, little shortness of breath. And when my heart would go a little faster at times, that's gone. So I have to say, I can't prove it, but I have to say it was my hemoglobin. And when I talk to a lot of patients, I have patients who come with a hematocritic of 60, no symptoms whatsoever. But then I have another one, 52, 51, and blood pressure is up a little. It feels a little more anxious. So again, we need to listen to our patients. So when I see the number, I have them hydrate and repeat. And if it's high, I go deeper into the questioning. If they have no symptoms, I may decide not to do anything. But I feel like, again, when I spoke to Dr. Ramas Tamigodis studies, it's pointing. I can't wait to see those results to see all their consequences to this. Right now, we don't know. So the way I do it at my practice, if the patient has symptoms and you're above 50, 52 for sure, go and donate. And I don't over donate. That's another problem also, which I'll go over that. So first, yeah, ferritin. So if you are at those and you have symptoms, go and donate. If you pass 50 to 54, even without symptoms, you know, because I don't have the studies yet, I can't be sure. And there's a possibility that there may be some consequences. I will tell the patient to go and donate. But I usually, for me, donation is two to four times a year, no more than every three months. So you can donate sometimes every six weeks or eight weeks. A lot of guys on TRT, because we've heard that, especially in the bodybuilding world, they donate too often and they crash their ferritin. And I've seen guys coming to ferritin of 10. Now they're exhausted. They have that palpitation. They have that anxiety. Which one is causing it? Is it your high hemoglobin? Is it the low ferritin? So when I see that first, I'm like, stop donating. Let's get your ferritin back up. Sometimes I go with a low, short course of, of iron supplementation to bring the donation to bring the ferritin higher. But what's important, if you have somebody who's really experiencing this continuous elevation in their hemoglobin hematocrit, then you have to say, okay, what can I do to decrease that side effect? So first, avoid high peaks. So that's what I did. I decreased my total dose and I split my injections into three. We do that a lot in our practice now. So the typical way most clinics do it, it's a once a week injection and the urologist tells to do 200 milligrams or 300 milligrams every two weeks. So now you've got a high peak and then it quickly goes down. The patient doesn't feel good at the end. And the high peak tends to be associated with more increase in hemoglobin hematocrit. So, so, so, so. There did a study that said it's actually the trough level, the free testosterone on the trough. Completely. Was a good indicator if your levels were going to, I suppose, yeah, I suppose it's overall higher levels, especially measure on the trough. And that's going to be good indicator. So sometimes we've seen patients even on that, not many patients do this, but some patients have requested, they didn't want to do injections as often. So they've asked for every, you know, 10 days. And even though they'll do a higher dose, 100 to 200 milligrams on trough, they're much lower. And we haven't seen the elevations of hematocrit and hemoglobin in those patients. I think it's when the peak we've seen anyway, that the levels may be higher for the hematocrit. Definitely. And that's why, for example, I'm going back to the short acting testosterone, the testo. The studies are very clear, the testo, because it's such a short acting, so you get a peak and it quickly comes back down. There's way less chance of increasing hemoglobin hematocrit. So if you have a patient that has a problem and you take them down, the short acting testosterone, not the testo. The other short acting testosterone form is just pure testosterone with the rapidly dissolving tablets. It's pure testosterone. It's two to three hours short half-life. So you get a quick peak and it dissolves. There's way less, even the creams give you less incidence of increasing the hemoglobin hematocrit. I think it depends on the person. And the other conditions, like we mentioned, if you have comorbidities like with sleep apnea, it seems that does trigger. No matter how low a reduction or how low the peak of the trough are, we tend to still see people, it does rise. Yeah. So the way I approach my patients who come in with a high hemoglobin hematocrit, when they come to me first, were they hydrated? Were they not eating well? Is there something on that side? Repeat it. If it's still high, okay, you've confirmed it. Second, do they have symptoms? And listen to the symptoms. There's not a specific set of symptoms. They can be nonspecific. But if they have symptoms and it could be related, listen to the patient. It could be. So now we decide donation or no donation. Then if it's something that continues, should we change the delivery method of testosterone? As you said, there's a lot of intrapersonal determinants of this, whether the patient has sleep apnea, there's a genetic predisposition that we don't know about it. Are they smoking? Do they live in high altitude? So there's all these other things. But there's no questions that once you've seen that this patient keeps having a high hemoglobin, what should you do about it? I tend to err on the cautious side. I don't want it too high. Even if you don't have symptoms, because we don't have the studies yet, what can we do to maybe change that? What can we do on your peak? I have guys who go on daily micro dosing sub-Q injections. And yet there's less chance of it happening. Where we see it a lot, the high hemoglobin hematochrit is on pellets. Because exactly pellets will give you a high peak, stay high for a long time, then goes down after the months. You see a high incidence of high hemoglobin hematochrit. And as you see, so I don't even say high hematochrit. I say high hemoglobin slash hematochrit. Because when you say hematochrit, there are so many factors that can influence that. Also polycythemia. So most doctors call it, oh, you have polycythemia, which is too much blood cell. You know, the high hematocrit. And red, and platelets. Well, no, polycythemia just is, and I don't like to use that word because there is a hematologic malignancy called polycythemia vera, P vera. So if you say polycythemia, you know, my primary care for my GPs would call me, Rudy, what's going on? This patient has P vera. I'm like, no, they don't have P vera. They may have polycythemia, but I don't like to use that because they may be like, oh, polycythemia is P vera. No, it's different. So if you have polycythemia, I call it secondary erythrocytosis. Okay. So that's a better term. So you don't confuse it with that P vera. P vera, yes, if you have P vera, there's a high risk of stroke, heart disease, it's a cancer. But P vera usually is associated with low platelet counts. There's a specific genetic marker, Jack, that you can follow. It's a different animal than secondary erythrocytosis. I've suffered with it. In fact, you know, even before I came to Miami, I tend to, I've come traveling every three months before I fly an aeroplane. I'll donate some blood or have therapeutic for botany. Yeah. I do it all the time. I do it a few times a year and I do feel a little bit better. Yeah. So there may be a therapeutic basis for therapeutic botany. Yeah. So I'm going to tell you for me personally, I've experienced it. It made a difference on how I felt. So, so now in my mind, I'm going to most likely donate twice a year just because then I know I decreased my dose and I feel great. So I may donate once or twice a year, which is a good thing to do anyway. And then monitoring my levels. But if you have a patient that for whatever reason, whether it's genetic underlying sleep apnea used to be a smoker that happens or it's a genetic predisposition that we can test for. And you see them consistently with a high hemoglobin hematocrit. I do address it with them. Yeah. That's something that. Dose changes. Yeah. Modality change. Plus the therapeutic of optimism. Or even informed consent. And I'll document that in my child. Be like, look, we don't have the studies yet. My patient, I have a patient. It's always 58 or 60 on a hematocrit. And he said, I feel fine. And for him, he says, I don't want to donate. And you know what? I'm like, you know, I'm okay with this because we don't have the studies yet. So when I tell to donate, I base that on more clinical experience, anecdotal. We don't have a full study. So if a patient is 58 and 60 because of the studies, they don't feel bad. They don't want to change. I'm okay working with this. Although I'm going to still be like, hey, man, we should really try to stay below 54. But I'll work with that patient because we don't have the studies. Again, we'll stay tuned for that University of Manu study when it's going to come out. And then we'll discuss it and see where we are at that stage. I mean, it's really frustrating for lots of patients. And even on the clinic side where we watch, it's like, oh, it's caught up a little. It's, you know, and it's this, this, uh, yo-yo effect. It is frustrating. And it's really bad now when the patient go to their GP and then you get a panicked phone call from the patient. My GP said, I'm going to have a stroke. They put me on aspirin. They told me I need to come off the station right now. It's a 30, 45 minute conversation with that patient because now they are scared. The GP scared them. Yeah. And we see the same thing. And I cannot blame the GP because we don't have the studies yet. So if you think the old school thinking, that's what we're thinking. We need to go away from this. But I cannot now as the testosterone replacement specialist, I can't say I have a study to show you that high HNH in a healthy TRT patient has no clinical consequences. We don't have that study yet. We can't say for certain. We can't say for certain. We can't say for certain. We're stuck in limbo. Exactly. Stuck in limbo until more studies coming, which are underway. What about certain pharmacotherapeutics to help mitigate maybe the potential belief that, I mean, we've talked about, oh, this has got this pipe and you're filling it up and the pressure is getting tighter. I mean, I think there's not everyone would agree. They might say, well, there might be flexibility in the pipe or the vessel. So they may accommodate over time this higher level, but there may be pharmacotherapeutics. I know I've spoken with Dr. Tliathos about a pentoxyphiline. It's actually a prescription drug I'm on that helps the blood flow and it was originally prescribed for intermittent claudication. Have you had any experience with this? I don't. And I use pentoxyphiline a lot for my intermittent claudication patient. A lot of my diabetics tend to have this. And we use that there. Again, there's no studies to show that if you have a high hematocrit that you use it with this. It is more anecdotal. Does it make a difference? We don't know. So I haven't used it. For example, there was a nice study that showed that when you have a higher, when the hematocrit is higher, yes, there's more, the blood is thicker, but there's a compensatory increase in nitric oxide that helps with the flexibility of the arterial wall. So, but it is an endogenous production of the nitric oxide. Right. Is taking nitric oxide as a supplement making a difference? So I can tell, I tell my patients that if you have a high hematocrit, take, I like nitric oxide more as a vasodilator to try to, but all this, it is anecdotal. The pentoxifiline. We don't have long-term studies. On the sartan, there was some small study, I think, for the sartan showing that it may lower a bit the amount of hematocrit. I haven't seen that. I haven't seen that. Losartan I use a lot for my diabetics. I'm sorry, for hypertension. It protects the kidneys on my diabetic patients. I haven't seen that. But if there's any of this, this would be just a modest, modest decrease. Can you, would lose out and make a big difference enough that you can stay? I can't say I haven't seen the studies. I know we don't have the studies on this. The big question is really talking to the patient and being, letting them know that, okay, this is there. We don't have real good studies for evidence of harm or evidence of no harm. So I cannot tell you that for 55 or 60, you're going to have something, but I cannot tell you that you're going to be completely safe. This is a decision we have to take together. And then we keep looking for new studies. I guess time will tell. Time will tell. And in the meantime, really, if it's too high, let's find a way to decrease it. And let's keep looking for studies. What I love being in this space is we're learning as we go. And this type of medicine has humbled me so much. Every time I think I know a lot about it, I realize how much I don't know about it. So the more you do under those studies, the more you realize you don't know. The scary part is when you have either a doctor or a patient tell you, I know everything about this. No, we're only just learning. So it's the same story about the AI. When we first started practicing, all my patients were on an astrozole. But now that we know better, the studies are different. You know, I was able to take off 98% of my patients have on an astrozole. So we need to see studies adjust our practice for the betterment of our patients. And for me, for me also, I'm not only just the doctor, I'm also a patient. So I have vested interest into learning all this, bringing it to my patients and to myself. Oh, that sounds good. So, I mean, this is always a hot topic, like I said, the light on hemoglobin. So I suppose just with, you know, being aware, monitoring patients as we do at our clinic as well. We do the blood tests six weeks, six months, one year. We recommend 18 months or then yearly after, whilst they're on two RT treatments. So, and obviously we get two tests before they even start. Definitely. One thing I've seen a few patients with, and when I say a few, more than what I see in my typical patients, because we also check iron levels, ferritin level and iron saturation levels. And I've seen a few cases of familial hemochromatosis, where there is a genetic predisposition for the patient to accumulate iron into the liver, where the iron saturation is above 50 or 55%. Those patients tend to have a higher response to their hematocrit with testosterone. So I've seen some of those patients. What's the treatment of familial hemochromatosis is regular blood donation. So if I see that a patient has a higher iron saturation level at baseline, this patient I know, oh, I got to watch his hematocrit and he may need to donate more than my typical patient. Also, at baseline, if they have hemochromatosis, that could be the possible cause of low T potentially. Yes. Yes. So that's why we started checking iron and iron saturation level, because we are seeing iron is toxic. Iron is toxic. So if you have higher iron levels deposited into your liver, in your testicles causing low T, causing liver dysfunction. So it's not a high percentage of patients who have this, but for us it's worth to test the few patients we found with this that made a difference in their lives. That's really good. Anything else? A word on this topic? I think the most important thing is let's not make decisions until, final decisions, until we have definitive studies. And that's, I'm talking about all of the TRT providers. We need to realize the studies are not there yet, whether it causes harm or whether it causes no harm. Right now we're doing the best that we can. You look at symptoms, you confirm diagnosis, you use phlebotomia as the right way. Grape seed extract is something that they talk a lot about also as a natural supplement that may decrease, decrease hematocrit levels. I don't use it much because if... The grapefruit extract? Grapefruit extract. Sorry, not grape seed. Grapefruit extract. So, that's also something that a lot of guys like. They do their research and they go on this. I don't use it much. I've seen it. Me, it's more, if it's there, what can I do with your dosing? Still gives you the testosterone results you need, but how can we adjust your dose or get you the right phlebotomy schedule to keep you in the lower end of that level until I get the final study? Yes. Well, that sounds good then. That's essentially, you know, should you be worried about hematocrit? The evidence isn't all there yet, but we'll, you know, as good TRT clinics, we're going to monitor that and we're going to take the, any potential treatment changes as needed or any other sorts of phlebotomy to potentially lessen a risk, but we don't, we don't know yet for sure. So, and I think just to finish to me again, I'm the eternal optimist. I'm the always focused on the positive. Since we don't have study, we don't have to worry. So, so there's no cause for concern, but there is costs for discussion. Discuss it with the patient. We all have our protocol. We know how to deal with it. Some patients fall a little bit outside of the range and you deal on a one on one on one basis. Everyone's different. Everyone's different. The lifestyle. Exactly. The best way to monitor them on the way. So yeah, well, thanks. Thanks again for another video and yeah. And everyone watching, thanks again for watching. If you like the channel, you know, please consider subscribing. Also leave comments to let us know if you've had any issues with the hemoglobin or what actions you or your doctor may have taken. We always like to hear and get comments from you. So thanks again. And we'll see you next time. We'll see you next time. Bye. Thank you. Thank you.