 larsin. Two. So Losartin, a common blood pressure medication. Today we're going to talk about, could Losartin help lower hematocrites? And potentially, is it a myostatin inhibitor? So today we're with Dr. George Tuliatos. We're going to discuss these things. So keep watching. Okay, so welcome back to another Balance More Hormones video. So we're with Mike and with Dr. George Tuliatos today. So Losartin is a common blood pressure medication, an ARB2 inhibitor. And there's been, some of these drugs have other effects in the body. Things like Telmosartin has shown to be like a PPAR agonist, which can have some effects on metabolism. Losartin, we're going to talk about, I mean, I'm going to ask you, George, is the, is, can lower hematocrit. I know you've tried this yourself. Is that right? Can it lower hematocrit? I know there's some studies on it. Yes. Actually, officially, it's an anti-hypertensive drug, you know. Some support it against the Cometin enzyme 2 inhibitor, but actually, it is what you said before. But in first place, Losartin, it lowers, of course, the blood pressure, which is regulated by the kidneys. However, when I was consulted by a hematologist, speaking about my main issue, which was erythrocytosis, he never mentioned me about Losartin, that is available in Greek pharmacies, in the name of COSAR, at 50 milligrams and 100 milligrams. But Nelson Vigar, two years ago, had a post that, which, of course, from Papmed, which is the most reliable medical site, is online, that Losartin is able to lower hemoglobin, of course, hematocrit, in studies, in persons, that were already having high hematocrit, so erythrocytosis, not necessarily polysterythemia. And also, it is very promising that people that receive androgens and have secondary erythrocytosis from either TRT or AAS. So I tried myself, you know, and unload those, of course. First, initially, I tried 25 milligrams and was not so efficiently working. However, I realized that I could postpone my phlebotomy for perhaps two weeks more. So instead of six weeks, I could go to eight weeks. Now, during the quarantine was a perfect time period for me in order to stop the TRT because we had no physical activity to the gyms, we had no sex. I mean, the social meetings were cut off. And I had a major reason to lower my hematocrit by stopping testosterone on purpose, of course. So for eight months, for eight weeks, for two months, my data testosterone dropped down to 150, which was my lowest ever since I was hypogonetic. And I was, of course, using a little bit of HGG alongside some DHEA, some pregnenolone, but not after four weeks. So for completely one month, I was totally off. And I have to tell you, I felt seriously hypogonetic, low sex drive, fatigued, I couldn't walk up heels, you know, even though I was, I was kind of edgy, you know, so testosterone does not make you super irritated. Also, hypogonetic does make you also being edgy, you know, even though in the absolute, in the complete absence of DHT. But anyway, I noticed that after starting using testosterone replacement therapy at 100 milligrams, so before the quarantine, just I was returning from USA, I was using 175. This is, let's say, my blast protocol using 25 milligrams, 0.1 ml every day. So I was 175 and my total testosterone was above 1,000, but my hematocryl reached up to 60. And this is horrible. Of course, I'm using penoxyphilin, I'm using salicylic acid, I'm using fish oil altogether, you know, every day. And after a while, you know, it reached 20, hemoglobin and hematopage 60. And I started taking a loss at around 50 milligrams. Now, there were some times that I felt hypotensive and drained and tired a little bit. But I have to tell you that my next CBC was down to 51, 52%, which is crazy low for me. I've never been below 49 or 50 hematocryl for more than a decade. And my lowest ever was 46% when I was hypogonetic and off from steroids for seven months in order to start my HPTA. So, I'm very happy because my hematopage now, it's close to 51, 52%. My hemoglobin is below 18, you know, and really satisfied it's 17, 17.5. And now, I'm able to blast again my testosterone to 175, so 25 every day plus a little bit of DECA, which is 5 milligrams every day, 0.1 ml out of 50 milligrams. So, both of them have no major impact into my hemoglobin. However, I will perform a flevaromy because I don't want to miss that opportunity and I don't want to be, you know, how you say, I don't want to be so spoiled on Lossartan, so I will drop some blood on Monday because it's healthier to give some blood. And, yes, I think I found the miraculous track and I thank you to Nelson Berger for this. However, officially, it's not supposed to do this. It's off-label, you know. So, I mean, you had, so just to clarify, you obviously stopped TRT, which would have helped as well. Yes. But prior to that, you noticed you could go longer without having to donate blood, so it did have that positive effect on slowing. Now that I'm back to TRT, yes. Yeah, yeah, okay. Interesting. I mean, under different circumstances now, I should have been, who, between 55 and 60, you know, easy. So, do we know the mechanism at all of how or is it just, I mean, I've not looked into a lot of the studies about it. Do they know or do they have an idea of how it may? No, I have no, I have not, I'm not aware of the mechanism there, but I suppose it has to do with EPO and kidneys and then EPO stimulates red bone marrow. But of course, another stimulus for EPO is hypoxia. So if you snore, if you have OSA, then it's another, another factor that will evade your hematocrit, besides the androgens, you know? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, we see that a lot, George, on, um, and smoking, of course, the same mechanism. Yeah. I mean, we see on blood tests, elevated hemoglobin and hematocrit, you know, for men that have relatively low levels of trough testosterone and then when, uh, they're asked, do you snore, do you think you may have sleep apnea, that's usually the cause for it and that's best to get that treated first, um, or lose weight because of the excess weight may also lead to that sleep apnea. Yeah. So high attitude, you know, they live up to the mountains, you know? Yeah. Live at altitude. Yeah. So I suppose Lysartan, if you are going to be on a blood pressure medication, then you might take advantage of this if you're a person who's got sleep apnea or prone to high hematocrit because you're going to have to lower the blood pressure if you're doing it via medication anyway and this might give you that, that added benefit alongside. By the way, if you have high hematocrit, you should have low blood pressure, you know, as a compensation, central mechanism in order to relieve your blood vessels from extra stress and also what I noticed was that as my hematocrit goes down, platelets go up and vice versa. So when I had super high hematocrit, my platelets was kept down below 150,000 and I guess this is a compensation of the system in order to avoid clotting. I suppose the trouble comes when you've got arterial sclerosis. This is for your spleen, yes. You know. This is everything up, yes. Yeah, and that's what's really coming to trouble. Interesting. Okay, Mike, have you taken Lissartan before? I had taken Lissartan for that. One of the reasons for it was to help with elevated hematocrit and hemoglobin, though much of that got sorted with proper CPAP, but there was a time when I wasn't on CPAP and Lissartan was prescribed and it did help as well. Yeah, it was an interesting drug, but there were, it's not a polypharmacy for many patients and it may not always be the right option if you can get to the source with, you know, CPAP or, you know, a dose adjustment. I suppose erectile function is something you've always got to be aware of with blood pressure medications. I'm not sure Lissartan is something that is shown to... It's not a bit of luck or no. Yeah, no, I mean, but still, there's, you know, you can see the lists of the ARB2s and the ACE inhibitors next to each other and the proneness to potentially affect erections and some of the ARB2s do. There was a study in dogs, sorry, there's a study in dogs that showed giving intercavenosal injections of Lissartan in a dog's penis would cause a maintaining erection almost as a vasodilator, you know, I'd hate to be the researchers to do that study. I'll do anything. Yeah, yeah. So, okay, so that's Lissartan. Do you think we've got anything else to add? Oh, yeah, I mean, and also Nelson pointing out that it's also a myostatin inhibitor like, for instance, folistatin and then I guess this is why I had a great rebound after the quarantine and I put on 15 pounds. Yeah, you're all looking quite hench these days. Yes, it's not that that's social. Yeah, yeah. I don't know. Even, even, you know, sometimes the bro, not especially the bro science, but off-label characteristics of some drugs like Flembutero, MDs prescribing for asthma, but they have no idea that it burns fat. So, sports, sports science knows that beta-tick stimulants also burn fat. So, the same with Lissartan. It's supposed to treat medication, but as perhaps a potential side effect may lead to anemia. Anemia for me is cool because I'll never get it. So, you see, I may get benefited from a side effect that for somebody else would be disastrous. Yeah, so that's something to be careful about. If you're anemic then, taking it. Yeah, yes, yes. Okay. So, what about the myostatin effects then? What is, so maybe inhibiting myostatin? Yeah, but other things... Myostatin is a protein that elevates, I mean, if it's elevated, it means that it hinders your muscle gains, your muscle growth. Now, myostatin has applied in medicine under certain conditions where it's severe cachexia and the Duchenne heart atrophy. So, there are some people that are born with small heart, for instance. The myocardium as a muscle is atrophized. So, they get myostatin in order to elevate my... to increase myocardium size and thickness and I guess contractility, but it's... it applies quite narrow, you know, in the medical field. But have you seen the film The Natty Professional with Eddie Murphy that was a little mouse and was started growing? Big, big, big... It was sort of a myostatin, you know, introduction that there is no stopping muscle growth, you know? Yeah. It was double muscle cows and even double muscle dogs. Yes, yes, yes. There's pictures of that are enormously muscly, very low body fat. There was an experiment with the three non-crowned Olympians with Kevin Lebroni, Flex Wheeler and Sean Ray. So, they took a biopsy from their quads and found out who has the least and the less myostatin. Actually, it was found that Flex Wheeler was the most genetically gifted with negligible and zero amount of myostatin. That's why he was able to put on mass within eight weeks for instance, you know? Yeah. But there has been no real improvement on myostatin inhibiting drugs or therapies at the moment. You know, there have been some talks. No, but I know some supplements that may help. It's HMB, it's creating monohydrates and avoiding cardio that elevates myostatin. There's some small details, you know, that may... So, leucine and HMB are natural myostatin inhibitors and also creating monohydrate. And as a matter of fact, gopher hormone itself lowers myostatin. And so does recombinant folystatin, which is not available. Yeah, folystatin is a synthetic version of the... I mean, it's a drug that... The thing is, though, with drug development, right? I mean, I was part of a... I was involved in doing the rehab for a drugs trial with a myostatin inhibitor. And although they may gain muscle mass sometimes, they don't get the functional outcomes. So if it's in elderly people, it might be like, okay, well, you need to be able to climb the flight of stairs this fast. It does try, yes. And because it doesn't give... Even if it... You know, you might argue, you know, better health outcomes from just having more muscle mass, et cetera. But if you're trying to rehab from, like, an orthopedic surgery, you know, in the instance that I was in doing the rehab for, if you're not getting the strength and if you're not getting the functionality, their outcome measures for measuring it, they sort of discard it. So I know Jean-Francois Tremblay was talking about some guys who have used the ACE 031 or something like that, the myostatin inhibitor, and it causes like global, quite massive response, really expensive, but the load on the heart so quickly is not great for the body and some very gutsy bodybuilders have tried it. So I suppose there is some truth to it. But I was also listening to Carl Anor, George, you know, you've been on Carl Anor. And he was saying his thoughts on it, that the amount of myostatin that you would have to inhibit continuously to get a massive amount of muscle growth is quite dramatic, like it's rarely achievable. So I suppose it's just something that can help, but it's not going to, Lysartan's not going to suddenly turn you into a flex wheeler, right? It's a different situation. But it's an interesting area. They are developing and investigating drugs for it. But I'm guessing aging has to be related with elevated myostatin progressively. Aging and kahixia and muscle wasting versus myostatin. I mean, it should be proportional. Yeah, I suppose there might be a lack of the other anabolic effects going on. Yeah, lack of testosterone, lack of GHHF1, but also I guess it's elevation also of cannabolic myostatin. Well, maybe not to mention the cloth though as well, the effects of this protein. The cloth, yes, yes. Now, I had first this discussion with my supervisor in the clinic I was at three years ago in Athens, Greece, so they approached me in order to help them with sharing my knowledge with TRT. And Dr. Papa is notorious for anti-aging, so he's in front of Spatini and her tongue. And he was the first to talk about in a seminar he gave us about the cloth. This is a protein. Cloth is an ingredient ancient name that refers to the destiny. And actually cloth was one of the three goddess of the destiny. But anyway, cloth is a protein that is found in rats highly expressed in the genes of rats that were linked to longevity and lower amounts of this protein into higher mortality rates. So I was into a site yesterday of PubMed speaking about the role between GH, IGF-1 and anti-aging or mortality and longevity. And it was mentioned cloth of this protein. And actually it's related. And so you need a substantial amount of IGF-1 in order to have longevity. But too much of IGF-1 will lead to cellular proliferation. This is the basis of the tumor growth and how the cells multiply through metoctid divisions and then the tumor grows on the cancerous state. So too low also IGF-1 is also linked to mortality rate according to her talk. Therefore it has to be a balance. Now we know that IGF-1 links to muscle growth and GH leads to fat burning. So it's two different states. When you fast your GH elevates and leads to fat burning. But when you fast also your IGF-1 drops. So IGF-1 needs some calories but also IGF-1 is linked to mTOR elevation that is progressively theoretically may be linked to cancer and cellar divisions while fasting and GH elevation to AMPK. So it's one against the other and has to be balanced. But I guess that GH is linked to anti-aging through this elevation of the cloth of protein. Now the telomeres also are another thing that the longest telomeres in the end of the chromosome means that the longer you will live. It's in the genetic charyotype. Astragalus is a notorious supplement that is able to increase telomeres. so the shorter the telomeres the shorter the lifespan. So which supplement did you say boosts the telomeres? Astragalus. Astragalus. Astragalus. Astragalus. I can never say it. So you know what else may increase cloth though? There's a substance that we've talked about on these programs we talked about recently. I bet it's pentoxyphilin. Yes. That also may be used especially for kidney patients with kidney disease. This is cool. I told him about I'm using paroxyphilin for circulatory reasons and he said it's a minority drug related to aspirin for instance. So I'm very happy to listen to this now to learn this from you. So yeah. Cool. It's good. I love that one. That's the aim. Okay. Okay. So that was the discussion about Lysartin can it lower hematocrit might be something you want to consider judging what we've talked about in the studies if you do have high hematocrit and you're already on blood pressure medication. We talked about clotho and its potential link to anti-aging longer life and how growth hormone and IGF want to link to that. So thanks for watching and if you enjoyed these videos please click subscribe like and thanks and we'll see you next time. See you next time. Two