 a sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt sixt If you're new to the channel, please press like and subscribe so you get future content. So we're here with Dr. George Tiliatos, an expert in TRT and has written numerous books on bodybuilding, HRT, hormone replacement. And the topic we're talking about today is how to recover from injuries or surgery. Dr. George has had a recent surgery. He's going to discuss his experience and why he feels, also based on the science, why his improvement and his recovery have been helped along by TRT and HRT. Hi, George. How are you today? Hi, Michael. Thanks for the invitation once more time. Thanks. We always enjoy doing this. So how are you feeling now? Are you feeling better? I feel great, actually. It's almost five days post-surgery. I was operated on Friday morning. And actually, it's 12 days post-trauma. So the accident occurred on Friday night. Okay. And I wasn't able to train legs for 10 days. I did it yesterday with my bodyweight. Of course, I was squatting and I was lunging with my bodyweight of 218 pounds, you know, 98 kilograms, 99. And I did, of course, a full workout with the rest of the body groups, but just pumping, you know, getting jacked with more reps and few weights. And I have to tell you that I feel fantastic. I use minimal amounts of painkillers and inflammatory drugs. I visited today my surgeon who told me, what kind of drugs are you using? And I told him that I just use a little bit of non-steroid inflammatory. I minimize my coding, but I sent him a text, you know, about this regimen that I'm following. Of course, he's not aware of this. And that my HRT regimen helped a lot in order for my rehabilitation process, you know, and recovery and recuperation. So, testosterone, of course, but also my HRT that's composed of nondrolone and growth hormone plus HG, DHA, DHD. Before you go, go for the whole thing, George. Let's back up and tell everyone what happened, how it happened. Yeah, I was doing heavy barbell rows and dead leaves. So, how long ago was this? Two weeks ago? Three weeks ago, you were doing heavy barbell rows? Twelve days. Twelve days ago is when you first injured your... And what did you injure? It was a spinal injury. Yeah, it was lumbar five. So, the lowest lumbar, the last lumbar vertebra, you know, in the intervertebral space between the two vertebra. So, lumbar five and sacral one. So, the disc was broken and fragments of the disc were found in the hypolytic sac, which is a portion of the spinal tube. Okay, of course, the spinal cord ends in a high level, but over there in the hip-redux sac, there are some nerves that obviously they were affected by the... These remnants, these fragments of the broken disc. And also, my sciatic nerve was really injured. That's why it gave me horrifying pain towards my left leg, you know, from the butt to the hams and then to the fibula and to the tibia, you know. So, you couldn't walk? Did you have difficulty walking or...? I couldn't walk. I mean, I was standing in order to pee, you know, and I was holding on my one foot, you know, on the other foot. And unless I couldn't stretch, my other leg flexed the hip in order to stretch the sciatic nerve and unblock it. It was horrifying pain. And I felt completely, you know, how do you say, helpless. And disabled, you know. So, it was horrible. The pain, Wikipedia scales it 9 out of 10 of the highest pain level, you know. And I took massive doses of painkillers and anti-inflammatory drugs in order to sustain the pain and be able to take care of myself in the restroom, you know. And basic stuff, you know. I couldn't walk to my kitchen and have my breakfast, you know. I was asking for my sister to prepare the breakfast for me. So, it was terrible. And so, I visited six doctors, actually. Two of the finest neurosurgeons. That told me, this is something common that you shouldn't open up, you know. It will heal progressively. And every Henrya, because I was Henryaided and bulging discs since 2018. The point is, last week the disc broke, okay. So, these Henryaided discs or bulging discs will be phagocized by the macro fakes and will be resolved as, you know, connective tissue and will heal in the long term, though, okay. The point is, until then, you're going to suffer major pain. And another two orthopedic surgeons told me that, yes, it will take some time. It will heal. In a few weeks, perhaps, you should step aside from exercise, of course, and manage the pain. But, the professor of orthopedics, who is specified in the spinal cord injuries, told me that, according to your lifestyle, and because of those fragments that are found in this specific space of the spinal cord, you're going to suffer some calcification in the long term, okay. And, and some, and been also disabled in order to abduct your lower limb. So, 20%, I was not able to abduct my left limb. And also, stand on my, on my left, how you say calcaneus is the, the back of the, of the, of the feet. Yes, this bone that you, okay. So, I had this inability, 20%, so, four out of fifth. And, this was under a neurological examination by the doctors, okay. And, he told me that, actually, this will make it worse in the long term. And, actually, 20 years ago, my mentor in bodybuilding had the same injury. And, he texted me, last week, he told me, today, I'm half paralyzed in this, in this movement. So, you cannot, this is a flexing the, the ankle joint with the calf. And, you know, the opposite direction with tibialis anterior, when you raise your toe, your, your, your feet, okay. So, yes, it will be a problem in the long term. So, this, this surgery was, actually, something precociously to avoid the worst in the long term, okay. So, it was preventative, then. Yeah, preventative, yes. And, actually, the pain, and the, the, the, the pain would go from 9 to 0, okay, 9 to 1, okay. But, the, the recuperation was so fast that I was able to walk the next day to attend my grandmother's funeral or to do some cardio as a good, you know. And, actually, go at work and do this, a little bit of cardio, just to send some blood the days after. So, if I was not operated, I would have problems with motility and, also, in the long term, some parishes. We mean, half paralyzed, you know, in, in some degree. Yeah, that's not really good for, for the future as we get older. You want to maintain your mobility. So, so, how, how are things now? You said you got an excellent prognosis from, from the doctor, and you think it may be due to some of the TRT and the HRT that you've, that you're on as part of your hormone replacement therapy. So, what, what's the prognosis that the doctor, that the doctor had mentioned? But, it's excellent. He told me how you feel. Are you able to go to work? I mean, how's pain? I told you that it's, it's, it's perfect. I mean, I feel like I'm going, I'm like a car who did the, you know, the service and to the suspension. And I feel great now. He kind of laughed, you know. But, I believe that testosterone and mainly nandrolone because nandrolone speeds up muscle recovery after, after injuries. But also, growth hormone because growth hormone is able for cellular metaplosis. You know, anaplosis means healing, rejuvenation. The, the basis of anti-aging, making new cells, you know, and recovery, even of, even of peripheral nerves. And actually, there's some data online about this, some recent data. They speed up recovery and healing, you know, of the tissues. And this is about what, what stress are about, you know, to make new tissues under, for instance, burns, okay, or wounds, big wounds, okay. And, of course, to make new tissues, that is the process of anabolism in medical field. George, do you think there's enough literature or data to present evidence to say that for many patients who have an injury, that it could be prescribed in addition to that TRT, like nandrolone or HGH, for the purpose of recovery and not just necessarily for the purpose of restoration or replacement therapy? Yes, I believe this is what replacement therapy can help about. Apart from the hormonal environment for the lack of sex drive, you know, and the metabolic issues about diabetes, or metabolic syndrome, or depression, or osteopenia, or anemia, it can majorly help with the musculoskeletal system, you know, and the, the, the connective tissue and the joints, okay. So healing of ligaments, of the tendons, of the peripheral nerves, you know. Actually, arteries become more elastic with growth hormone because collagenic fibers are synthesized. They make it more elastic and less atherosclerotic. So the more GHT you're using in the long term, the more elastic your arteries are. And actually smoking cuts down vitamin C that makes more fragile the arteries, you know. Yes, I feel, I mean, very energetic when I wake up in the morning. And I don't feel sore and I'm pain, you know. And I owe this to growth hormone. Actually, I sleep six hours rather than eight. And I feel the same level when I was sleeping eight hours, you know. Of course, proper timing, 11 to 7, okay. But I, after six, after six continuous months of using low dose of growth hormone, now I, I visualize and I realize the effects. And especially after this surgery, you know. Fortunately, you're one of the doctors that are more open-minded about the benefits of, you know, growth hormone along with the TRT. And I suppose what I was asking, you know, how do we convince the rest of them that there are therapeutic benefits after an injury? If you apply to, to, I mean, to patients that have these issues with, with healing process, you know, and rehabilitation or recovery, you know. All they have to do is this. That sounds, sounds like a reasonable plan. All right, is there anything else you want to discuss on this topic? Do we, do we hit all the big points? Yes. So, we have another application to the locomotory system with, with testosterone and the rest of anabolic hormones, apart from the other applications. So, yes, you can recover faster. And it's not necessarily to, to have a spinal cord trauma or to become operated, but from any kind of physical activity, you may recover faster throughout your HRT regimen, you know. Okay. Well, that sounds like a win-win, especially when you're, you know, you can't walk if you've got pain, if you're getting some improvement. I guess the question is, would, would one stay on those additional, I suppose, the anabolic steroid and androlone, or would they stay with those treatments? How long would they stay with it? How would that be determined? I guess the doctor that's treating them would determine how long they stay with it. I mean, is that, what, what's your plan? You did a short course added to your TRT? Well, you have to watch out your labs, of course, your lipids to be well, your hematocrit, your hemoglobin, your liver enzymes, your homocysteine, that are mainly affected by by androlone. And now about the HF1 to be optimized, watch out your A1c from the growth hormone, you know. But as long as you're healthy, Michael, why, why on earth to stop this, if it works? It's small doses, okay. So I'm using 175 testosterone, I'm using 35 nandrolone per week, and I'm using 3GH. If I can afford it, and it works for me, then why on earth should I stop this, since I feel like a Superman? And mostly my labs are healthy, okay. I don't struggle, okay. So, knock on good, who knows if I broke my leg the other day, you know. Do you have to restart the game my protocol? So I keep this, because I feel vulnerable at 47. But I cannot do the crazy stuff I used to do, you know. So, why not try to reverse time, you know, and slow down aging? I've been on, you know, TRT, HRT. Well, I'm on most of the world, man. Providing T4 will make your mood better. I start taking 25 micrograms of T4, the least dose of the basic thyroid hormone that makes also T3. And it can look leaner, but also, I believe I feel less tired in the morning, because her talk said, if you wake up tired in the morning, it's just like the adrenal fatigue syndrome, and you supply, you supplement with T4, this is resolved, okay. So, I believe our organs are going downhill. So, I'm going to watch out my TSH. As far as it's slow and it's good, and I don't have heart palpitations, okay. Why on earth to stop it? Because perhaps my thyroid, my TSH would go 3 or 3.5, you know. Yeah, or maybe even a desiccated thyroid or a mix of T3, T4 in some cases are showing even better efficacy. In mid-40s, start developing some nodulations, you know. Yeah, and we will, on another video, we'll discuss thyroid treatment and its benefits that goes along with TRT. So, that should be out in another episode. And if you want, if you have specific questions for that, please leave some comments, and we can address those in future. That sounds like a reasonable plan. It's good to see that you two are also on all the hormones. And like I said, my journey has been about 25 years, starting with testosterone treatment. And I agree, I'm 46, and it has improved my quality of life. Pharmaceutical grade stuff, because everybody will stop going underground labs and dig up all the compounds, you know. So, it has to be officially approved, you know. And that's the danger sometimes with the information on the internet. I mean, we're trying to provide a balance, no pun intended, perspective and view, you know, within the confines of a medical clinic. But there's so many people who will read something, and I come across it all the time, and they decide to, you know, take it into their own hands, even when they are prescribed things, to say, oh, I'm going to add a little bit of this and a little bit of that. When really they should focus on what their doctor is treating them at their time is recommending. Recommending, because otherwise, why even, you know, utilize a service if you think you're going to just kind of do it on your own. Yeah, I told you that the day before the surgery, I had to be consulted by a cardiologist. So, she asked me, what are you on now? What are you taking? I said, this, that, that, that, that. And finally, she couldn't realize. She told me, do you need all that? I said, I'm under optimization. Of course, I watch out everything. And I believe I do need these, all these things. And there is no something problematic with my ECG or with my echocardium gram, you know. But if somebody doesn't know, he just blames and demonizes. So, I told you, finally, my last word was, without testosterone, you will develop cardiovascular disease through metabolic syndrome and diabetes. That was my final word to her, okay? And that's so true. And that's why it's so important to always stick with a healthy amount of testosterone. So, thanks, George. That's very helpful, your perspective on your use of additional hormones and supplementation to help you with your recovery from your surgery. I'm really happy to hear things are going in the right direction for you. And it sounds like there's a combination of different hormones that may be used under the doctor's care. And to look at the benefits that it brings to your quality of life, which is important as we age, especially as we become more fragile as we age. And the hormones may buffer us against some of this fragility. So, we've got more fragile as we age. And having TRT and having HRT helps us buffer against some of that, the frailty that you'll experience. And I'm happy that I'm on TRT and HRT. I know you are too, George. I think that's something that I'll continue to as long as my health improves. And you should make sure that your health indicators are all in balance and under the care of a doctor. So, if you have thought about or if you are using any other substances to help improve your recovery from any injuries, let us know in the comments below. And we can address them next time. And also, don't forget to like this video and subscribe if you want to see more content like that. It really helps the algorithm. So, thanks again, George, for coming on. And we will see you next time.