 Whoop Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who Who going to discuss today obesity and testosterone. Is there a link? What's the relationship? Hi, Dr. T. Hello, happy new year. Yeah, you too. So, obesity, I know it's a chicken and egg scenario, some might say, but can low testosterone cause obesity? Does obesity cause low testosterone? What are your thoughts? Yeah, it's both of them and absolutely low testosterone can lead to obesity because people with low testosterone have lower energy and are not capable of building lean body mass and muscle tissue that increases, of course, basal metabolic rate. And the other thing is that obesity can lead to elevated estrogens out of visceral or mental fat that are a negative feedback for the hypothalamus and generates release that will stimulate LH and testosterone finally. So, both can happen, you know? And of course, obesity can lead to afterwards to metabolic syndrome and diabetes type 2. So, George, I have a question. I've come across patients who have been told by an endocrinologist because that's in the UK what happens. You see an endocrinologist sometimes and they'll say, oh, well, you're obese. So, my recommendation is just lose weight, even though your testosterone is low, just lose weight. Is that what we're saying? This might help a little bit with testosterone levels by dropping your estrogens, but it's not a treatment and a cure for hypogonademy, of course. And by losing weight, it doesn't mean that we lose muscle, fat tissue. The critical point is to preserve muscle tissue. This is done only with high protein, little weights and enough testosterone levels. So, the endocrinologist has no idea about the body composition. You lose some muscle tissue as well, but you know, this is nothing to do with a healthy individual. So, I think there's another one me and Michael talking about the other day where there's a chap that is now on treatment and doing amazingly well, you know, lost nearly four stone, but he had insulin resistance. So, I suppose that's another cause, you know, testosterone. This is the cause of low testosterone, of course, you know? Yeah. And obviously, if you're trying to lose weight and improve maybe metabolic syndrome markers and things, having poor insulin sensitivity, as in how your body responds to it, it really hampers that situation. But this chap had seen an endocrinologist and he had levels of sort of six, you know, nanomoles, which is incredibly low. And he was told to just lose weight over and over and over. And he was doing everything right. So, for years, you know, great diet, great exercise, really, really putting in the effort. He didn't have high issues either, but he's still overweight. So, yeah, because there's no testosterone to aromatize. Yeah, literally nothing. But he, you know, he had a, and he was still told, even though he's been that same weight since he was sort of 16 years old, you know, and he was very muscular, larger, thick-set guy. He was told that he, you know, he had to lose weight. And that was the only way that he was going to, in any way, get to a point of trying anything, um, testosterone-wise, right? And now, now that he's normalized his testosterone and is, is still continuing to do the same things. I believe, you know, it's improved. By the way, I looked before when I, when I retired from bodybuilding, and I waited a window of seven months, in order to see if I could recover my testosterone really low. I don't believe that you can be muscular with low testosterone, you can be big because of excessive also body fat, you know, so having a large BMI doesn't necessarily mean that you are high a percentage of muscle. Uh, and I believe that the more you're going to stay hypogonadal, the more you're going to suffer in recovery, muscle gains, and actually this is a carabolic process. So remaining hypogonadal will lead you to eating up your muscle and leading to skinny fat. Yeah, I mean, you see it in hospital when you get, they, uh, I used to see it a lot in my practice when you get somebody who is obese, um, and maybe it then has a surgery, and then they just waste internally, they lose all their muscle mass. But then, you know, if you measured them, their BMI would still be huge because they've got fat. Yeah, I mean, muscle is not converted to fat, but it's the shrinkage of the muscle that will lead to lower metabolic rate. In case also you keep eating the same calories, dropping the calories also is another point of lowering your BMR, you know. So exercise and frequent meals, enough protein will ensure that you keep your BMR high in order to keep your fat low, you know. But certainly low T is not a cool scenario. In order to anabolize, you need hormone, you need resistance, and you need food. So these are the three main... What do you think about the different biomarkers sometimes you see, um, obese men may present with, like, um, HbA1c that's elevated, uh, potentially elevated hs-CRP, and the linkage with low SHBG? Now, elevated A1c is a result of visceral fat due to low T, okay, the insulin resistance. This will lead also to dyslipidemia, elevated LDL also, total cholesterol. Um, the other thing about SHBG, as far as I know, SHBG is proportional to elevated estrogens, okay, but elevated SHBG, of course, means low free testosterone. So, I mean, Sam, I think we've seen some patients, um, who may sort off a bit more obese. Um, sometimes their journey, um, is a little bit rocky at first, would you say? Yeah, definitely, definitely. And, um, there are these other factors to consider, uh, so, um, what are your thoughts, uh, on metformin in obese patients along with TRT, George? Yeah, it's, it's something obligatory. I also use metformin, and it can help you to lower your cravings, your insulin resistance, because cravings, it is the result of insulin resistance. Glucose cannot enter the cells, and it keeps releasing insulin, and you keep staying hungry, and fatigued, and hyperglycemic, even though you eat. So, food is not assimilated. Testosterone also can do the job, let's say, of metformin, because it burns visceral fat and lowers its resistance. So, metformin and testosterone are melacore combination to improve or to reverse your diabetes state, okay, and it helps you to lose fat, to lose body weight and fat, of course. Uh, and I have to tell you that aging is related to elevated SHBG, and my assumption is that AAS, elevated SHBG, has to do with waste, and wasting leads to elevated estrogens. So, higher estrogens, higher SHBG, lower for testosterone. Okay. So, with, um, with those, uh, obese patients, I mean, first of all, there's, I did read a study recently where they have given men who have type 2 diabetes, they've given them testosterone treatment, even though their testosterone in their minds is actually reasonably good in the normal range, and they had improvements in insulin sensitivity, like you're saying, George, they had improvements in those things. Yeah. I mean, in America, in certain places, testosterone and metformin are being used, even if you're not, you know, by the standards requiring, you know, TRT for, for replacement with, they didn't have symptoms, potentially, potentially of like, you know, the low libido and those other things, but just giving the testosterone and giving them more than they had before was improving insulin resistance. I remember Chris, I used to say that in the near future, assessing, assessment of a diabetic patient, I mean, uh, looking up to diabetic patient type 2, we have to assess his HPDA profile, because most likely diabetic patients are, are, are going to be hypergonatic. So taking testosterone will also improve the diabetic state, you know, so something together. So I think the, when, when, uh, from a patient point of view, me and Mike, like Mike was leading to earlier, definitely noticed that, um, when somebody who is obese, maybe, and has years of insulin resistance, all these sort of things, when they start TRT, they're, they're, they have some expectations of, of what the general consensus is that you see on social media of like, you know, massively improved physique and X, Y, and Z, and all these other things. And I think when you're in that state, it can actually take much longer because of trying to improve, even if you're doing all the right things, obviously that needs to be key, but improving insulin sensitivity, having that knock on effect to your metabolism, visceral fat changes, body weight changes, blood flow, and all those other things that, that, that you get benefits from. You almost have to go through this like transition of reversal to then get to the point of then getting the full benefits of somebody who may not be as obese. I've definitely seen that pattern. Um, so yeah, maybe this is where that metformin might be beneficial. Maybe that's where, you know, having the awareness of, of, of the effects of obesity on the body could sort of explain that and give people some reassurance that if they are, I say, you know, obese, overweight, insulin resistant, even, you know, TRT may take a bit longer to manifest the benefits. Would you say that's true? Well, as we age, we have to know that glycosylation of proteins occur. So pancreas loses its ability to release insulin and insulin resistance develops as, as kahixia and muscle weight is also occur because the more, the more kahixia you have, the more visual fat you have that leads to insulin resistance. Um, and, uh, it's more likely for a TRT patient in his mid forties or mid fifties to take also metformin because people in this age generally develop insulin resistance. Okay. So, I mean, as a summary, um, we could, uh, essentially, I think there's, there's not anything clear cut, but if you've got low testosterone, it seems you're going to have a higher chance of putting on way. When you see obese people on the street, my, my theory is that something goes wrong with the, with the thyroid, which is the metabolic, you know, stimulator and with the, with testosterone in men, at least, you know, and perhaps we have some coaching syndrome, you know, excessive of cortisol and adrenal hormones. So, um, we have to fix either the testosterone or the thyroid and sometimes it's both hypothyroidism, uh, is linked to hypogonadism, you know, so certainly it's a metabolic thing apart from overeating, you know, and not exercising. So sometimes people, we shouldn't blame people for being fat because something goes wrong with the hormones. I mean, I suppose you've got any cause of potential, you've got drug, other drug types, certain treatments, hormone issues that could cause obesity, which then might lead to. Yeah. But it's time to, of course, is the, yeah. It's a good lifestyle. Yeah. And then, but then you could have, you know, you could be a person that's, or, you know, not experienced any of those things, has low testosterone for a certain reason and then ends up becoming more obese because of it. So I think that's quite a good, do you think that's a good summary of sort of how those two things might link? And you can look at it in a binary way of you must have low testosterone because you're fat and that's your fault basically, which is what we see. Could be. Could be. Yes. Okay. So that was a discussion about low testosterone and obesity and how it links together. If you like these videos, please like, subscribe, you know, other videos in the YouTube channel, we've got more coming. So thanks for joining us guys. And we'll be back soon.