 as oustican oustican ou oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican oustican studied and I don't know why it is. So today's episode, I think the endocrinologists are going to be thrilled. We want to relabel endocrinologists as mediocre diabetes specialists. All right. So welcome to Balance My Hormones, where we ask tough questions that others in medicine don't want to ask. Today, we have a special guest, Dr. Chris Aiken. He's a psychiatrist and author and a thought leader who's helping reshape the world of psychiatry, mood, motivation, the brain. He's also the editor of the Collette Psychiatry Support, one of the few, if only, newsletters that don't take money from big pharma. So I think I got that right, Chris. So one of the things we want to talk about today. You sure do. Thank you, Michael. Thanks, Chris. So that's great to have you on and to discuss, I guess particularly why psychiatry has largely ignored the role of testosterone in mood and cognition, especially in men, but also for women. So anyway, thanks, Chris, for having us on. And I was going to leave with that question. Yeah, it's interesting because we all have an intuitive sense that our hormones affect our mood. And psychiatrists have that sense as well. One of the first treatment studies was in the 1930s of thyroid and mood. And we've been using thyroid since many decades to treat depression. That's well known. But the effects of male and female hormones, you know, estrogen and testosterone on mood are not as well studied. And I don't know why it is. I don't know if it's a funding issue or what it is. But what we do know is there are a few small trials of testosterone where they tried to treat clinical depression, like major depression, with testosterone supplementation. And it didn't work both in men and in women, which was surprising. But then we have studies in the Traverse trial that I know you've covered is the largest yet, showing that if you don't have full major clinical depression, but you have like a low grade depression, a low mood, that testosterone supplementation can improve mood as well as energy and sexual function as well. And that's what we find with our patients. So that's a really good segue into the major depressive disorder, which there are men that will come to our clinic who may have suffered different degrees of depression and eventually think that testosterone is the answer. For many men, it really was the missing piece of all of it. And some of them have weaned off their SSRI treatments, which is somewhat standard for GPs to prescribe on the NHS and others continue to struggle. I think they say depression, you never really fully get over it, but you kind of manage it. But one of the areas is that even with testosterone in some patients, I think you can still experience issues of depression. So that makes perfect sense if it was, I guess it was a monotherapy that the study you're referring to, not the Traverse, but when you said they did study testosterone in psychiatry, that it was the only modality in that mix? I think it was. I'll double check that. You know, another thing where testosterone kind of indirectly comes into play here is that testosterone tends to go down in the wintertime. And we all know there's a big effect of wintertime on depression, particularly if you live in the northern latitudes like the UK and in the Northeast America. And there are studies showing that Lightbox not only treats depression, but can raise testosterone and improve sexual functioning. Well, that's interesting. You kind of told us something about testosterone treatment. So, Chris, when I'm… Yeah, you know, you listen to enough music, you get the sense that everybody's having higher sex drive in the springtime. And there's some truth to that. The sunlight does bring out a lot of increased sexuality, which might be related to testosterone in some ways. Do you think it might also be due to dopamine, the sunlight? You know, we get a good exposure to sunlight. I mean, unless you're like the… Yeah, it certainly affects that. Yeah. Yeah. And then it claims he puts sunlight on his testes, on his scrotum. That seems to, for some men, boost testosterone at least in the… Oh, interesting. I didn't… I don't know anything about that. Yeah. We use a lot of light therapy, so you sit under a light box over your head is a different thing. I don't know about that. No, I would know. I was just joking. There was, I think a couple of years ago, there was the Tucker Carlson, when he was on the Fox News, would make some comments about shining his private… Yeah, his bits on some sort of special light or sunlight or the red light. But in reality, I think some of these things that might slightly boost one's natural testosterone might be short. We did a segment on certain supplements that might boost it, but really the only modality, the only treatment that we find that really boosts is TRT, with possibly HCG and then sometimes… Yeah. …and clomiphene can do that, but it has its own particular issues. Well, sometimes I quote studies too much, so let me just be really clear to your audience of what I think is going on here. If you look at all this data, testosterone seems to have a role for low mood in older men as their testosterone is declining, but not as much a role in severe depression. But look what's happening in the world that you alluded to. We're giving everybody with low mood SSRIs, and they don't even have clinical depression. So one possible answer to your question is that scientific doctors, researchers getting NIH research funding and all that are always interested in the severe cases. So they're not finding much use for testosterone in the severe cases. But practicing doctors are always seeing people with mild cases, and I think there is some overuse of the antidepressants in mild depression, and this is an area where men with mild depression can use testosterone. Oh, that's good. I mean, it's good to have some positive feedback from psychiatry, finally, because I think we always saw it as a good fit because whilst testosterone does have especially metabolic enhancements, I think that's where some of our patients can get caught up because you'll get some patients on testosterone treatment and they'll have decreased body fat to a certain degree, especially decreased visceral fat. You have to do the work too. You have to eat well, you have to get enough sleep. You get lots of the metabolic benefits. But then some patients say, well, I don't feel anything, as if they're expecting to take some sort of stimulant that they're going to feel something. And many times it's a very subtle or gradual improvement. But then other times you'll have men say, I just don't feel like I did when I first started treatment. When they first started treatment, there's almost this big dopamine rush when the testosterone, especially if it's used in injections and sometimes the high concentration creams that we can put on your scrotum and they feel really good. And then it flatlines. And we think there might be some other factors, but it doesn't mean that testosterone is not working. We think the other factors may have to do potentially with the dopamine. Yes, that I don't know about. I don't know as much about the connection of testosterone to dopamine. And it can go both ways, testosterone and mental health. It can also worsen aggression, irritability, but it can certainly improve sex drive. Medically, you can see benefits in anemia and bone mineral density and even glycemic control if you're at risk for diabetes. But there are some medical risks too with testosterone and that Traverse trial, which the FDA ordered because they thought testosterone was being so overused in people who didn't need it. But the FDA is like, you got to do some safety testing. And it was surprising. I think everyone was surprised to see the reassuring data from the Traverse trial, particularly with cardiac health. So overall, I think today we think of testosterone as safer than we thought of 10 years ago, but there still are some medical risks that people need to review before considering it. Absolutely. And it's something that we take our patients through, but we weren't surprised at all when the Traverse study came out favorably. We've known for years, we've seen it in thousands of patients, the inequality life improvement. And again, that doesn't mean that you just take testosterone and just don't do anything lifestyle wise because you really have to live healthily. And the testosterone gives you a little push, the little fillet to do those positive things as far as lifestyle and wellness, because it's not just about giving someone. And then maybe that's the difference between what we try to do in the TRT world versus what either the endocrinologists do, or maybe even psychiatry. Well, they're not true, because psychiatry, you also mix it with talking therapies as well. So you're kind of somewhat doing, not just expecting the medication to do the heavy lifting, but there's also some other therapies that you guys would add to it. Yeah. Well, if we're doing a good job, I mean, there's a lot of evidence that we're not doing that enough. So you're absolutely right. But if we're doing it right, we're mixing it with lifestyle. Yep. So with testosterone, we're going to segue into the next section of what we want to talk about, which is something that you really have some level of expertise in. A lot of psychiatrists aren't talking about it either because they're too afraid that, oh, we don't want someone to feel too good or I'm not really sure what, maybe some of the impulse control disorders that happened in the past when people had restless leg syndrome. But one of the areas is, of course, from me talking is dopamine, not just dopamine agonists, but also more dopaminergic agents like the dopamine reuptake inhibitors, because there seems to be many serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or adrenaline or epinephrine uptake inhibitors. But dopamine, I think the only one on the market now is bupropion, recognized in psychiatry. But there is another one that has been type cost as a wakeful agent, and that would be modafinil. Also, another one that's new to the market is the, with cenocci. Cenocci is another one that's a, well, that's a bit stronger on the norepinephrine side of things. Yes. But because they've been, I call, type cost into one role, they don't get to be looked at maybe on a more regular basis. But bupropion has been, I guess, shown for anything from seasonal depressive disorder to depression. So why don't we talk about the reuptake inhibitors first and how they work, and then we can move into the, I guess, the big guns, the dopamine agonists. Or did I frame that wrongly? I don't know. Yes. And I'll start by saying, you framed it really well. And I'll start by saying that when we talk about dopamine, you know, for most people think, I want more dopamine. But it's really, where is that dopamine? You get too much dopamine in your D2 receptors, you're going to get psychotic. You get too much dopamine in some areas, you'll get tired. So not all dopamine does what you want it to. It depends what part of the brain we're talking about, the architecture. And then, like you said, there's also different mechanisms. You can inhibit the reuptake, and that causes there to be more in the cellular space. Or you can just get something that's kind of like a mimic. Like it's going to mimic the effect of a dopamine on the dopamine receptor. That's called an agonist. And that's going right to the receptor, mimicking the effects. So those are our agonists. And you're right, bupropion, Welbutrin, inhibits the reuptake of dopamine. That makes it a unique antidepressant. Many people think it ought to be the most prescribed antidepressant. I mean, there's no weight gain, a little bit of weight loss. It improves sexual functioning. It doesn't harm it. There's very mild or no withdrawal problems where some of the others can have some serious withdrawal problems. So why aren't we given that first line? And I'll give you the history there, is that when it first came out, it was in 1985, they were dosing it at 600 milligrams, which is double the dose we use today. And there were a lot of seizures and doctors got afraid to use it. And then it came off the market. When you're a doctor and the medication has been taken off the market by the FDA, you don't really want to go there again. You've been burned, you know, you don't want to be the doctor prescribing it. So it came back on the market. But by that time, we already had Prozac, fluoxetine, which became the big seller because nobody knew about the withdrawal problems because people were only on it for like six months or a year at that time. It wasn't like this big problem. We didn't even know about the sexual side effects. So if we knew what we knew now, which now we know with the lower dosing and the controlled release mechanism of the new bupropion Wellbutrin products, it has lower seizure risk than most antidepressants. And now we know all the problems with the SSRIs. Dr. David P. But unfortunately, medical practice can sometimes follow the habits of history and doing what other people are doing. So that's where we've gotten stuck in this routine of using the serotonin meds when over time we've seen more problems with the serotonin meds and fewer problems with the bupropion. We might want to think about reconsidering where we start. Dr. David P. Well, what's so shocking is it's really the only one in this class as an antidepressant, unless you would have used the other ones off label. And yet, you know, big farmers continuously, you know, putting out some me too products for SSRIs, but never anything on the dopaminergic side. I know, I think his Bristol-Myers Squibb was looking at Brasofensine that was going to be for Parkinson's. Dr. David P. Not sure why it wasn't released. The side effects weren't too much, but it may have been a dose issue. We know there's tensorfencene, which is a triple monoamine uptake inhibitor that I think personally is too strong on the serotonin side. But some Mexican pharmaceutical companies developing it for weight loss. So again, these all get type costs into their indications. But then you guys, in psychiatry, you're not able to potentially prescribe it for psychiatric issues if it's now for weight loss, potentially, unless you were to take a leap of faith and prescribe it for something in psychiatry, like depression. So I just, I don't know why is the FDA more difficult in approving a dopamine reuptake inhibitor? Obviously cocaine is a dopamine reuptake inhibitor as well as a releaser, right? But we're not talking about that. We're talking about medications for helping people. Dr. David P. No. Yeah. And so you bring up a good point because not all dopamine meds are abusable or addictive. Cocaine certainly is. Pramipaxil, which is the best dopamine agonist for depression, has no addictive potential. They've tested it in cocaine users. No one's ever gotten addicted to it. The propion, you know, it's generally not addictive. It's not a controlled substance, but there are a few cases of people like really having hard times like homelessness and being in prison who are snorting bupropion, trying to get something out of it. So it's rarely can be misused. But generally these are not abusable substances that we're talking about here. Let me go get to the next dopamine class that you alluded to, which is the stimulants. The norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitors, and they also increase the release. So they're both squeezing it out of the toothpaste tube, putting more dopamine in the system, and they're preventing it from coming back in, causing a big flood of dopamine. Well, everybody knows what I'm talking about if I just give you the name. They are methylphenidate, that's Ritalin, Concerta, and amphetamine, that's Adderall and Vyvanse. When these came out in the 1950s and 60s, they were classified as antidepressants. So let's go back in time. If you met someone, they said, my doc gave me an antidepressant, it would have been amphetamine. It would not have been a real antidepressant. There was no evidence that they treated depression. So the FDA, when they got control of the medications in the 1960s, they said, look, you got to prove that it treats depression or stop advertising it as an antidepressant. There was no proof, so they lost that label. Fast forward 20 years, some new branded ones came out. Some of your audience might know them, Concerta and Vyvanse. And the drug companies thought, you know, there was this long history where they used them. Maybe we can get them approved. They ran, I think all together, it was three or four really large trials trying to prove that they treated depression. Every trial failed. And when I tell that to people, they say, oh yeah, Dr. Aiken, but I'm sure it worked briefly just for at least a week. No, it didn't even work for a week. It failed at every point. So I have no doubt that these meds, if anyone has taken a stimulant, they know that, you know that it affects you psychologically. I have no doubt they have real effects, but they don't treat clinical depression. So that's another dopamine failure there that caused that to go away. Although people still use them. Again, doctors prescribe out of habit sometimes, even against the evidence. And then we get to the next class of dopamine ones, which is the agonists like Primapexol. And you want me to tell that story? Yeah, quickly. Never got mainstream. Yeah, quickly though. I want to go back to what you said about the stimulants. Is it a stimulant? Okay, let me just tell you real quickly. Okay. Yeah, go on. Go tell me. Go ahead. Yeah. I mean, the stimulants... No, you go ahead. I was going to jump to topics. Yeah. Oh. Do they not increase BDNF then, the stimulants? Like I know some other drugs do. And is maybe improving BDNF? That's a great question. Yeah. Yeah. So BDNF is the key factor that helps the brain heal and protect itself. I love BDNF because then I know if I'm giving someone a med that increases BDNF, which exercise does to big degrees, then I know that I'm helping the brain heal. I'm not just medicating them with some chemicals. So that's really cool. No, stimulants are the opposite. They, in high doses, they are neurotoxic. Dopamine, too much dopamine in the brain causes the brain to become inflamed and inflammation causes cells to die. So that's why if you meet someone who's used a lot of, let's say, methamphetamine or high dose stimulants recreationally for years, you talk to them, it's kind of like their brain is a little fried. Like they're a little slow to react. They use short sentences. They have long pauses. It's like they're not connecting on all cylinders there. And literally that's what we see on the brain scan. Good news is if you stay off those drugs, the brain heals itself. And if you're using stimulants for ADHD, the doctor is going to be giving you lower doses that don't harm the brain. So that's not dangerous there. But these are not things that protect the brain in the ways that like bupropion increases BDNF and paramopexol, the dopamine agonist, increases BDNF. Exercise does. A lot of meds do. Resagiline and some of the MAOB inhibitors may also be neuroprotective. I don't know if they have been used as often or at all, okay, in psychiatry. I know they are in Parkinson's. It's more MAOB versus the mixed. They can use the MAOIs. Yeah. MAO-AI, yeah. Yeah. Those are like a maybe. Like the MAOBs are maybe. They may help depression. We just don't know for sure. But the MAOIs definitely do. But yeah, you're right. All of these MAO medications, some of them increase, some of them agonize dopamine. But a lot of them, I think all of them are neuroprotective with BDNF. Yeah. Yeah. But the problem with the MAO, and before we get to the big gun, which we'll talk about in a minute, I know because you're keen, because this is something you've done some research on, is the MAOI class. And it's really popular now. All over is the methyl blue, methylene blue that everyone's putting on their tongues. And this has some MAOI potential, but you also have the potential risk of cheese effect or the tyramine hypertensiveness or the serotonin syndrome. Do you want to talk about that quickly before we get to the big gun? Yeah. I can only answer that halfway because I haven't dived into it. But I was interested, the FDA put a warning out a month ago. But I will say, there is a small study where methylene blue treated bipolar depression and it improved cognition in bipolar. So I thought, you know, there's some hope there. Maybe they'll develop this in something, but I think there's risks and we don't know how to use it yet is the bottom line. So potential, but risks. Yeah. Fair enough. And that's where maybe future research will look at, you know, maybe some of those Parkinson's drugs may also help because of the brain healing potential, improvements in mitochondria, all the things that people like about methylene blue without maybe some of the downsides of having to kind of watch your food intake as much because of the contamination of tyramine or using SSRIs with them. So finally, this is something that you talked a lot about. You know, you seem to kind of go out and mention, and that would be the dopamine agonist. We call it the heavy hitter because it's, you know, pretending to be dopamine, but it's not really dopamine. It's been used in anything in restless leg syndrome. It can be used in Parkinson's. It's used in our area of the world in endocrinology for if you've got prolactinoma or elevated prolactin levels. Dopamine agonists are very good at bringing down those because the high prolactin usually means you have low dopamine and low dopamine means your prolactin will go high. Plus, if you have a tumor, that's not great either, which all is not ideal for a good sex drive as well, having low dopamine, not to mention some of the vasculature. In diabetes, bromocryptine is prescribed in low dose as a drug for insulin resistance. It can help improve insulin resistance. And you could take a small, I think it's three to six milligrams daily. It's approved in the USA under the FDA. I don't know if you knew that, Chris, but it's an interesting dopamine agonist. So I'm going to let you take it away with the one that you discovered seems to work really well. I've had personally, I've personally tried it in the past, but let's hear what you have to say about it. Yeah. So it's called Pramapexol, brand name Mirapax. It's been generic for 10 years. Originally used for Parkinson's, like a lot of the ones you mentioned. And if you want to get a quick visual image of what that means, just go to the Robin Williams movie, Awakenings, which shows a doctor in the 1960s giving patients dopamine for the first time. And they're able to move for the first time from their Parkinson's disease. So this amazing miracle cure, of course, the name Mirapax kind of conjures that up. So it's bringing people out of Parkinson's movements developed in the 1990s. And we've always had this hint that you can do that with depression as well with dopamine for reasons that have to do probably with economics. They've never made it to the market, but the studies show, yeah, maybe it's there. So what happened with Pramapexol was the industry did fund a trial of it in depression and it worked. And then there were some trials in bipolar depression, which is very hard to treat and it worked. And a group of some top psychiatrists got together with the industry in the mid 2000s and said, you really need to get this approved for depression. This is very effective, unique mechanism. And the industry said, yes, but it's about to go generic in two years. So we're not going to make any money off it. So we have to drop it. So it's this unique medication that got orphaned. And meanwhile, many of the top psychiatrists in America have written papers on it as well as in Italy, where they're suggesting they use it in a lot of their treatment resistant cases because they rate these papers where they'll describe patients who failed ECT, electroconvulsive therapy. They failed to respond to five antidepressants or 10. I think one of them, the average was eight antidepressants. So these people are not responding to anything and they're getting a good 70% of them to respond to Pramipaxol. That's unusual because in our field, we all see a lot of people who've not responded to maybe three, five, eight meds. It's not uncommon as specialists. And I tell you something, Michael, there are close to zero studies of what to do for them. Very few studies will actually tell us this is what works when nothing else works. And so Pramipaxol is one where we have a hint that it can work where nothing else works, but it got orphaned. And since it's only approved, like you said, for Parkinson's and restless leg syndrome, psychiatrists have no familiarity with how to use it and they just don't adopt it into their practice.