ࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢࠢ hormone balance. If you're new to the channel, consider leaving comments and subscribing so you don't miss any content. So we're here today with Dr. George Taliatos, an author, a TRT expert, TRT doctor, and we're going to discuss his experience with treating some patients with dihydrotestosterone. And we're going to ask now why he would prescribe testosterone or dihydrotestosterone, which is the metabolite of testosterone to some patients. Hey, George, how are you today? Hello, Michael. I'm fine. So why do some patients need exogenous dihydrotestosterone? Or maybe we should talk about what it is a little more fully and what it does, and then maybe you can tell us why you would prescribe it. So testosterone is reduced through the 5-aryoticase enzyme 2-dihydrotestosterone, which is a more potent androgen, actually five times more androgenic than testosterone that bites tightly to its HPG and can liberate more free testosterone. It has zero compression to estrogen. And of course, we have the other metabolite of the testosterone, which is estradiol, more of a female hormone. Now, when we block the one metabolite, then we increase the other. So if we take the estrogen by blocking it too, we increase the HD. This is interesting. So what's the implementation of the HD? It has some anti-estrogenic activity. It can lower the puffiness. It does not resemble the aromatous inhibitor activity, but it has some anti-estrogenic activity. But also, it can increase the free testosterone, which is the real testosterone, the one that works, the 2%. They're not bound. So there are people that come to my office, either they're taking testosterone or not, and they're lack of sex drive. I check them the blood profile, you know, the androgen panel. And we have a remarkable elevation of HHPG close to 3D. Now, in order to crush this and make free testosterone to work, we need something like either elevated dose of testosterone or synthetic DHC, which is mysternolone, or either DHT itself. Now, DHT itself is a really expensive compound, hard to make, bioidentical liposomal, a very good absorption, high concentration of 10%. That is applied either down to the scrotum or to the wrist and forearms where you have thin skin. And it can make you feel great, not just mentally, but physically, because it works in the brain. It's anti-depressive. It improves cognitive function, self-esteem, you know, and you feel more recommend. And of course, it may lower the HHPG and liberate free testosterone without having the, perhaps some effectiveness in the liver enzymes, you know, or in the lip is like mysteral on that, which is not, it's a steroid actually. But DHT doesn't have a massive impact on the muscle growth. It's more for the sexual and androgenic, wait, wait, wait, wait, more for the androgenic side of things. So go on, let me. A more androgenic makes you look more grainy, more hard, more less feminine, you know, drier and harder, but not bigger. So it can suck up of estrogens and look, you know, drier. Yes. What about acne? Lots of times dihydrotestosterone is related to acne. Yes, it is related to acne, to hair thinning, prostate enlargement also, you know, oil skin. But I think it's up to the balance, Michael, because I found what dose is appropriate for me. And I don't have acne for several months now. Of course, hair thinning is about genetic predisposition. Okay. And you clearly don't have, you clearly don't have hair loss. Yes. And you've, you've taken DHT and all these other substances. Yes. Yes. Now, sometimes when you abuse missteryl, for instance, and you go above the 50 milligrams, yes, you did, you did disruption in the balance of the androgens. And then perhaps some, you're breaking out with acne, you know, so you need to find the proper dose that works for you. That does not lead to acne or other side effects, you know, but it's a great libido enhancer of the DHT. And it can make you feel really man, you know, very self esteem, self, you know, confident. But we're talking about this in light of also being on TRT. So you're taking testosterone, your body's aromatizing or reducing, aromatizing the estrogen, reducing to dihydrotestosterone. And, but sometimes that's just not enough. So we're talking about adding the DHT to the testosterone. Some people still, even though on TRT have elevated SHBG out of liver inflammation, out of fasting, out of metformin use, out of T4 use. Those medications can elevate SHBG and they don't have sex drive. So as Chrysler said, with the highest SHBG, you need to increase your TRT dose. But what, what if your TRT dose is already high and leads to high estrogens or high hematopathy? Then you apply this agent that crushes the SHBG and liberates the free testosterone, you know. What about in some men, we talk about elevated oestrogens affecting prostate enlargement, because we know that sometimes DHT is linked to... Yes. And, and, and, uh, her talk also said that people with BPH, or I'm not sure about prostate cancer, but people with BPH that want to diminish the size of the prostate, they take it neither phenasteride or dasteride. And the first six months we have a diminishing the size of the gland. But because you kill the DHT, the A12 of 8, that is, are responsible for the proliferation of the cells. And then suddenly the opposite appears, you know. So, so as you take on the androgens, you need to control also the oestrogens that will elevate out of this, because you block the one metabolite, the other one will increase. You need to have it steady, it's balanced, you know. Okay. Similarly, when you take aromatase inhibitor, you look more grainy, not only because you cut off oestrogens, but because you elevate the DHT that makes you look harder, you know. But these tests are a bit more difficult, take a little bit more time to get the results. DHT isn't something that is on a, on the standard test. Yes, and very expensive, yes. But also, we need to clarify that it's different to measure the DHT that circulates in the blood to the intrapostatic DHT, you know. I think that what matters with the BPH is the intrapostatic DHT, and not the one that is circulating through the reduction of testosterone. So, the higher level of interprostatic DHT. Yes, it's not a matter. We need to measure the intrapostatic DHT. Well, how do you do that? Well, by biopsy, you just, I think you, you just walk, look at the tissue, you know, the cells, the histology. But I don't think that it's so reliable to see, oh, I have an elevated DHT. Should I get the DH? Yeah, I don't think most men are going to want to go through that. I think perhaps this has to do with acne or her thinning, but not with the prostate itself. So, I mean, we know there's a prescription, well, commercially available DHT available in a gel. I think it comes out of Belgium. But there really aren't many other DHT products available either for injection or even other creams. So, it's just one of those tools that I think have been missing in TRT. Now, there are downsides to, I think, DHT as well from some studies. We shouldn't blame DHT or testosterone for the prostate cancer, but it's, as I said before, it's the lack of control in estrogens that will dominate, okay, that cause the increase of the... The study on dihydrotestosterone therapy only. They said, what would happen if we give men just dihydrotestosterone therapy only? Once they were all down to nothing, they replaced it with DHT, but not testosterone. And what they found, one of the big things I noticed was they found an increase in abdominal body fat when they were only given DHT. Yeah. And... I bet that DHT cannot replace testosterone. No. And that's what they... That's what they concluded. Not to mention, you're not getting the estradiol for the healthy bone growth. Yes, exactly. For the cardiovascular. And the cardiovascular. That's why testosterone is the best compound for replacement therapy, not dandrolone, not tremolone, and whatever crazy they say, because it has the perforation of one-to-one anabolic and anogenic, but also it produces estrogens where they are healthy. The point is to control every hormone. Estradiol and DHT also, you know? So we need the estrogens that are aromatized through testosterone for the cardiovascular. Yes. So, as I said, it sounds like whilst DHT is good in certain cases, that it probably wouldn't be ideal all by itself. Because if that were the case, men would only do DHT, but they'd be missing out. And we have seen patients who don't produce enough estradiol on their own, even with testosterone supplementation. So if you don't have the balance between the testosterone, estradiol, and DHT, you know, a man's not going to feel ideal. They're not going to get all the health benefits that they're meant to get from hormone replacement. Is that what you think? Yes. There are some people that live out in the Caribbean, I'm not sure, Costa Rica, Puerto Rico, that they lack of 5-Hg adductase enzyme, and they're heartless, not heart and the same one, and they lack of DHT totally, you know? And they don't look manly. Yeah, there are some people who lack even the androgen receptor. So if they're not, you know, even though the testosterone could be high, they're not getting, or even the 5-alpha reductase enzyme, you're right, they don't produce enough DHT. So, no, that's interesting. So we just wanted to share this topic. It was requested by one of our viewers on YouTube. Her dog initially said before he started using testosterone in his 30s, he wanted to try something alternative. So he started using Mesterolo. But he said, even Proviron is not enough to replace and do the job of testosterone. Personally, I'm suggesting Proviron, DHT, and DHCA to people that are not into replacement therapy, but they have low sex drive out of elevated SHBG. So I'm giving them these three androgens to improve the symptoms. Now, if it doesn't work, then of course, the next step is to give testosterone. But those three androgens can improve the symptoms, you know, out of the lack of sex drive, through elevation of free testosterone. But certainly nothing beats testosterone. Of course, that's the idea. So I think that finishes our short segment again. Thanks for one of our viewers for requesting this video on, they asked if we can talk more about the DHT cream. And that's, I think, what we've done. Hopefully, we've answered all the questions. If you've got comments about DHT cream or anything related to TRT, please feel free to leave your comments below. And we look forward to speaking with you next time. And again, don't forget to subscribe. And thanks. Thanks, George. We'll see you soon.