 So, welcome to our newest podcast, for Balance My Hormones, and we've got a new guest with us today, and we've got a new guest with us today, it's Dr. Steven, the lifting dermatologist. Steven, the lifting dermatologist. Steven, on YouTube channels, he's got a very popular YouTube channel. So how do you guys, I mean, we've both done it, how do you find the scrotal application then? Because we've had, you know, obviously we've had a lot of guys, you know, do it over the years, and it's usually, do I need to remove hair, or I haven't removed enough hair, and then it's sort of, then absorption's an issue. So what, how do you find it, morning and evening? Easy? Well, it's a bit of a hassle of course, twice a day to think about it. It's a bit more work than two injections in a week of course. Yeah. Well, then again, if you don't like injections, it's worth it. And if you feel good on it, well, I have to shave every morning as well. So, just five minutes more work, whatever. Yeah, you brush your teeth every morning and every evening, so it's just part of your routine. Yeah. Especially for men that don't want to do injections. I mean, for me, I didn't mind doing the injections either. And eventually I had another doctor, but they weren't doing the cream. So the injections were the only thing on offer. I did revisit the creams back in around 2009 or 2008, and it just didn't seem to work the same way. I think I got spoiled on the injections. And we've seen this with some of our clients. You know, some clients are able to go from injections because the pain is so bad, they hate it, for some people, to the creams. Others that have sought on the injections, when they went to creams, it just didn't seem like it was enough for them. So I think it's a very individual thing. It is personal to everyone. Yeah, I don't think there's one right way to do it, as long as you've optimized your levels. But I find that the cream can be effective, especially the scrotal application. Yeah. Common questions though, guys, like, am I going to be walking around with like cream all inside my pants because it's not? Is it going to transfer and things like that? And obviously what we have experience-wise is that actually it absorbs really well if it is compounded correctly. Am I right? Do you have issues with that? Yeah. You don't leave a trace in the pants. And yeah, even if you did, it's almost like dust-like rather than, you know, paste or whatever people try and describe it. So it's not actually as bad as they think. I mean, guys we've had say they do it in the morning after a shower routine and some guys just leave it right before bed under the pillow. Last thing they do. So sex, whatever happens in the evening is the last thing that they do before bed. And that seems to work. And that is if they're doing it twice a day. You know, we have guys that once a day is perfect for them. Yeah, we've seen really good levels. We're about like 20 to 30 at once a day. Yeah. You know, some had been as high as 40 to 43 at twice a day at the 12 hour mark. But to be fair, one could say this is an animal of palita is 42 that high. We came across, come across young patients before naturally with levels of 40, 42 that haven't been induced by clomid, but they're real natural levels. And for them, the irony is they have high SHGB. So they don't know. So it's like the testes are working, but this bloody SHGB is blocking all the fun, all the good stuff in the testosterone. Have you thought about HGG? Obviously you've got kids, but fertility and testicular size, is that something that's ever bothered you? No, I talked about that with Dr. Keith Nichols and he also said, well, if you don't need any more children, so don't worry about that. So since I don't like injections, I don't bother with it anyway. So no, and testicular size. I can't imagine anyone looking at that or measuring anything. So. Yeah, exactly. And some of the older guys anyway, say that, you know, actually helps with sort of uncomfortable testicles that might be a little bit low. Yeah, maybe. It's all feedback, you know. What about other hormones and things like the pregnenolone and DHEA? Do you, do you supplement with any of those? Yes. Yes. I take pregnenolone and DHEA. I take them both. Yes. What things do you have? LH and FSH are zero on TRT. So, I really believe you have to optimize those as well. Yeah. Well, do you get, do you get that as a supplement? Do you get it compounded somewhere or do you get it prescribed? Well, get it prescribed. Luckily, I'm a doctor, so I can prescribe it for myself and my pharmacy compounds it. But as I've said earlier in the podcast with Jay as well, if I wouldn't have been a doctor myself, I would really be in trouble. Yeah. I wouldn't get the cream, I wouldn't get the compounded DHEA and pregnenolone. And you can't even find a doctor here that understands anything about that. I thought the urologist that I talked about before that transferred me to a transgender clinic, I told them about the trans-crupal cream that you put on twice a day. I mailed them some articles that Keith sent me. Yeah. And he just replied, oh, you must be joking, right? He didn't even believe that. Really? Yeah. I mean, it must be something from Belgium. We had a client that had seen a doctor in Belgium and he was told to put the cream on his forehead and then let it dry and then put something to cover it up. Yeah. He had to wait an hour. It was a major hassle in the routine. I don't know why the forehead was supposedly a bit better than the scrotum, but that was what it is. We have funny doctors here. It's a shame, doesn't it? You're a doctor. You weren't inside in some way into the medical community. People are just stuck. It's antidepressants if you're feeling depressed. Where do they go? I think that's a really common situation. Well, it's like what Jay always talks about. It's really a sick care health system we have here. It's all like that. If you just take a look at my doctors, my peers from my age, they're all in a terrible shape. There's not one doctor that is in a fit shape. They all drink too much alcohol on meetings. I don't care. They get into their car after four glasses of wearing all of them. Metabolic syndrome, visceral fat. They all have bellies like that. They all have the good life. When I was young and some of the endocrine olders I came across, they were really, really heavy. I mean, some nearly obese and they're telling me, oh, you've got way too much testosterone. Look how muscly you are. I think it's one of those things that when a healthcare professional of any description, they give you advice on losing weight or a healthy lifestyle and they are fat. It's just, it's that moment. When I worked in my practice, I listened to a physiotherapist, a very overweight physiotherapist, say to a person, you need to lose weight because of your arthritis. You need to lose weight. And that patient was like, that's the pot calling the kettle black, isn't it? Like immediately just, and I overheard that in the next cubicle. It's just fine. It's one of those things. You've got to practice sort of what you preach, I suppose. Yeah. Well, you must have seen her if you haven't just Googled it or Minister of Health, the Belgian Minister of Health. Have you seen her? No, no. You must Google that. I'm not sure. The Belgian Minister of Health. It's a woman and she's as obese, you can't believe it. Really? It's an MD and she's the Minister of Health already four years in Belgium. Wow. Is she the reason for some restrictions in Belgium on some of the practices? Is she kind of the roadblock, this particular Minister of Health? Oh, yeah, of course. Yeah. So tell us a little bit about the, I guess, your experience in the Belgian healthcare system with your ability to prescribe. I think we had mentioned that they don't have telemedicine available in Belgium. Is it quite antiquated over there or is it, how does it work? Is it, do you have your general practitioners and the health system? What's it like? Well, well, we have a lot of general practitioners and we have specializations, but you don't have to be referred by a GP to go to a specialist. So I have a lot of people coming to me directly with their eczema or acne or just even children with warts. So they can skip the GP if they want or skip whatever GP to go to whatever specialist if you want in Belgium. And then again, as a doctor, as an MD, you can prescribe whatever medication you want. So I can, I have a lot of patients coming in for their eczema or acne and patients ask, while I'm here, I don't want to go into the waiting room of my GP. Can you prescribe me my statins or whatever, blood pressure medication? So they always ask a lot of other prescription as well. I mean, that's a positive for the patient, isn't it? Is that a nuisance for you or is that a benefit? Do you think? Well, no, it's a benefit for the patient. For me, either it's just a kind of service for the patient, but of course you must pay attention because we have kind of board that looks into all the prescriptions. Of course, you can't be flagged for prescribing too much of one thing out of your special. I would say, okay, you've got to hone it into sort of roughly where you are, but there's the ability to prescribe. Yeah, that's it. So most of my prescriptions are just cortisone creams for eczema and antibiotics and isotretinoin for acne. That's normal for my specialization. So it's normal that I prescribe a lot of it, but I can prescribe blood pressure pills, antidepressants, testosterone, whatever. I can do that, but I must be flagged by only doing that and not the rest anymore. Yeah. Are you able to add a certification or a diploma to what you can prescribe? So let's say, we know when we've been to conferences in America, there's loads of ophthalmologists there looking into managing hormone replacement and TRT. They're looking to kind of add that because they got burnt out of their old specialty. They're not going back to retrain as endocrinologists, but they are getting certification in age medicine management. No, I don't believe that exists in Belgium because even certain specializations like geriatry, that's for... Geriatry, yeah. Geriatry, yeah. It's not recognized yet in Belgium. So you have internal medicine doing that, but the specialization doesn't have an official name or certification yet. Okay. That's interesting. So maybe it's not developed yet. I don't know, into that specialization area. I mean, that's quite good. I mean, in the UK, GPs, particularly in the National Health Service that obviously is restricted by cost. There are, I mean, patients describe them as the gatekeeper, the GP. So you go to a GP that may not actually have the knowledge of a speciality and they will make the decision whether you can go and see someone, you know, with regards to a speciality area or something like that. So you almost get stuck, you know, given an antidepressant immediately, you know, without it being investigated. And I suppose there has to be a cost benefit there because they are trying to save costs. Maybe if I send someone away with this, they might get better. Same with painkillers and things like that. I find that in my practice, if they had sent somebody to a physiotherapist immediately, they could be sorted within six weeks. But instead of that, they've been given codeine and paracetamol for five, six months. And then that acute injury has now become a chronic injury. And then we're into like a different realm of treatment and sort of peeling and things like that. So it does sound like it has some benefits, you know? Here in Belgium, you don't have this gatekeeper function. The general idea is we want to give patients their freedom. They can go see whatever they want. But there's a lot of abuse in that as well, because really, I have sometimes patients coming in and they're telling me, well, you're the fourth dermatologist I'm seeing this week. Oh, really? Yeah. They say, I didn't want to prescribe me this. And so I go further till I find someone that wants to prescribe me what I want. That's what they call it. Doctor shopping, I think they call it. Doctor shopping, I think they call it. Medical shopping. Medical shopping. You have a lot of that going on, yeah. Just, can we go into, obviously, just picking your brain on your, you know, what you've specialized in originally. The skin conditions, obviously, with TRT, there is, you know, if you're predisposed to acne, or, you know, that obviously, you know, you probably tell us more about it. But I suppose the first question would be, is there something that you would do preventatively if optimizing your hormones, where we know that the sebaceous oil glands will be stimulated at an optimal rate for whatever your gene expresses, I suppose, you know, your gene expression is. Would there be something you do as a preventative thing if you know you're acne prone? Well, of course, it depends if you are acne prone or not. If you have a dry skin, it may be actually advantageous to have a bit of more oily skin. So you won't have any problems if you start out with the dry skin. But if you already are prone to it, yeah, then you can rinse the skin with detergents, purifying them more often, of course. And yeah, sometimes I give this kind of supplements, like zinc is a classic one, pantothenic acid or vitamin B5. Yes. Have these so beneficial to prevent acne on TRT, really. What sort of doses of those? We'll only be asked sort of what doses. What doses of sort of zinc and the B5, the pantothenic acid, would you normally prescribe? Well, the zinc is normally 20 to 30 milligrams a day. Okay. In Belgium, we have these zinc tops. We have these kind of capsules. Then we also give them to adolescents with acne, really. Okay. So I always recommend them to people on TRT with acne. And for the vitamin B5, that's 750 milligrams, three times a day. Okay. That's a good amount. Make a note. That's good to know. Yeah. Some of our clients will get some acne sometimes and it does go away for some others. One of the basic supplements is L-Carnitine. You know it from the fitness industry. Yeah. It burns fat more easily, but that has been shown not to be true really. But three times a day, 250 milligrams of L-Carnitine helps the metabolism of fats and oils as well. So it reduces the serum. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Well, what about things like the antibiotics and obviously going into, I think there's topical retinoids and things like that too. That, you know, we have Adapaline and Tazerac and things like that too. Do you have a preference in those? I mean, I know the antibiotics there, I was reading, you know, just as I do, but the, are they straying away from like trying to use antibiotics as much now because of the gut biome or what, what's the sort of, where do you sort of sit with that in terms of? Yeah. We try to use less and less local antibiotics. That's true. But then again, the local tritinoids and the retinoids like vitamin A, Adapaline, Diferin and things like that, they can cause irritation as well. So a lot of people using them instead of the acne, they get eczema or dermatitis. They get irritations. So it's a bit of balance. So when, when do you use Roaccutane? Only the worst case is the cystic acne that the risks to give scars, pitting in the skin. So before I use isotretinoin or Roaccutane, I first tried the oral antibiotics really, but that's only very short, only one or two months, like limicycline, tetracycline, things like that. Yeah. And if that doesn't help. And sometimes I don't see, I don't see in my consultation so much men on TRT really, but I see a lot of 20, 30 year old bodybuilders on massive doses of anabolics. So they could put the dermatologist with the back full of cystic acne. I agree. They are twice my size at 20 years old. So I immediately tell them, I don't ask them. I just tell them, so you're on anabolic steroids. Yeah. Use them. And like, yes. Is it a particular steroid that they use? They do fitness as well. So I can tell them. So they do. Is there a particular steroid they use that may cause it to be worse than others? So, you know, TRT is just natural bioidentical testosterone in different formats, but they add all sorts of other anabolics into the mix. But have you found one is worse than the other for acne? Most of them are unable to tell me what they're injecting. They say, no, my coach in the gym is just giving that to me. And they are unable to say what it is they're getting. Why? It's a different world. How long does it take to resolve? Oh, until they stop the anabolics really. So the Roaccutane doesn't, doesn't help it or? Well, it does help, but you can't do it like an adolescent with a kistec acne, give it for six to eight months and then be rid of it for always. And those guys, it keeps on coming back. So you really have these endless cures of acutane. Is it? Is it? So obviously, obviously we're conscious of time and things, but is there, there's low dose protocols. These are questions we've been asked. So I just wanted to pick your brain. Low dose protocols like 10 milligrams a day versus because there's an accumulative dose I've read with acutane. What's the, do you have any preference there in terms of it's a side effects? Cause I know it can cause dry lips and things like that. Well, in normal people, not on anabolics with adolescents with acne, I prefer to give lower doses and extend it for a longer time. Because as you said, it's just an accumulation dose better give 20 milligrams or 10 milligrams for a year than 40 milligrams for six months and being covered with dry skin, eczema. Bloody lips. Like that. But 10 to 20 milligrams tend to work well in normal people, not on anabolics, but those guys on anabolic steroids. First, they have very high body weight and they already weigh 80 to 90 kilos. So they need more because they have a lot of lean mass and 10 milligrams, 20 milligrams doesn't do anything in those. Okay. It's interesting to know. So is it, I mean, I, a basic thing I got from someone else was actually, if you're starting TRT and maybe you're worried, just get a long handled scrubbing brush and just make sure you get to the middle of your back. Because most guys say, that's where I sweat and I'm in the car or something. And for most guys, if they do that preventatively, it's even such a word. It just reaches those areas. But it's been great. Thank you for coming on. Really appreciate it. I know you're busy, man. I'm happy. Yeah, it's great. We'll have to do another podcast, you know, catch up when you, when you've done that. You've done some of those ones with sort of Dr. Nichols and things as well and see how you're getting on. Okay. Thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this video, please like and subscribe for future content. Thank you. Thank you. We'll have a little. We'll have a little. We'll have a little. We'll have a little. We'll have a little. We'll have a little. We'll have a little. We'll have a little. Thank you.