 NACO, virult спокой спокой спокойsum, virult спокойsum, virult спокойsum, Do you still have kids on TRT? With very low initial testosterone levels, you don't have the energy to train because being fat makes you thicker over here and this leads to obstructive celibab, you know? What happens if you stop TRT? That's a nightmare because I just could not imagine lowering my DHT, lowering my libido just for the sake of hair. Does TRT shrink your balls according to... Yes, it does. What are your thoughts? Well, according to homeostasis, when you give one hormone, the body doesn't produce. So this is the result either of primary hypogonadins when testosterone is low and LH is high, when your balls are small and you have a testicular failure, but also when you administrate testosterone on anabolic steroids, then you diminish the size of the squarum and of the balls of the testicles and also the ejaculation volume. This is how bodybuilders and racing horses become sterilized. But they're doing extreme amounts and not every man that does TRT, they don't shrink. I used to hear an endocrinologist say, you'll shrink your balls the size of grapes, but you don't see them that small. I quit the HG after one year now, after I became a father. Well, I would say perhaps 50% of my wife noticed that, that were much bigger, you know, fuller. With HG? Yes, of course. Yes. So it does make a difference, HG, to improve it. It does. All right. So what do you think, George? Can you still have kids on TRT? Yes. If you can preserve fertility with HG, even HMG, and occasionally, very rarely, if you start out of 100 million spermatocytes with testosterone, within a year you can conceive, yes. We have a few cases that people, without even HCG, may have a lead pregnant in their wives or their partners, okay? But you definitely, if you want to preserve fertility, you need HCG, but if you want to boost fertility, you need a combination of HG and HMG. Okay. So some people have this thought that TRT causes heart attacks. If you have a heart problem before, TRT is not a magic bullet. Nevertheless, testosterone helps the heart, the optimal levels of testosterone, through three main mechanisms, okay? Nitrocoxide, vasodilation of coronaries, better inotropic function, because the optimized calcium and magnesium that are necessary and vital for muscle contraction, and improving the labs by lowering A1c and lowering LDL out of visceral fat oxidation. And we know from the Traverse study, there was, what, over 5,000 men, following them for several years, showed that there was no risk of increased heart attack, and the FDA has removed testosterone as being causative of heart attack and stroke. Now, abuse of testosterone will apparently elevate blood pressure through aldosterone kick. We lower HDL. And occasionally, with vergorous heavy lifting, you're going to thicken the heart, but this is the result of bodybuilding. And maybe cause oxidative stress, which is also throwing off the healthy balance. Yeah. So TRT versus natural boosters. I think we know the answer. The main benefit of TRT is the steady testosterone levels. Yeah. Unlike the natural testosterone that fluctuates. Right. Okay? You wake up with heart testosterone, it crashes as the day goes by, and you don't have steady levels. Well, the main benefit, of course, of the cream, it's more stable, that you have any time of the day, steady levels. Of course, they a little bit differentiate and fluctuate, but not as the natural ones, that may go up and down according to your feelings. Especially if you're using boosters like deaspartic acid and these others, those are quite short-lived and not going to really cause... Yeah, I'll give you an example. If you stay up all night with a natural testosterone, you're screwed. Yeah. If you stay up all night with an injection of testosterone, you don't have a problem because you take your exogenous dose, and no matter what, you have filled up your tank. What happens if you stop TRT? Well, that's a nightmare because, think first, why did you start in first place? Because of low levels. Yeah. Then, as you administrate, those low levels will diminish. And think after that, if you take off the plague, what happens? You need to resurrect from zero. So, it's going to be a nightmare. And I doubt, after years of suppression, when the initial levels were very low... I mean, I tried during the COVID for one month, and after one month, my LH was zero. Oh God, yeah. Okay, and my testosterone levels were also zero because my tank, my testosterone that was administrating, it lowered eventually. And I was feeling, I was experiencing all the symptoms of hypogonavis. They're not nice. Yes, of course. So, you shouldn't stop it. The same reason you shouldn't stop your T4. Yeah. You're hypothyroidic. You need it, and you just, you stay on it, and you enjoy your high quality of life. Yes. Okay, so now, some of the endocrinologists are talking about using peptides like Monjaro, Tazepatide, instead of TRT. Yeah, but listen, this is apple and oranges. I mean, the only peptide that kicks testosterone is HG, right? Yeah. But Monjaro, or Trulicity, or how do you call it now? Trulicity, yeah. Trulicity, or ozempic, they're just working on the kind of hepatite. What has to do with testosterone? Now, eventually, if you lower your fat, yes, but the tricky thing about using semaglutide is, in the deprivation of food and starvation, you waste your muscle. If you waste your muscle, your fat accumulates, that creates, again, insulin resistance. All right? So, and one other thing is that, with very low initial testosterone levels, you don't have the energy to train. Yeah. You don't have the energy to diet. Nothing is burnt out from food because of low testosterone. Okay, thyroid helps, but your batteries are empty. Right. So, you need the combination of testosterone and semaglutide in order to diet well and train well. Because just dieting doesn't help, of course. Diet kills the muscle. But training preserves the muscle. Okay? That's good. And in order to train, you need energy out of testosterone. So, what should you do first? If you have sleep apnea, do you fix the testosterone? So, I had a case of a 60-year-old guy that already, he's overweight with low testosterone, and he uses the mask. Keep using the mask. Drop the weight. Okay? Because being fat makes you thicker over here. And this leads to obstructive sleep apnea and makes it worse. Was he also on testosterone? No. But he needs to be because he had 295. So, it could be contradictive, but he has the mask also. Yes. Like, he should keep using it. And also replaces testosterone levels for better health. Yes. Now, taking the mask was the best decision I did. Yeah. And you keep telling me that for years. I told you for years I do. I take it as well. And your sleep is better. Yeah, you look well. Yes, much better. And hopefully, my hematocrit is not elevated. It should help. It doesn't always, but it should help. It helps, because Obama's claim believes that most of the cases are because of sleep apnea. Yeah. Because it's another factor of secondary throscytosis. Yeah. The sleep apnea. The other is the altitude. Yeah. And sometimes for me it was the NAC. So, what are your thoughts of DHT as a cause of hair loss? And how do you kill your DHT to keep your hair? Well, if you're prone to it, I'm using DHT. Well, I quit DHT recently, but I was using it 10 years straight. I don't have a hair loss because my dad and my grandfather had hair. So, it's purely genetic predisposition. Do you think people should go and block their DHT in order to keep it? Well, that's the plan. Go to a dermatologist. It gives you finasteride, dutasteride. Actually, dutasteride is even more potent. Yeah. That kills the DHT or even progesterone. It's antagonistic to DHT. Yes. Yes, it is. You're right. Yes. And ketoconazole that blocks DHT locally. Aminoxidil improves the blood flow. Plus some biotin that improves the metabolism of the hair. But it throws off the analyzer when you go to do a blood test with testosterone. You told me that. Yeah. You have higher levels. So, that's the plan to kill the DHT. But DHT then kills your sex drive and your mood. Yeah. I think it's multifaceted. And I've read that the DHT is on the scene, but not necessarily causative. And yet, when we block it, for some reason, there's some other factors that it also blocks when you inhibit the DHT. I just could not imagine lowering my DHT, lowering my libido just for the sake of hair. So, you learn to live with it. You have to choose. And there'll be future treatments, hopefully, that will push the hair into the growth phase over the blocking the DHT. Now, her dog believes that the combination of DHT blockers plus testosterone is even more beneficial for the hair, rather than monodose of DHT blockers. Yeah. Why? Because testosterone has two main functions. It gives you hair loss, but it gives you thicker hair in your body. In your body. If you block the equation from testosterone to DHT, then you have the result of thicker hair in your hair. So, testosterone with dutasteride will give you permanent hair in six months, rather than using dutasteride itself. Plus, you're going to avoid the depression and the lack of sex drive. Because essentially, you're just pushing the testosterone higher than what it would have been on your own. Yeah, but you cut off the equation, so you don't have the hair loss, but you have the thicker hair in your body. In your body. Interesting. Right. You need testosterone as part of that HRT. Testosterone is number three in matter of importance in women's HRT. So, women just don't use TRT itself. It's estrogen, progesterone, and then comes testosterone. And then testosterone. Some say that you're going to replace the testosterone out of the HGA that will convert to testosterone. Right. But in the States, they also use around 20 milligrams per week of testosterone. That low. Either injectable or down in clitoris with a cream. One percent, let's say. Well, you know, testosterone also can protect the female urethra as well. It protects from UTIs if you have enough testosterone for a woman. So, I think, yeah, it is important for women to have testosterone as part of the HRT mix. It improves dramatically the depression, the lack of sex drive, and the osteoporosis. And the wasting. So, it's more than just libido. It's protective also against breast cancer, having testosterone in the mix. Yeah, you know well that bones need estrogen. That's why testosterone is very helpful to the bones. Because you get a little extra aromatization into estrogen as well. So, hopefully you found this video informational and helpful. Please don't forget to subscribe and like. And we'll see you next time to your health, to your wellness, and to your happy erections.