 aromasin, aromasin,Daniel, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin your opinion on things basically? We have to say that it's also genetically predisposed because not everybody reacts the same but it is a secondary erythrocytosis because of the stimulus of the androgens that boost EPO and as a result bone marrow. It doesn't happen to everybody. There are some fortunate people that never go higher than 50. There are other people like myself who never dropped below 49 for instance. Never. I never donated. I never had a reason to. Fibrinogen or these other factors? Fibrinogen now is another factor produced by the liver. Smoking elevates fibrinogen. Anabolic steroids elevates fibrinogen. Why 20 year old guys who are stuck on gear, they don't elevate erythrocytosis as often as 40 year old guys who just use 200 mg of testosterone. Oh, endothelium dysfunction that leads to hypoxia that figure CPO. Even though you don't have fibrinogen, you don't have platelets, you still have a lot of erythrocytes that may struggle to pass through the tiny capillary network. So in that case, you need more flexibility on the cell membrane through pentoxyphilin or THC-EPA that performing two frequent donations for instance every month will be a negative feedback for further stimulation because the system suspects any anemia and loss of blood. That's why you lose ferritin, you lose iron and ferritin, you feel fatigued. And all of these, there isn't enough evidence for anyone to say this is absolute currently. That you can't say this causes this, you've got a high risk of this. It's basically people looking at the theory and saying this is what I think. There isn't because you've got people cutting around walking around with high hematocrit not having claws. What about those cycles for the Tour de France who use EPO and reach 20 and 60? About hematocrit and people on TRT? Yes, yes. It's a steroid use erythrocytosis either from anabolic steroids or testosterone. How could something that's improving my health and well-being that your body would also make cause me to have these negative cardiovascular events? That, you have to mind this is one of the most common side effects. And it potentially could cause issues? This may occur. But we don't know fully yet. Everyone has an opinion that it could go either way sort of thing. I don't know. Polycythymia is vera. Ethrocytosis is even by hypoxia by smoking by high altitude or by androgens. The chronic erythrocytosis may elevate your blood pressure. Should you be worried about a mass putting in a global on TRT? Find that next. Thanks for watching. If you like this video please like and subscribe and ring that notification bell if you would like to see more videos like this. Thank you. great.