 Rementeementeementeementeementeementeementeementeementeementeementeementeementeementeementeemente kind of low body fat I achieved and so on. And you're still eating. And I was still eating, like I was eating oats with egg whites, not a lot. You were one of those guys that would get up at five in the morning to re-feed and then. No, no, no, no, no. I think if you're sleeping. Yeah, sleepy. Sleep, yeah. Don't wake, don't disrupt that whole process. Just 20 milligram melatonin, because you can only get two milligrams here in the store. You'd normally take that? 20 milligrams, man, yeah. I took 40 the other night. The guy out there, expert on melatonin, he takes hundreds. And he's saying it's like a very powerful antioxidant because melatonin is all the cells now, not just in the brain they've discovered. What's a small dose of growth hormone? Just under 0.6 milligrams, under two IU. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because I think you need a little bit as we get older. And there are some benefits. Two IUs, and I tested my IGF before. It was like 100, so it was on the low side, I guess. And two IUs put me 200, so it's in a good range. Have you noticed more fat burning and more... Yeah, I got leaner and sleep a little bit better, which has always been a bit of an issue for me on and off over the years, you know, like stress-related. It probably goes way back to bodybuilding, where I got obsessed with, like, no, like, you get enough sleep. And I lived on a council estate surrounded by noisy neighbors, which I had. Well, you weren't one of those guys that would get up at 5 in the morning to refeed and then... No, no, no, no. I think if you're sleeping... Yeah, sleepy. Sleep, yeah. Don't wake up. Don't disrupt that whole process just to have a protein shake. And, you know, the body has to have downtime. Yeah. So, no, I was... But I always ate late at night. I never was in this, don't eat carbs past this reaching hour of sex or crock or something, Yeah, Brian Johnson stops eating at 11 in the morning and sleeps by 7. I don't know if you follow that. Not the liver key, Brian Johnson. I mean, I can just demonstrate what kind of low body fat I achieved and so on. And you're still eating. And I was still eating... Like, I was eating oats with egg whites. Not a lot. And I would taper it. Like, I'd have more carbs in the start of the day and after training and less. But not, like, zero. So, I was having, like, 50 grand a vote for a judge, you know, mixed with egg whites and stuff. Like, half an hour before I went to bed, 40 minutes, because if I was to not eat for three or four hours before I go to bed, it's like, I'm not sleeping. I'm not sleeping. In the same way. Like, the metabolism is just going to be... I'm going to be awake. I need some carbs just to help with it. Probably with serotonin production or something, you know. So, that's how I now eat carbs in the evening with my dinner in the evening. Sweet potatoes, rice, that kind of stuff. I even have a tiny little bit of pasta, pesto on it. Sometimes I have a liter of ice cream from Ben and Jerry's, but I shouldn't talk about that. The guys over here. That's when Gal buys it, man. I tell him not to buy it, because I'm not... Gal can have a tub of ice cream, yeah, and have one scoop, and it's still there next week. I'm like, I'm going to eat it because it's gone. Minutes out of the way. What do you think now, the big trend now is cottage cheese amongst Gen Z and younger. Cottage cheese was a thing when I first started training, man. And then it's gone out of vogue, right? It's got the Cassian protein. It's a good protein, not a bad protein. Cottage cheese and tuna. Those are the, you know, available and cheap protein when we were young, right? Except for you didn't mix them together like cottage cheese and tuna. You did. Almost the same. I had some sick guys in my gym, man, that used to make tuna shake. You know, orange juice and tuna. Yeah. Branded together. I'm like, why don't you just have a strawberry protein? Like, you know, it tastes much better, but apparently it was a bit cheaper or something, you know? So yeah, cottage cheese is a good protein, but, you know, it's not a magical protein. If you want to, like, go on a scale, probably going to find eggs at the top. If you want to, you know, wear a split hat. Like, you know, but they're all good. All good for dairy, meat proteins, eggs. There's some, I think, warnings coming out about whey protein or, you know, that's essentially it's the waste production of the dairy industry and that it might not be the best. Maybe even spike your blood sugar. Are you, do you have much faith in whey anymore? Whey is a great protein. Yeah. It's, yes, they used to throw it away before, but it doesn't mean it doesn't have some value. You know, whey protein is a first class protein. Yeah. If you're concerned about blood sugar, you can always mix it with the fat. You know, I put some coconut oil in the shake or something like that. If it was after training, I would just have it with water. But let's say you're going to have a protein late at night. I'd put some, maybe some coconut oil in or something or half an avocado or something. Slow down the digestion a little bit. When you're training or even now, are you one of the guys that you basically refuel with the shake after training to replenish the glycogen or? No. I mean, sometimes I'm not like, I'm not religious with my, I take creatine. You know, it's got other benefits other than the muscle building, obviously with the memory and stuff like that. And even with mood, they're finding good. And you don't get any water retention from the creatine? No, I don't notice it. I mean, to be honest, when I took creatine when I was using steroids, I didn't notice it as much. Probably because my ATP levels and everything was already stacked up. If I don't use it for a few weeks and then I start using it again, I can just feel a little bit more fullness in the muscle, a little bit more push when I'm exercising, a little bit more. So that's something I always take. And whey protein, I take a shake most days just to keep the protein level up because I'm only eating twice. So to get like 200 grams of protein a day, I need to... HMB, whatever happened to HMB? HMB, no, I don't use that. That's another one that's coming around that was like available in the 90s. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's a Bill Phillips and the whole... I take a lot of supplements. It's more like health related. Like vitamin D3. I take D3, K2, you know, for general health immunity in the arteries. Are you doing anything for NAD? Are you doing NMN? NMN, I just got... Because DY has got our own facility now. We've got our own labs and formulators. So I just call them up and say, have you got this in stock? Because we're bringing out a whole new range, DY life, later in the year, which is more health, wellness, longevity. So it's more interesting for me because the other stuff has been, you know, been doing it a long time, right? So I just call them up and get my own stuff made. So I got this week delivered NMM, K2, D3, 20 milligram melatonin because you can only get two milligrams here in the store. You'd normally take that? 20 milligrams, man, yeah. I took 40 the other night. There's a guy out there, expert on melatonin. He takes hundreds. And he's saying it's like a very powerful antioxidant because melatonin is all the cells now, not just in the brain they've discovered. Anyway, so multiple reasons. I take high dose melatonin. And 0.75 milligrams. That's enough. You can get two milligrams in the stores here. So, you know. But no, we can't get that in the UK. No, UK, you can't get it at all. But most European countries, you can get it in limited dosage unless you go to the pharmacy compound. They make it up to you. But yeah, I make mine. And what else? NAD, something I take all the time. Rejectable. No, NAD, NAD. NAC, sorry. NAC, sorry. NAC, yes. NAC-216. Yes. For glutathione levels. And also boost dopamine. Yeah, great. So did you ever notice an increase in hemoglobin from NAC? Because I tend to be prone to that every time I take NAC. It goes higher than it should. The only time my hemoglobin was a bit high was when I was using testosterone, like, but in one shot. I spread it up into two and three. And now it's like, it's not even at the top. Now it's like 15, 16, like, you know. On the trough, on the lowest point. So that's the TRT protocol, then, that's why. Any particular ester? Whatever, whatever's. An amphate or sippinate? I don't think there's much difference. Here, they have, um, it's a testosterone propionate here. It's, uh, it's supposed to be equivalent to, uh, sippinate, I think. Uh, testics. Yeah, that's sippinate. It's a prong, prong, or something it's called. Yeah, yeah, it's 200 milligrams. Two 30 milligrams in two mls. And they have 100 milligrams in two mls. We have that at the whole minister of pharmacy. As well as testosterone propionate. 25 milligrams per one mL. And that's what I have been prescribed. And I, I've been doing daily testosterone propionate for well over a year now. And it keeps mine quite... Yeah, daily I just got, like, fed up with little lumps. And I was doing subcutaneous. Wait a minute. I didn't even know you could do that. I was doing that. Now I switch back to intramuscular. Yeah, you can do shallow intramuscular. Yeah. I do it every instant. Yeah, I can even do it in the side, like the ventral. But you can do it subcutaneously as well. You know what? It creates those lumps. And one time I've said this. No, and I think it slows its release. And one, I know there's some doctors out there that will promote that. But I've seen patients report with lumps. It's big. I actually, I really posted the lump, how bad it was on his abs. And Facebook gave me a warning because they thought it was pornography. They thought it was someone's boob that appeared because of the swelling from the subcutaneous injection, which can happen. And they take weeks to go away. I get mine down to, like, every four days. I do a little intramuscular one. And that keeps, it doesn't seem to spike their hemoglobin. It's never been even, like, near to the top since I've been doing that. It's been an honor to have Dorian Yates on our program today and delve into the extraordinary story and invaluable insights. To our viewers, take these lessons to heart. And remember to subscribe, like, and comment on your favorite takeaways. And stay strong. Stay balanced. And we'll catch you next time on Balance My Hormones. Bye.