 and I do 100 standing squats. I mean, grip strength makes sense, because grip strength is probably reflective of your general strength. And some of the medications, all blood pressure medications are bad, some act like exercise, some exercise, hormetic. Absolutely, I think you should do some muscle training, some strength training, some strength training, and the older you get, the more important it is. If you don't have a great VO2 max, you're going to die, and that kind of sets the meal as they were anyone else. Do you do a great VO2 max? Do you do press-ups? Do you do press-ups? As a warm-up? I don't, I mean, I could barely do three or four push-ups before, because of my rotator coughs. I probably, like, I've done some lot of work on my shoulders now. I probably do, if I did 15 press-ups, it'd probably be a failure now, because the weakness through the rotator cough and the tricep and everything, but yeah, why not if you're doing shoulders or triceps, not a bad exercise? That's part of my, my, I warm-up, and I do a hundred standing squats on my own. Just getting the heart rate up, and one thing that I'm telling all my guys is very, very simple, but very effective. It's just dead hanging. It's dead hanging from the chin and bar, yeah? This is going to stretch the tendons and ligaments in your shoulders and kind of help to get them back in the right place, because as you get bigger and stronger on the pecs and the lats, it, like, rotates around. And there's not much room at the front, you've got the bass hip tendon going through there, the supraspinatus, it kind of gets pinched in there, and it gets inflamed, and, you know, we all had it. I had it, but I didn't have a fucking clue what it was. Like, nobody explained to me, and, like, there was no internet to go look. You know, I had anatomy books and everything, but it's not, it's not quite the same. So just to get the shoulders sitting back in a more correct place, just dead hanging, and it's good for your grip as well. It's good for everything. Speaking of grip, so we were talking about Peter Atiyah earlier, and you see you're on his... All these parameters of what benefit... So grip strength is one of them. Well, grip strength and leg strength and hanging from the chin and all those things. I mean, grip strength makes sense, because grip strength is probably reflective of your general strength. I don't think it just, you know, the fact that you get to get a good grip and your legs don't fucking work, it wouldn't be too good, but it's probably a good measurement of your overall... Have you tried, I mean, you've probably done it before, you grab two weights on either side, each half of what your body weight is, and then you walk around, I think it's for a minute. Yeah. You have a pretty... Farmer's walk. You have a farmer's walk, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I tried it the other day, but it's hard, because if you have to look at your watch, if I can see a clock, then you can, like, hold out, and, you know... You can always stand and sit. I was walking up and down to the gym, and so I did... About 50 kilos. About 50 minutes, I did, yeah, about 50 kilos, 59 kilos each side. But, I was like, you know... It's a good exercise, Farmer's walk, you know, especially, like, when you're, like, careful with your pace, and you feel everything going up the chain, and you put your shoulders back, and, you know, concentrate on doing it with really good posture. Posture as well. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I've been doing it as far as my recovery from the hip surgery and everything. I didn't get quite up to those weights, because I want to do it a bit longer, like two minutes, walking up and down, but I use the kettlebells. It's quite... I feel a bit more comfortable to hold. And walk with those, but, you know, really concentrate on the posture, on my walking and everything, because of the recovery. So, yeah, it's a good exercise. But some of these, you know, these things, these numbers that you hear, you know, muscle mass is 400% protective, and I don't know if some of those things work out, you know? I'm sure it's very beneficial for your health. We're talking about the VO2 max, and I know, like, when Peter Batia says that, he says it's a magical fact, like, if you don't have a great VO2 max, you're going to die. And that kind of obsessed me a little bit, as they would anyone else, because he's just so magical. And this is it. I don't think they necessarily outlive people that are just generally healthy, because how they achieve such an extraordinary VO2 max is excessive amounts of exercise, which brings its own negatives. Or something genetic. And then the thought is, if you don't have their genetic gift, then you have to bring it with... Yeah, there's only so much you can improve. Just like strength. Some people are going to have double their strength with somebody else, just genetically. So I think it's difficult to put percentages on the benefits of different types of exercise. I think if you... Yeah, which is not healthy in itself. It's a paradox, right? Absolutely. I think you should do some muscle training, some strength training. And the older you get, the more important it is, because muscle's an organ, and it's going to help regulate your metabolism and stop you slipping into, like, pre-diabetes and diabetes, which is just going to really kick in the aging. So, yeah. And a decent VO2 max, I think, would be useful. And also, you know, working on mobility and flexibility a little bit. So I do a bit of everything, which you have to be, to be the best at something. To be the best at something is in no way a balanced situation, which is, you know, where I'm at now. And I feel like the most comfortable, secure, balanced, peaceful. I've done that. I went from total isolation, just doing whatever to be the best bodybuilder in the world, without any compromise, to an OCD extreme. Where I didn't, you know, I wouldn't socialize. I mean, it was unnecessary, but it was necessary for me. Yeah? Because I felt like I had all the odds against me. So I had to stack everything that I could in my favor. Whether it's another hour's sleep or any little thing that could help me, I had to do it, you know? So, in my mind. So I put myself on a self-imposed kind of lockdown. You know, I'm almost hidden away from the world. I was a shadow. I didn't go to family social events. Were you in your 20s? Yeah, I was like 21, and I started like, I'm doing this. Because I remember the 90s, I had a flatmate at uni, and, you know, the very, you know, would wear the big, heavy, you know, like the sweatshirts, baggy clothes. And then after you warm up, then maybe unveil to get this. Yeah, that was part of the culture. Big jug of water, you know, carry around everywhere. We used to call them 10 men, you know, or 10 jumpers. Because people used to wear a sweatshirt on top of a jumper, on top of something else to make themselves look bigger, you know? And they'd be all covered up, but looking really big. Now the guys have got like a string around, and they're like, you know, 100 pounds. That's serious. Well, I don't know if you've ever watched in America the Saturday Night Live, the Hands and Friends or whatever. They were making fun of Arnold, and they were wearing the whole sweatshirt. Yeah, yeah. Anyway, it was quite funny. So do you think you're probably better heart healthy now than you were when you were a bodybuilder? Yeah. During those Mr. Olympia years, I think, because I was pushing the body weight up, you know, to unnatural levels. I had some blood tests. Well, and it was so basic, the stuff that I had. Did it take hormones to testosterone? You know, it was just liver, kidney function, blood pressure reading, cholesterol, very basic stuff. So I knew my blood pressure was high. Yeah. And I wasn't advised, and I didn't choose to take another medication on top of what I was taking to bring it down, which probably would have been the best advice. I mean, it's not good to have it high. And some of the medications, all blood pressure medications, some act like an exercise hermetic, like telomisaltan. Produce more nitric oxide, I think, yeah. Yeah. Ramapril and stuff like that. Back to the Ramapril being an ace inhibitor, like the sartans, the methalisaltan, losartan, help reduce inflammation as well as blood pressure. And then if you, I know Dr. Thomas O'Connor, I don't know if you follow him, in the States, he talks about protecting bodybuilders from harm, anapause, and using the bevolol to keep the rate down as well as the others. Now, I mean, now you can find somebody like yourself, or there's many doctors out there you can find. You can get all your parameters done, you can get advice. If something's out of line, what you can do with it. But people need to understand that this was a different day. This is 1980s when I started bodybuilding and I started using steroids. So I just went to my GP, you know, on the council estate, right? You know, and I'm a young kid and I'm telling them I'm going to take steroids. Can you do some blood tests for me? And he's like, you wouldn't do it at first. He's like, no, you don't want to take that. It's not good for you and all this stuff, right? And then I did my first competition and I made a big splash. And then they invited me to be on the British team, which was in the World Games held in London. On the bodybuilding team, World Games was like Olympic Games, but all the sports that didn't quite make it. There was water skiing, there was powerlifting, all these sports. It was a big thing and bodybuilding was there. And I went from my first competition to be on the British team as a heavyweight two weeks later in this competition. And anyway, there was it was a bit on TV, but they had the opening ceremony. So the guy that was managing the bodybuilding team cleverly said, you and the girl who was representing the female bodybuilding, when you go out, you take your tracksuit and do some poses. And sure enough, all the cameras came over because it's visual, right? So all the cameras came over, the TV cameras came over and actually were shown a little bit on British TV, which is a big thing, right? So next time I went to see the doctor, he said, I saw you on TV. I see what you're doing is it's serious. Like, you know, I said, I tried to tell you that, man, I'm not messing about here, you know? So then he said, OK, but yeah, my blood pressure was like 150 over 100, I think, average for a few years, you know? And I didn't know that I had a possibility to bring it down. He didn't advise me. He just said, this is not great long term and make some money and get out. That's what I should do. It's pretty much what I did. It's been an honor to have Dorian Yates on our program today and delve into the extraordinary story and invaluable insights. To our viewers, take these lessons to heart. And remember to subscribe, like, and comment on your favorite takeaways. And stay strong, stay balanced. We'll catch you next time on Gallants to My Whole Moves. Thank you.