ieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroieroiero go to family social events. During those Mr. Olympia years, I think, because I was pushing the body weight up, you know, to unnatural levels. Too much exercise is not healthy, because it has a negative. You're looking for the benefit. So my question is, how can we get the benefit when minimizing the negative? And what's the negative? Well, it's kind of like free radical production. But it's been doing so much more after bodybuilding, and we want to talk about what he does to stay fit, to stay healthy, what kind of knowledge he's picked up over the years on health, wellness, longevity. So we're gonna get started. Dorian, good to see you. Great to be back, man. Another men's camp here in Marbella, it's cool. It's fantastic. It's turned me into a keto. We talked earlier, you kind of have a more balanced approach, but you take a low-cost. I'm keto, I'm carnivore. I'm on an animal-based diet. High protein, relatively high protein. Natural fat, great. But I'm not religiously not having any carbohydrates. I still don't have a lot compared to when I was bodybuilding. Oh, but I have a little bit. But most of my diet is like healthy fats and protein. But yeah, a little bit of flexibility there. Mediterranean, would you say? Well, I mean, living a lot of times here, and you live in... Yeah, this is where I'm resident. But I obviously travel quite a bit. I've already been this year to Africa, Argentina, Brazil, UK, Romania. So I travel around. And also, I've got a friend that's, you know, religious, kind of keto carnivore, and your bone broth, and all this, and everything. But, you know, when you're traveling, and you're going through airports, and I mean, sometimes it's just not practical. So I'm at a place in life where just kind of everything swings into the middle way. You know, you can be too fanatic about everything. Ever eat a croissant with my coffee from the cafe? Well, I might like to, yeah? And I might enjoy it. I might... I went to Italy and went for one week. Me and Gal, we just ate pasta and drank beer because it was really hot. It was, I'm eating pasta and pizza in Rome. And drinking beer and whatever, and a tiramisu, whatever, yeah? I'm enjoying it. I'm being there. But I forgot the rule, like, at least 80%, yeah? Yeah. At least 80%, like, really do your best and eat well. But if you want a beer or a glass of wine or a piece of cake or ice cream, and you can enjoy it. You've got the routine when you're at home. And then when you go out, you've got some room for flexibility. And then there's some things in life, you can really enjoy them, you know? Of course, some things can, you know, wine, we could say, be destructive decimally. But if you had a nice glass of wine with your steak or something, and you can, you know, appreciate the taste of the wine and the tones, and you feel good, why not? You know, that's not going to hurt you. You tell me, mate. I said, if I live a really full life and, you know, made love to lots of women and traveled around the world and everything, and I had all these experiences. Of course, I want to look after myself, I want to look after my body, I want to feel good. So I'm going to eat well, but also a little bit of flexibility there. I was experiencing some of the diet here. And it's good. I eat steak, I eat chicken, I eat greens. I was like, something's missing. I think my blood sugar was getting a bit too low. Yeah, I was asking where the beer was, and there wasn't any. So that's what's missing. Yeah, for a low cold beer here on a sunny day in my bay, you need a cold beer. I had a pizza last night, so I was like, we can't tell these guys. Yeah. Well, the diet's a good part, a good foundation, obviously, but not getting too crazy with one camp or the other. I don't eat a lot in comparison, like six meals a day when I was a professional bodybuilder. Now I eat twice a day and I might have a smoothie, you know, protein shake or something in between. So I don't eat a lot and I feel good. I go to the gym and I train, you know, bodybuilding. You know, we're thinking we've got to eat before we go to the gym, but no, not really. Because if you think when you go to the gym, what are you using for energy? You're using glycogen. Carbohydrates that's stored in your muscle that you ate previously, probably yesterday, yesterday evening, yesterday afternoon, who knows? But they're there, they're stored. You're going to use that, yeah? So you don't need to eat a ton of carbohydrates before you go to the gym with the idea that somehow they're going to give you energy. It might even reduce your energy because you kind of digest it. And now you're going to take all the blood away to work the muscles and everything. So I enjoy going and doing my stuff. I don't eat till like one or two o'clock in the afternoon. So I have a period of time where I'm not eating. And usually I'm doing some kind of exercise. Yeah. The other day, I think you started with cardio. You did where we met you. Cardio, but sprints, cardio, sprints, cardio. I don't do 45 minutes cardio. And that's, yeah, that's one of the things we were talking about. Getting the benefits of cardiovascular fitness. In a short period of time, which is what I did with bodybuilding, I think it applies to cardio as well. Unless you're in some kind of specialist sport, like marathon running or something, you know. But I'm talking about health here. And too much exercise is not healthy because it has a negative. You're looking for the benefit. So my question is, how can we get the benefit with minimizing the negative? And what's the negative? Well, it's kind of like free radical production by the use of oxygen. And you're doing all this endurance training, which you're doing it to be fitter, have a better quality of life. Maybe live longer. But on the other side, you're aging yourselves with all this excessive amount of exercise. So my question is, what do we need to do? What's the minimum amount of dose, let's say, is the medicine? What's the effective dose before we're getting all these side effects that we don't want? If we look at exercise as a medicine, which you could do. How do we get most of the benefits without the negatives? And the cardio that I do is interval sprints. I talked about it on Joe Rowan in 2017. Not that I'm the first guy to come up with it. But I understood that you could get the benefit from that, from short sprints. Same benefit as doing an hour or 45 minutes cardio. And you could achieve this in five minutes, which sounds crazy. One minute of cardio, i.e. three 20-minute all-out sprints. I use an air bike, a shell bike, because it engages all the muscles. So really, you could use a rowing machine or a cross trainer, not quite as good. Or you could run up hills. Same kind of thing. All-out sprints with some little downtime between. So like a minute to warm up, a 20-second sprint, a minute down, 20 seconds. Do three or four 20-second sprints. And in that six minutes or so that it takes, you can achieve the same as you get from doing 45 minutes an hour of, you know, long, boring, tedious. Two sessions a week. But I do do, I suppose you could say it's like low-level cardio because I walk quite a bit. I go hiking. I take my dog for a walk. Yeah. And I'll probably go one long bike ride a week where it's an hour or two just out on my bike. So I'm not really thinking this is like a super workout or anything, but I'm guessing it's a bit of long cardio. So one thing, when you said you did intensity, and I think the benefit of that is it's exercising the heart better than just a slow. I think I feel better when I do intense cardio, get the heart rate up. It's like a shock again. You know, it's the human body, the organism, it functions best when it's under stress, but a controlled amount of stress, right? So you can get benefits by being in the cold, right? In a cold water or a cold shower, you can get benefits because it's stressful for the body, which kicks off some mechanism which is beneficial for you. But you could also fucking freeze to death, couldn't you? All right. So there's the extreme, right? We can go in the sauna and from the stress of the heat and you produce heat shock proteins and so on, you get a benefit. But if I left you in there all day, you could also die. Yeah. So exercise is a stress as well, which you get a beneficial reaction from. But what's the right amount before we get in? You know, what happened to the first guy that ran from the Battle of Marathon that, you know, the first 26 miler, he fucking dropped dead when he got there. So there's a message there somewhere. Too much exercise can also potentially kill you or have a negative effect. And back then they didn't have the environmental toxins and any of the. I'm putting out this information and some people, they get it, but they're still, yeah, I get it. But hey, I like going to the gym. I want to be in there two or three hours. Like, okay, if you want it, but didn't you go there for, like, to get the benefit you're looking for, not to just socialize or whatever else is you're doing for two or three hours because you're certainly not really training hard. You know, you might do a set and rest for 10 minutes. I don't know what you're doing in there for two or three hours, but, like, get a life, man. What is your rest period between sets? Are you, uh... I don't ever go by the clock, and this is how I coach people when I'm coaching, is to explain that when the muscle contracts, you use oxygen. So you're going to push the muscle to failure. There's going to be an oxygen debt to pay, right? But let's imagine we do curls to failure with a bicep. It's not a big muscle. It's not going to use that much oxygen, right? So the question is, when can you go to the next set and be assured that you're going to do it with muscular failure? I don't know. After a bicep curl, arguably 45 seconds a minute, you could probably go again, and you wouldn't be in oxygen debt. But if you did a 20 reps to failure leg press, deadlift, or squat, you're probably looking at three, four, maybe more minutes before you're breathing somewhat normal, and you've got your faculties back, and you're able to go hit another set and hit that muscular failure before you're doing cardio failure. You know, if we're three together, and I said, come on, we're going to do a set of 20 reps squat, absolute failure, and you're nearly falling out with the bar, and we rack it back up, and you're on the floor, and I'm telling you a minute later, let's go again, you're not going to be able to perform because you're going to run out of air, oxygen, right? So the answer is it depends on the size of the muscles involved, the muscle groups involved, something you can't put an exact time on, and different people will have it. So I just look at people, and generally if they're able to start talking to me fairly well, then I'm feeling they're pretty much ready to go again. But if they're still breathing heavily, there's no point putting another set because they won't reach muscular failure, they'll reach cardio failure. So somewhere between one and four minutes is a big variance depending on what you're doing, yeah. Do you do press-ups as a warm-up? I don't. I mean, I could barely do three or four push-ups before because of my rotator cough. I've probably, like, I've done a lot of work on my shoulders now. If I did 15 press-ups, it'd probably be a failure now because the weakness through the rotator cough and the tricep and everything. But, yeah, why not if you're doing shoulders or triceps? It's not a bad exercise. That's part of my warm-up, and I do 100 standing squats on my own. Just getting the heart rate up. And one thing that I'm telling all my guys is very, very simple but very effective. It's just dead hanging. It's dead hanging from the chin and bar, yeah. This is going to stretch the tendons and ligaments in your shoulders and kind of help to get them back in the right place because as you get bigger and stronger on the pecs and the lats, it, like, rotates around. And there's not much room at the front. You've got the bass hip tendon going through there, the supraspinatus. It kind of gets pinched in there, and it gets inflamed. And, you know, we all had it. I had it, but I didn't have a fucking clue what it was. Like, nobody explained to me. And, like, there was no internet to go look. You know, I had anatomy books and everything, but it's not quite the same. So just to get the shoulders sitting back in a more correct place, just dead hang. And it's good for your grip as well. It's good for everything. Speaking of grip, so we were talking about Peter Atiyah earlier. And you see you're on his… All these parameters of what benefit… Grip strength is one of them. Well, grip strength and leg strength and hanging from the chin and bar, all those things. I mean, grip strength makes sense because grip strength is probably reflective of your general strength. I don't think it just, you know, the fact that you get a good grip and your legs don't fucking work, it wouldn't be too good. But it's probably a good measurement of your overall… Have you tried… We've probably done it before. You grab two weights on either side, each half of what your body weight is, and then you walk around. I think it's for a minute. Yeah. You have a pretty… Farmer's walk. You have a farmer's walk, yeah. Yeah, yeah. I tried it the other day. But it is hard because if you have to look at your watch, if I can see a clock, then you can, like, hold out and, you know… You're walking while you're standing still. I was walking up and down at the gym. And so I did… You have about 50 kilos. About 50 kilos. About 50 minutes. I did, yeah, about 50 kilos. Yeah, 59 kilos. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I was like, you know… It's a good exercise. Farmers walk, you know, especially, like, when you're, like, careful with your pace and you feel everything going up the chain and you put your shoulders back and, you know, concentrate on doing it with really good posture. Yeah. Yeah. I've been doing it as part of my recovery from the hip surgery and everything. I didn't get quite up to those weights because I want to do a bit longer, like two minutes walking up and down. But I use the kettlebells. Okay, guys. It's quite… I feel a bit more comfortable to hold and walk with those. But, you know, really concentrate on the posture and my walking and everything because of the recovery. So, yeah, it's a good exercise. But some of these, you know, these things, these numbers that you hear, you know, muscle mass is 400% protective. And I don't know if some of those things work out, you know. I'm sure it's very beneficial for your health. We're talking about the VO2 max. I know, like, when Peter Batia says that, he says it's a magical fact that if you don't have a great VO2 max, you're going to die. And that obsesses me a little bit as they would anyone else. But he's just so magical. You're probably don't. I don't think they necessarily outlive people that are just generally healthy because how they achieve such an extraordinary VO2 max is excessive amounts of exercise, which brings its own negatives. Or something genetic. And then the thought is if you don't have that genetic gift, then you have to bring it with… Yeah, there's only so much you can improve. Just like strength. Some people are going to have double their strength for somebody else just genetically. So I think it's difficult to put percentages on the benefits of different types of exercise. I think if you… Yeah, which is not healthy in itself. It's a paradox, right? Absolutely. I think you should do some muscle training, some strength training. And the older you get, the more important it is because muscle is an organ and it's going to help regulate your metabolism and stop you slipping into like pre-diabetes and diabetes. Which is just going to really kick in the aging. So yeah. And a decent VO2 max I think would be useful. But… And also, you know, working on mobility and flexibility a little bit. So I do a bit of everything. Which you have to be to be the best at something. To be the best at something is in no way a balanced situation. Which is, you know, where I'm at now. And I feel like the most comfortable, secure, balanced, peaceful. I've done that. I went from total isolation. Just doing whatever to be the best bodybuilder in the world without any compromise. To an OCD extreme. Where I didn't… I went on social. I mean, it was unnecessary. But it was necessary for me. Yeah. Because I felt like I had all the odds against me. So I had to stack everything that I could in my favor. Whether it's another hour's sleep or any little thing that could help me. I had to do it. Yeah. So in my mind. So I put myself on a self-imposed kind of lockdown. You know, I'm almost hidden away from the world. I was a shadow. I didn't go to family social events. Were you in your 20s? Yeah, I was like 21. And I started like, I'm doing this. Because I remember the 90s. I had a flatmate at uni. And, you know, the very… You know, would wear the big, heavy, you know, like the sweatshirts. Baggy clothes. And then after you warm up. Then maybe unveil to get this. Yeah, that was part of the culture. Big jug of water. You know, carry around everywhere. We used to call them 10 men. You know, or 10 jumpers. Because people used to wear a sweatshirt on top of a jumper. On top of something else. To make themselves look bigger, you know. And they'd be all covered up but looking really big. Now the guys have got like a string around. And they're like, you know, 100 pounds. That's serious. Well, I don't know if you've ever watched in America the Saturday Night Live. They had Hans and Franz or whatever. They were making fun of Arnold. And they were wearing the whole sweatshirt. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, it was quite funny. So do you think you're probably better heart healthy now than you were when you were a bodybuilder? Yeah. During those Mr. Olympia years, I think. Because I was pushing the body weight up, you know, to unnatural levels. I had some blood tests. Well, I mean, it was so basic, the stuff that I had. They did take hormones to testosterone. You know, it was just liver, kidney function, blood pressure reading, cholesterol. Very basic stuff. So I knew my blood pressure was high. Yeah. And I wasn't advised. And I didn't choose to take another medication on top of what I was taking to bring it down, which probably would have been the best advice. I mean, it's not good to have it high. And some of the medications, all blood pressure medications are bad. Some act like exercise hermetic, like tell them the Sartan. Reduce more nitric oxide, I think. Yeah. Yeah. Ramapril and stuff like that. I think the Ramapril would be an ACE inhibitor, like the Sartans. It's metalisartan, losartan, help reduce inflammation as well as blood pressure. And then if you, I know Dr. Thomas O'Connor, I don't know if you follow him, in the States, he talks about protecting bodybuilders from harm, anapause, and using the Bevolol to keep the rate down as well as the others. Now, I mean, now you can find somebody like yourself, or there's many doctors out there you can find. You can get all your parameters done. You can get advice. If something's out of line, what you can do with it. But people need to understand that this was a different day. This is 1980s when I started bodybuilding and I started using steroids. So I just went to my GP, you know, on the council estate, right? You know, and I'm a young kid and I'm telling them I'm going to take STO. Can you do some blood tests for me? And he's like, you wouldn't do it at first. He's like, no, you don't want to take that. It's not good for you and all this stuff, right? And then I did my first competition and I made a big splash. And then they invited me to be on the British team, which is in the World Games held in London. On the bodybuilding team, World Games was like Olympic Games, but all the sports that didn't quite make it. There was water skiing, there was powerlifting, all these sports. It was a big thing. And bodybuilding was there. And I went from my first competition to be on the British team as a heavyweight two weeks later in this competition. And anyway, there was, it was a bit on TV, but they had the opening ceremony. So the guy that was managing the bodybuilding team cleverly said, you and the girl who was representing the female bodybuilding, when you go out, you take your tracksuit and do some poses. And sure enough, all the cameras came over because it's visual, right? So all the cameras came over, the TV cameras came over and actually were shown a little bit on British TV, which is a big thing, right? Yeah. So next time I went to see the doctor, he said, I saw you on TV. I see what you're doing is, it's serious. Like, you know, I said, yeah, I've tried to told you that, man. I'm not messing about here, you know? So then he said, okay. But yeah, my blood pressure was like 150 over 100, I think, average for a few years, you know? And I didn't know that I had a possibility to bring it down. He didn't advise me. He just said, this is not great long term and make some money and get out. That's what I should do. It's pretty much what I did. It's been an honor to have Dorian Yates on our program today and delve into the extraordinary story and invaluable insights. To our viewers, take these lessons to heart. And remember to subscribe, like, and comment on your favorite takeaways. And stay strong, stay balanced. We'll catch you next time on Gallant So I All Know. Thank you.