 tL-Lycarnitia, Hi, I'm Mike, founder of Balance My Hormones, where we help men and women on their journey to optimal hormone balance. If you're new to the channel, please consider leaving comments and subscribing so you get future content. We're going to talk about your supplements, the supplements to improve your leanness. Now, we talked about your diet in the first section. Now, we're going to talk about the supplements. The supplements are made taken in two categories, two classes. Okay. The performance supplements for the gym and the health supplements, okay, to maintain health and good labs. So, we have the all-time classic amine performance supplement with a multivitamin stack, with a BCH pre-workout, with a glutamine post-workout, with a creatine monohydrate post-workout, with the liver or beef aminous between meals. And, of course, the protein blend. Not just whey, but other sources of proteins with different amino acids profiles. And also, the collagen protein that I applied with every shake and with my coffee, because I want to keep my connective tissue good. Well, what is this? I missed that. What supplements? It's from the UK. From the applied nutrition, it's collagen protein. Oh, collagen protein. Okay. That helps your joints, you're saying? Okay. Yeah. Along with vitamin C and the growth hormone, it synthesizes more connective tissue. And then, those are your performance. Now, about the health supplements, I'm taking, with breakfast now, the fat-soluble vitamins, 5,000 IUs of vitamin D3K2 liposomal spray. Okay. 25,000 IUs of vitamin A tocopherol. 300 IUs. This is also for immunity. Great. I never had coffee. Two years now. 300 IUs of vitamin E tocopherol. I'm taking also 50 milligrams of zinc for immunity. 400 micrograms of selenium for thyroid and also for immunity because it's antioxidant, powerful antioxidant. One gram of vitamin C with every meal. Okay. For also for it. Why with every meal? Why with every meal? Just to absorb this better? Because it's a water-soluble. You know, you diorate this. But I want to keep high my antiviral protection, you know, and also my joints, my connective tissue synthesis. So it's really important to take the vitamin C with the collagen, you know, to synthesize more collagen, you know. Along with growth hormone, it's a perfect stack. And also it's good for the elasticity of the skin or the arteries. Okay. It keeps the upper respiratory free from viral infections. Especially now, you know, the pandemic during the winter. Okay. Okay. Also, alpha-lipoic acid. I'm taking this as a, for, yes, which is powerful antioxidant. I'm taking also my, the formulas that have synthesized. One for the liver, one for the, for the lipids. Now, so for the liver, we have NAC and acetylcysteine. Okay. 1,200 milligrams that synthesize glutathione. Selimurinal milk thistle, 500 milligrams. Choline and inositol, there are lipotropic factors that can, are able to excrete, you know, the stored fat into the liver, you know, the non-alcoholic liver disease. I'm injecting 600 milligrams of glutathione every morning. Oh. Into muscular. Yes. It's a little bit painful, but. Every morning. And what does the glutathione help with? It's liver detox. It's anti-cancerous. Favours immunity, you know. So, so it's the most powerful antioxidant. Actually, people with COVID into the ICU have depleted levels of glutathione in the liver. Okay. Also, N-acetylcysteine is a powerful antioxidant that synthesizes glutathione, but it's the most effective and antioxidant of the lungs. So, NAC is the precursor to glutathione. Yes. Yes. Yes. Because if you take glutathione orally, it's destroyed in the gastric, you know. Which is why you're doing the injections directly. Yes. Okay. Now, also, krill oil was the best form of omega-3. Omega-3s. Krill oil, yes. Staxanthine, phospholibid. It's also taken with every meal. 500 milligrams. And I guess, ah, TMG, trimethylglycine betaine that keeps methylation. Okay. And it keeps homocystine levels low. Now, homocystine is a toxic compound that elevates and is linked to cardiovascular disease with stroke and with deep venous thrombosis. Have you, have you had elevated homocystine levels before? When I was using steroids, it was above 10. Now, I want to keep it single digit. So, homocystine lowers by TMG, by cobalamin and by folic acid, by folate. Yeah. And actually, smokers have elevated homocystine, you know? And it's linked with clotting, you know? And occasionally, I inject also one milligram of cobalamin per week, you know? To keep homocystine low, to keep, you know, it's the vitamin of vitality. Sure. I know it's a lot of people. I know it's a lot, Michael, but you know, but I think it keeps me healthy, strong, you know? I mean, most doctors at the NHS, if they saw what you were taking, I think they would just lose it. They wouldn't know what to say. The proof is the last, Michael. Of course, of course. But there's a mentality out there, especially in the UK and maybe in other countries as well, where, you know, you don't need to take all these things and you're wasting your money. When I was about to be operated last April in my back, I broke my disc. Now, the cardiologist told me, are you taking any medication? So I'm telling her all this list and she panicked, she freaked out. Why are you taking healthy? I said for anti-aging, I'm doing replacement therapy. She had no idea what is replacement therapy. And I had to bring my brother-in-law, who's a cardiologist, to ensure her that my ECG and my ultrasound is good. So there's no need to worry about, you know? I understand, yes, that they have no clue about this anti-aging management. Well, I mean, we can also say, though, not everyone wants to go down that route. Not everyone, some men, even the ones on TRT, want to do the very basic and just get on with their life and not have all those interventions. And other men, they actually do it. I mean, I think I'm, you know, I used to, you know, people would say that I'm all about better living through chemistry. And in many ways, you know, if you can improve the quality of your life, you know, with certain medications, especially if you have a deficiency and you can improve it with your vitamins and supplements, if you're deficient or to optimize, there's nothing wrong with it. I'm not diabetic, but I'm taking metformin in order to avoid elevation of A1c glucosylation. Do I have to go up to six to worry about? I want to stay at five. There are also studies on metformin where people who were diabetic were outliving those who were non-diabetic because the diabetics were taking metformin and the people who were non-diabetic were not. And it seems there's a slight increase in longevity on those who take metformin. Yes, because it mimics the fasting condition. Fasting is linked to longevity. AMPK elevation, lower of mTOR, you know. Yeah. I want to ask you. I'm sorry. I was going to ask you about the two supplements that you do take that might, some papers have shown may increase the risk of prostate cancer, and that's vitamin A and vitamin E. What are your thoughts on that? I believe that both of them are under cancer, you know. Okay. I've read the study about the vitamin E, but her talk has the opposite opinion. I mean, it's really good for the immunity of the vitamin E. And now about the vitamin A, it's very powerful against acne, you know, the retinoic acid. Yeah. It can accumulate, of course, in large doses, but more than that. Okay. But do you do multivitamin as well that covers some of these? I mean, are there sorts of... I prefer to take those vitamins separate, you know. Okay. Instead of taking a multivitamin, you know. Okay. So A, B, C, E, D. These are the top vitamins that I want to take separate, you know. Okay. It's just that there are some in the research community, or some doctors would even say, you know, some of supplements are just wasting them. You're just weeing them out. That these particular vitamins I mentioned, the E and the A, but you've addressed that. Those can have maybe detrimental effects in some people, but it sounds like there's other studies that say, at least Dr. Hertog, and some of his research says it might not be the case. So I think... Her toxic force in cancer patients, mega doses of vitamins. And some of them, IV, you know, intravenous. Like C, for instance, glutathione, MAC, but also oral, alpha-lipoic acid, vitamin A, vitamin E. Vitamin D also is really important and inflammatory hormone. Which one is? Which one is? D. Vitamin D. Yeah. Of course, I have the recommended dose, but you have to know, but vitamin D and B12, you go by the blood. You just take your level. I want to have my levels of B12 over 1,000 to keep homocyste in low, to keep vitality energy. Now, vitamin D, seriously, during winter, above 50. No doubt about it, you know, especially with COVID now. You take a high amount of vitamin D. Yeah, and I think that's been recognized. I mean, I think during COVID in the UK government, I think we're handing out vitamin D to some patients. So it's, yeah, that's necessary. And I think we've talked about in the past vitamin D with K2 and magnesium together. Yes, because it directs the calcium to the bone tissue instead of the endothelium. So that's good. So it sounds like you've got quite the cocktail. Again, this is, you know, kind of a disclaimer that, you know, you should go talk to your doctor. Though sometimes it's like talking to the wall because most doctors don't have a clue about this sort of thing. Well, doctors support medication. They don't support supplementation, you know. Supplementation is something that auxiliary, that helps, you know. But it cannot substitute medications. But it can help in some circumstances, not just diseases, but preventionals. Of course. Now, one thing we should also say, though, is that if you are on especially the B vitamins, especially biotin, for example, and you do a blood test for either thyroid or testosterone, and you're taking a good dose of biotin, people that want to grow better hair and nails, we tend to see an over-exaggeration of testosterone levels that may not reflect reality because it skews the analyzer at the labs. So high doses of biotin, and there's a warning, especially by the FDA at certain labs, as well as in the UK, if you've got a patient who may be deficient in testosterone, but for some reason they're taking biotin, or even a patient that's already on TRT, it may show up a higher level of testosterone and thyroid hormones than matched reality. So we always advise if you are taking certain supplements of biotin, maybe just stop a week or so out before you do your blood tests. Okay, so is there anything else you want to talk about on the supplement side or your hormonal balancing side? If we eat, we cannot tolerate eating so many carbs. If we want to eat carbs, make them complex. Make them starchy with fiber. Skip these simple carbs, you know, and the sweets, of course. Less fruits. Certainly no juices if you want to eat fruits. It's good with a cover. So control your insulin. By eating fiber, by eating protein and good fats. That's why insulin resistance develops also out of muscle wasting, visual fat. That's why we need testosterone, lifting weights, and eating protein to burn the glucose out of muscles. Well, you look great. Your progress has really paid off. You know, your perseverance. So, I mean, again, that works for you and many other people who do various diets and exercise and try to lead a healthy lifestyle. Well, and, you know, it's a good example that you lead as far as, you know, trying to focus on physical fitness, you know, well, in your 50s. So, thanks again for coming on another video with Balancing Hormones. This is Dr. George Tulliatos. And if anyone has their own experience with a certain diet regimen or any success they've had in losing weight, send us some comments. So, even before and after picture, I'd be happy to mention it on the channel. So, thanks again for watching. If you like the channel, please press like and subscribe. And we look forward to seeing you next time. Thanks again.