 So HCG, it is used alongside TRT, it is also used for fertility, pre-IVF and things like that. Keep watching. So we're back and we are discussing HCG. So HCG is used obviously with TRT, so HCG is used obviously with TRT, alongside it with some men. In my experience and what we see in the clinics, HCG tends to be, although there's a lot of people preaching that it's a must or not, I have, I and we have found that usually dosage and things like that, it can be personal in terms of how it makes you feel. You might need to try different things. Some guys don't get on with it. Some guys, I know like Nelson, he mentions it, it massively improves sex drive and libido. But, and we know, and we know that we know that we know that we have to the! Yeah, I would say the last four years or so. Before that, I've been on testosterone for 34, 35 years. And out of those 30 something, 28 maybe, I wasn't on HCG. I was on testosterone alone. Did I feel okay? Yeah, I felt fine. My testicles shrunk. Obviously, I'm not looking, I'm a gay man, I'm not looking to have babies with a woman. So I wasn't concerned about fertility. Yeah, this, the sperm volume decreases on testosterone alone. That's a big difference. Your testicular size decreases. And if you have big testicles to start with, maybe that's not a big issue. You have smaller testicles before you start testosterone, obviously you're going to see a bigger change. There are some guys that actually the testicular atrophy gets so bad, and I'm not talking about months, I'm talking about years of exposure, that when they're having sex, their testicles recede into our bodies. So very, very few people discuss that on the internet. And that, when that happens, it hurts sometimes to have sex. So that's one other issue. So it's not only a cosmetic issue, like some doctors think, oh, you know, get used to your smaller testicles. No, there's some physiological and pain-related issues when they recede because of their size into your body when you're having an erection. So I'm just being blunt. But the first thing I noticed, and obviously I had been doing testosterone for a while. So once again, I'm not a normal person that started with HCG, my sex drive definitely went up dramatically. And it's the first week. It's not like you have to wait for a while. No. If it works, it works. If it doesn't work, it won't work. Within a week or two weeks, you'll know it. For some guys, it works. I have clients that I do coaching with. They don't feel a thing, even with the right dose. The question about the right right dose is highly controversial. It's one of the most discussed topics on excelmail.com and my Facebook groups. We have good data, but small, small studies that have done here in Houston, Baylor College of Medicine with Dr. Lipschulz, a personal friend of mine. He actually, we had studies on fertility on the use of HCG with FSH, HMB, studies using HCG with testosterone replacement, only probably two or three, they're all small. The data that Lipschulz collected, he gave men that were already with testosterone, either injections or gels, not one, but several types of testosterone replacements. He gave them 500 IU units of HCG every other day, three times a week. And for 66%, two thirds of those men, this combo improved sperm counts, quality, all that. So then it became more fertile. He doesn't have any fertility data when it comes to pregnancy rates or all that stuff for their female partner. So we know a third of the guys on the combo, their sperm count didn't improve as being really normalized. So there, it doesn't work for everybody. Okay. Well, it's also in every study, like I tell people, because I used to be in research groups, it's also hard to measure adherence or compliance, who was actually injecting this thing following the rules at home. Because obviously, these are studies that are trusting the word of the person that you're asking, hey, did you inject three times or not? But anyways, so that's good. The libido question, they're actually increasing, not a single study. And I'm trying to push the Lipschulz to do a second study to not only see, you know, look at sperm count and all that, but also look at libidos. Just bringing HCG increase my sex drive, so much so that I still use it. If I forget, and once again, I'm not the best at compliance, I'm good at preaching to the crowd. Sometimes my partner says, you should follow your own advice. Sometimes I forget. And when I forget, I realize, hey, I haven't thought about sex for a few days, or even my own, you know, masturbation. So I do see it, black and white. So I have biases. Some guys hate HCG. Some guys think that water retention increases, obviously, because it is an androgen. It enhances it. Acne. Acne. Acne, hematocrit increases more. So yeah, everything that testosterone causes, HCG will probably enhance it. They're good. In my case, they're good. Obviously, I don't have acne. I don't have, you know, the, what else did I say? Yeah. You know, I don't have all the other stuff that most people complain. They complain about water retention, and they think it's extra vital. Oh, my estrogen. HCG increases estrogen. It increases estrogen. Some data shows that it stabilizes the process of the time. But anyways, so 500 I use every other day is the only studied protocol by a research group, a small setting, I think there were like 100 patients, in the world. Okay, so there's not a definite answer on what the right dose. We know that that dose, if everybody was really honest about the fact that they injected only working 66%. It didn't work. 33% didn't work. What were the factors? Older age and longer exposure to testosterone. So the guys that were on testosterone for the longest, they were older. They didn't have as good of a boost in sperm count. Dr. Lipschel never asked the question, are your testicles bigger? Okay, even though he actually measures the particular size. So that's another thing. There's some data that it may actually, we all know when we use it, that it increases. My concern right now, and I'm going to go right to one concern about, because of the fear of all the side effects, fear of estrogen. People are using suboptimal doses. They're using low doses of 100 IUs every day or twice a week. We have seen, there's another study that actually measure with the Lipschel's protocol, because Lipschel actually took his data from another study that actually gave the man on testosterone, 500 IUs, and they measure something called 17-hydroxyprogesterone. It's a hormone in the cascade, you know, that we start with cholesterol and it goes all the way down to testosterone. Actually, the final ending of the cascade is estradiol and DHT, which are probably the most important factors, more so than testosterone, but that's another topic. They gave them and they measured 17-OH progesterone. Why? They could have measured sperm count, but sperm count takes at least three months to really get to the point after you start HCG to see the results. 17-OH progesterone is linked, is correlated strongly with something called intratesticular testosterone. And that's something I learned right in the book. There's testosterone in the blood, so I said, okay, I've got enough testosterone, but in the testicles, when you're on TRT alone, it's actually low. Your intratesticular testosterone inside the testicle is low. It doesn't match the one around the obviously testicles and blood. And we need intratesticular testosterone to produce sperm. Okay. And why does that happen? Why is the blood not increasing? That was always my question. I guess it shuts off the ladies. It shuts off the LH. LH is really degenerate. So they have seen that HCG, because it looks like LH, is an LH mimicker, increases intratesticular testosterone, increases 17-OH progesterone, which is a test I sell in these analabs to predict response of sperm count. So there's another hypothesis. And I really believe Dr. Chrysler or Chrysler or however you want to, was one of the first that brought that up. And I was like, hmm, because we had a lot of disagreements. But this one really hit my curiosity. So LH, we need LH. And LH and FSH are suppressed through TRT. And we're suppressed forever. I was suppressed for what, 27 years or so. And there are consequences of that, consequences as the cells inside the testicles, the latin cells, don't die, but they tend to shrink off, you know. And they become kind of dormant. They're not producing sperm. There obviously is not enough intra-tasticular testosterone. So HCG tends to wake them up, right? But HCG, now we're seeing data for the first time, actually two months ago, that it increases also the upstream cascade hormones that are all shut down. Stereo- The genesis. Yeah. So there's effects that we'll see later in other studies, I'm sure. The HCG is not only about testicular size, sperm count, but there may be some neuro-steroids, you know, like George has mentioned this, that are improved in the cascade that may have- Menogon, progesterone, and dehydro-apendosterone. All those that have actually brain and cognitive effects. So I guess HCG is much more than fertility or aesthetic. It's also having a better steroidal profile as a whole, you know? Yeah. And I feel my booty is actually better on CD. I just, you know, I'm a data guy, and I hate him because there are a lot of people online talking about all kinds of stuff, but I tend to see, hey, is there a study to this? There are not studies that link HCG to libido, HCG to cognitive function, HCG, only one study, and it's well done study that was just published, that actually so increases in progesterone, pregnenolone, a little bit of the DHEA with a use of HCG. HCG, in my point of view, somebody asked me, is that a must? No, I mean, I was without HCG on testosterone for 27 years. I don't think, well, looking back, I don't know. I don't think even, you know, it killed me not to have HCG, but had I, if I had the choice today, let's say today I'm 22, 23, I have low testosterone, somebody asked me, well, first of all, you want to have kids, second of all, you, you, do you want to preserve your tessicular size, and there's this thing that may enhance the effects of testosterone, I would say yes. So I don't think it's a must. HCG is not part of any testosterone guidelines. None of the guideline groups even mention it, okay? HCG in the United States is usually obtained through clinics that do not take insurance, because insurance usually does not want to pay for HCG in the United States. We have some other issues with HCG supply in the United States. With the 17-hydroxyprogesterone, right? That's the one. We test that on our tests, and I have to say, there have been two guys that came through who'd actually, from somewhere in Europe, been on for fertility pre-IVF. They'd been given like 5,000 IUs twice a week, you know, and it felt awful, to be fair, but it did the job of the sperm count. I think it was something like that, that sort of dose was definitely up there. And their progesterone levels were through the roof. The only two guys I've seen that those levels were really, really high. Maybe with those sort of high doses is maybe that was contributing to why they felt so rough. But yeah, I hadn't heard that before, but that correlates in these two sort of case studies, as it were. I mean, the HCG thing, I suppose, I wonder whether, yes, if there's the LH, you know, as Dr. Crisley used to say, backfilling the pathways and the steroidogenesis of those other hormones. I wonder whether, because there is the absolute, where people like Nelson feel awesome, and you get the improvement in libido. And then there's guys that literally like, I don't want to touch this ever again. This made me feel so bad. Some guys have had weird, like autoimmune type responses to it, maybe because it's human sourced. I don't know, you know, the human, you know, it's pregnant women's urine, essentially, isn't it where they where they source it from. But I wonder whether in future, if we see those studies, and they see that and, and whether it rather than a mimetic, you know, because obviously, it acts like a sheet, like LH predominantly, but isn't LH. I wonder whether, you know, using recombinant LH or something like that, or something else that filled that pathway that could avoid some of the the the feelings that some of the guys get when they feel terrible could provide something similar. I don't know, it'd be interesting to see. Well, that that's a good hypothesis is just not very practical. Because recombinant LH is not only expensive, but the half-life is very short. HCT has something that LH doesn't have, a longer half-life actually, and what it peaks twice in two and a half seconds. And actually, it's something that very few people talk about. There are some qualities to that molecule that also has FSH-like qualities, which we've only, we've always linked FSH to sperm production and not really LH much. LH usually we link it to testosterone production. So, HCG is more versatile than LH, has a higher, and it's cheaper because you're extracting it, and that's something that some guys probably don't know, from pregnant women's urine. I mean, women produce a lot of HCG through their pregnancy, and don't ask me how they do that. I mean, most probably not being in the United States, but they collect all this volume of urine and extract it. So, because compounding, and we have really strong compounding in this, well, not as strong as it used to be, they're trying to shut them down. One of my best friends is an owner, and he says, oh, to make LH, we would have to sell every compound, we would have to sell it for $400, $500 a bio instead of $80 a bio that we send you. So, there are practical aspects. However, I have to say, Morgan Taller, who George really likes Dr. Morgan Taller, in one of his papers written last year, threw like a piece of gold at the end of the paper saying that they're working on a long-acting HCG, which can be done because a lot of peptides are being produced now with nanotechnology on long-acting formulations. So, I contacted him. He didn't want to answer, obviously, there's probably patent issues, but I guess that's coming too. Why long-acting? Why in particular long-acting? Why in particular long-acting? So that you inject once a week instead of every other day, or, you know, for things of that nature. There is a common belief among bodybuilding community that when you blast, of course, in testosterone, and then you hit a plateau in sex drive, you have to introduce HCG. And this is what Jay Cutler also said when he arrived in Greece, that if you have libido issues, even though you're blasting one gram of testosterone, usually a little bit of the HCG for inter-testicular testosterone, you know? Hey, you know, bodybuilders were always right. And it's the blue signs, but sometimes it's ahead, you know? Yeah. Am I a more effective brain, my brain function on HCG than I was before? I have to say, like, last decade, it has been the most productive of my life. Yeah, I'm getting older. I'm 61. But I always question if I had started HCG 34 years ago, would have my brain capacity even been even better. So all these questions that we have no answers because nobody's looking into them. Nobody's doing the studies. Michael Scali was in front of HCG very much. Yeah, Michael Scali was doing a lot of work, but, you know, obviously he's not practicing. But Baylor College of Medicine by Dr. Lipschel, I would say, is the number one research team in the country looking at testosterone, HCG, because they have usually like 20 fellows every year going through, because they're medical students coming. And all those fellows have to write papers. It says, hey, let's look deeply into the effect of HCG in mood, in cognitive, in sexual function. So we've covered some good topics there on HCG. It is so unique. Everyone's got to figure out what works in TRT wise. HCG may give you awesome benefits. It may make you feel awful. It may make you get one of those two, but you're doing it for fertility anyway. So you're going to stick out until you get the job done, as it were. Do you think that's a fair summary? I mean, I know there's like we talk about the benefits and things, but when it boils down to treating patients, it's just it's so unique, right? I mean, you know, I, HCG for me, it can give me a little bit of acne, whatever I do with the testosterone dosing and changing it around and things lowering the dose. Um, but I'll stick out for fertility, you know, and probably I may or may not take it, but it could go either way with each patient, I think. So thanks for joining us guys today. Um, it's been really helpful. And if you guys like these videos, please like subscribe, uh, ring the notification bell and comment underneath if you've got questions or you'd like to, uh, to get involved. So yeah, thanks for watching and we'll see you soon.