 rinsipursofastatin, rinsipsofastatin, rinsipsofastatin, rinsipsofastatin. So first of all, this is not medical advice, we're not medical doctors, so this is purely for entertainment and educational purposes only. If you're going to attempt anything in this video, please consult your physician or pharmacist before attempting it. Before you start reconstituting HCG, it's important to have a clean workspace. When you receive your HCG from the pharmacy, it's best to store it in the fridge. This brand of HCG is called Ganazi. Set two packages aside, these will be returned to the fridge. Then discard that in the bin. Then discard that in the bin. You will need the following. The vial of HCG. The ampoule of Torbach saline. The 18 gauge needle with an inline filter. A 2.5 or 3 milliliters syringe. A blue 23 gauge needle for injecting into the HCG vial. Or you can also use a 25 gauge needle that's orange or some people see it as yellow, which can be used also in place of the 23 gauge. This will be for inserting the saline into the vial of HCG. It's important that you don't use anything less than 23 gauge as you risk making a hole too large for the rubber stopper of the vial. Carefully open the syringe packaging. Making sure not to touch any part of the Luolox syringe. Now open the packaging for the needle filter. Being careful not to touch any part of the needle filter. At this point you will assemble the syringe by twisting the purple filter needle onto the syringe. Grab the Torbach. Identify the red dot. This is the point where you'll put your finger on in order to snap open the ampoule. Now you snap in a forward motion. Making sure to snap away. Grasp the ampoule's neck and place your right thumb if you're right handed onto the red dot. Like this. Remember you'll snap away. And now snap it open. And place the ampoule back on the table. Now we'll withdraw 2ml of the saline solution. To do this. Take the cap off your needle filter. Insert it into the ampoule of Torbach. Remove around 2ml of bacteriostatic saline. But you should probably remove a little bit more. Because we will fine tune the amount to 2ml after. So just get a rough measure of what you need. And then pull back on the plunger. And carefully recap the needle filter. And place it back in its packaging on the table. You'll now need to choose which needle for injecting saline. You'll use one of the needles. The 23 gauge or the 25 gauge. I've choose the 23 gauge. Just what I usually have around. Now open it carefully. Making sure not to touch any parts of the opening of the needle. Replace the needle filter with a smaller, thinner needle for inserting saline into the HCG vial. And then put back in the packaging for safe keeping. Remove the protective cap from the HCG vial. Lift at the corner and it snaps off. Then wipe the top of the vial with a fresh alcohol swab. Now you're ready to adjust the amount of saline in the syringe. Before you add it to the vial with the HCG powder. First you'll remove the cap from the needle. Then you'll locate where you want to make the adjustment. For reconstitution it is recommended that you adjust to 2ml or the number 2 on the syringe. By pushing up the plunger from the bottom. And then the top area of the plunger. The top line is where you would want to make the adjustment to. Just like that. Now observe the white powder pellet in the bottom of the Genasi 2000. This is your HCG and it is quite fragile. So make sure that you do not shake it or move it too rapidly. The liquid will enter the vial. And that will then cause the pellet to dissolve. It's important that you locate the centre of the rubber stopper. This is where you will insert the needle. And you want to use the smaller needle. The 25 gauge needle or the blue one. And carefully insert it through the centre. Now notice where the needle sits. Which is next to the powder. And it's just got you. You're just going to slowly drip, drip, drip. The saline into the vial. If you go too fast. You end up creating more pressure. So a slow push on the back of the plunger will allow the liquid to help reconstitute the powder. Now do not remove your needle until this procedure is done. This is a very important part of the procedure. Because you will need to displace the air. So it's important that you see the needle line is above the water line. The needle is above the water line. This is important because we're going to at one point remove the pressure on the plunger with our thumb. Now this is important. Make sure the needle is above the water line. And release your thumb from the plunger. You might even pull it back a little bit to assist with removing the air. You do not want to get any saline or HCG into the syringe. And now notice it's fully reconstituted and dissolved. And you place it carefully on the table. We're now ready to prepare for the actual injection of HCG done subcutaneously. Locate the insulin syringe. The needle all in one. It can either be in an individually sealed packet. Or it might come in a package of 10. In this particular example we've got the all in one package. Which you would open up separately. It's important to wipe the top of the HCG vial each time that you use it. Get your alcohol swab. Open it up. Wipe the top of the rubber stopper. Or it's also called the rubber bung. And then let it dry. Now open carefully your needle and syringe. They're all in one in this particular model. Identify your proper dose. 50 would be the dose for 500. 25 would be the dose for 250 IU. Think about how do you manageǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭǭ Now you'll remove the orange cap from the needle syringe complex. Now locate the center of the rubber stopper at the top of the vial and carefully insert the insulin all-in-one needle syringe through the center and then pull back on the plunger to withdraw. You may even tip it over to let gravity help you in extracting your HCG dose. And again dialed in, pull back until you get the desired dose depending on your prescription. If you don't get it right or if you're not getting suction you can push into the vial and then pull back out until you get the right amount. You should feel a bit of a pull, a bit of a tug and then get it to the right dose and then remove the needle from the vial. At this point is where you'll do the injection. Theǭǭǭǭ Thinkin' good job. Is that what we need today? End of the ending. What's the ending? Well, we hope you enjoyed this video. We hope you found it instructional and informative on how to reconstitute HCG. If you like this video, please subscribe and press like and hit that notification bell thingy. Right, I'll try one. All right. Okay. Thanks for watching our video on how to reconstitute and inject HCG. If you like this video, please like it, subscribe, press that notification bell for more videos like this. That's good. Yeah? Yeah. Okay. Bye.