 aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin. Hello and welcome to another video of Balance My Hormones. I'm here today with Dr. George Tuleatos here in Columbus, Ohio at the Arnold Classic. And we're here to discuss all the different variances, not just TRT, but more specifically, HRT. And we'll have more information after this. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It keeps fertility on, okay? So, basically, it affects both sides, you know, prevents them to shrink and improves ejaculation volume. So, somebody who wants to prevent to be non-fertile during TRT, he has to introduce HED in minor doses. How minor? What size doses? I would believe that the least is 100 IUs and the highest is 500 IUs. So, personally, now, at the moment, I'm using 250 every other day, so 1,000 a week. Okay. Okay. But when I was available to use another name known as Pregnil, which is... Pregnil. Pregnil, yes. Yeah. It was a generic name. I used 150 IUs every other day, I'm sorry, every day. But anyway, smaller doses, as John Krista used to say, mimic the natural production of testosterone. Now, apart from this, we may introduce DHT, which is synthetic... I'm sorry, Mestero, which is synthetic DHT. It's available in pharmacy grade in Greece. Now, DHT is responsible for all the good benefits of testosterone because testosterone is a pro-hormone to DHT. The testosterone is reduced through 5-hydroiductase enzyme to DHT, and DHT has benefits in self-esteem, self-confidence, mood, sharpness, you know. So, basically, you can lack of DHT and be moody, have foggy mind, lack of confidence, you know, and don't have the... You don't take decisions, you know. And you think this is related to not having enough DHT? So, castrated men, basically, they have no self-confidence and they cannot take decisions, you know. And they have this kind of depression because DHT is also antidepressant. Yeah, I've heard that. Because look at the post-finasteride syndrome. Under finasteride or dutasteride use in order to avoid benign processing, hypertrophy, or meripatibolness, those people develop serious depression, melapoly, because DHT, it's not there, and DHT is major and depressive. That's how testosterone improves depression, through the DHT, not testosterone itself. Of course. But also, DHT is responsible for the bad things, which is made by the bonus, for something unilateral, some roid rage, some aggression, you know. But it's not a villain. Is the roid rage also related to, some people would have argued, the elevation of DHT and estradiol in combination? It's a high, it's going to make you grumpy and edgy also. Yeah. But also, roid rage is something personally, you know, personal, that has to be also stacking other compounds, steroids and other compounds such as narcotics or stimulants or alcohol, and also it's genetically predisposed. Of course. That makes sense. Now, other hormones are human growth hormone, HGH. Yeah. That in low doses, keeps under moderation IGF-1. However, it's good for... What would you say low dose is? 1 to 2 IUs. Okay. And split it. Don't use a larger dose. For instance, it's preferable to use 2 a.m. and 2 p.m. instead of one use of 4 IUs. In this way, you avoid spiking of IGF-1. Okay? Oh, so you're trying to mimic the natural pulsatile nature of HGH. I try not to elevate super high the IGF-1. Okay. Okay? Too low IGF-1, according to Gary Hercule, is linked to mortality. But super high IGF-1, as I mentioned today, might be triggered to cancer and cellular proliferation. However, low dose of growth hormone, what it does in first place hormone is fat burning. That's why under fasting, we burn fat through the growth hormone that's released. I see. Because the insulin is low. And also, cellular proliferation comes through high doses of IGF-1. But the newborn cell, so how you call it, it's rejuvenation, comes with low doses, 1 to 2 IUs. 2 to 4 may burn some fat and over 8 IUs, then you trigger muscle growth. So you get more muscle growth, but then you also get side effects at a higher dose of HGH. Yes, yes. But in Hollywood, many Hollywood stars use low dose of growth hormone as a rejuvenation. I see. Now, of course, as we have the pro-hormone, DHEA, which comes from the adrenals. Both men and women have to use this. DHEA, you're talking about? Yes, according to your SDHEA levels. SHBG level? Or SDHEA. Oh, SDHEA, the sulfonated kind, yes. Yes. And yes, it has similar properties to DHT in terms that it can lower a little bit the SHBG. It can improve self-esteem also, but libido by elevation of pre-to-sosterone. Oh, brilliant. Okay? I don't think that has a serious impact on the prostate, the DHEA. Yeah, have you heard that? It might be slightly metabolized, a little bit the DHT, but not serious. Or it also can be converted to some estrogen pathway. Yes, E-strong, E1, through androsanadion, but not to E2, which is the main representative, the isodiole. And so the concern is that would cause BPH, potentially, bedside prostate hypertrophy from too much... Well, I'm talking about the elevation, remarquable variation of the issues, and not genocomastro, but soreness of nipples, you know? Okay. Another thing is that in women, because they lack of testosterone, DHT favors the androgenic metabolites. But in men, because they have testosterone already, the metabolites that are dominant are the isogenic of DHT. Of course. Of DHT. It's almost like it does the opposite. So for women, it's not unheard of for doctors to prescribe DHT instead of directly testosterone. I prefer to give women DHT instead of testosterone for libido, but it's also safer for hisrith and realization effects. What about the use of oxandrolone for women? Have you... Oxandrolone? Now, oxandrolone is anabolic steroid, and specifically, it's something that will have an impact on lipids, on the liver. So... It's just that we've heard of some doctors in the US that do that. Now, in Europe, oxandrolone isn't really relevant or readily available, so it's probably a moot point in Europe. Well, there was a time that there was something interesting, what Michael Scali said, that some open-minded physicians might suggest the use of DHT derivatives, which is stenozolone, oxandrolone, and methanolone, supremo winstrel, and Ava, for obesity. Oh. Because they oxidize, you know, a metal fat. But anyway, the other hormone would be pregnenolone, which is the first metabolite after cholesterol in the chain of steroid molecules. And according to Rama claim, it can improve sharpness and cognitive function, you know. And I give it to my mother also that she has a little bit of dementia, you know. What about the concern of men who are on testosterone treatment? After a while, they may reduce their pregnenolone levels. Have you seen that? Yes, the same occurs also for DHA. DHA as well. Because exogenous use will cut off the cataract and the chain reaction of the steroid molecules. So you have to supplement it. Right. Have you heard of people having more anxiety without the DHA, and then DHA may relieve some forms of anxiety? No, but I realized that soon after I started using 15 milligrams of pregnenolone, I was kind of sharper, you know, more focused. And maybe it was because of that. I never took the A-pregnenolone in my life before. I never counted all my blood levels, but I will next time. And another thing now that… So you don't know your starting point for pregnenolone? No, no, no, no. Okay. And finally, the other hormone would be synthetic derivative of testosterone, which is nandrolone, but it's pharmaceutical grade. Now nandrolone… So nortestosterone? 19-nortestosterone. 19-nortestosterone. 19-nortestosterone. And now decadrobulin, which is pharmaceutical grade anabolic steroid, and what it's capable of is to stimulate aldosterone that all steroids do, including testosterone. So with aldosterone, you get more water retention. More water retention, but of course this is dose dependent. But through this slight water retention, for example, also through a controlling estrogen or diet, you have sodium and water retention that may be accumulated in the synovial joints, and then they can smooth the aches and perhaps some arthritis. Okay. So the aches and pains… Yes. Okay. And also this kind of anabolic environment can act as anti-catabolic against muscle wasting, okay, encyclopedia, but not favor anabolism like in higher doses. So I'm talking about 5-10 milligrams of nandrolone. That's it. No more… Okay. 5-10 a day? Yes. And this has no impact microdosing with insulin. It has no impact on the liver. Now, that would be more useful for like Americans who can get the nandrolone in multi-dose vials, but in the UK, you know, it makes it more difficult because they come in the 15 milligram ampule. So what would you recommend for UK and European patients in that scenario? Is it okay to do 50 milligrams a week in those scenarios? 50 milligrams a week? Okay. You can do this in case also you have low hematoquid and low stamina, in case you have also low bone mineral desicc because nandrolone is capable of improving calcium retention in renal tubules and fight against osteoporosis and osteopenia and bone fractures. So these are the indications in which you could prescribe nandrolone? Yes. Tell us about, you talk about a story I think in one of the previous videos as well, your nan, your grandmother. My grandmother, yes. She was, she had pneumonia or she had some... She had pneumonia. She was, last year she was hospitalized three times. She was very close to death. How old is she now? She's 105. 105. So we started to prescribe, to administer her with my sister who's a pediatrician open-minded because she's affected from my career, you know. And unlike her husband who's a clone-minded cardiologist, we took the chance to give her 50, we started with 50 milligrams of Deka. It was a miraculous reaction. The day after she grabbed the glass of water and she was able to drink. I see. And after we kind of elevated the dose to double to 100 and she was able to stand from the bed because until she got pneumonia, she was able to walk at 103. At 104, she was not, but soon after we started Deka, she was able to stand, take a few steps and sit around a chair, you know. It was remarkable. Plus the hematoquit, even though she had repeated urinal bladder infections and she was, she had hematuria all the time because she also had a catheter in order to pee. Yeah. She lost a lot of blood but never went below 32. Okay. But it started from 42. Imagine. That's really low. Yeah. Yeah. The point is, if she was 32 in first place, imagine how would it be. Yeah. I mean, that number seems so rare. I mean, considering I'm sitting around 51. Is she too? Well, she's a little bit. Yeah. Of course, women are a bit low, of course. Yeah. So, yes, steroids also, what they do is they stimulate EPO from kidneys and this in turn elevates erythrocytes number. So, so the nandolone for your grandma was more useful because this was non-androgenic as well for a female? Yes, low. Yes, correct. It's low androgenic so it is preferable to be used by offices and bodybuilding in female cycles. Okay. Yes. And it's also higher anabolic than testosterone. The anabolic index is about 137. So, it's much more anabolic than testosterone, you know? Yeah. So, that's an incredible story. So, and, and, and she's doing very well now then. Yes, yes, yes. Excellent. Yes. So, so those are kind of the basic. Would there be any other hormones that you would think of added to you? Because there's quite a few. Yeah. We have a distorsal, we have a mosterolone, you have DHEA, we have prognanolone, we have growth hormone, we have DECA. Now there are six. But what if you also need thyroid hormone? Yes, of course. Thyroid hormone, you have to evaluate your THH. So essentially we're talking a whole hormone cocktail really to balance all the hormones. So, you have to believe that we should optimize and supplement a variety of hormones instead of one. Sure. This is the full pack of HRT and this is a bubble of longevity, you know? It's not just one hormone. Now, I had to go, so use this hydrocortisone. In low doses, I thought. For the adrenal glands, yes. But also, the HCA helps the adrenals. Yeah. And there's other theory that you give your adrenals a bit of a rest whilst they recover. Yes. It's the same with insulin. When you ingest insulin, you give a little bit of rest to the pancreas to over-release. I see. If you overdo it with food, you know? Yeah. I mean, on part of my TRT, HRT protocol, I'm on quite a few of the hormones that you'd mentioned. However, Hertog is in front of introducing IGF-1 also along with growth hormone. Oh, yes. Is that a bit more controversial? Yeah. Well, I would say it's too much. But, you know, Hertog believes that we should use no more than one IU of growth hormone. In this way, it sounds reasonable, yes. I mean, do you think, George, Dr. Tulliatos, when we were growing up, I don't know, like in my family, there was more like, don't use any medicines, be all natural, don't have anything, let nature take its course. And I'm sure like in other parts of Europe as well, that's the attitude. How do you think people can reconcile, you know, being on HRT and TRT with that mentality? It's not easy. It's not easy. Because you have to inject frequently. Now people barely can take some pills during the day, you know. They just take the pill in the morning, for instance, or whenever they think about it. So imagine that it needs consistency, it needs responsibility, duration, and few people are able to follow this. So it's for those who are more focused and determined to do it. Yes. I mean, you and I are, I guess, an example of that. But also, they have to rely on proper nutrition, proper lifestyle. So very few are willing to follow this pathway, which is actually longevity. So you can't do as my, I guess, an old friend of mine, actually from Columbus, Ohio, used to make this, have the saying, that testosterone and doughnuts don't mix. Yes. He said you have to have a healthy lifestyle if you're going to be on testosterone. Yeah, they believe that testosterone is a silver bullet and you can eat junk and everything you like. It doesn't work this way. Absolutely. Excellent. You jeopardize the benefits. All right. So that's our, I guess, today's video about all the different options, kind of a bit of a cursed review. But I think we went quite deep on some of the items of what you look for for HRT, the combination of different hormones involved in your HRT regimen. And it's not just testosterone all the time. Yeah. So, all right. Well, thanks, George. That was really good. And if you like this video, please hit the like and subscribe for, at the notification bell for future content. So we'll see you next time. Thank you. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.