 reconstitute the dry powder in the vial with our bacteriostatic saline. Now, the reason we use an additional bacteriostatic saline is because what the manufacturer gives you is only sterile saline, which means it can be contaminated if it is used more than once. So using bacteriostatic saline overcomes that obstacle and allows you to be able to use it per the doctor's instructions. Now, as with all other injections, you need to prepare the area, make sure it's clean, make sure you've washed your hands. I've already washed my hands. It's always good to have a sharp spin nearby for any of the sharps that you use and to make sure you've got the correct syringes and needles available. So the syringes that we'll use to reconstitute the HCG is going to be a 2-milliliter or 3-milliliter syringe that you can use. We'll use 2-milliliter of the bacteriostatic saline. We'll draw out the bacteriostatic saline with a thick needle that has an inline filter, and it's usually called a needle filter, and this is the purple one. You can pick either blue or orange. You may have these already that the pharmacist had sent you, and you can use these different needles to actually inject the bacteriostatic saline into the actual vial of the dry powder HCG. And also I've got some bacteria, I've got some alcohol wipes, and I also have this insulin needle and syringe for when we actually do the injection, which I'll show you in a minute. So the box of HCG, it comes with three separate vials of HCG, and the three separate vials look like this in the packaging, and you just pull out one of the three. You'll notice, as I said earlier, there'll be some sterile saline inside of this packaging. We're going to just discard that packaging. It's only sterile, and we want the bacteriostatic. That means it has a preservative in it. This particular saline does not have a preservative, so it wouldn't be necessarily safe to use for the doctor's instructions. Like with any ampoule, I'll show you how to actually open the ampoule. There's a little trick to it. So don't forget to subscribe and like to the channel, and we'll show you more in a minute. So now let's reconstitute the HCG. As I said earlier, we need to get the syringes ready. So the safest way to do it is I like to prepare the syringes first by opening up each one. Then I'll open up the ampoule so it doesn't stay exposed to the air for very long. So when you do open, you'll want to make sure that your hands are like this, and you spread it apart without touching the actual tip of the needle. This is a sterile filter in my needle. And then you'll open up your packaging for your syringe. You'll remove the syringe, and you'll place it and screw it. This is a screw tip lure lock onto your needle filter, and you can just move the packaging away. Or I usually like to put it back in the packaging for safekeeping. Now, as with any ampoule, when you open it, there is a red dot on it as a guide. You always want to snap it away, I suppose, as if you're breaking a KitKat, but snap the ampoule away, the glass away from you, never towards you. Because if you do, it will crumble. It will break or shatter. So now that you've got the packaging, and you just normally leave this syringe and needle complex together in the packaging, I'll now go to my ampoule, my glass ampoule. And this is how you open most other ampoules, including the Torbac, which contains 5 milliliters of bacteriostatic saline. You'll notice the red dot, similar to how we found it with the testosterone, and with the red dot, you'll put your thumb on it. And you'll have your, if you're right-handed, you'll have your left hand on the base of the ampoule, and you'll have your thumb on the dot, which sits on the neck of the ampoule. And usually I put my fingers together, which makes it easier. As you can see, the two fingers like this. I'll put my thumb on the red dot, and then you're going to snap it away. Never snap it towards you, always snap it in a way motion, right? So I'll snap it open. One, two, three. And it snaps like that. Okay. So that into the sharp spin, and I'll set down the Torbac. I'll grab my 3 ml or 2 milliliter syringe with the needle filter on it, remove the cap, and I'll just place it within the ampoule. And I'll remove two, maybe a little bit more, of the actual... Okay. Just a little more than that. And then I'll take it off. I can potentially recap it, put it in the packaging or the sleeve. And then I'm going to pick either my 23 gauge or 25 gauge needle, depending on what I have, what I use to normally inject my testosterone with. We'll say we'll use the 25 gauge for now because it's a bit of a smaller needle, and it won't make as big of a hole inside of the actual vial. So this is what a vial looks like. This is a vial, obviously different to a glass ampoule, which is snap open. The vial contains the HCG powder. So with the vials, you need to snap off the top of the cap, which is protective seal. And this protective seal is how you know it's not been used by anyone else. So if you don't have that seal on it, obviously don't use the vial. Just simply snap it open, and then you can wipe the top for good measure. It's got alcohol, an alcohol swab, and you just wipe it down. At this point, you want to change your syringe needle. Obviously, you don't want to use this 18 gauge needle. It's like it's very fat. You don't want to use that to put through that big rubber stopper. So I'll just remove it by opening up my packaging of my smaller needle, making sure not to touch any part of it. Remove the fat needle. And now it's on the syringe. And this is where I'll kind of fine-tune the actual amount of saline, biterostatic saline, to get it to the number two. You'll make sure the top of the syringe, there's one, two bridges. You'll go to the top bridge. I don't know if you can see that. So that's the top bridge there. So make sure it's around two. Like that. Okay, now it's ready. You locate the middle or the center of the center of the vial. And my eyes aren't that great, but we'll put it down through the center. You can also use a smaller needle than 25 gauge, depending on what you've got. Okay, now it's inside. Now the needle is inside the vial. And I'm just slowly drip, drip, drip, dripping the bacteriostatic saline inside the vial. You don't want to go too fast because it will foam. It's okay if it foams. You just put it in the fridge and it usually dissipates. But it's best to go slowly because these are proteins and you don't want to disturb them in a way that's going to make them less potent. Okay, so now there's pressure built up in here. As you notice, the particular way we do this is so that you don't risk contaminating the vial. So we've made one hole in the vial so far. The needle's still in here. And if you can see, the needle's above the water line. And with my thumb, if I release my thumb, the pressure will push back. And you can see I'm not getting any water really in the syringe. I'm removing the air. And by removing the air, you're removing the pressure. Now once all the air is removed, you just remove the needle from the vial. And that's it. So that's the reconstitution done. And so that's really all you need to do. You can put this in your sharp spin. And you kind of clean up the area. And when we come back, I'll show you how to do the actual injection. It takes just a second. So keep watching. Okay. So now this is how you actually do the subcutaneous injection for HCG. This is similar to other subcutaneous injections that you would do. In this way that you do the HCG, you'll use the insulin syringe. We use a sterile. They're all-in-one package syringes. Sometimes they'll come in a package of 10 that aren't separately packaged. This one is separately packaged. That means it's sterile. And you open any other sterile packaging as you do now. Before you open the packaging, assuming that this is my first time, I'll wipe it again with an alcohol wipe. And just make it dry for a minute so it's not wet. I'll also use another alcohol wipe to wipe the area where I'm going to do the injection, which is probably just along my belly button or next to my belly button adjacent to it around this area here. Okay. So that's good. Okay. That's been wiped. Let that dry. This should be dried by now. I'm opening up my syringe. And there's a little bit of a gap at the top. I usually just press it from the bottom. This gap here, you can see. Okay. And then you just remove the cap. And then you can place the needle in the target in the middle of the vial. To pay how good your eyesight is. Okay. So once it's in the middle, I usually flip it upside down. And then I pull out my dose. If you're doing 500 international units, because we put 2 milliliters in here, you'll want to go to the 50 mark, which is half of a milliliter on this particular syringe. Some syringes will have 1 milliliter. Then you go to half of that amount. This particular syringe is only half of a milliliter. So you wait to get all the bubbles out. And that should be good. I might even go up a little bit further to count for any bubbles. Okay. And then I just remove it. And then you can tap on the actual needle a little bit. Removing any bubbles that are in there, which there are a few. And then you can just adjust it once the bubbles are removed. All the times I do this, I never get bubbles. If you have bubbles, then you have to go back and do it again. Okay. Okay. And then you just go back and you get more. So now this is ready. Okay. So do the injection. Areas clean. Pinch an area of fat or skin. And you can just add a 45 degree angle. Let's see. At a 45 degree angle, you just inject. Shouldn't hurt. And then you just depress. Okay. And that's it. So that's injection done. Put this back in the sharps bin. Over there. And then you take your HCG and it has to be stored in the fridge. Otherwise, it will go off and it will be as effective as it was before. So that's how you do an HCG reconstitution as well as an injection, a subcutaneous injection of HCG. Thanks for watching. If you want to subscribe to the channel, we'd appreciate that. And leave any comments. And we'll try to answer those. Thanks again. Hope you liked the video. And see you next time.