 B pastelinsins, arinsins, arinsins, arinsins, arinsins, arinsins, arinsins, arinsins, arinsins, arinsins, arinsins, arinsins, arinsins, arinsins, arinsins. Hi, and welcome to BALANCE MY HORMONES, another BALANCE MY HORMONES video. I'm here with Dr. Jorge Tulliatos. He's based in Greece, in Athens. Hello. BALANCE MY HORMONES. Here in Athens. Thank you. Okay, so if a man has taken anabolic steroids or exogenous testosterone, in whatever case, whether it's for bodybuilding or for athletics, whatever, and then the system, the natural system, the brain will detect that there is a sufficient amount of androgens in the system. Tell me if I'm wrong. And then the natural production of testosterone in the body will drop. Suppression, yes. Yeah, suppression. So that's suppression. So when a man then stops the anabolics and comes off and they all leave his system, there's obviously PCT that we hear of. In order to restore the hormones. To get it back up. Yes, yes. Of course, it takes time. But usually the PCT protocol starts with HEG to kick the balls. Stimulate the testicles, get them going beforehand sort of thing. Yes, the lytic cells. And then you give the serums that they stimulate a lytic from the brain. Right. Through gonadotropin-releasing hormone. Yeah. So first we use for a couple of, two or three weeks maybe, the HEG. Small doses, moderate doses every three days for instance. 1,000 IUs. And afterwards we give serums but there were two different perspectives. First of all, they use a high dose of serums that gives you horrible melancholy mood. You know. Makes you feel bad like mentally. Poor sex diet because they elevate SHBG. You know. And also some blurred vision because they cause retinopathy. Yeah. In the eyeball. So we're talking about things like clomid, clomiphene. Clomiphene citrate, yes. And later, as Dr. John Klisser used to state, we use very low dose. For instance, 12.5 or 25 milligrams along with low dose of tamoxima citrate that also has similar effects. Okay. So selective estrogen receptor modulators that occupy the estrogen receptor, you know. Yeah. So this another two weeks or three maybe. So four weeks, one month or one and a half, one, six weeks. Afterwards we need time. Also a proper lifestyle that you shouldn't sleep late, you know. Because LHFSH production growth hormone release come from 11 to 7. Okay. Good night's sleep. Yeah. No alcohol, no marijuana, no pH, no cortisone. Yeah. Drugs that, you know, suppress testosterone production. And of course, anaerobic activity with, you know, administering some current monohydrate that makes muscles and produce lactate. And lactate also brings higher testosterone growth hormone. Okay. So weight lifting. Yeah. Do not overtrain because cortisol is overproduced also. But you can still train? You can still train, but train in shorter periods with higher intensity. Sensibly. Yes. For half an hour, for instance. Okay. And then weight for a couple of, they say, the bro science say that, for instance, you were into the gear for two months. You have to wait another two months. All right. Plus the PCP. Is that based on anything, that bro science? No, no, no. This is anecdotal, you know. But of course, time is a healer and you should wait. But until the final day of the PCP that ends, and for instance, you're going to start a new cycle. The day before the new cycle, you're at the highest levels. The day after the cycle, then you're going to shut it off again. So it's vanishing. As soon as those exogenous supply, it's just switched off again. What about, I mean, you know, I've heard of men who maybe have symptoms and they've taken anabolics purely because they just want to help their symptoms with low sex drive. Maybe they've not had good advice and they do it as a one-off. The withdrawal symptoms are horrible of the anabolics. It's like heroin. It's also, it's mental, it's physical as well. So you do, the lack of androgens in the body can affect mental health. We know that. Depression, severe depression, you know. Anxiety. Because steroids give you euphoria through dopamine, through serotonin, through DHT. They give you a higher self-esteem. The way you look, the way, you know, you perform in the bed also, at the gym. Yeah, that's true. So they make you of an alpha male. So when this hormonal environment comes off, you know, you become from a lion to a lamb. Right. So you've got the changes of these excessive amounts of androgens in the body. You've got muscle building. You've got feeling bigger and better, better recovery, more energy. Looking leaner, yes. Looking leaner. You may have a higher sex drive and things like that. That mood is euphoric because of the dopamine. And then a man obviously stops that. So they must go through the withdrawal, all those things. So sexual dysfunction, you know, anxiety, low mood, poor sleep, fatigue, everything like that. Okay. So that's something people can expect if they've been exposed to that. And there comes replacement therapy. Yeah. Because after an age, for instance, you cannot expect your testosterone, no matter how many PCTs you follow, no matter how good lifestyle, it's not going to elevate because it declines after the age of 40. This is why we age, because the hormones decline. Okay. We also have the growth hormone deficiency. And we measure IGF-1 if it's low, then we should get some growth hormone release peptides in order to restore. Okay. Okay. So the best anti-aging doctor in the world that I know in Belgium is Dr. D. E. Hertog. Okay. And he uses 10 different hormones to himself from the age of 30. Now he's 16. He looks 45 to 50. Yeah. And he said that the best HRT is managing different hormones, not just using, for instance, testosterone. You should use HCG, DHEA, sometimes DHT-like proviron, prognanolone. Yeah. Okay. He's got hydrocortisone and things too. Yes. He also supplies hydrocortisone, you know, when he feels exhausted and his adrenals are fatigued, you know. So essentially all the hormonal systems potentially from thyroid growth hormone. Thyroid, yes. Adrenals. T4, for instance. All those things can decline essentially with age. So I suppose even if you're doing… Many people come here with Hashimoto, you know, hypothyroiditis. Yeah, I've got that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So yeah, I understand what that's like. So yeah, okay. So all right. So what about… So a man who has a PCT, what's the sort of… I mean, maybe you can't put a number on it, but is it a good chance that they're going to recover their natural… Well, it depends. How early they start the steroids, how long they abuse. If you're below 30, you can recover. If you follow also a good lifestyle. Yeah, those things you mentioned. Yes, and also depends what are your demands. I mean, what is your lifestyle generally? You're a bachelor, you're a married man who works 12 hours at the office. Yeah. And you don't like your woman, for instance. Yeah. It depends on the different… It's multifactorial to whether that's… Yes, yes. So I suppose it's a personal thing. If you go to the gym, if you do not train, okay. If you're sedentary, perhaps a 400 will be fair enough for you. So it's almost worth any man who's been exposed to steroids trying a PCT. But hypogynous is linked to cardiovascular disease. To diabetes, to metabolic syndrome, to depression. Yeah. To anemia. To osteoporosis. Therefore, optimization on testosterone is health. Is there anybody, if you look at blood work, who wouldn't be suitable for a PCT? So… Yes. If you have, I mean, serious secondary hypogonadias. Okay. There's no hope. You're going to waste your time and money waiting for nothing, you know. So obviously, if you've got a very high LH and FSH as well then… Yes. This is primary also. You may not try it because you've already got a high… Yes. And a testicular failure as well. Okay. But there are some guys here with 150 total testosterone. I told them, listen, with a good PCT protocol, I cannot take you over than 300. Can you live with 100? It's up to you. This is the same as what Spateni told me. Turns out you feel. Yeah. I can give you chlamide for life but of course you're going to be messed up in your mentality. But can you live with 350 or 400 testosterone? I doubt it. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So it's worth doing a PCT if you think so. And of course testosterone is the king of all hormones, you know. Yeah. And also you forget that with TRT, actually you get benefits from estrogen and DHT. Yeah. Estrogen is linked to serotonin, the joint hormone. And oxytocin I think as well. Maybe. And also, estrogens are good for lubricating your joints, you know. Cardiovascular protection. For bone mineral density also. Yeah, erections, all those sorts of things. But as Chris said, the sweet spot but also optimization. Not for digital estrogen because they lead to clotting. Not too low estrogen because it lead to dry joints, poor sex drive, bad mood, you know. So balance and everything. So men need a good amount of estrogen. And in order to manage your estrogen you have to perform every other day or daily injections or frequent injections because if you use a higher dose, for instance once a week, you're going to boom, crash on your SHBG, liberate your fritestation that will eventually aromatize. Yeah. And then you have, you know, the fluctuations, the imbalance. I know lots of men that are doing very well on weekly doses of things. It's good for the libido. But it's not good for atherocytosis because it spikes on DHT and for genicomastase. If you are prone because some people have not sensitive estrogen receptors. Okay. So it's a personal sort of situation. Yes. But you wouldn't see someone on an optimal protocol being given Sipin A or Sustanon or an Anthe every three weeks. That's just not good. Not anymore. Not anymore. It used to be a long time ago. Okay. It was initially manufactured, you know, to shoot it every 20 days. Yeah. Okay. Wow. Great. Thanks for watching and if you enjoyed this video, please like and subscribe for future more. Bye. Bye.