 watching. Hi, I'm Mike, founder of Balance My Hormones, where we help men and women on their journey to optimal hormone balance. If you're new to the channel, please consider leaving comments and subscribing so you get future content. So today, the special guest I've got with me is Dr. George Tulliatos. He's an author, a doctor specializing in TRT. He's also an avid gym goer and a follower of the sport of bodybuilding. Dr. George, like we all do, has been through different phases in body shaping. And one of those has now been to lose body fat and try to get into a very lean, yet muscly state and using a combination of the TRT and other vitamins and supplements. And we're going to share with you what he's done, how he stayed focused, and kind of what the key to his success has been. So hi, Dr. George, how are you today? Hello, Michael. Glad to see you again. You made that comment to me, I think at the last hour. When you first met me, I was very lean and muscly. But then you said now you have added the leanness and the muscle. The way I looked back then, to me, was really impressive because you were leaner than me. But now, you know, since last July, I'm dieting hard and I'm using the HRT regimen, you know. So I've lost almost eight to nine kilograms since last July. Slowly, slowly, you know, keeping the muscle. So now I'm around 200 pounds, you know, 91 kilograms. When I visited the UK, I was, I think I was 93. So it goes very slowly in order to preserve the muscle, you know. And actually, I want to analyze my anti-aging regimen, you know, because it's not just about using the HRT, but a plethora of not just the supplementation, but also preventive medication about the whole systems. And I want to explain. Well, I think first we should maybe mention that when I focus on leanness, I mean, one could argue that, you know, when you're younger, you're at some of your leanness that you normally are. You can eat whatever you want normally for a while and you can still stay very lean and muscly. I wouldn't say I was blessed with a very fast metabolism like an ectomorph. I guess I was, it was easy for me to make muscle, you know, but my metabolism was not that fast. So I guess I was endo-mesomorph, perhaps it's mixed type. So I have to do cardio on a daily basis. Sometimes perhaps two seasons of a cardio, half an hour, you know, and low carbs, of course, and low calories in order to shed the fat. So there are other people blessed that don't do cardio and eat carbs and they'll stay lean, you know, but it's not with me. But the purpose or the focus of you wanting to just kind of make this body modification, if you will, was for anti-aging? Yeah. What was the reason? Yes, of course, to promote my philosophy. But I had a proposal from a photographer of Muscular Development, who is in California, Per Bernal, who had this project with me. Okay. And after that, hopefully I will have an editorial in the magazine. But in the back of my head, I see, I mean, what the heck? I mean, perhaps I'm equal with the best shape of my life eight years ago when I was 40, now I'm 48. And I say, why not to try to do a healthy approach and do the masters. But no abuse of drugs and healthy labs. So this is the way I want to approach this time. No abuse and no mistakes. And I want to follow the philosophy of anti-aging and looking healthy in and out, you know? Okay. Yeah. You know, I think when I was younger, I may have gone too big and that didn't necessarily look healthy. And suddenly when you shed the body fat, normally you've got this healthier image. So lots of young men will sometimes mistake looking at someone who's very lean and muscly, but just assume that if they add more bulk, they're going to be healthier and maintain that look. Where in reality... Well, as we age, yeah, as we age, we need to carry less body weight and also muscle because small dogs live longer. You know, if you carry a lot of muscle, this strains the heart because it has to pump blood to a lot of, you know, many, the needs, you know, the needs of the blood flow into all this, uh, uh, uh, struggle that, uh, the heart does. So you need to have lower body weight and better cardiorespiratory capacity, you know, and condition. You need to balance cardio with weights. Of course, resistance training is important for diabetes, for osteopenia and for metabolic syndrome, but also cardio is vital for the heart or the lungs, you know, and also of course for diabetes and metabolic syndrome. Um, and now, uh, is the implementation of hormone replacement therapy with supplements and some medications that keep you healthy. You know, according to my mentor, Massimo Spatini, according to Dr. Cheeher talk that support all this stuff, you know, Uh, for everyone that's watching Massimo Spatini is a bodybuilding doctor as well, right? He's competed. He's an Italian. Um, so he, he's, he's quite impressive even in his sixties. Is he in his sixties now? Yeah. Yeah. He's phenomenal. You know, So someone to, to, to look up to from, uh, kind of physical fitness, uh, type of appearance, which is important, not, not, uh, Obviously body shame, those who, who don't reach that. Everyone's trying to reach a certain level and we don't want to encourage people to have some body dys dysmorphia, but, but there is a sense of, uh, I think accomplishment when you set your mind to doing something like, like, you know, leading, getting, getting leaner. Yeah. The body dysmorphia comes with size more is, I mean, sky's the limit and more is not, more is not enough, you know? So, so bodybuilders have this kind of, uh, psychotic idea that they're not big enough, even though they are big as a house, you know, and they want more. Uh, but leaning out, you know, something aesthetic. And I guess, as we approach our fifties, we need to be lean and not necessarily big. And we need to have good, uh, kind of respiratory capacity. This is something really important. Do you find that there may be a point where one can go too far in that if you get too lean in the face, you may look too gaunt to, Yes, of course. I mean, those wrinkles over here, uh, perhaps they can make you look tired. Of course, losing the cheekbone, using the cheeks, you know, with fat makes you look perhaps more, uh, you know, uh, attractive and, and younger, but after when the, all the fat is shedding, you have also perhaps a lack of sleep or dehydration that you look tired. Right. But generally when you have the angles, you know, and the jawline makes you look younger. I looked my pictures one year ago and I looked older because I was, you know, more around the, my face, you know? Yeah. Um, it's a phenomenal, the, the, um, the, the, the progress that they, that you made, uh, and it looks like a short time, but it looks like you were, you know, it looks like you were very focused. I remember at the Arnold, you were very cautious with what you're eating. Uh, you avoided alcohol. You, um, you, um, salad, the calories also, it's all about the calories and the carbs, you know, the problem is always high. The fibers high. The meals are a lot. There are plenty, but you know, um, diet is not funny because when you sit, when you finish your meal, you need to be a little bit hungry. Okay. Not to be, you know, you don't need to feel satiety. You know, this is the, the, this is all about, you need to be a little bit of hungry, you know? So there's a little bit of a sacrifice that has to go into this. If you want to have this end result, you've got to sacrifice a little bit, but make it part of your lifestyle. I do not lose the muscle. This is the thing here to preserve the muscle tissue to keep the BMR high. And of course, it's all about muscles. You know, that they shape the body. Did you actually in, uh, in seven months, I lost almost nine kilograms. It's not, it's not a lot, you know, it's, it's, yeah, it's perhaps, uh, less than a half a kilogram, you know? I mean, half a kilogram per week or less than that, but I keep it steady, you know? So what's the plan going on from here then? Are you, will you continue with that? Does that now become part of your lifestyle? Well, you know, it's, it's the body fat. Now I'm around 7%, you know, and, uh, I tested with a caliber of seven, uh, spots, you know, and, uh, I hold a little bit in my love handles, you know, back in my midsection. Besides that, I look really good, the vascularity, but I think I want to go close to six, you know? So, uh, just a little bit break the barrier of the 90 kilograms, you know? Have, have you noticed any negative effects of getting that lean? Some people report that their sex drive dips when they get too lean. Have you noticed any of that? You know, the sex drive to me is, you know, you are plucked with testosterone, with Mestero, with DHT. We take this androgens, but if you do fasting, the fasting elevates this HBG. And this is not cool about the free testosterone. And if you also lower the carbs and you follow keto diet, it's the same. The insulin goes down and the HBG goes up. So it blocks your free testosterone. Have you done some intermittent fasting as part of your... Never, never. No, no. Every three times I eat. So every three hours, every three hours you eat. Five, five solid meals a day, perhaps one or two shakes, but I never miss a meal. Uh, no, the only fasting I apply is from night, from the dinner to breakfast. This 12 hour window, you know? And what time do you finish with the dinner? When's your last meal? Nine, nine. Nine in the evening. So no, no snacks, no fruit after dinner? No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Besides the stuff, you know, closes and a little bit shrinks, you know? Okay. So I have this window of 12 hours. And then, uh, you know, my breakfast does not have a lot of carbs. I get used to. Okay. So let's, let's rewind that. Let's start with what do you eat in an average day? So standard, my... So breakfast, what do you do for breakfast? Yeah, four, uh, omelet, omelet with four eggs, but I eat a little bit, uh, you know, especially kind of eggs that come from a bird. I don't know how to say this, but really delicious and very nutritious. Okay. Now they're about one fourth of the size of the regular eggs. So I make 12 out of this. So around four eggs. Now I put inside, um, four slices of turkey. Okay. One slice of, uh, low fat cheese, 10%. Okay. And, uh, 50 grams of salmon, smoked, smoked salmon. Yeah. Smoked salmon. Yeah. Yeah. And perhaps, uh, 50 grams of shrimps instead of Solomon. Oh, shrimp sometimes. Okay. Yeah. And, uh, of course my black coffee with some collagen powder, some BCA, some glutamine inside. Okay. You know, and, uh, occasionally now if I hit the legs, I eat a little bit of berries, pomegranate, some, um, you know, some blueberries, blackberries, you know, a little bit. Yes. Do you, do you have any porridge or oatmeal with, with your, uh, oatmeal? The alternative breakfast is having an oatmeal. Yeah. But not together with the eggs. Not together, no. Okay. So you, you don't have a dairy intolerance or a gluten intolerance overall. You, you know. I don't eat every day the, the 2% of Greek yogurt, you know. But I take it in order to, for, for the lactobacillus, you know, for the good bacteria, for the flora, intestinal flora, you know. Okay. And probiotics. So, all right. Then do you kind of repeat those, uh, the second and third and fourth meals, and they're all less the same? Uh, when you say you. The same, yeah. I mean, standard, oh, lads and deer are the same. So either is red meat, either it's buffalo burger or it's, um, chicken, either rooster, either turkey, you know, white meat, either rabbit with broccoli, a little bit of brown rice and a little bit of sweet potato. Okay. And you prepare, do you prepare the meals ahead of time or? Yeah. I mean, uh, yeah. I mean, it's the same day. The same day. Um, mm-hmm. So my, my snack, my second meal is ideal with my fourth meal. So we have breakfast, lunch and dinner, and then we have to intermediate same snacks, you know. So after the breakfast and after the lunch, identical. The snacks, you see some, you know, uh, protein powder again, or some boiled eggs, you know, uh, or, uh, a little bit of salmon with, uh, you know, some vegetables, you know, stuff like that. And that's in between the meals, but you're, you're eating every three hours. Yes. Either, either a snack or, you know, uh, you're eating every three hours, either a snack or, or a meal. Yeah, whatever. It's nine, twelve, three, six, nine. The, the time periods of my meals approximately. Do you also eat one, one, um, not out of everything. So one album, one cashew, one macadamia, one Brazilian, and one one not in order to keep the good living profile. Okay. I'm taking those five, uh, nuts with every meal, you know, after I finish my every meal, I'll take my nuts to give my good cholesterol. Okay. Profile. Profile. And of course myself, every meal. And have you, have you noticed, have you, have you done a further blood tests on your cholesterol? Have you seen an improvement in your cholesterol? Yeah. It keeps doing good, but I have to tell you, I'm, I'm taking also my formula. I have manufactured a formula with, uh, top engravings of supplements, top six that work like stands, you know? Okay. All right. So that's, that's, that's, that's, those are your meals that we talked about. So, and I was just going to ask you, do you ever get tired of eating more or less the same all the time or what? What's the same? Sometimes I have to tell you, I get tired because of low energy, because of low carbs. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, and my mood is a little bit sometimes grumpy, you know, but I get used to it and I know that this is how it works. Okay. This is how you melt the fat by this a little bit of suffering, but it works. It definitely works. This, this reminds me of in, in like the late nineties, early noughties, two thousands. This is a very common, the five to six meals a day. Every few hours I was doing it as well. And I did notice. It's standard for people because you boost the metabolism by eating regularly. You know, the fasting is good because I mean, it lowers the insulin and you burn the fat, but at this time the BMR goes sluggish and you have the risk to sacrifice muscle tissue out of gluconeogenesis. So you need to provide BCAAs or some aminos. So essentially the, the diet that you've done for yourself is one that is what bodybuilders do pre-contest. High protein, moderate carbs, high fiber, low fat. Okay. So the fiber and the protein gives you the metabolism high and gives you satiety. Okay. And a little bit of carbs for energy, for muscle sparing and a little bit of good fats for energy and for health. So thanks again for coming on another video with balance of hormones. It's Dr. George Tiliatos. And if anyone has their own experience with a certain diet regimen or any success they've had in losing weight, send us some comments. So even before and after picture, we're happy to, to mention it on the, on the channel. So thanks again for watching. If you like the channel, please press like and subscribe and we look forward to seeing you next time. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.