 siercompraspator, lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim So George works within the realms of TRT and men's health and has a special interest in when men have been exposed to anabolic steroids and then they've been affected by them negatively, which can in turn lead to needing things like TRT or medical help. So you've had a background as a professional bodybuilder. Yes. So I suppose you have a real personal insight into the whole area. Yes. So what sort of started that? Have you been doing that for a long time? Did you always have an interest in that? Where have you come from? After I finished my university degree as a general practitioner, then I started thinking about bringing my passion, which was bodybuilding and athletics, into a competitive level, amateur of course. So I was in the country, I was practicing as a general practitioner, you know, in West Greece, in an island. And then I found my first mentor. But I would start testing myself with compounds that were available in the pharmacy store. So after six months of training and dieting, of course, and using my first compounds from the pharmaceutical group, I had my first contest. And then I had the ability to test myself into the local hospital where I was practicing. Therefore, I could see testing to myself the fluctuations of the biochemical and the hormonal. Yes, they have in the CBC also, you know, all these values that we afterwards, we estimated in the books. And I was just very fine with what the books say, you know, the theory and the practice. And then I went into my residency. And when I had the time and, of course, the financial ability, I started competing, you know. Yeah. It first started in 2000. And then I had a huge break for nine years. Then 2009, then 2010. And my final show was held in 2013. Now, I was the very special case where I was a doctor who was bringing the theory and the, you know, the scientific approach along with the practice. Yeah. And it's a very, very rare combination. Yeah, I suppose. Because it's, so when you say compounds, you're talking about anabolic steroids. Yeah, anabolic steroids. That are available in the pharmacies. In risk. CNN stimulants also, yes. Yeah. And mainly the stimulants and the steroids, yes. Yeah. anabolic androgenic steroids. Yeah. I was also coming from a medical family. And this fact helped me a lot to preserve my health, you know, and be checked, double-checked also. Yeah. I had this sensitivity in order to understand when something was going wrong, you know. Yeah. So afterwards, I wanted to become the doctor of bodybuilding community. However, because we know that all androgens and anabolic steroids will suppress the own production of testosterone. Yeah. It's inevitable, 100% of all competitive bodybuilders, one day when they retire, will face anabolic steroid-induced hypogonadins. Okay. Which is basically a latent set of hypogonadins, secondary hypogonadins. And of course, then you need your testosterone supply for life because there's no production of endogenous testosterone. Which is where CRT sort of comes from. Yes. So in a way, bodybuilding leans to longevity through the replacement therapy because anti-aging also. Yeah. The basis of anti-aging is the replacement therapy. Yeah. Okay. So you went through sort of competing as a bodybuilder. You had the ability to sort of check your blood. Because I mean, obviously, you know, abuse of steroids obviously leans to health issues. It can do. But I knew in first place what was going on inside of me. Yeah. So you knew how the drugs acted. Yes. So you sort of took an approach that was trying to do it in the healthiest way possible. Yes. Yes. And then afterwards. So I mean, some of the guys and people watching may not know, you know, how the exposure to anabolic steroids causes you to them not produce it. Yes. And actually people were learning from me because I was very outspoken. Yeah. In order to tell them that, okay, I'm not an anti-francist of course. Yeah. But here I'm using this. These are the side effects. Yeah. Be careful. Don't learn from my mistakes, you know. Yeah. So I was kind of a leader, you know. Yeah. In a society of ignorance. Yeah. And very taboo subject. And taboo subject because it's the ignorance that makes the taboo, you know. Yeah. And of course, yes, it's illegal use if you don't go by the pharmacy stores. The point is that pharmacy stores, they cannot justify so many quantities of steroids, you know. Because there are medical uses, obviously, these drugs. Of course, all these compounds are for certain diseases. Or originally were. For certain diseases. Yeah. But the abuse of bodybuilders leads to the prejudice of the doctors. So we give the bad name to the steroids because of the abuse. Yeah. That then make more skeptical the doctors to use them for the specific diseases. For instance, osteoporosis, anemia, cachexia. Yeah. Bone mineral density low. Yes. Hypergonadies, of course. Mm. Um. Yes. I suppose the same could happen with insulin that bodybuilders use. Mm-hmm. Yes. I mean, diabetics use that medically. insulin is a villain. It becomes a villain. It can kill you. Yeah. You abuse it, of course. Yeah. Because in bodybuilding, it's an extreme sport that we abuse it. But, um. It was a medical treatment to begin with. And then the bodybuilders have taken it. Sure. Yes. They understood that it's an anabolic hormone. The same goes with the hormone. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Then you have the acromegaly. Mm-hmm. But, uh, usually it's used for you. Big forehead. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yeah. Okay. Cool. So, so when, uh, when a man or woman or whatever, particularly men, obviously, with TRT being the result, if they take anabolic steroids, how do they end up with, with the body not producing testosterone anymore? Well, gradually. This becomes gradually. So, years by years. And, uh, most of the, uh, users, they do not follow the so-called post-cycle therapy. Okay. It's able to lift your own hormones until you abuse them again. So, in between two cycles, you're supposed to form a PCT in order to feel better, to have a better sex drive. Yeah. To recover at the gym. Okay. But, this will shut off again as soon as you inject again steroids. So... Okay. So, you're trying to restart your natural levels. Yes. So, I'm telling to the boys, unless you're not willing to, uh, stop using for life, then PCT will be wasted the next time you get into the cycle. So, if you try for once in your life cycle, okay, then you may recover with a PCT, but you need a lot of time because time is a healer. Yeah. Okay. But, you're never gonna reach the initial levels. Never again. So, you're always gonna be surprised. Because it declines with age also. Of course. And with lifestyle. Yeah. Yeah. Therefore, it's inevitable to... and if you are... if you have a very, very demanding lifestyle, you know, you're a bachelor, you have sex drive, you want to lift, you want to look jacked, and better low body fat. Yeah. And then you cannot get along with your own testosterone that after the age of 35 or 40, it declines 1% every day. So, you've got the challenge of it not restoring back to a natural level, a good level, and also, you've got the challenge of just being older. So, your levels aren't gonna be as good anyway. Yes. Aging is a disease, you know. Getting older with dignity... Yeah. This is the... Well, this is the thing. We get arthritis. We get arthritis in our joints. Yes. You know, the doctors treat that. You know, we need reading glasses. We introduce, for instance... You know? Yes. With arthritis, they don't think about inducing a little bit of non-trolone to lubricate the joints. They just use, you know, other agents. Yeah. So, they're very skeptical and prejudiced about, for instance, low bone mineral density, they give vitamin D3 and K2 instead of using non-trolone, for instance. Because it used to be used for that. Of course. Of course. But now, the anabolic steroids, they are not the first, you know, degree... Choice. Yes. Exactly. So, they're older drugs that were used... For anemia, for instance, we used to give oxymethylone. Now, they give EPO. Yes. Before EPO was oxymethylone. But now, they prefer to give EPO, which is very expensive, hard to get, instead of introducing, for instance, 50 milligrams of non-trolone that will produce EPO secondary. I've heard of some leukemias and things like that. It may not be leukemia, but some of the diseases, white blood cell count and things like that have dropped. There is use for... It was a plastic anemia. It was a plastic anemia. A plastic anemia. Things like that. Some of the steroids were used to improve those markers, too. Basically, all the steroids fight anemia because they boost bone marrow through EPO production from the kidneys. They stimulate EPO, which increases that... Yes. So, on the other hand, with the abuse, they'll give to a dyscytosis. It's the other way. Right. Why do you think they... So, obviously, there were steroids and we can put testosterone, obviously, as a steroid, into that sort of realm and there's a lot of... Testosterone is an androgen because men cannot live without testosterone. For instance, Kleine-Felter syndrome is 47XO and it's primary hypergrundis. So, the boy is not a boy. He has no cubic hair, no mustache, no... So, he needs testosterone to become a man. And the brain needs... I mean, there are... Yes, genicomastia also. So, he looks like, you know, more of a woman. Okay. So, testosterone is what differentiates the boys from a man. So, a man cannot live without testosterone. He can live, for instance, without Grokomon, but he cannot be a man without testosterone, as a woman without estrogen. So, in first place, it's not an anabolic... It has anabolic activities, but it's an androgen testosterone. It's the main androgen. Yeah. So, why do you think steroids were demonized? Because they are abused for other reasons, for vanity purposes, for sports. Yeah. Of course, it's unethical in sports to cheat your other athlete, you know? Yeah. But they are abused massively also by bodybuilders. That brings a plethora of the side effects. Because if you use 50 milligrams of natron per week, it's not going to have any performance-enhancing effect, but it will cure some kind of symptoms. Diseases. But frankly, who is going to give, who is going to take only 5 milligrams of natron per day? Like a bodybuilder would... A bodybuilder would abuse it to 50 milligrams a day. Yeah, okay. The same goes for testosterone. It's 100 milligrams a TRT dose, but they give us 1 gram per week, you know? Yeah. So, it's the abuse that brings the bad name, but also the results in sports. Yeah. But this is a different story. Yeah. Okay, interesting. So, you know, when obviously a man... I mean, so you obviously now need TRT yourself. Is that right? Yes. I had to. I waited 7 months. It was 30 weeks after my retirement. So... You stopped using things like bodybuilding? Of course. Yes, yes, yes. Cold turkey, yes. Yeah, yeah. So, after my PCT, I was waiting 7 months. Yeah. Now, my... It was the typical symptoms. Low self-esteem. Yeah. I was fatigued. Yeah. On mental fat. Muscle soreness, wasting. No sex drive. Yeah. Energy low. Modeness in the morning, yes. Energy level. So, I went to find my mentor in Italy. It was Dr. Massimo Spatini. He also follows TRT. He was a bodybuilder. He is an author also. He is a sports medicine. Yeah. And he told me, George, we have two options. Either you use Chlomid Monotherapy, but this is not equally to Replacement Therapy, or you start with Replacement Therapy. But back in 2014-15, he told me to use it once a week for this 125 milligrams. Okay. So, it was the very first... I had no idea about how to use the protocols. After, I shared the knowledge from the States and we have to use tiny frequent doses for steady levels. No fluctuations in estrogen, SHBG, in DHT, you know. Therefore, to have less eryphocytosis, less genocomastia, you know, steady testosterone levels. Because if you shoot once a week, for instance, it margins when you take the blood test. The day before or the day after. Once every three weeks was someone's... Oh, yeah. The first one. Yeah. The Half-Life of Enant Head was 21 days. Yeah. So, every 21 days, in, you know, number two day was picking up. Yeah. And then everyone was crashing. Like the Nebido, for instance. Nebido, yeah. Which is very, very slow. Yeah. It's like a vehicle, but it doesn't work initially, you know. Yeah. I mean, that's what I've heard with chatting to guys that have had Nebido as an option. It's not... It doesn't really give... Although the blood levels even might look okay at certain points in testing. It doesn't give an optimal sort of feeling of... So, the best way of application for steady levels is the Transdermal every day. Okay. Thanks for watching and if you enjoyed this video, please like and subscribe for future content.