 KRARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARARA of our doctors. This is a program where we have doctors from all over the world discussing the latest in functional medicine, in TRT, in HRT, and any other topic that our viewers are interested in. I'm here today with Dr. Ken Adams, a friend of mine and a doctor of over 40 years in functional medicine. So welcome today, Dr. Adams. Thank you, Michael. So I have to get to basic principles here. I'm going to just digress. Chlesterol and testosterone and estrogens are steroid hormones are sterol rings, which basically are fat molecules and very lipophilic. Now, if you took a glass, filled a jar half with water, half with cooking oil or olive oil, and you put 10,000 molecules of testosterone in the jar and shook it up, 9,999 of those molecules are going to be absorbed into the oil. Only one in 10,000 may be dissolved in the water. Well, the same is true with your body composition of fat. Your heart, your liver has one or two pounds of fat in it. Your brain is 50% fat is about a pound and a half of fat, two pounds of fat in your brain. But if someone's 200 pounds and they're 30% body fat, they've got 60 pounds of fat in their body. As your body fat goes up, in order to maintain the same concentration, all basically body fat is what soaks up testosterone. Your liver, you have sex binding globin which solubilizes and allows the testosterone to be transported to different tissue compartments in the cell, to the muscles. That's what sex binding is. Basically, it's a big molecule. It has a lot of polar polar amino acids on the outside with a fat soluble inner region that binds testosterone and allows it to be solubilized. When body fat goes up, you have dramatically, you triple body fat, you triple the amount of time it takes for the estrogens to be cleared by the liver, solubilized and cleared by the liver. The liver adds hydroxyl, there's phase one and phase two in the liver, which they're basically adding hydroxyl groups conjugation with other sulfites, sulfur with three, four oxygens on it. There's many things. Now, what that does is make the sex hormones, the metabolites become soluble and they can either be filtered by the kidneys or excreted in the bile. When your body fat goes up, when you're metabolically eating a fried greasy foods that have been overcooked and oxidized, so there's no nutrients and you're just getting fats and fats and carbohydrates. Fats get oxidized when you grill and fry things and they make faulty membranes. So in order for mitochondria to create ATP, which powers all molecular systems in the cell, for healing and repairing, grilling and deep frying and high temperature foods that are cooking really is incredibly unhealthy. And that's why like eating raw or lightly steamed foods is very important for health, especially when you get things that are locally grown in nutrient dense soil. You want to be trying to juice those or consuming those in a way that allows you to get the maximum nutrients. That's going to speed up your cellular system. Are you suggesting a plant-based diet or is the Mediterranean diet acceptable as well or just kind of a general balanced diet without going over to too many of the different macronutrients? Well, animals are much higher up in the food chain. They consume many times their body weight and basically pesticides and chemicals concentrate in. Fat soluble toxins like will concentrate in their fat stores of the animal. So when you're eating meats, you're exposed to a lot more toxicity, toxins. So you're eating much cleaner when you eat vegan. But aren't plants also exposed to certain pesticides as well? I mean, is it just hopeless? I mean, there was a recent, and also plastics depending on the water source, because there was a recent study that said apples now from Italy have microplastics in them because they get contaminated in the rain water and then that gets sucked up by the the roots and in the plants. So Mike, that's absolutely true. The level of toxins in our environment has been building up for decades now. So in obesity rate was a fraction. It was 0.3% in 1910 and they took out calipers and they measured the body composition of in every state in North America and in Canada. And the morbid obesity rate, which is defined as more than 50% body fat, was 0.3% in 1910 and was still under 1% in 1960, but went up to 3% in 1970, 12% in 1980, 25% in 1990, and 40% of the North American population was morbidly obese in the year 2000. So the morbid obesity rate went from 0.3% to 40% in four decades. Mike, we tried healthily. Our food's poisoned, our water's poisoned. So what's the alternative? Are there some pharmaceutical interventions that may be repurposing old molecules to push us in the right direction or hormone therapies? Are these the answer to helping overcome this metabolic dysfunction or what have you found? The most important thing I've found I can say to people is don't get disheartened. Most people say screw it. Everything's poisoned. What I want to do, I'm going to get it. Let me give you a principle. When the rate of cellular repair is way up here and the rate of degenerate degeneration is a small fraction, the cell is rapidly healing and repairing itself. So when the enzyme denatures, it's almost instantaneously just repaired and replaced. You're metabolically robust. You can eat all the carbohydrates you want. You're lean and fit. Your liver is clearing. Your testosterone is at the high end of the normal range. All your endocrine systems are firing on full blast. Now you take that same person, rate of repair and rate of regeneration becomes here. So you're barely, basically the cell is like a hoarder's home full of garbage. All these broken down enzymes that are waiting to be repaired, but the cell doesn't have the nutrients and energy. So you start adding some raw foods and increase the nutrient density and make some minor changes in your diet. And the rate of repair and regeneration starts to become, just doing some modest things can make a huge, huge difference. You go from being able to repair this much to repair this much. So actually it's incremental and the more you, my website is all about educating people about how to basically empower themselves to understand what is healthy food, how to source locally grown stuff. And the website's askdrkenadams.com. That's correct. Okay. And there's also a really good video on YouTube, which we can link to this video as well. Yes. Thank you. Regarding your hormones, your channel is Balanced by Hormones. Hormones have a profound effect on the body and they actually cause DNA to be transcribed into new molecular machinery and products that then cause all the amazing benefits of having optimal hormone levels. But body follows biological rhythms and basically at sunrise, we're probing because we're active during the day. At night our hormone system shut off, but at sunrise, actually before the sun actually comes, the lightning of the sky, the penumbra, and before the sun actually appears in the sky, triggers our body to start making huge surges in cortisol. So cortisol is maximal, growth hormone is maximum, testosterone is maximal. All those end hormones interact with each other. So you're also secreting thyroid hormone, which speeds up mitochondria. Thyroid hormone opens up the genetic coding for all the enzyme systems that create ATP in the mitochondria. So when your thyroid levels are optimal, your mitochondria are massive and they're pumping out huge ATP and your liver is clearing testosterone rapidly. Your brain, your memory is as sharp as a whip. You have great endurance. You get through a hard, long day and you're ready to go. You know, when your mitochondria and your metabolic systems are shut down, you get to the end of the long day, you basically, all you want to do is sit on a couch and meditate. Yeah. You know, I noticed this when I had low thyroid hormones, you know, testosterone got me so far. And over the years, my thyroid went downhill and you discussed that with me and getting on an optimal thyroid treatment. I finally had energy because I would go to lift at the gym, around the afternoon time and I was knackered. I couldn't do anything for the rest of the day. So I can definitely relate. And so can probably many of our people that are viewing this. Yes. Well, that brings up a good point. When your diet and nutrition is all highly oxidized and burnt and oxidized overcooked foods, like dirty, I call it dirty keto, bacon and burgers and everything's grilled and fried and deep fried, you're not getting the nutrients. Your cellular energy is slowed down. Not only get, people have metabolic syndrome also have impaired conversion of T4 to T3. T3 is 15 to 18 times more biologically active than T4. Now T4 is converted at the cellular level by deiodination of one iodine, removes one iodine and creates a molecule with three iodine, which is tetraiodothyronine. That's what speeds up your cellular energy. There's only two hormones. You can have zero testosterone, zero growth hormone, but cortisol and thyroid are the two hormones that are incompatible with life. If your body doesn't make those hormones, you will die. And they both directly affect energy output of the mitochondria. So when cortisol is very low, someone doesn't have an adrenal gland and they don't, they forget to take their cortisol. Within six hours, they'll be dragging. Within 12 hours, it'll be semi comatose. After 24 hours, it'll be heart failure, multi-organ failure. And they'll be dead within 24 to 36 hours. And the cellular energy just shutting up. But thyroid is, does the same thing. Now because of T4 having a very long half-life of seven days, approximately, even up to nine days in some individuals. If your body stopped releasing thyroid now, you had your thyroid gland removed and you had no source of thyroid. It would take six weeks before you would die because it would take that long because the T4 acts as a long-term reservoir. And then your body turns it into T3 when you need it. Now in North America here, they've told everyone that T3 is dangerous. And your doctors who are in Canada are being attacked that weren't endangering people by giving a mixed blend of thyroid T3, T4. That's honestly, they're doing the same thing in the UK through the NHS. And I, it's, it's, this is wrong. This is almost now opening my eyes. So this is almost like a conspiracy that's real, that there's a perverted effort on the part of these health authorities to take away people's lyothyronine, their T3. That's just outrageous, absolutely outrageous. I didn't know they were taking it away in Canada as well. Because I mean, the NHS had originally had people on T3 and they were doing very, very well in the treatment. And then because what I heard was they couldn't negotiate a good price with the makers of lyothyronine of T3. Then they said, Oh no, this is dangerous now. It's going to cause arrhythmia, there's a heart issue. So get off of it. My eyes have been open for 20 years now. That's my purpose here. I've put up with incredible persecution from my regulatory, but I've been under constant harassment. Doctors who've been through one 20th of what I've seen them have nervous breakdowns and my health has been severely deteriorated. I'm 65 and I've aged 10, I'm 10 years old. The last few years I looked 10 years older than I did just a few years ago. Because of the stress these medical authorities are putting you through. I mean, they're like the witch trials of old. These are diet and nutrition and I actually make people who this broken system can't fix them up. Now that I have the years of several four plus decades of medical practice, I can have the historical view to see what's been done to the medical profession. But basically, you're always prescribing the newest, most expensive drug or you're told you're not following the guidelines. That's professional misconduct. But let me just give you another example that highlights this. In the 50s when thyroid hormones were discovered and people started taking thyroid hormone, they used to check, they had no test. It's a very small molecule. It's basically an iodinated amino acid. You need about some molecules to be about 10 amino acids to generate an immunologic immunogenic response more than develop antibodies against it. So they had no testing for thyroid hormones. So doctors in the 50s and 60s and early 70s used to check cholesterol. It was well known by the medical establishment in the 50s, 60s and 70s that if your cholesterol is going up, that's proof, evidence of your hypothyroid. What happens if your cholesterol goes up today? You're getting a statin. Meanwhile, I guarantee you, so when sugar gets broken down, when insulin is high, sugar is being converted into cholesterol. So the body breaks down fats and sugars by cutting them into two carbon units and then feeding them in the Krebs cycle to be oxidized. So once the cells burn as much oxygen as it needs, the rest will be productively linked together to make fatty acids or cholesterol. So high insulin causes your body to convert sugar into cholesterol. And when your enzyme systems slow down and you can't remove sugar from the bloodstream, your cytokinetics, they're all from all things about diet and nutrition and toxins and heavy metals, the sugar backs up, you get a sustained prolonged insulin response. That's what causes cholesterol to go up. So it's actually a high carb diet that causes cholesterol to go up. And in fact, when you go on a ketonic diet, your cholesterol drops because you're dropping insulin because you're putting less carbohydrates in the body. Doctors today are still telling their patients to when their cholesterol is up to go on a low fat diet. And what happens when you cut out fats, you're eating carbs. They tell you to eat a high fiber, high fiber diet that actually raises cholesterol. And then when you come back, the doctor says, look, your diet didn't work. You got to go on the stand. There's a book called type two hypothyroidism. Actually, I've got that book. Is it, is it Dr. Star? Dr. Star, right. Okay. That's an amazing book. I think I've read that book. It's actually... I think I recommended that book to you. I have the book, but I gave it to Sam to read. So thank you, Dr. Adams for coming on. If you want to get more information from Dr. Adams, go to his website called askdrkenadams.com. And you can, you can message him over there. And if you'd like what you've seen on this channel, we'll have some other episodes with Dr. Adams, please subscribe, press like, and leave your comments. And if you have any other topics you'd like to talk about, we'd be happy to bring it up, bring it up next time with, with Dr. Adams. So thanks again, Dr. Adams. And we'll see everyone next time. On your channel. Bye.