 nolololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololololol so you don't miss any new content. So why do men who start TRT lack sex drive? We'll discuss the causes and potential solutions. So we're here today with Dr. George Tiliatos, an expert in TRT and the EU Medical Director for Balanced My Hormones in Europe. Dr. T has competed in bodybuilding contests as well as being a medic. Hi George, how are you today? Hello Mike, thanks for the invitation. So it's quite common for some people that complain of even though they are into replacement therapy, they don't feel that good. Of course they feel better than before they were hypogonadal, but they don't feel supreme in the libido, in the sex drive department. So of course I'm telling them that, listen, this is not like using 500 milligrams of testosterone where you are super horny and you have five times erection a day. But nevertheless we can improve some factors during the HPTA assessment that actually affect the sex drive and libido. So I know you mentioned some people on like 500 milligrams and obviously the ones that are taking self-medicating. When they were back abusing steroids, you know, they had a super sex drive. But of course we have a certain plateau in replacement therapy. However, we can still improve and there is a fact that some people have super elevated SHBG, elevated prolactin and elevated estradiol. So all of these factors sometimes they may act synergistically and affect the sex drive and the libido. So for instance, elevated, super elevated estradiol may affect the duration of the erections. Of course, super low and tanked estradiol crust by using aromatousine heaped right after the day after may also affect the sex drive. Prolactinemia also may antagonize in native people, of course, testosterone synthesis, but it may give you an orgasmia and lack of ejaculation, you know, when you don't come eventually, when it's also elevated. And of course, SHBG, which is the main regulator and it's reversion related to free testosterone. And there might be somebody with 700 total testosterone and SHBG of 100 and the free testosterone will be below 50%. So in such cases, what do we do? We give certain medications. We give a dopamine agonist for the prolactinemia, such as cabergony or bromocryptin. We may give some, now if it's super high, of course, listen, if we have an optimized testosterone, but a super high estradiol and the ratio is not proportional, then we may control the estrogen by the use of mainly an aromatousine heaped or in microdosing or a serum. We have already established a lump that resembles a gyno. Of course, we may use other supplements like zinc, chrysine or DIM. Calcium deglucarate as an option. Yes, yes, correct. Avoid also alcohol and caffeine that also aromatize. And of course, prefer the microdosing that avoids the crushing of the... I'm sorry, in order to control the estrogen. Yes, microdosing is a good idea, but microdosing doesn't crush. It was the next one I'm going to say. We need a low SHBG in order to feel high on the free testosterone and have a good sex trudge. So this is how it's managed. Either by the use of synthetic DHC, which is Mesterole or DHT itself in a cream. Other androgens like DHA, okay. But also we may use boron, which is a heavy metal. And actually we may modify the protocol by using a larger dose once a week, alright. That will crash on SHBG, will liberate the phytocesterone. But I'm telling these guys that, for instance, if you inject on Monday 200 milligrams, you're going to feel superb on Tuesday and mostly on Wednesday on sex drive. But you're going to suffer during the weekend before your next injection. This is a benefit by using a large dose that you spike afterwards. But when the half-life is, I mean, when you're away from the injection, the date of the injection, then according to the half-life, the compound is clearing your system. So you don't feel that good. Nevertheless, if you are using a frequent protocol of injection, then you may use Mesterol or DHT cream that will ensure a low SHBG and a high free testosterone. What about the use of HCG for boosting libido? I get an excellent point, yes. Yes, of course, HCG will increase sex drive by increasing intratesticular testosterone. Okay? But you need also the microdosing because if you use large doses of HCG entirely, where this intratesticular testosterone will aromatize and will cause some issues. So, yes, HCG also is an excellent idea in order to enhance and actually works in bodybuilders. That even though they're using a gram of testosterone, they face a plateau in the sex drive, so they inject an HCG. And you've got to take it with a pinch of salt, what bodybuilders say they're taking and what's actually contained in the substances that they're taking. We don't know for sure. It might be a thousand milligrams of one thing underground, but it's in reality, it was probably maybe 300 or 400, potentially. True. But also they use 19 Norte-Socerone derivatives that have progestational activity like Nanjolo and trembling. You know, they mess up with sex drive because... They're similar to progesterone. Yeah, because we hear... I've heard of people who were, you know, recovering after, you know, that, and they say they had a trend cycle and it killed their sex drive altogether, which seems to be very potent, not an ideal... When you use these 19 Norte derivatives, you should keep the ratio 2 to 1 between them and testosterone. So if you use a thousand milligrams of testosterone, you should use 500 milligrams of them. If it's one to one, you're going to suffer in your sex drive. Okay. What about the use of growth hormone for libido issues? It's interesting because it lowers SHBG. Of course, not to extend... It cannot be combined as lower SHBG like the androgens, but in the Hertoax book, yes, it's mentioned that it may improve sex drive by lowering SHBG. People with acromegalia, they have a high, obviously, growth hormone level and they tend to see a lower SHBG as a result. But I know you probably have to be a much higher dose than what's therapeutically used. We've seen some bloods, patients on human growth hormone who have... It hasn't made a massive difference on the SHBG level. And another thing about SHBG can be also affected by the diet. So when you fast, when you follow IF or KD, then the insulin goes down that elevates the SHBG. So in order to lower SHBG by diet, you need frequent meals every two hours. The classic body beating style diet, you know? So some substances obviously will artificially suppress SHBG, but we also know that those people who present with low SHBG and low testosterone, you know, they've got, you know, metabolic syndrome normally. And they don't tolerate many fluctuations at all in their testosterone level or fluctuations in the metabolites of testosterone, oestrodial, etc. So, I mean, what guys who already have low SHBG and aren't experiencing a good libido, what's the recommendation for those guys? You mean guys that are into replacement therapy or not, they're not treated by the... So yeah, many who are on replacement therapy who have low SHBG, most likely they'll be dosed on a small, more frequent dosing throughout. So that helps manage the SHBG. But are there other things that could help those patients? Can those patients, even though they have low SHBG, maybe still benefit from a DHT derivative or DHT itself? Yes, of course. Yes, yes. Yes. I apply myself now DHT cream, you know, in the morning, 10%, one pump. And I believe it's more friendly rather than that. Actually, it's, you know, it's the authentic DHT, unlike the Mysterol, which is synthetic, of course, you know. I believe... Yes, and I'm going to have... I've got liposomalols, so the absorption is excellent. And I'm going to check out the labs to see if Mysterol has a greater impact on my lipids or liver rather than the cream itself, you know. Yeah, I imagine it might. But we've seen patients occasionally when they start TRT, that like HDL will drop a little bit as well when they start... Just from just a testosterone injection or even creams. I believe that abuse and testosterone will lower your HDL and if you don't follow cardio, if you don't eat good fats, if you have some extra fat in your midsection, this is another factor. If you smoke also. I believe androgens are a factor in order to lower HDL. That's why women that lack of androgens and have excessive estrogens, they have a high HDL until they become menopausal. Okay. Well, I'll ask you about another scenario that happens sometimes. We'll talk to men. And the big thing they'll say is, you know, when I first started TRT by week three, like week four, my TRT, you know, I felt amazing. I wanted to shag everything. Things were really... And now they're just plateaued. They're just flat. And this might be, you know, week 12 to three months later. Is it a matter of when they've had such low levels and they go on testosterone treatment, they get the sudden surge of maybe dopamine from their injections of a cream? And because it's a rising or climbing hormone level that they feel the things that they hadn't felt before and that the body just normalizes to this new level? Or is there something else going on that we need to be aware of? So you're implying of any saturation of the other G receptors or perhaps getting accustomized to the testosterone and then becoming used to it. In such case, I would introduce HG to feel better and to increase intratesticular testosterone and improve overall stereogenesis, pregnenolone, progesterone, DHCA, or itself introduce pregnenolone and DHCA as an extra supplementation in your HRT. I mean, your HRT regimen. Okay. So those are things you can do. But we also wanted to just review again, you said some of the causes of men having low libido on TRT. One of them you said is overuse of rheumatase inhibitors. You have to be balanced. Yeah, of course. Could it also be that... I mean, we're in lockdown still in the UK. I think things are starting to lift. But could it be just not being exposed to the right type of stimuli? Is it a possibility that you're locked up and you just see the four walls in your flat or your house that there's no real ability to get that visual stimulation of... or just being around meeting people when that may affect your sex drive or do you think there's a psychological component? Sex drive and libido engages all the senses. But of course, why we feel more sex during summertime? It's the sun. It's the visual of the... We wear less clothes, you know? We see the bodies on the beach, you know? We start flirting, you know? And the whole situation is way different during the holidays, you know? And of course, yes, this miserable thing during the COVID crisis. The last thing perhaps you think about is getting laid. Of course, there's no meeting around of people, you know? We're in the mask, you can't see their faces. Unless you have a sexual partner, you know, I mean, a status relationship. And but still being under these circumstances for one year now globally, I believe sex drive is affected, you know? We've heard a lot for some men. I mean, even though they might have loving partners, it's just without the ability to go through kind of your normal day and exposure to other people, other experiences, you feel locked down, you feel depressed, you feel stressed, you've got anxiety. None of that really helps with the sex drive, despite how good the hormones might be, I think. Yeah, even people that have a perfect... Even though they have a perfect assessment of hormones, they don't feel super spiked with sex drive. And it's also the psychological thing, you know? What about some men on, we'll say injections, for instance, they'll say, well, sometimes I feel really good, then sometimes I don't and I can't control it. But I mean, I could report that, you know, not every day am I feeling like I want to crawl out of my skin and have a shag. You know, some days I'm really busy. Some days I've got other stress in my life that it's just not on the agenda. And I guess that's normal. But there's an expectation for some men, when they start TRT, that that libido has to be on top all the time. And that if it's not, there's something wrong with their TRT, there's something wrong with their dosage, some other hormones are out of balance. What do you say to those guys who are very overly concerned? Yeah, they're becoming paranoid and obsessed about having the perfect labs, you know, and what to use. So you have to chill out and relax. And of course, this is not like your in the highest levels of sex drive all the time, 24-7. Okay, unless you want to abuse seriously testosterone and use phosphodiesterase inhibitors, you have to become reasonable and think that, listen, you're using a certain dose. You can go, you cannot go above of this. You can get improve your levels with some other adjustments. But be reasonable and you are in a way better place rather than if you were a hypergonadal, of course. Okay. And think about the sex also. It has to do also with other things like smell, hear, fantasize, you know, thoughts. So your sexual partner may be repulsive to you one moment, very attractive to the other moments. It's up to the brain chemistry and what the certain desire you have this special moment. Like we try to ejaculate by masturbation. When we improve, we bring certain thoughts in our minds, you know, to have this tunnel vision. So the same goes with having a sex, you know, it's about a whole act, you know, not just pushing back. Absolutely. And then the use of PDE5 inhibitors, Cialis, Viagra. It doesn't improve, of course, extra. It's just, you know, an artificial blood flow, nothing else. Is there no extra feedback that the mechanism of getting an erection may have a feedback that also helps with the cascade? Or is it purely plumbing? I've experienced a huge erection by Viagra, Cialis, or La Vitra, but I'm not really interested to penetrate. That's true. You can be just sitting in your car, sitting on the sofa, and you may get a spontaneous erection as a result of blood flow. I believe it first comes from the upper head, controls the lower head, you know. And, of course, testosterone improves nitric oxide. So if you have good vessels and you're not diabetic, you don't need Viagra, you just need testosterone. And nitric oxide is the reduction. Interesting, because, you know, we'll see some younger patients, or patients with really good vascularity, who will have low testosterone, but it can still maintain an erection, but there is no desire. So, where an older patient might, and even if the levels are higher, if they've got really good vessels, they don't need a lot of testosterone in order to get those erections. Yes, exactly. Those drugs were made for elderly people that have vascular issues in the governance bodies, or atherosclerosis, you know, or diabetic vasculopathy. So that's why they need the extra blood flow into the penis. Should a patient be concerned or worried if they need Cialis or Viagra, or perception of needing it, to have the best sex possible? Is that something, some men have said, oh, you know, I want the testosterone to do the heavy lifting, and I don't think, I should have to, I'm worried about having to be on the Cialis or Viagra. Is that really a problem, or? I do not blame them if you want to enhance it, and take it a step further, but the basic stuff is TRT and HRT. DHT, along with testosterone, okay, and ProViron, these are the good stuff, the amazing, the main thing that improves sex drive, because DHT also works in the head, you know. And we know that testosterone, as Morgan et al. says, is a cerebral hormone, okay, it affects the limbic system, and this instinct of having sex, you know, and reproduction. And of course, you're going to use these drugs that improve the blood flow, but nothing substitutes testosterone, which is the main androgen, okay? Okay. All right. When women use estrogen in order to have sex drive also. From the estrogen that they're using, it will improve it? Yeah, because menopausal women lack of sex drive because they are crushed on estrogens. Of course, they need a little bit of estrogen, and we, as we also need a little bit of estrogen. But the main hormones are responsible for the main libido, you know? No, definitely. I noticed a big improvement in my libido going from a young man who had low levels of testosterone, and being on treatment, it did make a big difference. Obviously, when you're younger, I think there's more resilience in the body compared to a middle-aged man that's starting. But even from the patients that come through our service, you know, as you've seen as well, you get a nice uptick. People say, you know, the libido's back, the life is back, the energy's back, all the positives that can happen. It's almost like going through another puberty, from that point of view. You feel reborn, exactly, second puberty. Yeah, that's what I've seen. So, to summarize then, George, you're talking about improving one's libido who's on TRT, why that libido may not be optimal. We talked about expectations of being on TRT and knowing that you might not always have a libido that's at the very top all the time, every day. And I suppose, if it were, you wouldn't know the difference between low or high if you're always at the same level. So, I think the different thoughts that you had, the different options for treatment were, you know, in some cases, SHBG may be too high, your free testosterone isn't high enough. There may be certain agents such as dihydrotesosterone cream or mysterolone that may be able to help, not to mention prolactin that's too high can also be an issue, or oestradial that's too low. It's more important, yeah, they affect one or the other, you know. Many, many factors affect libido. Psychological issues, no. Psychological issues as well, any sort of stimulus that you might have from your surroundings which are psychological. So, there's so many factors, but there may be a few steps to tweak your TRT that may help or there may be causes behind that. So, thanks again for watching another Balance My Hormones video with Dr. George Tuiatos. And we'll see you next time. And don't forget to like and subscribe to the channel and we'll have more content next time. So, see you then. See you then. See you then.