 Hi, I'm Mike, founder of Balance My Hormones, where we help men and women on their journey to optimal hormone balance. If you're new to the channel, please press like and subscribe so you don't miss future content. Well, I'm here today again with Dr. Rudy Eberwine, who's here as a doctor from the Medical Health Institute. He's an expert at TRT, and we've had some really good discussions while we're here in Miami. And today we wanted to address the topic of, you know, belly fat. What is it? And, you know, what should we do to reduce it? And what can TRT do to reduce it and other things? So hello again. Welcome. Very good. Another subject that I have passion about. I have passion about so many things. So belly fat, this is the dangerous fat. You know, we have an obesity epidemic in the US and in the world. It's happening. But it's not your weight that's important. It's your VAT. It's not even your fat. Oh, it's your VAT. It's your VAT. Okay. For those in the UK, we're not talking about value-added taxes. Good one. Yes. I had to pay that when I went to Europe. So VAT, it's visceral adipose tissue. That is belly fat. It's a scientific term for belly fat. But that's the important thing we need to talk about. The BMI, the body mass index, that's how we measure whether somebody is underweight, overweight, or obese. It's an outdated measurement. We need to look at the VAT, the visceral adipose tissue. Because we do have patients who are skinny fat. They don't have any muscle mass. Their weight is okay. Their BMI is decent. But then their belly, and you see the belly fat there. So that's belly fat, that VAT is a very active, it's a very active, so that VAT, it's actually a full. So it's up an organ? It's an endocrine organ that secretes a lot of inflammatory cytokines. Tumor necrosis alpha, TNF, IL-6, plus all those adipokines that are bad for our health. So it's not just what you look like, it's not just what you weigh. If you have VAT, you have higher risk of chronic diseases. So VAT is closely associated, higher risk of diabetes, metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular disease, and different forms of cancer. So, you know, the metabolic syndrome, which is an association of those different abnormalities, if you have an enlarged waist size, abnormalities in your lipid, blood sugar, and hypertension, and blood pressure, those four things together are called metabolic syndrome. And the sum of those four is much higher, correlates with a much higher risk of cardiovascular disease. So when I see a patient come to me, and maybe their weight may not be that high, BMR 27, 28, or whatever their weight is, if you have VAT, you need to take action. And this is where testosterone replacement plays a big role. So testosterone, the studies are very, very strong on this. Testosterone has a very beneficial effect on the cardio metabolic profile. So on testosterone replacement, you most likely lose a good amount of VAT. You lose inches off of your waist. Your lipid profile improves. And your blood pressure tends to improve because you tend to lose weight. So when my patients come to me, I go into, I measure their VAT. So we have a, the way you do that, you measure the waist circumference. Anything above 40 for men or 35 for women is part of the metabolic syndrome. But even 36 to 38 for men, that's too high. We need to get you into that, you know, 36 or less, 35, 34, to really decrease that VAT. And the way we do this, it's of course, it's never just medication. Diet is one of the most important things. So intermittent fasting is one of the really good ones to decrease your VAT. Because when you don't eat, you don't need to digest. Your insulin levels go down. And insulin is what helps us, is one of the hormones that helps us back on the weight. So intermittent fasting, I like. Avoiding processed or refined sugars and carbs. That's the problem in our society. It's in everything. It's in everything. Fructose, high fructose corn syrup. That's very American. Yeah, very American. You guys don't have that too much. I'm sure there's some things that's renamed. Yes. Renamed. Then all the processed refined sugars. So when it comes to nutrition, I think we all know what we should do. We need to eat less and eat real food. Stop eating stuff in boxes, in plastic papers, stuff that was touched by men. Not easy to do anymore. Everything is touched by men and is processed. But still paying attention to this is very important. Exercise is really important to help you lose that. Pistachioid. And now we even have like a new protocol at our clinic to help patients lose belly fat, lose weight. But again, focusing on what? The semaglutide. Semaglutide, yeah. Semaglutide, which is now a great medication. That was first a diabetes medication that now got FDA approval. What is it? Because it's a biologic? Is it a... It is a peptide. So it is GLP-1 agonist. GLP-1 stands for glucagon-like peptide. And it is an intestinal hormone. So it is a peptide that they were able to synthesize. And it does the same thing. What it does, it slows down gastric emptying. So you have less hunger. And it binds. There are some receptors of GLP-1 in your brain that controls appetite and satiety. So when you do that, when you use GLP-1 agonists like semaglutide, you're less hungry. So you can eat less calories. So you're in a calorie deficit. Is there a rebound effect if you stop? Well, the first semaglutide, they studied it up to a year and a half. And they showed that the weight loss continued. In that study, it's called the Step 4 study. They did 20 weeks. Everybody on semaglutide did lose weight. After 20 weeks, they randomized the patients. And the patient who stopped semaglutide after 20 weeks started regaining some weight. The patients who continued lost weight. So semaglutide has now been approved as chronic management for long-term obesity. But it's not a rebound effect, unfortunately. Weight loss is very difficult. There's a psychological group. There's a lot of psychological, emotional. I have a weight loss clinic also. Most people who come to my weight loss clinic, they know what to do. They told me. They could write a diet book. They've done every diet in the world. It's just when you're hungry, you're emotional, you're stressed, you didn't have time to prepare foods, or you go out a lot, or you're sad, or you're happy, you eat more. Although you know you should not. You eat more. And lockdown especially. Lockdown, my God. So if I can give you something that you're not as hungry, that your willpower is stronger, it's not your willpower. It's your hormones that affect your willpower. So if I affect your hormones positively, I affect your willpower positively, now we can get somewhere with your weight. Calories are the key when it comes to losing weight. You need to eat fewer calories. If you're hungry and have cravings, it's difficult. So semaglutide has been really good. And now we have another product called AOD-9604, another peptide, which is the fragmented part of the HGH molecule, growth hormone molecule, that is the lipolysis for growth hormone. So those 15 amino acids that they use with that peptide called AOD-9604, it's the best fat burner. So we say fat burner a lot. What is a fat burner? How do we measure fat burner on metabolism? It's difficult. But growth hormone, there's no question, induces lipolysis and reduces lipogenesis, the making of new fat cells. So because of that, it's a pharmaceutical fat burner. So a combination of semaglutide and AOD helps our patient lose significant amount of weight, but more important, significant amount of VAT. It's not your weight. It's your VAT. Let's talk about VAT. And you don't have to report to HMRC about it either. I love that. That value added tax. Loving it. Well, as you're asking, in the UK, we do have semaglutide. I don't know if it's a Zempick. It's a Zempick. But there is no AOD. There are really no peptides. No peptides. That have been approved for this use. Wow. Desmorellin was a peptide that it has some weird name-only basis in Europe, but they didn't approve it because they said, Oh, it raises IGF-1 too much, and they were trying to link the IGF-1 to cancer. But it's like, well, so does HGH raise IGF-1. That's what it's supposed to do. So again, I used to love prescribing HGH when we were able to because I trained with a clinic called Synogen. I trained with a Synogenics with AMMG, so they did a lot of HGH no more because there's a lot more restriction. I like the peptides. But there are still questions whether increasing IGF-1 really may cause growth of cancers. The jury is not out yet. But there's no question that the AOD, because they removed all the other, they only took those 15 amino acids that are responsible for the lipolysis and lipogenesis. So that's the important part. You don't have the growth problem. So AOD, I'm surprised it's not, they don't use it in the UK. In the FDA, they don't have a brand name. It's called AOD. And I'm going to tell you, it got the designation by the FDA of what we call GRAS, generally recognized as safe, G-R-A-S. FDA designated as this because the side effect profile is so low. So it's really such an easy medication to take because I love prescribing this because the side effect profile is extremely low. And you get most of the benefits of HGH without the side effects. So now we have, so now let me tell you what my perfect program for a patient who comes to me who has more VAT than what I want them to do. And VAT, again, tends to decrease the low T. So if a patient comes to me and has a VAT and high metabolic syndrome and needs to lose belly fat and have low T, the combination of testosterone replacement, semaglutide and AOD, give me six months with this patient and I change their life. I change their life physically, sexually and metabolically. Amazing. And that's it. Then we've got a new guest. We've got a new guest. Come on, Maxi. So, all right. So it sounds like this is amazing. So in conclusion, we've got some options, especially there's some tools here in the U.S. that can help with losing VAT, essentially the visceral fat that you have that is responsible for so much inflammation. And reducing that fat will help reduce the inflammation through diet, through exercise and through some pharmaceuticals that may help, some of which are available in the U.K. and some that are obviously here in the United States. So, yeah, thanks again, Dr. Eberwalt. So don't forget, it's not about your weight. It's about your VAT. About your VAT. All right, I'll be confident of that. So, yeah, thanks again. It's been a really pleasure. Thank you. With you today and look forward to maybe seeing you again. We might even do it on the Zoom. And, yeah, and everyone else, thanks for watching. Don't forget to subscribe. Leave comments if you've had issues with your VAT, with your visceral fat and what you did to reduce it. Love to hear about that. And we'll see you next time. Bye.