 What age is it safe to start TRT, or what age can you start TRT? We're going to answer that question after this, so keep watching. What age should I start TRT? What age should I start TRT? Right, we're back with the question, at what age should I start TRT? Sam, what age should we start TRT on? So, it's really unique to the situation, and this is something that your situation is going to have to be looked at by a specialist. Really, if you're classifying testosterone treatment as just TRT, there are incidences when developing adolescence and it's delayed. Endocrinologists on the NHS, you hear of it, and other specialists can actually administer testosterone. Strangely, and then stop it, and then we've actually had some guys in adulthood with lower testosterone because it sort of suppressed them. But that, I wouldn't know, not really classified as replacement therapy. So, I think once you are an adult, I would say you can look at blood testing whenever, but really once you get into adulthood, there's no harm in keeping an eye on your hormones if you're already aware of this area of health. Yeah. But TRT is going to be, you approach a doctor with symptoms, and the likelihood is they're going to do everything within their power to increase your testosterone whilst maintaining your own axis being switched on. Right? So, those things generally are always considered as part of, is this something I can give? Can I boost this person's levels? Can I switch to try and boost their system so it actually switches back on? Can I increase their levels through boosting if it's safe to do so? And then it's going to be a consideration of, you know, TRT, is this suitable? Things like fertility and, you know, the fact that if you need to maintain these levels, you have to be on it for as long as you want to maintain them, that you would need to make that decision with the doctor, I'd say. So, I know that was super vague, but really there isn't an age, I'd say. No, I think it's important, and I was reading a couple of articles about this in regards to delayed puberty. What they thought was delayed puberty is actually, could actually be, hypergonadism with teenagers. So, theoretically, really they should start screening during the adolescent years to not just determine if it's delayed puberty, but if you actually have hypergonadism. I mean, again, due to environmental factors, even going back to when you're in the womb, there may be inadequate HPTA or damage to the testes from these other environmental factors. We just don't know. But obviously you would see more specialist treatment through a pediatrician or a pediatric endocrinologist, potentially for that age range. I know that most TRT clinics are only treating adults, but it doesn't hurt if you're at a younger age to get a blood test and potentially seek treatment through the NHS. We've had a couple of chaps who have come to us later in life, but have had testicular injuries in mid-teens. Pretty severe torsions, where it twists the testicle, which makes me cringe. Things like that, even months where they have had swollen testicles. And then their symptoms started shortly after that. And then their whole, you know, later adolescent years and teenage years and then into adulthood up until this point, you know, late 20s, early 30s, even some a bit later, have had those symptoms that whole time. So I think, like Mike said, if you have those symptoms or you know someone at a young age, then if you're in that sort of bracket of not being an adult, then you would want to seek, you know, trying to get help with a pediatrician. Yeah, along with your parents helping you because it should be recognized. It sets you up for life. If you can catch it early and either do things to both preserve your fertility and your testosterone output, then you'll have a much better time. It'll set you up for later in life and into early adulthood. Blood testing, isn't it? Like often the NHS will rarely test teenagers, you know, guys who haven't reached adulthood yet. But, you know, obviously there are some private options. You know, obviously we're one of them, but there's lots of blood testing availability now that you can just get a panel and actually see what's going on with all your hormones and other things that might influence it. So if you know someone in that situation, that's an option. And then you can actually use that when you go to a GP on the NHS and try your best to try and seek help that way. I suppose what's the old, the, um, on the other end of the spectrum, how old, uh, is there an age that's too old to be on TRT? And not that it's TRT, but we can look at Dr. George's nan. She's what, 106 and she's been going strong on the, uh, on the Nanderlobe, which is in some cases a form of TRT. Yeah. She fractured a hip. Yeah. And some, I mean, lots of other countries it's still used, um, for increasing bone density and healing. Yeah. Osteopenia, osteoporosis and, and, and whatnot. But I mean, yeah, the age thing of how old can you be, uh, again, every situation, every case by the doctor needs to be looked at, medical history, screening. Other comorbidities. Yeah. More complicated cases would have to be screened by the doctor. And sometimes if you're older, slightly different approaches might be taken to a starting something like a hormone therapy. It might be more gradual, but it's definitely not ruled out with any sort of age bracket. It never hurts to get a blood pest to see where you are. So. Yeah. So that's it. Yeah. That wraps up. At what age, uh, what age can you start TRT? And, uh, thanks again for watching another video with Balance My Hormones. And please press like if you do like the video. If you don't, press don't like and do subscribe. It does help, uh, us, uh, prepare more content, keeps pushing us on. And we really, really appreciate you watching. So thanks again. And we'll see you next time. Cheers.