 tignignign, We got off to a bit of a rusty style, but we're in the mood now, so. If you guys haven't seen the first part, we filmed the first part which covers Balanced My Hormones a little bit earlier, and you can find a link to that video in the description of this one. But for part two of this video, by the way, I'm Paolo Bricardo, this is Mike from Balanced My Hormones, if you don't know already. We're gonna cover user questions. Now, I put out a video a while back for users to send the questions regarding testosterone replacement therapy and just, you know, balance my hormones in general. And so today I've got Mike here, fortunate enough to have him here, to discuss and answer your questions. So thanks for sending them in, and let's get right to it. Okay, so we have got a question from Ghana, and he says, how does the prescription process work? Do they just mail you the prescription? All right, so it's a bit more complicated, but it's simple, but patients need to first fill out the patient intake form. Okay. And with all the consents and legal bits on it so that, you know, it's all confidential, encrypted. We gather the data, the information on the patient. The doctor reviews that, and then after they, she determines based on blood tests that are sent, then if the patient's determined to be a candidate for testosterone replacement therapy, then she writes a prescription, which then goes directly to the pharmacy, and the pharmacy ships to the patient with a label on it. So they never have to queue at the pharmacy, they never have to really leave their home, unless they want to set up a face-to-face with the doctors, as far as a consultation. That would be the only time, and our doctor comes into London once a month, and then she also has her own office, her own practice, so we can sometimes arrange something like that. But that's as simple as it, the pharmacy sends it out directly to the patient. And they just pay online. And they pay online, so, yeah. Very good. Hope that answers your question, Gunnar. Okay, and here's another question. I think we've got two per person here, so let's go. In one of your videos, the blood results template is identical to the same service Medichecks provide. Are they sending your bloods, your blood work, to Medichecks? So when we initially started the business, Medichecks was one of our suppliers. We had a practitioner account set up with Medichecks. But we've now moved away from that. That's one of our options. But really, what a lot of people don't know is many of the blood testing companies are done in just a few labs throughout the UK. And they're normally the same labs. And then someone else has got the Medichecks as their logo above it. But it's really the same lab that's taking all the data. Medichecks provided a nice template, and then we put our logo on it initially. But now we've got one of the labs we're working with and a potential third one. But it turns out some of these labs are the actual labs that Medichecks uses at the end of the day to actually process the blood. And the front page of the reports could be a bit different. Because I think what this user was alluding to is like, you know, can't he get his blood work done himself? Well, so part of it is we provide that service. So, you know, we find some patients just going there. But the doctor wants specific things. So, yes, you can go to Medichecks and order it. But lots of times we have to tell the patient it gets something else. It's more specific to what the doctor wants. Yeah. You know, there's some very basic hormone profiles that we need to look at. And so that's also part of the service and also helps us keep the cost low by having everyone use not just initial blood tests, but also subsequent blood tests going through us. Helps keep the overall service more sustainable for everyone. Very good. All right, we're moving on. We have a question here from Mike Lee. He's not Bruce Lee's brother, I don't think. What is the difference between bioidentical hormone therapy and testosterone replacement therapy? That's a good question because I do not know either. So bioidentical is a little bit of a marketing term. Testosterone, whether it's from a cream or a patch or injection, can be bioidentical. Bioidentical just means it's the same thing that the body really makes. However, there's a little bit of, I guess, not controversy, but a difference between, so things that are like testosterone enanti, testosterone cipionate. And once the enzymes cleave, so an anti-part of the body gets removed and it's just a natural testosterone, that's bioidentical testosterone. But the reason why the esters are on there are to slow its reaction to the body. So if you took pure testosterone, it would be immediate and you wouldn't get the sustained effect. So the thing that actually goes into the receptor is bioidentical testosterone. Now, some doctors who are more in favor of creams and topicals will say, no, no, but the creams and topicals are bioidentical because it's just pure testosterone powder mixed in some cream and then the skin slows down the absorption. They say that's bioidentical. But in reality, any of the testosterone esters, as well as the creams, are bioidentical. So it just depends who you ask. Brilliant! I did not know that. Thanks for the question. Now you're helping me learn something here too. All right. Okay, he did ask about an HCG, but we covered that in the previous video, I think. We covered HCG, right? So if you guys are wondering what HCG is... I could do it. Okay, and should it be used for ERT? So, again, HCG was originally derived from pregnant women's urine, mimics the luteinizer hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone. I think today it's recombinantly made, I think, in bacteria. But I don't think it actually gets from the pregnant women's urine. So it mimics the signal that your hypothalamus and fertility would send down and your testes would respond to it. So you're taking this, it sees a signal, and it's to make more testosterone and potentially more sperm. So you would take it as an adjunct to TRT. If you're worried about fertility, wanting to maintain it, you don't have to take it. It's nice to have if those are your concerns, or if you're worried about the potential atrophy in your testes, some people atrophy more than others. Some people don't really atrophy very much. Yeah, because I just take plain testosterone. I don't use HCG myself, but I hear everyone talking about it. And I have considered it. I haven't noticed too much atrophy, but maybe it's just because it's been so gradual I haven't seen it. So maybe I'll try it out to be in the future and see what the response is. Some people say they feel better on it, that it helps upstream, fill in some of these other hormones that aren't being treated. I mean, you know, cholesterol is the basis for steroid hormones in the body. And so if your body's utilizing the cholesterol, it can make some of these other hormones potentially. But there's just some of the reasons why it's available. So there might be a valid case for it for some people, yeah? Yeah, some people really, they get on very well with the HCG, antiosostrum, and anti-yestrogen combination. And so how would you deal with this with balansmol hormones? Is it something that the patient would bring up, or does the doctor sometimes suggest it? So on the patient take form, we ask them, you know, which therapies that they would potentially want to be on. Because you can't just have the doctor dictate to the patient, this is your therapy, because the patient has to be able to comply at the end of the day. And so we try to do a very patient-centric approach. So obviously, most patients aren't coming, not knowing anything about it, because we've got the internet, people Google and research the different options, they watch your channel, they see things online, they see things from the Americans, and they say, right, can you do this? And so we've offered it now, that we just ask them, what would be the ideal therapy that you think you need? And then the doctor looks at it, and based on her medical judgment, and evidence-based medicine, looks into it and says, right, this might be the best treatment. Sometimes it doesn't always match up. I mean, if the suggestion, like, you know, is something outside someone's budget, you know, if they can't afford it, let's just say for an argument, saying you're going to have to make changes. Well, not just that, but also, you know, if a patient's coming in, and they would prefer topical, and they're deathly afraid of needles, we're not going to go in, the doctors aren't going to prescribe them an injection. True, true. You know, or if they had a bad reaction to the cream before, then maybe we try something else. That makes sense. And so it's got to be tailored for each patient, rather than just a one-size-fits-all, tick-the-box exercise. Yeah, that makes perfect sense. Okie dokie. We are we too... Okie, so this is from Lee Harnell. He has two questions. He says, If I go with Balanced Mal-Hormones, would I need to come off Nibido to get a base reading through new blood work, or could I produce my previous blood results, which I have kept, to confirm my levels when I started and where I am at now? So, he wants to know, can... Would you have to come off Nibido to get a base reading? No. No. I mean, if he's already treated elsewhere, and we've got some evidence of when you were originally treated... Kind of like me. ...existing treatment, we can move you over to Balanced Mal-Hormones and try to... Because the last thing we want to do is make you go hypogranadal and suffer the symptoms of low testosterone again, just to prove when you've already done it, you've already been treated. So, we want to minimize any discomfort until we can get you onto a different treatment modality. I think that's so important because I was in that exact position, you know, I came to the UK and I wasn't able to get treatment and I felt miserable as hell, you know, like my levels dropped, you know, I think there was a big gap between when I was on treatment and then off and then on again and it was hell, you don't want to go through that. It's a bit unfair. I mean, especially, you know, it's not good to go on and off the testosterone. You're not cycling. I mean, some of the studies have come out and say, you know, long-term testosterone placement is better than cycling on and off of it and so, if you had to force a patient off of it, it's probably not the best option. Yeah, exactly. I mean, unless there was a clear medical reason that you needed to pull them off of it. Exactly. I mean, you're basically on it for life for most guys, you know, if your production has stopped and, you know, at least in my case, it's like a lifetime commitment so you pretty much have to have it all the time. Unless you want the symptoms to go back. I mean, you're not going to die, you know, if you stop taking it. True, yeah. You know, it's not quite like a diabetic but it does diminish the quality of life down the road and could lead to, you know, shortening of lifespan and, you know, diminishment of your vitality. And no enjoyment of life. Yeah, and no sex drive. No. What's the point of living then? That's all right. You know, monk maybe. All right. So, he says, secondly, my hope through Balanced My Hormones would be to attain elevated levels of testosterone between 800 to 900 nanograms per deciliter. Am I being realistic? I want to get the most out of my therapy and the biggest bang for my buck. Very valid. All right. You can't predict if someone's levels are coming out. I mean, normally, depending on the therapy, so if you switch from the creams, it depends on when you measure the hormones. So, that's the other thing you have to consider. If you measure at peak, your levels will quite clearly be there, maybe a little bit higher. So, let's say they aren't. Let's say they aren't. He changes, he goes on to therapy and these levels are like in the mid-range. Do you adjust it? Can you adjust? Can he adjust it to get higher? If he still has symptoms at mid-range, it's not about hitting a number. Just like it's not about hitting a number to qualify for TRT, you don't want to hit a number just to hit a number. Yeah, that's true. If you have a good improvement in quality of life at a certain number, then, you know, you don't need to worry about it. I mean, that's how I judge it. But think about what happens. You know, you go, you get the blood test. You'll probably get it on the trough level and on the trough level, it's right before the next time you have to do an injection, the next time you apply the cream. It will be low. You want to be, not low, but it'll be, you know, maybe in the 6, 700 range or the 20 nanomolar range or 15 nanomolar, well, 15 is a little bit too low, but if you keep it a little bit lower and not completely at the high end of normal, on the trough, we can also measure you at the peak or measure you in the mid-peak and it'll probably be up near that range just by the very nature of, especially the injections because they're meant to go up a little bit higher than normal and then slowly come back down and what the doctor will do is she catches it before it comes too low but gets you in the optimal range. Yeah, you will get you in the optimal range and it's quite easy to do. So rather than focusing on these numbers, focus on not having the symptoms come back. That's what you want. You just want to remain constant, you know, have the symptoms, you know, go away even between the peaks and the troughs and just try and maintain that you don't show the symptoms. That's it. Because if you sometimes, in some people, if you come too high, if you don't ever come down a little bit into the normal high and the normal range, if you're always above it, that may cause problems too. Yeah. You know, thinking of blood and increasing the amount of I mean, in some cases, good. If you've got low hemoglobin, hematocritus, it's not bad, especially for people who are anemic, but you can't be so high all the time, but you don't want to have huge peaks and then drop, drop, troughs. You don't want that time. Hence, this is why the doctors aren't a big advocate of every three, four weeks because that's just, that's cruel. It's unfair to a patient to have them grab the big ups and the big downs. Makes sense. Hope that answered your question. Lee, we're going to move on to one of my regulars on my channel. His name, I don't know what his real name is, his YouTube channel is, Tech Est. And he says, what is Clomid and how much does it cost? And I think he's probably referring cost maybe if you had to try to prescribe it. Yeah, so I mean, so Clomid is Clomidine citrate. It's what they call CIRM, Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulator. And essentially, it's a big word. It's an old fertility drug, really. I think it's been out since the 60s and it's used to stimulate ovulation in women, but in men, it can also stimulate the production of sperm and basically, it stimulates luteinizing hormone FSH release. So then that can also get your testes to produce the sperm and the testosterone. But it's an artificial chemical. It's, you know, that it's been designed to fit into the receptor. So you've got receptors in your body, that's how hormones work. And this chemical, which is a non-hormone, can either be an antagonist, so it sits in the receptor and blocks it from actually activating and doing anything. Or it could be an agonist and says, yes, fire, this is like estrogen. So on Clomid, it's about 60%, I believe, antagonistic. And about 40, between 40 and 30% agonistic. So with the Clomid on the market today, you'll get benefits of blocking in the brain. So antagonistic, the brain says, I don't see any estrogen, so therefore, I need to get more testosterone produced. And so then they start producing all the gonadotropins that make the testosterone. And with other parts of the body, like in the liver, for example, sometimes you need a little bit of estrogen in the liver to make the good cholesterol, HCL. And so that might agonize. So that might say, look, pretend like I'm estrogen and I'm here so we can switch on this part of the receptor. So it hits the receptors differently. That's what serms do. For the use in TRT, it allows men who have somewhat of their own production, the testes are functioning, but maybe not getting a strong enough signal. It allows that to enhance the signal and have them produce some of their own testosterone. But it doesn't work for everyone. And you're limited on how functional the testes are to produce enough testosterone. So if you've got a varicocele, which is like veins that keep the testes too warm and in some optimal conditions, you don't produce enough sperm or testosterone potentially. So I guess my question would be, do you use this instead of testosterone replacement therapy? Do you use it in conjunction with testosterone? So it depends. I know the doctors use it for some patients that they weren't quite ready to go on TRT yet or they were sort of borderline. And so this is a way where you won't diminish the natural production, but you can sort of enhance it. But it's not for everyone because some people will get some of the estrogen side effects, which might not be good. They might cry more when they watch a film or they might... But it won't affect... It doesn't tend to affect the breast though. It depends on the receptors. But some people just find it diminishes the sex drive. It might even increase slightly a sex hormone binding globulin. Yeah. So... Almost defeats the purpose. On its own, yeah. Then you might need something like another anti-aromatase inhibitor or even something like a mysterodon providermin to give it more of the artificial DHT to counter it. Okay. But, yeah. And how much does it cost? I think... Probably under £100 for two months depending on how it's dosed. Yeah. So... All right. Yeah, I guess you could get more accurate pricing, you know, on demand or on request. Yeah, yeah. So every case is different depending on how much they need. Oh, yeah. So... Cool. All right. This is a funny question. I don't know if you're going to know the answer to this. So you might have to defer to your doctor. But I'm going to ask a question anyway. Can clomid make you blind or at least temporarily? What's true about that? Do you have any idea? Yeah, there's some... Some studies in literature that talks about the fact of the estrogen effect on the eye. So sometimes estrogen can also make the blood a bit thicker and that might be causing some of the eye problems. There have been reports of people experiencing flashes and just eye abnormalities and not everyone experiences those side effects. I mean, wouldn't women get that then if, I mean, they have... Possibly, yeah. Just naturally, just naturally, I mean... It could be the nature of the drug. Is it... So, I was looking at a paper from Repros. The company has come up with androxyl which is a clomiphene or clomiphene product that doesn't have the estrogenic effects as much. And the reason why they don't is because it's not... It doesn't have as large of an area under the curve so that it doesn't concentrate as much in the tissues as the clomiphene that's available today. And the clomiphene that's available today does get into the tissues of the eye, does get into the lungs, does get into the prostate at a much greater concentration than the one that they're looking to get approval for in Europe and in America but they haven't done it yet because they haven't been able to prove that it's better than the current therapy which is testosterone. Okay. So, I guess the question really should be is it safe for use in testosterone replacement therapy? It's questionable whether it's safe for long-term therapy. Okay. But many doctors feel that, you know, it's... They'd rather try you on the clomid long-term than the testosterone I think because it's not a steroid molecule. It's a small molecule that it might be safer but that's something for the doctor to decide. I, you know, every patient's different but what I've heard in my knowledge of being in the field, this... Should people worry about it or not? Well, if you're having, like anything, if you're having side effects if it's affecting your quality of life the side effects aren't worth the benefit then no, it's not for you. It's not you. There have been patients that have come to our doctor and they were on Comet and they realized that it wasn't improving. Yes, the testosterone levels were quite high and, you know, it did that, again, looking at a number doesn't always mean it translates into better quality of life because they still didn't have the sex driving improvements but for some people, you know, they do, they do just fine on it so it just depends. Exactly. A lot of people want a straight yes or no black or white answer sometimes. The answer is always it depends. Okay, so that's his question. So finally, we have Nick Richards and I think this is just one question and it is so complicated I have to focus when I read this. He says, I have CFS slash ME and in brackets it says chronic fatigue syndrome or myalgic encephalomyelitis. Maybe you can say that one better than I can but he says, my total T levels are 11 but my free T levels are 240. Has he got them the wrong way around? Anyway, I suffer from anxiety along with bad fatigue but no libido issues. Which is more important in determining if I need TRT? free T? Okay, here's the actual question. What is more important in determining if I need TRT? free T or total T levels? Do you think TRT can help cure people with CFS slash ME? Maybe that's one for the doctors but it's here to all the end. Yeah, that's one for the doctors but I mean, I've seen things in the research that says, you know, some, we've seen lots of patients where they have a normal, a low normal total testosterone but then a very low free testosterone and lots of times you can also see it in people who are a bit obese or carrying extra weight but yet they've got all the symptoms so you can't just go again by numbers but if they've got the symptoms and then the doctor feels it's warranted and the free T is low then they could be candidates for TRT in light of that but you look at the age, you look at other medical history, the doctor would look into that and determine if that's appropriate but there are some people that have low total testosterone and have all the symptoms and classical hypogonadism, you know, traditionally that's how they look at just your total testosterone and they looked at me and they looked at just my total testosterone but now you can go a little bit deeper and I had seen some papers where actually the men that suffer the most with androgen insufficiency or low testosterone are the ones that have a normal to low normal total testosterone but the free testosterone is very low because as we get older, sex hormone binding, globulin, increases and that binds to the testosterone so the amount of free testosterone that's available to do anything is very small and so they're not getting the full benefit of testosterone. So yeah, and then for chronic fatigue, I saw a paper from 2015 that showed what was for women because women tend to have this smallest fibromyalgia but men can also suffer from it and they had some improvement in pain from testosterone even for women. Okay. Interesting. Yeah, I know nothing about this so this is why we, sorry about that, why we defer to the more professionals. Yeah, this is, I read a lot of these things. A question I get, you probably got to talk to the doctor. Yeah, I mean, I read a lot of the different studies. I like to know what's going on, you know, coming from a pharmaceutical sales background, you know, something that you were taught to do and so I can read studies. I can kind of, you know, find out what the important bits are but again, I don't, we don't ever give, I don't give medical advice only just, yeah, I can repeat what I've learned in the studies. Yeah, well you're doing a very good job way better than I can do and that was the last question so I want to say thanks to everyone for submitting the questions. I think we might have run out on the main camera over there, unfortunately but hopefully we've got the backups on here. So I want to thank you for coming. Hopefully you guys enjoyed the interview wherever I'm looking now. I hope you guys enjoyed it and if you like this kind of informal style where we answer your Q&A just let us know and maybe we can do some more, you know, videos like this in the future. I want to thank you for coming through. Thanks for having me. I've been happy. I know it's a big better permission to come down here but hopefully it's worthwhile. Yeah, exactly. So thanks everyone for watching and if you want to get this video and the previous part you can find it either on my channel or mine. We'll put all the information in the description below. Thanks for watching and we'll catch you next time. Bye.