 Rkeepingkeeping L-maio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-maizio-ma six biggest red flags that you need to watch out for before it gets worse. So one of the first signs to watch out for is fatigue. Many men, and even on the validated questionnaires, will ask, are you feeling low in energy? You know, are you feeling fatigued? Constant fatigue is something that mimics other conditions, but men who have low testosterone also experience this. It may be down to a lower mitochondrial function, reducing the cell's energy, if you remember that from biology. That's at least according to the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology from 2015, that the slow testosterone is not optimal for your mitochondria. Mitochondria is your powerhouse of the cell. If you're not optimizing testosterone, your bodies and your cells in your body don't work optimally. Another sign of low testosterone is really a loss of muscle and strength. You know, muscle is there more than just for vanity. Having more muscle mass helps you utilize sugar, glucose a lot better. It helps kind of store the excess glucose in form of glycogen. When you have a lack of muscle, your body doesn't dispose of glucose as well, leading you almost more towards a diabetic state. Low testosterone, when it's low, leads to a breakdown of muscle mass and a lack of increase in protein synthesis, right? Protein synthesis is what gives you the muscle mass. So that's something to be aware of. Another sign that you have low testosterone is increased body fat. So with a decrease in lean muscle mass and this dysregulated blood sugar, you can put down more body fat. And also you may see an increase in triglycerides and that's the fatty acids in your blood. Having this is not ideal for your health. An increased body fat does not help testosterone levels, creates an environment of inflammation. It's not where you want to have low testosterone increase insulin resistance. So that means your efficiency of your insulin has to pump up more and more, and then that stores on more body fat. Not a good look and not ideal. And that was according to the obesity review in 2018. So just don't take my word for it. Another sign and quite a common sign and one that most of us think is related to low testosterone is low libido. And as a follow on, many times erectile issues. Though one doesn't always correct the other and libido can affect many men and it's not always attributed to testosterone, but when one has low libido and also some erectile issues, that is a strong, strong link to being low testosterone. So we know testosterone plays a direct role in our sexual function. In the study, in the Journal of Sexual Medicine, they found that men with low T do have 50% greater chance of having erectile dysfunction as well. And this is why some men will say they took Viagra or Cialis or Tadalafil, whatever you go by brand name or generic, and it didn't work for them. Well, the little dirty secret is if you have really low testosterone levels, you can take these what's called PDE5 inhibitors, which helps dilate and increase the amount of nitric oxide and dilates your vessels. But if you don't have testosterone in an adequate amount, they just don't work or work well in many cases. And I think there's a threshold for how high your testosterone level would need to be for them to be optimal. So we often will see men who will go on testosterone treatment and had tried in the past when they had low levels of testosterone, try the PDE5 inhibitors, the Cialis, the Viagra, Spedra, and say, oh, I don't need that, I don't want to, it didn't work for me before. Well, probably didn't work for you before because your testosterone levels were too low in the first place. So with optimal testosterone levels and adding in the PDE5 inhibitors, you can get your erectile function back or better and actually can help rehabilitate the chambers of the penis responsible for erections. And those are called the corpus cavernosum. So many times you kind of get atrophy if you're not getting atrophy of your penis, essentially, if you're not getting your morning erections on a regular basis, and testosterone is responsible for that as well. So when we say erectile issues, it's not just the ability to have an erection that you would like to have, but it's also the body's response in repairing its penis by becoming erect whilst you sleep and also in the early hours of the morning. So that's why sleep is important as well. But having optimal testosterone plays a big part of that. Another sign that you have low testosterone has to do with your mood. Mood swings, anxiety, depression. Many times, a lashing out effect can be due to being anxious or being very sad, losing interest in things you once enjoyed before, you know, having really sad thoughts. Depression has to be horrible and testosterone, in many cases, that's low, may be the cause of depression. Not in all cases. There are many complex cases. Everyone's different. But in general, many times we've seen men who have tried the SSRIs or standard psychiatric treatment and, in fact, haven't got better on those treatments, but added testosterone. The doctors prescribed testosterone. And when nothing else worked, and they did get better, and the depression lifted or the anxiety lifted. So this was also shown in the Journal for the JAMA Psychiatry 2019, showed that there's a 30% higher rate of clinical depression in men who have low testosterone. So in many times in our own practice, we've seen when patients start with testosterone treatment in time, it does improve their depression. Another big sign that many patients have has to do with their focus, and that's brain fog, even memory problems. They feel like they're not working as quickly. And low testosterone, again, having to do with the brain, can affect your neurotransmitters. So these are signaling molecules that occur in your brain, but not just in your brain. Some of the neurotransmitters are also present in your other body tissues, like dopamine, like serotonin. We know that testosterone can boost dopamine, can boost serotonin in particular. That's one of the other signs and reasons why some men or women who are suffering from low testosterone will experience brain fog. Being aware of these signs is important. So what do you do next? If you're struggling with these symptoms, it's important not to just wait, but it's important to recognize these signs and then take action. You know, the changes that you make now can help relieve you from some of these signs and symptoms of low testosterone. What are things can you do? Well, one, you can do our online questionnaire that looks at, it's a validated questionnaire that looks at your symptoms of low testosterone, similar to what we discussed here. If you have these symptoms, as we've discussed in the video, or on our questionnaire on our website, you may want to take the next step and actually look at your biomarkers, look at your hormone levels under certain conditions to see if you really do have low testosterone. And if you do, it might be a good option to look at how you might optimize those testosterone levels, either with lifestyle modifications, diet, exercise, sleep, or if you need to look into testosterone therapy. So if you're struggling with the signs and symptoms of low testosterone, you don't want to wait. Get tested and start making changes to your lifestyle so you can optimize your testosterone levels. And whilst you're at it, you might want to subscribe to the channel. There's really good, important information that can help guide you, not just through information about testosterone, but lifestyle changes as well. So if you like this video, give us a like, do subscribe and share your thoughts or your comments. And we'll try to get back to you until next time, stay in good health and stay optimized.