 cpmatricutatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatat This particular Instagrammer, I guess you can call it, has over half a million followers. Yeah, about half a million. And you might hear from his voice. We're going to talk to him after this, so keep watching. Hi, I'm Mike, the founder of Balance My Hormones, where we help men and women on their journey to optimal hormone balance. If you're new to the channel, please press like and subscribe, and also leave comments and let us know what you think of today's video. So, today we're here with Joey Stacks, my new friend. We're honored to have him here with us at the Balance My Hormones channel, and we're going to find out a little bit about his story. Yeah, I mean, I guess to mainly just touch on how I became an Instagram influencer and start kind of motivating people. And, you know, I started off just like everybody else, not knowing what Instagram was in the beginning, right? And I come from a very, very bad side of town in San Antonio, Texas, here in the U.S. And, you know, growing up in my side of town, I didn't really have a lot of options, you know, ended up making some bad choices at a young age. So, for Joe, Joe Stacks, when did TRT enter the picture? Yeah. So, I guess I got to be about 28, 29. Excuse me. Sorry. Everyone at Gold's Gym or whatever gym I was at. You know, bigger dudes. This is how I learned to kind of work out more and build what you would call a more aesthetic bodybuilder type. I would be at the gyms and I'd watch other guys. You know, sometimes some of them would look kind of cooler than others. So, hey, man, what's that workout? Oh, that's shoulders or that's this or that's that. Hey, thank you. Appreciate it. You know, so I start doing it. And then I start looking at, you know, magazines. Yeah. With, you know. Must go development. Yeah, exactly. And, man, I'm trying to get like these guys. I'm already 170, 175. I've done it natural. I've done, you know, I'm not even going to shout out some of these horrible companies I've done, right? But I've done some bad ones. And now I want to put on some real size buddies of mine. Man, I'm doing test. I'm doing trend. I'm doing test, trend, all this. And I'm like, cool, man. You know, yeah, you look good. You know, most of them, I'm not going to lie. They all look. You get like one out of ten guys that actually looks good when they do steroids the wrong way. You know what I mean? Yeah. Maybe one out of ten, you know. So, I was a little nervous, man. And, you know, I told you before, I was real, real young and I messed with it. I went to Mexico. I, you know, did a bunch of dumb stuff as a kid but didn't really know what I was doing. So, I wouldn't even call that doing testosterone. More like messing my... So, you did a short cycle. Not even. Not even. You know, one shot. You know what I mean? Oh, you say you guys had some drinks and you'd have a shot. This is so funny. My nickname was One Shot. Yeah. Because I did one shot and my traps blew up like this. One seat. Because I would always do traps and everyone would go around. Hey, one shot. Hey, one shot. Because I just got so big. It was... But I wasn't doing it. By the way, what do you do for traps? What's your exercise? I can't tell you that. No, but so... Anyway, TRT came in. I said, you know what? I know I wasn't doing it right before. So, I want to make sure I get like some knowledge. I'm not going to do this garage stuff. I'm not going to listen to these guys at the gym. I'm going to go actually consult the actual doctor. Well, I didn't have a family physician. So, I just Googled, you know, testosterone clinic. Like, I heard about it in other clinics. So, I went in there, you know. And this is going to be funny. I took my blood. And, you know, let me take that back. I didn't even take my blood. I went in there. And I'm just like, hey, I've done, you know, testosterone at a very young age. And I, you know, and I looked great. Shredded. Again, I worked out my whole life. And I said, but I just know, you know, I know my body's got low T. You know, I can feel, you know, this. And it was a female doctor. I hate to say it like that. Oh, that's all right. And she's like, nope, you're too young to do testosterone. Sorry. And I got kicked out the door. And I'm like, well, that sucks, you know. And I say that because let's just say six months down the road, same place contacts me back. And that physician is gone. Okay. Same company. Same company. It was a TLT clinic. It was a TLT clinic, yep. Okay. And again, we're not going to shout out no names. But boom, they called me back and they said, man, we want to, you know, take your blood just to see where you're at. You know, we were working with somebody and we want to get, you know, our other future or past clients in and see if they needed anything. They take my blood. They say, man, you're 28 years old and you have 700 tests. You can be a little bit higher, you know. And we also do this. I have this thing with estrogen, man. I don't know what it is. I think, to be honest with you. Are you more sensitive to it? I smoke. Oh, okay. When you smoke THC, it builds your estrogen. Okay. And I smoke a lot. Yeah. So my estrogen is built up. But that's what keeps me from taking government medication. Well, it hasn't hurt your fertility. No, not at all. Yeah, super potent. Yeah. But so I had high estrogen. I had somewhat low T for mine. Okay. So boom, working. And I never heard about HCG at the time. Right. So next thing you know, I'm taking stuff through this clinic. And at this time, it was legit TRT, one CC every week, or whatever the doctor had shown with my other stuff. Man, I put on like 20 pounds of muscle in like three weeks just because I actually started taking. And again, I already trained like an animal. And I tell people, you want to look like an animal, you got to train like an animal. I already ate like an animal. So the only thing my body was missing was the balance. It's the, man, you had way high this, too low this, with your free test this. You know, why? Because I shut my receptors off at such a young age. I wasn't making it correctly. So you needed more. So some people, 700 might be okay. Of course. But for you, you required a higher amount. It could have been because of your receptors. And there's something called the CAG repeats in some people. And every person's different. And again, that's why I always recommend to people, don't do what I do. I don't tell you my protocol. Of course. I tell you to go get your blood work and speak with someone who, and I always, and I'm not trying to say this, but I'm trying to say this. I always say stay away from your family physician. Your family doctor, they will get you nowhere. You know what I mean? They dibble dabble and they don't really know much about the stuff because they don't practice. But a real TRT clinic, man, I stress it to people all the time. Well, you know, I went to my doctor and I'm like, so he's a TRT doctor? No, well, you know, he's my family. So does he prescribe you antibiotics? Well, then it's the wrong doctor. You know what I mean? We've got the same issue in the UK with the NHS and the GPs. They don't want to know. They don't want to get involved. There's a few that are a bit more knowledgeable. Oh, stuff will kill you. But they don't realize that, hey, man, if you actually get this guy and balance him out, he can live a great life for the rest of his life. You know what I mean? It's not about how much, but it's for how long. You've got to get that right balance. And the next thing you know, you go for three months and your body's all balanced. Your muscles want to heal correctly. And you want to grow correctly. Oh, your digestive system works correctly. Now you're metabolizing right. You know, your body's growing at what you should be at 35 or 28 or, you know, however the doctor tells you. Honestly, you know, and that wasn't my first time with a TRT clinic. Like, you know, I just learned everything I could from these people. And, again, to be honest with you, this TRT clinic was expensive. They were expensive. It wasn't reasonable. It wasn't logical. But they took insurance. Okay. And boy, Joey Stacks didn't have that. Oh, I see. You know, and I wasn't going to waste X amount of money in my mind. Yeah. At that time. So here I go, right? Yeah. Leaving the TRT clinic. I can do this on my own. Okay. Because I've learned everything that they've taught me for a year. I can do it on my own. And here I am, thinking I know what I'm doing, getting no blood work done, by the way, for three, six, nine, a year, two years, three years, no blood work. Look good. Yeah. Feel great. I run into, you know, my new sponsor, Frontline, my boy Andre. And it's like, man, you know, yeah, you look great, man. Let's just do your labs, you know. And that's what I tell everybody. Yeah. Let's do your labs. Let's just see where you're at. Yeah. Man, I go do my labs, and I'm going to be honest with you. I looked amazing. I looked how people want to look, you know. And my estrogen levels were three times what they should have been. I was sitting there. In relation to your testosterone level, it was kind of out of whack then. Oh, my God. Yeah, I was about to have a heart attack. Like, every day, he called me, Joey, hey, how do you feel? I mean, your estrogen is at 120. Oh, wow. It's supposed to be at 40. Yeah. And I'm like, really? I'm like, I feel great. Yeah. I feel amazing. He's like, when do you start getting, you know, and this is where it kind of was like, man, little did I know, I'm over here telling everybody, oh, I'm healthy, I'm this. Did you have any side effects for having estrogen that high? So, maybe acne breakouts here and there, nothing crazy. But here's the downside of not going to an actual professional place, right? There were times where I was getting my stuff from wasn't an actual pharmaceutical grade. Right. So, guess what? Inflammation. Hold back. Yeah. We're talking scars on my whole back. It took over a year to get my back to look to where it wasn't all scarred up. Why? Because I got some dirty stuff from some whoever. Because I tried to take it the easy route or the cheaper route. Were your liver enzymes raised as well? So, again, I was blessed to, when I finally got with Frontline, I've always been the guy to take vitamins. Yeah. So, even though I'm doing all the bad, one thing I tell people, and I call it the bad, right? I call it testosterone the bad. No. It's not bad. It's not bad, yeah. But as opposed to my vitamins. Yeah. So, I say, if you're going to do the bad, you want the stuff that's going to give you all these great results and help you heal. So, some of that comes with side effects, right? So, I would take prostate support. Okay. Okay. So, I would take prostate support. Okay. Okay. Liver support. So, I would take liver support. vodka, strongest liver support. You know, protein. Eat somewhat decent. Yeah. You know what I mean? Because we're not just doing this stuff just for no reason. Yeah. You want to still look good. You want to take advantage of it. Yeah. You know? And, man, I was so blessed. The only thing that was bad was my estradiol. Okay. So, estrogen was just almost through the roof, you know. But with my test, it was kind of, eh, it was right there with it. So, I didn't feel like I was going to have a heart attack, but it was still at risk. Okay. Because there are some in the TRT community, and we're not commenting either way, that say, you know, the more estrogen, the better, as long as it's in the right ratio with your testosterone and estradiol. And that's definitely what they told me. Oh, you don't feel bad? Probably because your test is so high, Stacks. Yeah. Yeah, of course. But, you know, it was okay. Yeah. We'll say it was good. But it sounds like the back knee or the back acne wasn't great. Yeah. That was not from, that was actually from trying to go around the clinic. Yeah, of course. And trying to do stuff by myself. And I was blessed, like I said, to finally get blood work and only have that wrong. Because my liver enzymes could have been off. I could have been risked for prostate cancer or some kind of crazy, any of this, because why? I was trying to go around doing it the right way. Blood work is one of the most important things you could do, especially as you get older. Did you find it irritating to have to do the blood tests on a regular basis? No. Man, I go and donate blood every two months. And then I go and do labs every three days. Okay. You know what I mean? Now, I mean, what do you want to be, halfway into something? You know, if you're going to do this for a lifestyle, if you want to grow old doing this, you've got to put a little love into your body. You need an oil change in your car, don't you? You go every 3,000 miles, you've got to change that oil. So every two months, you've got to change that oil. There are some studies that say there may be some benefits for giving blood. Others will say, you know, unless you've got really high hematocrit. Which is high iron, yeah. And I mean, mine is, yeah, and I'm not telling people who don't need to give blood to go down. But for you, you needed to keep it. Yeah, I mean, man, you know, I had pretty high iron. So they're like, you need to keep coming every two months, you know. And sometimes that can be genetic. You can have, what is it called, hemochromatosis. Which, yeah, it's not an iron deficiency, but over too much iron. Yeah, too much iron. Yeah, exactly. And you want to have that reduce. And honestly, it's been like that for as long as I can remember, man. I've been donating, donating, donating. All right. And I've been blessed to never go past, you know, the actual limit. But there are a few times where I'll go three, four months, you know. Okay. Yeah, I donate blood or give blood therapeutically. Oh, positive too. Okay. So I actually can help everybody. Sure. So everybody can use. So I like to do that too, you know what I mean? So when I'm giving blood, I'm also like thinking about how many people I'm about to help out. Because we are on a shortage of blood. Of course, yeah. And people do need more blood. And if I can just donate every two months to help out and save people's lives. Yeah, it's a win-win, yeah. It's not like I've got to go find an Oh, positive guy and I can only help him. Yeah. You know what I mean? I can help anyone. And hopefully it's helping all these beautiful kids out here. Yeah, absolutely. My man. So you said you help people. Then you get the word out about how to live a better life. What's kind of your mission then? Yeah, you know, I attract a different diverse of people. You know, people who see you would see me in a different way. The people who see me see you in a different way. It's two different dynamics of people. I feel like I reach out to a lot of the people that don't know anything really about this type of thing. I mean, honestly, you have no knowledge in it. Yeah. Right? They have no knowledge in TRT. They have, you know, and a lot of people are scared. And now I've built a network where all these people can trust me. Why? I'm Joey Stacks. Yeah. I'm a Christian man. I'm honest. I tell the truth. I work hard. This is who I am. And I ain't got to lie to nobody. Yeah. You know what I mean? And so people trust me. So now that, you know, these people have met this guy slash just follow me or a fan. Right. Man, Joey's doing it. Let me do it. And am I going to steer my people wrong? No. No, of course not. So then guess what I'm doing? I'm changing lives. Yeah. Because they listen to me. And they wouldn't listen to Joe Schmo. No, they listen to Joey Stacks. So Joey Stacks told them to go do this. Go do your labs. Go do that. And now, honestly, I was in the hallway. Some dude's like, man, I'm on Frontline. He saw me post it up in front of the thing. He goes, I'm based out of Austin, man. And I'm like, yeah, man. You got your blood work. And you started growing, man. He's like, man, I wouldn't do it any other way. Now his coach was there, actually. And his coach was like, you know, basically like, yeah, yeah, man. He got big ever since he started, you know, doing it the right way. Doing it the right way, man. And again, that's what I call it now, man. Don't go to your friends. Don't go to a buddy. Don't try to cheat yourself because that's all you're doing. You know what I mean? You're helping your buddy out with 20 bucks and you're over here ruining the rest of your life. You know what I mean? I say spend the money. If you don't need it, you don't need it. But at least go get your labs. Go see what you look like. You always build your body from the inside out, not the outside in. So if your body on the inside is like, please help my liver. Please, I can't filter no more. Don't, you know, my kidneys. You know, my back hurts. It's from the workout. You're like, no. It's from all those orals you've been taking, buddy. Yeah, exactly. Your kidneys are about to fail. But it's just, you know, you've got to, you know, take the professional advice, man. These people do this for a living. And if they can guide you in what to do very little of to make you progress extremely, I say, why not? You know, quit being stubborn. Exactly. And that's what we do at Balance for Hormones. We help men and women get their hormones balanced. And it sounds like very much in line with the front line that you work with. Yeah, no, most definitely. I mean, I think there needs to be more people out there knowing about, you know, TRT and what it can do for you as you get older. And, you know, people out here, oh, man, we can't have a baby. I tell people, I didn't have kids until I did steroids. So don't tell me you can't have kids because you did. I literally started taking ACG and taking tests. I got three baby mamas. You know what I mean? I was out there, man. I was out there. And I tell people, like, you just got to consult with the professional. You know, and that's why we have them. Don't go. You go to the dentist through your teeth, don't you? Yeah. You know what I mean? So. No, that's a very good point. And like we said, in the UK, and I guess a family practice doctor here, very difficult to work with. But if you go to a TRT clinic, like Balance for Hormones. What's wrong with just checking your blood? Yeah. I tell people you spent $100 plus on way worse. Yeah. How much you spent at the club last night? You know? Absolutely. $100 on a bottle? What, $3,000? I think it's changing the paradigm. Because people, I think in America, it's all about my insurance is supposed to cover it. And not everyone wants to spend out of pocket. So in UK, does it cover? So UK is the National Health Service. And everyone gets health care free at the point of care. But it's not really free. But it's not really free because you pay for it through the taxes. But normally you go to the GP and the answer is no. Or as they say, computer says no. You know, unless you're really, really low and, you know, halfway in the grave. Then maybe they'll treat you. Even a TRT clinic? Or are you talking about family? No. The NHS or what you call the family practice doctor. Those, you start with your GP and it's government paid. So you don't pay a co-pay. You just go in and you see them and you walk out and there's no bill, nothing. Really? But usually they'll say. Obviously the hospitals bill the government. Right? And the government pays the hospitals. It's kind of a different fund. So the government actually runs the health care. So they manage it and they run it. So it would be like the VA for everyone. Right? The Veterans Administration here is run by the U.S. government. And they actually do the health care. They're the ones that are managing the doctors, you know, hiring the doctors. That's what the NHS is. Yeah, they pay everybody. Yeah. So in the UK, that's what you've got. Sounds like a lot less people to have to go through, though. Or you can go private. Yeah. So there are private clinics and then there's private TRT clinics like Balance My Hormones. And we were the first ones in the UK to provide this one-stop shop for TRT in the UK. We say we bring an American-style TRT but with British and European sensibilities. All my UK people are about to come get you off. I'll tell you all that right now. So, no, it's... Definitely, man. Honestly, I think, like I said, more people should know about this stuff, man. Because everybody's trying to duck and dodge and trying to, you know, just not get in trouble, right? When realistically, all you've got to just do is walk in the door. You know what I mean? Yeah. Because you're spending the money already. You're just not doing it right. And you're potentially hurting yourself. Of course, yeah. That's the main thing. Like, I know guys that have refused to listen to me, right? Because they're going to show me. And they're spending. God only knows. And with the company I'm with, it's reasonable. You know what I mean? I tell people, like, man, you've got to put back into your body, man. You know, as you get older, you've got to put back into your body. Oh, tell us about your YouTube channel before we go. Oh, yeah. YouTube is Joey Stacks. It's J-O-E-Y-S-T-A-X. And, yeah, I mean, it's all about lifestyle, man. It's about waking up every day, going to work, no excuses, going to the gym. You're doing the right things. And I really appreciate your time and your inspirational story. So I think for everyone that's watching, leave some comments. Let us know what your thoughts are. And definitely subscribe. Definitely, man. It was a pleasure. And you. Good to see you. Bye, man. Thanks. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.