 nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec nec ne So we're here today with Dr. Rudy Eberwine. He's a doctor in the United States, in Miami, who specializes in TRT and HRT. And this is a particular interest to Dr. Eberwine regarding 20-year-olds and their need to be on TRT. And we're going to discuss it, why maybe a 20-year-old would need to be on TRT. So welcome, Dr. Eberwine. Thank you so much. And what a pleasure being here with you. Remember, we met at AMMG, that conference a few years ago. What do you think the causes are of this low T in young people? Is it the same as adults? This is what to me is amazing, and new studies are coming out of this. I'm actually writing a book that I hope is going to be ready middle of next year. And my book is going to be called Low T Generation, No Longer an Old Man Disease. So we need to dissociate that notion, that old school thinking that we had, that low testosterone only happens in older men. So we have the statistic to show that, yes, it is happening in younger men. Why is this happening? What's happening in our world? Because we know that low T is mostly as we age, you use 1% a year after the age of 30. But on those guys who are 20 and 30 years old, that's not aging. So we have to start at other causes. So other causes, you can think about a diet, maybe not good. A lot of processed foods. Obesity epidemic. There's a lot of things with it. The opioid crisis. So a lot of those younger guys who maybe had an opioid issue, opioid directly decreases your testosterone. Daily marijuana use. So there's a study that links not occasional marijuana, but daily marijuana use. There's one study that links it to a lower testosterone level. Other things like a lack of exercise. So there's a lot of things that are causing this. But where the studies become more interesting is when they link the environmental toxins to the testicular model. So there's an amazing book. First, it's called Countdown. And it's by a PhD called Shana Swan. And I'm in contact with her, with Dr. Ramasamy, because we may want to do more studies to look into this. So Dr. Swan, Shana Swan, in her book, what she was able to do, she was able to link. So she has 30 years of research. So she was able to link a lot of different endocrine disruptors, endocrine disrupting chemicals, EDCs, to the production of testosterone, especially when the fetus was exposed to those toxins. So there is an amazing Danish author who coined the term in 2001. It's called testicular dysgenesis model. So it's a big word. But basically what that shows is, and they proved that both in rats and in humans. So they showed that if you expose the fetus, whether of a rat, of a human, of certain chemicals, and they did it specifically with phthalates, so DBP, dibutyl phthalates. They did it also with some pesticides like atrazine and glyphosate. Glyphosate. Glyphosate. So they showed that if you expose those fetus to those EDCs at a certain age, when the fetus needs a spike of testosterone at a certain time of development to turn into male characteristics and develop secondary male characteristics. So the testicular dysgenesis model points, hypothesizes, that if you don't have that spike of testosterone at that specific time, then comes a whole host of diseases down the road, including undescended testes, hypospadia, which is where the pee hole is not where it's supposed to be, increased risk of testicular cancer, decreased sperm count, and even decreased testosterone. So what we're finding ourselves now is a man can be in his 20s, never knew that he was exposed when he was in the womb. And no fault of his own. And no fault of his own. And then he sees that, you know, my testosterone level is low. I'm having fertility issue. What is going on? And, you know, in our world, most guys that come to us have done the research. They already tried to clean their diet. They're already exercising. They tried all the supplements, all the T-boosters out there, and they're like, doc, I don't know what's going on. I still don't feel good. So the testicular dysgenesis model is a really good pointer. It's been already proven that it causes the fertility issues. And now there's more signs that it also affects testational levels. Because just think about it, if it affects fertility, fertility is done by the certainly cells, it's the same HPA axis, it most likely also affects the testosterone. Which is the same argument for when someone has a varicocele, you've got some damage to the testes. And normally, actually, a neurologist would write it off, oh, it's not that much. But every little bit counts when you're already at a low base. And actually, varicocele has been associated with that testicular dysgenesis model. So they were able to show, again, both in rats and in humans, that if you're exposed to those, you have a high risk of varicocele, undescended testes, hypospadias, testicular cancer, low sperm count. And now it's showing more also with low testosterone. What about gender dysphoria? So again, in that book, Countdown, she speaks very nicely about it. So they've done studies where they've exposed kids or they looked at the urinary concentration of phthalates of pregnant women. And they saw that the women that had the higher concentration of phthalates, the boys of those women tended to not, there was a higher percentage of boys who did not engage in the typical sex assigned plays. Like playing with toys, with toy guns, with cars. So there was, this showed a statistically significant difference in those women, those pregnant women that had a higher level of phthalates. So to me, this is huge. We have something that's affecting our masculinity, affecting our sexuality, our reproduction. And we don't talk enough about this. And the way I see it, the numbers of toxins that are being released in our world are ridiculous. It's about 80 million tons of pesticides that are released in the U.S. every year. Phthalates have been banned mostly in the EU, not in the U.S. It's about 300 tons of plastics a year that are being used in the world. Where's all this plastic going? It's leaching into the world. It goes into microplastic. But it eventually comes and affects men. I think we're even seeing it on land in fruit and veg that's grown. Completely. Completely. So it's hard to get away from that. It's not closed. It's everywhere. It's everywhere. So we're right now in the midst of a scary experiment. It's everywhere. So we're right now in the midst of a scary experiment where companies are just dumping chemicals that have never been proven to be safe. And we're just saying, okay, let's see what happens. Now, for sure, we're seeing an increase in estrogenic-related diseases. All of those hormonally sensitive cancers, breast cancer, prostate cancer, sperm count, we know it's proven, it's decreasing. Menage for young girls, it affects girls also. So you see if they're exposed to those chemicals, they will have their puberty at a younger age. You'll see eight-year-old girls with puberty and they have boobs now. That's not true. That's not true. Endometriosis, fibroids, infertility in women. And all this has also been tied to the toxic world, those EDCs that were around. So what's the solution? And I know it's fighting chemicals with natural bioidentical chemicals like testosterone and other hormones, possibly like thyroid as well. Yeah. So the solution first to me is awareness and education. So what you're doing, what I'm doing, what everybody in this world, in this space is doing to bring awareness into biohacking, the right nutrition, the right exercise, the right supplements, and when needed, identifying the hormonal imbalance and replacing it. That's the first thing we need. We need to have more education. Second, we need to stop blaming the victim. If a patient comes to a GP or to a practitioner, before you tell them it's just in your head, let's do some more research. Let's do some more blood tests. Let's talk to the patient more and find out. And if it's not working, try different things. I'm not saying testosterone is good for everybody. Of course. But if that's what's going to need a guy to get him out of his depression, get him out of his slump that he's not feeling great, what's going to happen to this 25, 30-year-old guy who is in low T and doesn't perform well in many aspects of his life? Or is he going to be at 45, 50 years old? Do you get some pushback from some patients who can't believe they got the diagnosis now and maybe don't want to start treatment because they're worried about the lifelong commitment? Definitely. And that's the biggest part. So most of the times, by the time the patients come to us, they've done a lot of research. They've seen their GP or they've even sent them to an endocrinologist or a urologist. Most of them would have gotten notes in your head. Then they do their own issues. By the time they come to me, and I'm like, yeah, it could be. You don't need to have, again, that number kills me. So the numbers now are 300 to 1,200. In lab courts, even 264 to 970. So you mean, let's take 300. So if you have 315, you have all the symptoms, you don't need testosterone. But if you have 295, you need testosterone. So it is really that bar? No. Endocrinology was never black and white, what's your number? It is a clinical diagnosis that is aided, that is augmented by the lab test. But it cannot be just on lab tests. It's the same thing. I'm sorry, for thyroid. It's not just the TSH. You need to look at the TSH, the symptoms, the T3 levels, and then you make a clinical decision. But it's frustrating for the patient and also the clinician that's aware of this because there are certain societies that have some sort of authority over how you should and shouldn't treat. And this is something that is frustrating for clinics, probably more so in the UK than the USA. But I'm sure you still have a bit of... So we have it here, but not as much. There is something that we do here called off-label. So any medication that is FDA approved for a specific condition, as a clinician, I'll have the liberty to use my clinical decision, my clinical acumen, to say that this patient, although it doesn't meet the criteria that the FDA approved, I'm going to use it in an off-label basis, meaning that it's already been proven to be safe by the FDA. So even if it doesn't meet the diagnostic criteria, as a physician, I have the liberty to say it's an off-label. I talk to the patient about this. It's an informed consent. And I let them know that I'm treating you with this on an off-label way, and the patient is okay with this. So it's all about informed consent and talking to the patient. And it's a partnership in trying to get that patient better. Do you have any pushback from the GP, from the primary care doctor? Yes. I used to be very shy about it before, and I hated getting those calls. And I'm like, oh my God, how am I... But now I understand the literature so much more. I can go toe-to-toe with any urologist out there, with any endocrinologist. And I'm like, let's discuss the studies. Once we discuss the studies, they're like, most physicians will tell me, oh, I wasn't aware. I'm still thinking what we studied back in the 90s or early 2000s, that testosterone causes prostate cancer. And I'm like, no, let's look at the studies. Let's be very scientific about it. I have a lot of clinical experience. We've seen more than 1,500 patients. But those are anecdotal. So I will tell my colleagues, first, this is the studies. Second, this is what I'm seeing with my patients. Third, look at all these other clinics treating low-T. And they're reporting a lot of that same thing. It's opening up your mind and overcoming for a physician that old-school thinking, that bias, that what I learned before, I'm going to stick with it the rest of my life. We need to evolve as new studies come up. Yeah, that's what continuing education is for. Yes, it is. And to adapt with the latest evidence. And something that's really important for the younger man who comes in with testosterone. So let's say he comes in, I do my evaluation, I do my blood test, and we're like, you know what? I really think your symptoms are most likely from, I call it a functional hypogonadism, when it's not the levels, not below that certain level, but you have all the signs and symptoms, and you're on the lower level. Let's say, okay, we establish the diagnosis. What do we do about it? Of course, for me, it's never just testosterone. We make sure that your diet is on point, your exercise is on point. I'm a big guy on mindset. How do we help you with this? But we can do all this. If you have low T, most of the times, those may not change. Sometimes diet, exercise, losing weight will help with a significant change in testosterone. And I've seen guys without taking any testosterone, and we've really coached them on the right diet and exercise, and their testosterone level went up, and they were fine. Good for them. For those patients who can get through this, I'm happy for them. But there's a good amount of patients. They may try all of this, and their levels still not go up. So now we come to the level, what do we do? Because the biggest problem in patients of that age is the fertility problem that you have with testosterone replacement. So that is a really important thing. So once you put a patient on testosterone, you may affect their fertility. So this is the conversation I have with the patient. Do you have kids already? Are you thinking about kids? Where are you in this? We have a lot of patients that their symptoms are so bad, they're like, I've already frozen my sperm. I've done the research. I'm ready. I can't stay like this. I understand the fertility issue. I want to go with it. Other guys will tell me, I don't want kids for at least three to five years. I want to feel better. So on those patients, I will go on testosterone with them. And most likely, I will use some kind of testicular stimulation to maintain their testicular function. Either HCG or clomiphene. Unfortunately, in the U.S., HCG is going away. They're not going to be able to compound that anymore. So we're going to be left. Still have options with clomid, FSH, gonadalurilin. So we have different things that we can do for this. Is it not Pregnal or any of the brand name, HCGs? Yeah. Yeah. So Pregnal, the brand name is going to remain. They're going to use it mostly for fertility for women in the IVF world. And it's very expensive. But they're not going to let compounding pharmacies compound it anymore. And that's what makes more cost effective for those two critics. That's what makes it cost. So really, it's going to disappear in our testosterone replacement world. But there's options. So even if we can't use HCG, clomid is a good thing. Can we do clomid monotherapy? I've had some young patients who've had success with it, but it's not great. I've had some success with it. We have as well. Yeah. The younger the patient, the better. The better. The lower the SHBG, it works better. The higher the estrogen sometimes depends. And so for some patients, I'll do a good combination of diet, exercise, clomid, and the right supplements. And some patients, they get along with this. If that's not enough, then we talk about testosterone. So testosterone, the longer acting testosterone, we know decreases fertility. You can become azoospermic, meaning no sperm after six months usually. So it is. And it may take up to three to four months of testosterone, even on treatment with those post-cycle therapies, to regain your fertility. And there's even reports that sometimes fertility doesn't come back until after a few years. Or comes back to level once before. That it was before. So it is a little scary when you're a younger man and you want to think about testosterone. But that said, there's an amazing, again, Dr. Ramasamy from UM, there's a new form of testosterone that's FDA approved. And it's a brand name called Natesto. The one that nasal. The nasal gel. And the studies were done again at University of Miami, where they showed that the nasal gel, because it's so short-acting, it does not affect your HPA axis. Okay. So when they did follow-up labs, their FSH and LH remain normal. The sperm count and sperm studies remain normal. So short-acting testosterone, including Natesto, for younger men, may be the best option. And they get symptom relief as well. Oh, yeah. And the levels are adequate. Yeah. So the levels can go up to this and symptoms relief. And you're preserving their fertility. So there's options. I mean, in the UK, HCG is available. The way it works in the UK is anywhere from Europe, HCG can be brought into the UK. And so that's how it works. And we have the Genasi brand. I think it's also Brevacted. Okay. And I think some places there's Pregnal. And what that allows us, patients can use it concurrently with their TRT. I think that was the way it was here for a long time. Yes, for a long time. Until the marketplace changed. Yeah. So I'm a perfect example of over 20, 25 years on TRT. And for most of it, I would say up until the last four or five years ago, I had just used exogenous testosterone. And as an experiment, I'd also be prescribed the HCG to see if it would improve the fertility. After about six months on HCG with the TRT, I was able to regain, well, I think it's a healthy sperm level, 156 million sperm and a 72% motility rate. Amazing. So that's pistachio plus HCG. Yeah. And that was after years, nearly 20 years with just testosterone. Yeah. So thank you for sharing that. That's great. And younger men need to hear that. And I've got a varicocele as well. So I've got another thing going against the health of the testes. Yeah. But that's great. HCG really helped with this. So men need to know that it doesn't be, okay, am I going to feel bad for the next five years, be depressed and can't do anything? Or am I going to sacrifice my fertility? You can get better and still preserve your fertility. There's ways to do this. But that's when the conversation needs to happen between the physician and the patient. Look at the different options. You want to speak to a physician that has a lot of experience with this, that can really give you the different options. And then you choose what's best for you as a patient. So from the clinic perspective and your own practice, what's the lowest age? Is it 20 that you feel comfortable treating? So it's funny. So because, again, I'm not a urologist. So at first I had made an artificial stop. If you were less than 30 years old, I wasn't going to say. And we had so many calls from 20-year-old patients. We're like, I can do this. So now I pushed down my artificial line at 25. If they're less than 25, I send them to my buddy, the urologist from University of Miami, Dr. Ramas. That's his specialty. So I don't treat less than 25. Why? Because I don't want to attract attention that they're like, oh, you're giving the patient those steroids. So they'll come to me. But usually if they're 25 or less, I will work in concert with a university type urologist. And usually when I send them to the university urologist, the testo would be what they would go with because it really helps preserve their testo. That's a nice option. We don't have that in the UK. I know. Maybe someday. Is there anything else you want to talk about on the 20-year-olds? Any thoughts? Well, so for me on the 20-year-old, and again, that's why I'm writing my book. And I'm also, I have an Instagram, Dr. Rudy Loti Doc, where I'm just starting. And I want to bring awareness. To me, it's about awareness. And I know that the new generation now is much more health conscious because information is much more available. We need to know how to protect ourselves. And when we say EDCs, it's even hard for a young person to think about it. So let me go over the life of a typical young 25-year-old man and where he's getting exposure. So he wakes up in the morning. He goes and has his coffee. He gets it maybe in those little coffee pods. Have you seen them, those little coffee pods? There's a study recently that shows... Like an espresso coffee pod. Espresso. It's all plastic. Oh. So you heat it up. There's a study that shows that because you heat it up in a plastic pod, there's a high concentration of phthalates in that coffee. Especially the age. So it makes it easy. I was so sad when I heard about this. I love my little coffee. So I still do it once in a while. But every time I do it now, I'm like, oh, I'm drinking phthalates in here. So now I went back into my little regular coffee maker. Okay. No plastic into it. So he wakes up. He drinks his coffee out of this. And he puts it in a plastic cup. EDCs leaching out. Then he goes and drinks milk with cereal. Let's say cereal. Full of processed foods. Full of sugar. Milk. Cow estrogen. And plastic lines. Full of estrogenics. In a plastic jug. All leaching. Then he goes and takes a shower. Shampoo. Soap. All of those. Full of EDCs. Then he puts some SPF 30. Because, you know, we're in Florida. I don't want to get skin cancer. SPF. Full of oxybenzones. Full of EDCs that get you. Then he goes into his car. And he has one of those air fresheners. Yeah. We breathe phthalates from the air freshener. The new car smell. So look at all the exposure that this one young man is getting. Then he goes into the bathroom. There's a shower curtain in there. Full of phthalates. All this smell. So the way we get exposed to those toxins is we eat them. We breathe them. And we put them on our skin. And they are everywhere. So my goal is I need, I really want to start getting the awareness for people to start making better decisions. There are better products out there. So instead of using the sunscreen that have those type of EDCs, oxybenzone and all of those, use the one that only has zinc oxide. Start making better decisions. Instead of buying the coffee and putting it in a plastic cup, now you're using only stainless steel cup. So there is a lot of things that you can do to protect your exposure. And when you come to exposure, it is really, even if you decrease it 20%, 30%, we're never going to be able to completely eliminate it. It's too much around us. But even a small amount will make a difference. And more than on an individual basis, if we all start making better choices and request better products from those companies, we vote with our wallet. You know what? The companies are going to start making better products. I hope so. We've seen a change, lots of stainless steel bottles out, water bottles. But it's still a lot to be done. It's a lot to be done. But again, it has to be a grassroots movement of awareness. And then you start demanding better products. Again, but until you know, you won't make a change. I'm looking forward to reading your book. Thank you. Thank you. So we'll put the information on the screen. Thank you. So I think that's it for today. As far as, you know, can or should 20-year-olds be put on TRT. And I think we hit the key points, the reasons why, the particular symptoms that may cause. Also, what to do about it and even the causes. And maybe how to avoid phthalates and endocrine disrupting chemicals. So thanks again for being with us, Dr. Eberwine. And thanks for watching. And please press like and subscribe. And we'll see you next time. Thanks again. Bye. Thank you. Thank you.