 N-insinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsinsins So what are the differences between TRT going through the NHS, that's the National Health System in the UK, or going to a private clinic? Let's first talk about the National Health Service, the NHS, which is considered a national treasure in the UK. And it is a robust and broadly helpful service that's free at the point of care, though your taxes are paying for it, for many things healthcare-wise. However, lately, through multiple governments and a lack of funding, the NHS has not served everyone's interests in the best way possible. And so there's been a lot of frustration in the UK about getting access to care in general. Now, even when care was funded properly in the UK, on the NHS level, and we also see this in some European countries on their national health services, the level of care, the way patients are put through the system, in particular for testosterone replacement therapy, I find a little bit backwards and a bit barbaric and a bit cruel. And part of the reason is that the pathway a patient will take when they go to seek hormone treatment. Many times a patient will go see their GP. In the UK, all the health cares usually run through your general practitioner. It's your primary care doctor. You happen to see your doctor for one item. You usually only get to talk about one thing on the list anyway when you see the GP, but you might be a bit cheeky and squeeze in a question and say, hey, doc, by the way, I think I might have a bit of low testosterone. What should I do? Many times, especially in the recent past, they would be fobbed off. They would be ignored. They'd be laughed. Oh, you're young. You're fine. You don't have a problem. No need to worry about that. And then the patient may have to keep pressing and asking, well, maybe you can offer a blood test. No, no, no. You don't need a blood test. You look like you've got perfectly fine testosterone. And if you're one of the lucky ones who maybe won the postcode lottery, meaning you live in an area in which your GP and you have more of a personable relationship and you're not seeing 10 different GPs at different times within your GP surgery, then perhaps based on that relationship, that GP might say, you know what? Actually, I read something interesting about testosterone. Yeah, we'll do a blood test on you. Okay, so that's the first step. And if they do pull your testosterone levels, will they pull the right ones? Most of the time, it might be in conjunction with your full blood count or your CBC, as they call it in the US, or your biochemistry panel. And they might just throw in testosterone total. And many times that total testosterone level will not be enough to diagnose you for low T or go being sent off for a referral. What do they look at? Well, the ranges are so skewed nowadays through the different laboratories because so many men have low levels of testosterone to begin with. It's shifted the entire spectrum of the range to a much lower level than they would have been 10, even 20 or 30 years ago. So the problem is you may be suffering from all the symptoms of low testosterone. You get a blood test. And because you've fallen outside of the range in which is treatable, meaning you're too high, but you're just right on the cusp, it's that computer says no mentality and the GP will not do any more referrals. Because in the UK, the way the GP system works, it's created to incentivize the GP to hold on to the money that they've been given per capita. So meaning they usually get money for each patient to manage. And they don't want to give that up to be referring you out to other services. Now, the biggest problem that we seem to have is for some particular reason, the service that the GP, if they were to refer you to, is usually endocrinology. And that would seem on the surface of it, a logical conclusion. Endocrinology, the endocrine system, your hormones. You can have those managed by this type of practitioner. But in practice, and I said it numerous times before, we have found there's disgruntled patients that have come from endocrinology at the NHS, which has led me to the conclusion that actually, I think we need to strike that name endocrinology from the profession, at least in the UK, but I have seen this in other countries, and change it to mediocre diabetes specialists. Because they are serving the patients in this particular area. And what's even more curious is why are they not being sent to urology? You know, other advanced economies in countries like the United States, you've got choices. You can see a urologist who can also treat you for low testosterone. It's not always endocrinology. I think endocrinology have left people behind. And even on the thyroid side, it's very poor levels of quality. I don't know if you know this, but this is the world over, not just in the UK. But most of endocrinology have decided, have decided that if you've got low thyroid, the only measure they really want to look at is your thyroid stimulating hormone, TSH. That's a signal from your brain to your thyroid to make more thyroid hormone. And then they might reflex the test if it reaches a certain level. So the higher the TSH, they'll say, okay, lab, if it's maybe more than four or six, then run the free T4. Okay, if you're lucky, that's what they'll do. Most of the time, they'll just do a TSH screen. But the real active hormone that does all the good stuff for your thyroid is free T3. They won't run it. They won't run it for diagnosis, and they don't run it for treatment to manage your levels. So that would be like if you're on testosterone treatment, never measuring your testosterone level or free testosterone level, only looking at your luteinizing hormone, the signal from the brain to your testes, and saying, oh, if it's too high, then you might be deficient. That's what you get with modern day endocrinology the world over, and in particular in the UK. So this is why the referral to endocrinology, what I like to now call mediocre diabetes specialists, is not in your best interest in many, many cases. Now, there are always exceptions to the rules. I'm sure there's some lovely endocrinologists out there. I just haven't met many yet, okay? So if I do, I would love it, but I don't think they're going to change. It's an institutional concept. And the problem is the NHS system refers you there, not to urology. And then sometimes you get referred back to your GP to kind of continue to manage it. But even when you do get treatment on the NHS, if you get treatment based on artificially lowered thresholds, meaning you have to be the sickest of the sick, get your ration care in this way, the result of the types of treatments tend to be a one-size-fits-all, maybe two, usually the choice being either a gel, which you'd have to apply once a day, all over the body. Some people, it's probably fine. Many men aren't, and maybe we're a little bit biased because we see the disgruntled men that come to us from the NHS with that type of treatment. Or the other treatment is for you to go into the clinic every, I think it's about three months or so, to have an injection, a large bolus injection of about four milliliters worth of testosterone undecanoate, otherwise known as an Ibido, which is completely controlled by them. Some men, that's fine. That suits them just fine because they don't want to have to actually mess about with an injection or applying gels. But many other men, the ones that we see that come to our private clinic, decide that's not for them. They want to be able to titrate with their doctor the right dose, so they're not getting a big bolus dose, and then watching it run off and having deficient levels and all their symptoms return for a third of the treatment. And then that's the issue, really, is with the big bolus injections. While some people, it might be absolutely fine for, for a large majority, and the ones that come to us, they're not happy with that level of care. So again, whilst your taxpayer money is covering the cost of the NHS, you're still paying for it, and you're paying for it in the time and the wait time and the frustration of dealing with the NHS. So again, completely your choice. That is the nature of the NHS in TRT care today and even thyroid care. Okay, so I want to use that example of thyroid and link it back to say, how can you manage patients if you're not doing the full spectrum of tests? The same thing with testosterone. They don't look at your free testosterone. They don't look at your calculated free testosterone. They will look at your LH and your FSH. They'll look at your total testosterone, but it's rare that we see them look at your free testosterone. So again, you may be not diagnosed when you actually are suffering from low testosterone, and that's all a problem that I have with the NHS care. And as I've said in other videos, we had patients come to us. I mean, an example of this is a particular doctor actually did want to measure the free testosterone on the NHS, had forgotten to measure it. We wanted the patient to come off the testosterone treatment for three to six months to reassess what the baseline levels were. So essentially, imagine taking you off your treatment. You're doing fantastic, or at least you're better than where you started, and now you're being taken off your treatment. That's not fair, and that's what they asked this patient to do. The patient wasn't having it. They weren't happy with that outcome. They came over to BMH, and we've been able to sort them with an optimal treatment. So that's the NHS. When you go to private care, you're in charge. When you go to private care, you're listened to. And when you go to private care, like at BMH, we can help discern and look more carefully of where your level, not just one level, but where your symptoms are, where your blood tests are, where your blood levels are. You know, if we can get some information on where you had started from, where your baseline was, all that plays a part in your care for TRT. And we've got many different options in which will satisfy your personal needs. If you're concerned about fertility, maintaining fertility on treatment, you know, HCG, HMG, gonadotropins can be added to your treatment, along with your testosterone, if it's deemed appropriate for you. So it's not a one-size-fits-all. You've got many different choices in the mix that you wouldn't get on the NHS. You can pick your own appointments on the NHS. You have to wait until you're given an appointment, and you really don't have much of a choice, because you're waiting now six months for that appointment to the specialist. Balance my hormones, we've got many, many different appointments available for you to pick that's convenient for you. So I think there are differences between the NHS in private, and in particular, privately going through BMA. And we were the first in the UK to offer what I like to refer to as specialist American-style TRT, but with British and European sensibilities. We do the best that we can in the country that we operate in, but we want to give you that extra special service, that concierge service at Balance My Hormones, something that you don't get on the NHS. And we try to make everything with a thoughtful, sustainable package. We understand you're paying out of pocket for this. Obviously, we're not paid through taxation like the NHS is. We need to be able to cover our costs, and we need to be there for you in the long run. So obviously, there are subscription models and packages and certain costs. I like to say your TRT usually costs you like a Starbucks coffee or latte, and maybe a pan of chocolate or some sort of pastry with it, though you shouldn't eat that all the time, because it's not going to be great for your waistline, and probably won't be great for your testosterone. But I'm just trying to use that as an example that if you were to break it down daily, it can be very affordable. It's just how you shift your priorities, especially about focusing on your health. So I hope that you understand. It gives you a good picture of what testosterone replacement therapy is like in the UK with the NHS versus privately in the UK. This is something I'm very passionate about, and I've been in this for quite a long time now, and I really, really care about patients and how they are treated within the service. And some of the stories I do get, I know that everyone's doing the best they can at the NHS, and I'm not trying to berate them. I think, generally speaking, it has a place, but so does innovative private healthcare, like we offer at Balance My Hormones. So as I've said, the NHS care can leave you wanting for more and very concerned about your welfare and convenience. If you've experienced difficulties in either accessing NHS healthcare for testosterone or other hormone-related treatments, please let us know in the comments. We'd like to hear from you and explore why that is, and perhaps maybe we can help you at BMH. Thanks again for watching. If you like content like this, don't forget to hit the subscribe button and the notification bell, and we try to have new videos as frequently as possible, and we really appreciate you for watching.