 NARC nél cysteine,ilingual, nécete, NARC- nél cysteine, NARC- nél cysteine, NARC- nél cysteine, NARC- nél cysteine, my hormones where we help men and women on their journey to optimal hormone balance. If you're new to the channel, please consider subscribing, liking, and leaving comments so we can find out what you're interested in. So today I'm here with my friend Jay Campbell. We're going to talk today about kind of step-by-step, what is hormone optimization? So Jay, hey, welcome and thanks for coming on our podcast. Michael, it's good to see you, brother. Absolutely. Now, what other hormones have you tried to balance in the past? For me, it's been thyroid hormone as well as testosterone and a combination of thyroid hormones, T3, T4. I know you're a big fan of nature thyroid, I thought, or desiccated thyroid, yeah. So let me talk about that because it's a great question. So in my course, we have a module about the symphony of hormones. And again, you know this, but for the listeners, this is very critical when you work with a physician. They have to modulate the endocrine system, the thyroid gland, and of course, your pancreas, right? Because even your insulin, your blood sugar, if your blood sugar is out of whack and your diet sucks and you have too much body fat, you have insulin resistance, you have any sort of metabolic disorder or derangement, you're not going to optimize by just targeting the endocrine system through testosterone, estrogen, and maybe progesterone if you're a woman, right? You definitely have to optimize the thyroid and you have to optimize the pancreas. Now, there's a lot of different ways that you can optimize the pancreas. I mean, obviously, I'm a huge proponent and believer in metformin. I also tell people if you can't get metformin, but you should be able to. But if you can't get metformin, you can get dihydroberberin now. There's all sorts of now insulin mimetics coming. There's mitochondrial stimulation supplements. I'm actually involved in building a mitochondrial supplement right now. So there's a lot of ways that you can suppress blood sugar, improve insulin sensitivity, obviously by lowering your body fat and improving your cardiovascular fitness and increasing muscle mass. But yeah, dude, that's critical. You cannot just target hormones without targeting the thyroid and also doing something with your insulin, your pancreas, because they all work in conjunction. It's like a circle, right? So if you're just hitting one part of the circle, then eventually the other ones are going to fall off. And whenever I see docs that don't prescribe desiccated thyroid, really targeting T1 through T4, that's a big point that you're missing because optimizing testosterone without optimizing thyroid will cause at some point potentially dysfunction or dysregulation. And again, not in everybody, but in most people, especially the older you are. Yeah, I noticed as I was getting into my mid-40s, that I was knackered off to exercise and it wasn't rejuvenating me. And so I lucky that we had a doctor that was working with us who understood combination of autoimmune disease like Hashimoto's, as well as starting with levothyroxine and working into T3 as well, or lyothyronine. And there were some cases when natural desiccated thyroid was an option. Now, it's all about, besides balance, but it's also about logistics of care and availability of certain medications. And there have been shortages of the natural desiccated thyroid. There's been inconsistencies with how concentrated they are or the extract. So sometimes you have to go with what's most available because having something that's close to ideal is better than having nothing at all. And so we use a combination of T3 and T4. Sometimes people are fine on just levothyroxine, T4. And it just depends on how the symptoms are being relieved. Sometimes it's a topping up. And other times, if it's like an autoimmune disease, I think it's kind of nearly a full replacement in some cases. But that's the doctor's discretion and it's something that I'm happy to have been on the journey for. Yeah, exactly. I mean, we all are different, man. We're all biochemically unique. There's no cookie cutter templates for any of this stuff. You know, it happens as it happens. It's going to happen for some people. It's not going to happen for other people. But yeah, that's why you have to really be, as I always say, you got to be the proactive scientist of your own health. You know, I stole that statement from Dr. Jim Meehan. And I kind of added to it a little bit. But as I say in my course, there is no one out there pouring through your medical records, you know, looking to help you age more gracefully, you know, live longer and optimize stronger. Right. So it's like it's all about you. You have to take ownership of your personal health. And, you know, a lot of people and I'm sure you get this. This is your biggest, you know, stoppage point for people when they want to work with you is, you know, they say, well, I can't afford it. You know, I'm a middle class employee or worker or whatever. And, you know, I can only pay blank. And, you know, my copayment is this for my, you know, bullshit insurance. And it's like, dude, let's look at this the opposite way. Let's reverse engineer this. You can't not afford to optimize your hormones and optimize your health. Because one cardiovascular incident, you know, type two diabetes and gout and some sort of ocular, you know, incident. That's $100,000. That is a statistical fact. That's not coming out of your insurance. That's coming out of your own pocket. See, people don't realize this kind of shit until they have it happen to them. You know, like my wife said a long time ago, it's probably 10 years ago. She's like, people don't, most people don't give a shit about their health until they don't have their health. Right. So it's like, you have to look at this. And I always say this, like, if you cannot afford, and anyone can, but if you cannot afford $3,000 to $10,000 a year for your personal health, your functional medicine, your wellness supplements, clean eating, obviously exercise and that kind of stuff, then you have your priorities. Ask backwards. Ask backwards. You know, how many guys have you seen, Michael, have come to you who are 50 years old or close to 50, and they've got 10 million in the bank from their business, and they literally have one foot in their grave. The 300 pounds, you know what I'm saying? Like, they don't tell me, but there are quite a few people that are in a very bad way at that age range. And they just want to feel better. But, you know, to that point, many of them also want to just have it set and forget it. Right. It's like those old infomercials about the, I don't know, I don't know, whatever. You set it and you forget it. The TV button. Yeah, that's what it's called. And that's how a lot of people want to be. And then there are other people who want to tinker more with their health care. Oh, let me do a daily dose or let me try this and let me try that. And that's an option too. But I think the majority, if they're kind of, and I don't want to assume all people who are corporate directors or busy lifestyles, they probably don't want to be bogged down with the medication or even think of themselves as a sick patient. Right. Right. Well, I think it's a mixture, exactly as you said. And I know, for example, like for me and like my brand and who I attract, I attract people like you and me. I attract people that are all about like, hey, man, I want to take it to the highest level possible. Right. Like, what can I do? Like, how can I tweak this? How can I do this? But to your point, when you get to a level of success in life, regardless of what your income is, I mean, obviously success is defined differently. But when you get to a place where you feel good about who you are, you have self-appreciation, blah, blah, blah. You know, now it's a matter of like, okay, well, what can I do to go from here to there? Right. And so from going from here to there, there's organization, there's continuity, there's like new plans, you know, there's schedules, there's calendars. So it's like, it's simple to do it, but first you have to get to that place where you're already pretty organized in your own life. And that's, I think, where the biggest hurdle is or the biggest obstacle is getting to that place where you're so organized in your own life that you can now do this. But I'm blessed because like, that's the kind of people that I attract. You know, so like the Jay Campbell tribe is all of the people that are like seriously looking to take their level of health to the highest level possible. And a lot of them don't, you know, they're guinea pigs. You know, they're going to be lab rots themselves. They're like, hey, man, like I know that the system, you know, the sick care medical system, illness medicine or whatever you want to call it, is not designed to help me. So only I can help myself. So I'm going to look to you, Jay, you know, teach me, tell me, guide me, you know, how can I, you know, go to this level through the usage of peptides, through, you know, tweaking my hormone protocol, through tweaking my training, through tweaking my, you know, my meditation or my mindfulness stuff. Like that's, that's all the stuff that I'm about nowadays. I say it is the full balance of your consciousness or your almost spiritualism to a certain degree. You said it, dude. It's consciousness. It's consciousness. That's everything. I mean, I tell people, why do you think I have Yoda behind me now, right? Like, like everything is consciousness. When I came back from Peru, and this is cool that you and I are having this conversation right now, because this is literally, this happened to me after the last time I saw you. So I came back from Peru in July of 2019, dude. And honestly, that the sacred valley there at 12,000 feet, you know, 10 to 12,000 feet. And I was at 19,000 feet in the Andes Mountains. Changed me. It literally changed me. Like, I literally came back. And, you know, I had TOT Revolution, the website, which you knew about, you know, that was getting 15 or 16,000 unique visitors a month. And I literally looked at my wife and I said, I'm done with that shit. I love this. I love what I've done. And I'm not, you know, not grateful for all the people that, you know, follow me for testosterone optimization and health and stuff. But I'm, I'm all about consciousness. So, you know, I instantly that day on that plane, it was a vision, but I became Jay Campbell, you know, the raise your vibration guy, the consciousness guy. Right now, I still talk about testosterone, you know, with people like you and stuff like that. And I still love to talk about that kind of stuff. But for me, it's more about, like, teaching people the importance of raising their consciousness because that's everything nowadays, especially in this crazy world that we live in. And I suppose with the consciousness is also just, I guess, having the right attitude or mental awareness, just getting through life because life can bring you down. So your hormones are one thing, but even with the best optimized hormones, sometimes things in life can really derail or just get you a bit down. So I suppose having, I guess, a broad understanding of that keeps your balance. Well, for, so, so, yes. But to that point, I'll take it deeper. I think that when you're optimized health-wise, I feel that you have the ability to allow for a spiritual focus. And, you know, I like to think in it too, you're more receptive to receive downloads about consciousness and frequency and energy than you would be if you were just a mess, you know, you know, out of shape, you know, destroyed. You know, every day is a struggle to wake up in the morning. You know, you're a slave to eating, you know, what's the next meal? You know, you're emotionally based eater. So I really do think that what you're saying, there is a connection. And, I mean, it happened to me. I mean, you know, I was, you know, getting, chasing that 16-year mantle of, like, how can I master my physical health? And then all of a sudden I get to my physical health mastery and I go to Peru and it's like, fuck that. You know, more. Yeah, I mean, totally. I mean, but I really do think that you cannot become extremely conscious, which, again, you know, for people that don't know what that means, it's just aware. You're, like, hyper aware of what's going on without being also balanced hormonally, you know, which allows you to be balanced, you know, or optimized physiologically. I mean, because let's face it, dude. Like, if you're fat, you know, and again, I'm not picking on fat people. I'm just saying that, period. But if you're fat and you come home from work, you're not going to the gym. Okay, you don't have the energy. You're dead. Physiologically, you're dead. So then, you know, the next question is, is, like, how do you have energy for spirituality to focus on consciousness? So, again, it's a circle. Like, you know, you optimize one, you optimize the next thing, and then all of a sudden before you know it, you're just, like, open to this idea that, like, hey, consciousness is pretty cool. I'm interested in that. Tell me more. Yeah. Does it help buffer you against some of life's challenges, this consciousness? 100%, dude. Like, my consciousness game now, you know, using the word game is, you know, my mindset routine is, you know, every morning I have a very detailed thing of, like, what I do, right? Like, I wake up in the morning, and I go outside in the backyard with my dog, and I sit in silence for 5 to 10 minutes. Sometimes it's 15 to 20 minutes. It just depends on how much time I have. And I just sit there in nature, you know, with my dog and, you know, contemplate. Sometimes I really meditate. You know, I don't really know what meditation really means anymore. But for me, it's just sitting in silence. And I have that as a part of my ritual of every day. Like, even when I'm on the road, I've been traveling a lot in the last three weeks doing a lot of things. Like, I'll still find time to do it. You know, and I'll feel like shit. You know, I'm on the East Coast. You know, it's 3 o'clock in the morning. We're at 6 o'clock. And I'm getting up. But I still do that kind of stuff. So, it absolutely does, man. Like, you know, we're so discombobulated today with technology and distractions. I mean, for me, if I'm at home, it's going to be first thing in the morning. But if I'm traveling, you know, or I have, like, you know, just a diversion schedule, it's just whenever I can do it. You know what I'm saying? What about, some people would say if you make your bed first thing in the morning, now that shows you've got one task of the day done and out of the way. That's the first thing I do. Literally the first thing I do. And my wife usually helps me. I mean, we're both early risers. So, you know, if we both get up at, let's say, 515 or 530 or whatever, you know, she'll go brush her teeth and I'll just, like, stretch. You know, and then she'll come back in and we make the bed together. But, yeah, that's actually a good point. But, I mean, you know, having a ritualistically, you know, focused life, whatever it is. I mean, some people just do prayer, you know, or affirmations. And, you know, they have it in their schedule or their calendar or whatever. The one thing I don't do, Michael, is I don't, and I shouldn't say I don't all the time because we're all normal and we're all fallible. But, you know, sometimes I do come into my office, but it's rare, and jump into my computer and start working. Because then I don't have any time for myself and I just instantly go into dopamine attack. You know, this message, that message, this message, that message, this task, this task, this, you know, internet site. You know, and so it's like I don't want to do that to start my day. I want to be centered. Like you said, I want to accomplish some things. You know, I want to be grateful. You know, I don't have a gratitude journal. My wife has a gratitude journal. You know, but I'll sit there in silence and I'll think about what I'm grateful for. Right? Not speaking it out loud. But I do have affirmations. They're in my calendar and they pop up all throughout the day. And sometimes if I'm not busy and it pops up, I click on it and I read it. And then I close my eyes and I think about something that I'm grateful for or that I, something that I love in my life. And then I just go back to my job. I don't do it every single time, but they're all in my calendar. If anybody looked at my calendar, they would see all those things. They'd be like, what the hell? Right? But I mean, I programmed those. I programmed those starting in 2014. That was like when I really started to make a, you know, a meritable effort in self-improvement. Right? And then as I became more knowledgeable in self-improvement, I became more spiritual. And then, like I said, I went to Peru and everything changed for me. I mean, dude, it's so crazy that we're having this conversation today because yesterday I was actually on Expedia looking for another Peru trip. Because, yeah, I'm involved with this company now that produces shows. It's Forbidden.TV. It's the number four. And it's actually ForbiddenEntertainment.TV. But, like, we do shows now on consciousness and, like, esoteric studies and mankind's ancient stuff. And I'm just, like, a big geek. All of that. Exactly. Like, ancient aliens. But, like, even higher level stuff. And I just came back from Florida, you know, where we filmed eight episodes of, like, the inaugural first season. The show is called The Decoders of Truth. And it was so profound that we were all sitting around like, dude, this has to become a regular thing. Like, when's the next season? When we're filming? And I literally was like, let's go to Peru. And they all looked at us and were like, let's go to Peru. So it's like, we're going to Peru at the end of July to film the second season. So, you know, so it's, like, it's cool because, like, I, you know, in addition to being Jay Campbell, you know, that you know, I'm now the Jay Campbell that's this consciousness, you know, vibration Jay Campbell. Well, it's good to broaden your horizons. And is that, is yoga a part of that as well? Do you do? So my wife does a lot of yoga. I should be doing more yoga because I am, well, I was in a really bad car accident in August of last year and pulled out of my subdivision and literally got run into. And it screwed up my hip and my pelvis on my right side. And I thought I had a hernia. I don't think I do now. I think it's healed enough that it's not a hernia, but it's been really bad. And so anyway, I have, like, really severe issues in my right hip. So I need to start doing yoga, but yoga is amazing. Like, the yoga sciences or the, you know, understanding yoga. And there's yoga that's non-movement-based yoga. But, you know, I'm talking about, like, you know, Vedantic yoga, which is more physical. I like the Bikram yoga, the hot yoga. Yeah, Bikram's amazing. Hot yoga, all of those forms of yoga are great. So Monica and my, so my wife is Monica. We went in November to a yoga retreat in Mexico for her 50th birthday. And, you know, I was like, I don't know about this. But, you know, I went and I went in with open mind and it was absolutely profound. For three days, you know, on this amazing location in La Paz, Mexico, in Baja, Mexico, this, you know, giant castle, you know, where you have this retreat. We did yoga facing the ocean. And, you know, three sessions a day, three days in a row, like 45 minutes to an hour. And it was brutal. I mean, you know, very flexibility yoga. But, dude, honestly, after those three days, my hips felt better than they've ever felt in my whole life. But here I am three months later and I'm back to having hip issues because I don't do it. Yeah. No, I went, my younger brother has a yoga studio called Rewild Yoga. And he's really big into it. So when he came to visit me in London, he took me to this advanced yoga course. And the instructor, I was somewhere from Scotland that was working down in London. And it was a hot yoga as well. I had to leave halfway through because I couldn't keep up. I mean, it was like there were people floating off the floor. It's unbelievable. Yeah, it's unbelievable. I mean, the girl that I worked with, you know, the instructor, I mean, yeah, she's putting her leg behind her head, you know, leg behind. I mean, the flexibility was amazing. And I was very, very apprehensive about because of my injury. It was only two and a half months since my injury or three months since my injury. But they were very cautious with me and I couldn't do certain things. I just stepped out. But, man, I'm telling you, man, to be able to do that at least twice a week is phenomenal for guys that lift weights because it just creates muscle laxicity, you know, increase, increase. I don't do enough of that. So, all right. Well, that was that was really, really interesting. And I like how we brought it back into the kind of the consciousness side of things as well, because at the end of the day, I mean, I think being balanced with your testosterone, being optimized with your testosterone and other hormones helps you reach that level of consciousness. So there's no doubt, Michael. I'm 100 percent convinced that if without without hormonal optimization and balancing that the pursuit of like enhancing consciousness would not happen. And I mean, and you think about you go back to like the Greeks, the ancient Greeks, the ancient Romans. I mean, they all talked about this in everything that they taught, you know, in Plato and Aristotle and Socrates. You know, all of these guys talked about the sound mind builds the sound bug. Like you could not do one without the other. It's just that, you know, over time and commercialism, we've lost this. It's not preached. It's not taught. I mean, even schools today, they're not even teaching physical education anymore. It's a sham. Oh, really? They're not. I remember growing up. Barely in Southern California. Nope. It's all progressivism now. It's crazy, dude. Well, I suppose with COVID and we'll come to say that word, but with. I know. I hate that word. Thanks for being on this video with us, Jay. And again, if anyone has any questions or comments, please leave the comments. And again, feel free to subscribe. Hope you enjoy the video and we'll have another one soon. Bye bye. Bye bye.