 hypothesis. So starting TRT may be a bit taboo for some and you may wonder should I tell anyone let alone my GP. We're here to talk about that topic after this so keep watching. Hi and welcome to another Balance My Hormones video. Today we are talking about should I tell my GP that I'm on TRT? A common question because it tends to be that people have tried to seek help from their GP, their NHS GP and often had a really quite bad experience either very dismissive or shaming or just you know I think sometimes neglectful not even listening to the symptoms that they've got when they mention things like testosterone they just shut down. So you'll get prostate cancer. Yeah exactly. You'll get a heart attack if you do it. Or in my case I took in blood tests and guidelines for treatment and they just refused to look at them. So that was one of my experiences but it's a common question right? Should I tell them? Should I inform them? Now as a patient you do not have to tell your NHS GP that you're on treatment. That's the fact of that. Now the doctor or specialist that you see may need to in some certain circumstances request certain information from the GP. So although you don't have to tell them the doctor may do that but normally consent is gained by that doctor for that process and it's usually just making sure that either it's polite and just staying in the loop. You know that's why a doctor may do that. Rarely there can be other other incidences where it might need to be sort of medical history might need to be requested. As if you imagine if you're a patient with quite a complex medical history and you can't even remember it all you know that might be a case of where you ask a specialist you're seeing to liaise with your NHS GP and try and get all your medical records. And it's always a good idea to inform your GP if you are on certain medications. I don't think it's like the old days where you grew up with this GP, you've known the GP, you now get a different GP every time at your GP surgery and if you move around a lot who knows you won't have that long-term relationship. You might not even know who your GP is but nonetheless I think it's considered good medical care that you do inform your GP if you are on treatment in the event that they prescribe something else that that could possibly conflict with the treatment. So it's not a bad idea. Yes although I said you don't have to that was the you know on paper but really it is a good idea you know to to share it right. But we also understand that if it's it's it's a personal privacy issue and lots of people have already been denied by the NHS and then they think oh I don't want to tell them. So it's it's very understandable both both ways. I mean some people actually instead of having an NHS GP get a private GP and and sign up with them as a GP see them for their general practice and then they feel more comfortable sort of going private to private. I think that's something that not a lot of people are aware of is just because we have the NHS and we pay towards it. There are some people when they're in the position to financially only really use the NHS for emergency care and then every everything else from GP all the way through to all their other needs is is actually managed privately with private doctors private hospitals. So although we're used to the NHS and we feel like we have that obligation to use an NHS GP you can actually have a private GP. So it's just your personal circle. Exactly but it is true though some some GPs or or even consultants in the NHS can be very very hostile towards private sector clinics and practices because they don't fully understand them or they're you know they're so proud to be part of the NHS and you're good on them but there's also a good amount of hard work being done in the private sector to relieve the pressure from the NHS and I think people need to acknowledge that. Yeah it's happening all across the NHS there's things like you know in orthopaedics like ankle arthroscopies and things that used to be done and now not being done because they're not deemed cost effective enough versus their benefit so lots of people that actually did need them and now they're not being done you know we've seen it with MRIs and control of MRIs and GPs used to be able to just request it and now there needs to be you know further permission from a specialist. So you can see the restrictions happening unfortunately with with the NHS but that's yeah that's essentially hopefully that sums up. So that sums up you know do I need to inform the NHS that's completely up to you it's always a good idea to keep the doctors that's in charge of your care yeah keep them informed just as if if you're dealing with a private doctor or clinic like ours to keep us informed of any medications that you're on so that you can get the best treatment without any complications so yeah all right thanks for watching uh if you like this please ring the notif- put the notification notification bell on subscribe and like yeah we appreciate that thanks and we'll see you next time bye