 OTKngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngngng if you're not in the country. The 25 of all 27 people are drinking incessantly on the weekends, right? You know, you just have to find some independence. Like, do you want to be a follower or do you want to be a leader? I have a lot of clients. I have a lot of clients in India, actually. And they all, all the high-achieving Indian clients, I have to drink. Especially if they're from Punjab. I have a lot of clients. I have a lot of clients in India, actually. And they all, all the high-achieving Indian clients, I have to drink. Especially if they're from Punjab. Punjab, they have to, have to, have to drink in a social setting. And, you know, a lot of the time I will try to find out what their, what their lifestyle is, what their background is. Like, do they have kids? Do they have kids? Okay, I can use that as a crush. You know, use that as the accountability. Do you want to be there for your kids in the future? You know, even though this is just a couple of tricks, are you wanting to heal your future or possibly harm it? You know, I'll try to always attack it from a psychological aspect. Maybe you go out and have a drink. If you go to some sparkling water, you put some electrolytes in it so it kind of looks like a drink. But it actually isn't. But, of course, a lot of this will fall on deaf ears. But, you know, I'm quite a hard ass. So it's like, if you don't do it, you're going to train with someone else. Okay. You know, so I am pretty tough like that. And it's just maybe for a short period, just so we go through this boot camp, so we can create those neuropathways and neurogenesis for new habits for the future. But, yeah, if I'm looking at somebody who has those other addictive personality traits, whether it be smoking, whether it be drinking, it's usually a GL, you know, you probably hate me for this GLP-3 or Render Chirotide. That's what I'll usually lean towards because that seems to shut out a lot of the food noise. Some people have actually had a little bit, some clients, very, very few. But some of the clients have had like Tessa Fensit or something like that. And it's kind of shut off that food noise, but not as powerful as like a reticulatide in a microdose. Because sometimes that person doesn't necessarily need to lose a lot of weight, but they need to lose a habit. So that's where the microdose of that perspective would usually come into play. So my advice is don't use creatinine as your marker for kidney function. Measure GFR or what we order on all our B-shelts. So we have a lot of muscular people or people who are eating high-protein diets or people who are taking high-dose creatine. Your creatinine is always going to be skewed. And that's not a real GFR. So have your doctor measure statin C instead. And calculate your GFR off of statin C instead of off of a creatinine number. Because instead of stopping your creatine, which has so many benefits for you, just use a real MRI. Statin C is a much better measure of kidney function. So my advice on that, kidney function is a horror. It is difficult. So the bioregulars actually may be helpful for kidney function. We actually, there's a drug called Pedersen Polysulfate used as a low-dose injectable. We use it for arthritis as well, but it has actually a really good document. It is helping kidney function as well. Hard to get. They get compounded, but it's a pretty remarkable drug for helping kidney function too. But kidneys, you could stabilize them pretty easily. Trying to improve the function could be a little bit more difficult. I do think some, and I don't know if you've seen it, but some of the bioregulars have relatively offended to purity. I mean, actually, GLP-1s are helpful too. Or GLP-1s are helpful too. Or GLP-1, GLP-3O4. If you have 304s, that would be great. Amoeba's make it is not usually widely available to everybody yet. But more of the compounded pharmacies are making it. OSO1 peptide. That's going to be helpful as well. Modesty, any of the mitochondrial peptides help kidney function. Most organs are dependent on mitochondria. It can be very much so. So you can repair mitochondria. So SS31 can also be helpful there. I'll just add, there is a literature. They're around SS31. They've used it in CKD patients, and it's approved and hasn't killed it. But I've also heard people anecdotally say to me, because I've talked about that before, and they're like, yeah, I didn't believe you, and I took it. And they're like, double my GFR. So I think, like Elizabeth was just saying, the mitochondrial peptides, indirectly, because of what they're doing to improve overall health, will help it. So if you wanted an affordable thing, pretty easy to access and afford, I would feed that way first. Yeah, because that would close up. It's coming. It'll be expensive right now. So I work with a lot of transplant patients, especially kidneys. Is there any special piece of iterations for those that didn't use infestites? Special considerations. They're always super concerned. Yeah. I have a lot of kidney transplant patients, actually. And they're all the, an SS31 C-way and that's, okay. The other thing I wanted clarification on is, if you're already having a peptide regimen and you're microdosing a GLP-1 and you're microdosing like a GLO or some kind of stack like that, and you want to add other things, that's okay. Like, you just have to be aware, like what you said before, you can step true more on Hoth, et cetera, but just be reasonable. I think the answer is. Perhaps. Yes. Potentially. Again, it's the end user, right? An experienced peptide user who is doing everything correctly and obviously doing all the things that, you know, Eric stressed yesterday, the foundational stuff, a hundred percent. But again, for a newbie, for somebody, I'm just an experienced, you know, jumping around where they don't really understand what is doing what, that's kind of no. I would say that's a non-secure issue. Yes, you and America. I have a question certainly back to just the very beginning, the GLP. So I'm kind of part of the demographic that has a lot of hate towards the Ozumbic. And just, I'm sorry, what didn't you say? Well, what was it? A lot of hate towards the Ozumbic. Yeah. Yes. And I kind of being this online easy way out. And so I guess my question is, how would you, if you were in my shoes as a part of that Young with the Ever of Athletics, start to try and change that narrative? If you wanted to try and take this out of that. I have a good answer. I think part of that, you're absolutely right about like the easy button mentality, because like you said, we were talking about this beginning. It's like hit the easy button. I'm good. I can still drink, eat whatever I want and be good. I think it's changing the idea that they're not weight loss medications. And I know that's the intended result and like the intended effect. Right. But if we look at the context of like metabolic health equals longevity and wellbeing, that's what they are. And think of them. If, if there was a way, like I could wave a magic wand and change an arrow. It's a catalyst, not the solution. And it's a catalyst that kickstarts someone to like lose weight, to then eat healthier, to then their brains clear so they can make better choices. And then it's like, if you have two doors and it's like the non-GLV1 door, the GLV1 door, and you choose the GLV1 door, it's not the GLV1, it's the pathway that it leaves down. So if I could say like wave a magic wand, change an arrow, but especially for younger people that, that want to push back against like the easy button, because like so much of younger people's generation is just like, I don't want to do anything. I want like AI to do all my work for me and I want, you know, like, don't want to have anything to do with that. It's like, you know, you could say about the same thing about AI. It's like, use it as a tool, a catalyst to get where you want to go and make that journey better rather than it's like, I get to, you know, like screw off and do whatever I want because I just took that shot. Yeah. I think also GG steps in, this is a weight loss drug, saying that this is a metabolic optimizing plug, right? It's not, it's not a weight loss drug. It is trying to make me metabolically healthy. So changing that narrative. This is a question, this is a that age of a population, Chris, for you. I think they're a much harder group for the alcohol question than the, even there's I was. Leah's patients as well, where, yeah, they drink socially. Sometimes it's easier to get them into the, okay, just drink a mocktail, which is all over. That group? No, the 20, the 20 year old to 25 year old, 27 year olds are drinking, you know, incessantly on the weekends, right? It is such a part of the narrative. How do you deal with that? Good luck. I was one of those. Yeah. Coming from the UPA, we've been tripping down. Yeah. It's, it's tough, isn't it? Because, you know, at that sort of age, you want to be part of the crowd. You want to feel like I belong. You're trying to find your place in the world and you click. So it's very easy to kind of get encouraged into that, that, that, that sort of circle. You know, you just have to find some good dependence. Like, do you want to be a follower? Do you want to be a leader? You know, like I'll, I've had some clients in that respect and I, it's really, really tough. You know, I've actually had a professional rugby athlete or professional rugby player who was talking to me a couple of weeks ago saying, yeah, it's, it's really difficult because like on the weekends, the guys kind of drink and I don't really want to, but I feel in order to be part of the team, I have to just be the leader, be the leader of the group. You want to be the team captain? Then you're going to have to have that early night, you know, and kind of lead by example. Is it going to be difficult? Yeah. You're going to have to change some neurons, but it is like the way of the world to a certain degree. You know, like I transitioned from my mountain bike to an e-bike mountain bike. Wow. You're cheating. You know, I'm like, can't measure my heart rates. I'm still getting a good workout as you are. Not always putting it on boost. And, you know, you'll see that this Havet or those guys that are on steroids down there because they want the easy way out. Well, they're still working our ass off. They're still counting the macros. They're still being disciplined, but I guess it depends like how far you want to take it and how you feel that it is going to optimize your life in the future. And I always do say to people, you know, that are of the younger demographic, if you look at that drink or that food or whatever situation that is right in front of you right now, that is going to give you that immediate satisfaction. Is it really going to heal your future or possibly harm it? Well, if you think it's going to possibly harm it, then you need to kind of reverse that trajectory. Hey, Chris, you were talking about your cartilage repair for your shoulder. I wish I'd known about that six years ago when I had my knee redone. I had the Macy procedure, which was a cartilage implementation in my knee. What kind of a protocol would you recommend for people who are like washed up meatheads like myself or people who have a lot of damaged joint issues that we would like to try to continue to train and train hard? For a peptide sample or biorecule? Yeah, I do. So, you know, I'll let the resident orthoped here sitting up here answer in a second. But the truth is there's a lot of studies. There's a lot of research that shows using a microdose of PPC-TV500. And again, we cannot leave off cartilage and sigamir, KPV, you know, the glow, the close, do all sorts of incredible things to enter your receptor sensitivity. Again, if you throw an SS-31 combined with that, you're going to have the amplification at the cellular cascades and say bling. So there's a lot of stuff to do that. I think there's not enough people in the bodybuilding space using those products in a microdose fashion year round. They're just kind of using them when they're injured. And then that's kind of like a shotgun approach or PPC-TV5R. Because that already does that. I mean, in our space, right? But cartilaxes, as Chris says, amazing. Sycamir is amazing. So I would think that most people who are aging, which is the majority of people in this room, should probably start looking at taking those in a microdose fashion year round. So again, if it's two cycles of eight weeks or, you know, three cycles of four weeks or whatever it is, that's kind of how you want to do it. Because you're going to get a lot of wear or tear repair. Cartilage can be repaired. We know that without doing cartilage transplants. We know that, you know, that we have, we have the technology and their body's ability. The big thing that we neglect in osteoarthritis is thinking about it like every other atrial disease. It's an inflammatory disease. You look at the joint fluid and arthritic joint. It's very high to the file six TNF alpha. These proteases, and we call them the telematrix protease, that actually are destroying heartilage. Those are very upregulated in the joint. So trying to throw, just repair peptides into an environment or even do stem cells into an environment that's very inflammatory is not going to work. So we oftentimes believe there's something called alpha-2 macroglobulin. That's actually a protein that you could put to the joint that negates those. And then really this drug will come to market probably in about three years. It's available in Australia. It's called xylosol. It's an injectable penicin that actually has shown significant improvement in cartilage, 30% improvement in cartilage over a year. I have so many patients with severe, myself included. I have horrible knee arthritis. I have four ACL reconstructions. Basically after being on this drug now for a couple of years, I have no pee. I have not re-emiried my knees to know if the cartilage has grown, but it's a remarkable drug with that 80% success rate and improving pain and function and cartilage regeneration. So it's something to keep an eye on. It's a little hard to get right now. We can get it, but you have to find a doctor who knows about it. But it will basically get my list of products called xylosols and inject whole past polysol. It's Stephen. Ben, have you seen the, it was just in the news recently, but I guess there's now some sort of a matrix gel, but to be ejected into the lower back and it can actually increase the space between the inner, really. Yeah. So some, and they're just some, yeah. So they're, they're, they're doing some that with knees as well. Um, there's the amazing gels that, and I, I would still advocate that the product, as we're still dealing with some types of environments and rejoining, like you're a super healthy guy, you know? And so you had the right environment probably that you could heal your injury without, you know, just something like cartilage. Most people who have ongoing degenerate, either genetically or because of lifestyle or because of age, actually have very inflammatory environments. So trying to put anything in that's just reparative without addressing the inflammatory environment. And that's actually, I think the harder thing to do is addressing the inflammatory environment. So I sense, well, alpha-2 macroglogan will become a protein that's available that we'll be able to inject in the joints. Right now you have to filter it out of blood. So we'll, to use some of a process, but we can because alpha-2 macroglogan protein is what your body uses to actually get rid of all these bad proteases and bad cytokines in the joint. It's, it will become a product that's going to be much easier to get here in the next few years. Uh, but again, that's where I think putting people on this xylosol, this injectable penicillin polysulfate, at least for a period of time before you're trying to repair it. I think it's a big neglected piece. It's the osteoarthritis is an inflammatory disease process. It did not treat it as such. It's why we're not getting as much. It's just going through the FTA process. I just love all places. Australia, pizza, you've had, you know, it's, it's going through the FDA. Of course. You know. On regards to the other bioregulars and the peptides, if you get to, if someone gets to a point where they're taking, uh, a few peptides, whether it's a GLP, SS31, Spook in the morning, a FASCET, can you take a couple of bigger bioregulars at the same time? You know, keep my busy schedules and if I want to go work out and I take Chris's, uh, pre-workout supplement. In addition to that, is that all too much on the system or should they be taking it to isolation? Why are there's that? It's a great question. Um, can you take while you're already dialed in with the other stuff? Yes, absolutely. And again, as an advanced user, which clearly you are, um, you kind of already understand what is typically what inside your body and you understand that. So do you want to add in, you know, something for the eye? Do you want to add in something for the kidney? Do you want to add in something for the heart or something like that? You absolutely can't. But again, I, I stress, and this is very important that depending on how advanced you are using these products, don't start doing that. If you're not in a advanced user, because you want to truly understand what is doing what, and that's why you want to start out most of the time, depending on your condition with doing things in isolation. And as Trevor said earlier, an out of an acronym of one, two or three is probably about as deep as you want to go. And again, address the root cause or the biggest needle building issue that you have, and then move on to the other thing. And again, I see way too many people taking eight things at once and then saying, oh, it doesn't work. Or, you know, I have no idea about pulling one. Right. There's like so many crazy things that you can do. Just keep it simple. Stupid is there. I was going to say to try and think different body parts. Right. So like you see these people like, yeah, but take CJC, Ipamorellin, Tessamorellin, like, like, okay, which ones actually work? So I, for people I do the same thing, three is always good. So if you weight loss GLP, do something for your brain. Yeah. Just in for mitochondria. And then, you know, if you want to be fit, do something for fitness or that's fine. Right. Cause they're all going to have different improvement centers. Don't try to pack, you know, okay. I want to see what happens with my brain. Do C-Max, like, Ozy Toastin, P22, 20A, like, any V plus, all of what you're like. I think this is working great. It probably is. Don't get me wrong. I'm much smarter than it was 10 years ago. But, you know, yeah, you don't know what to do and why not that. It's kind of, it's kind of like a supplement, isn't it? You know, we all know that a lot of supplements have benefits. You take every supplement on the shelf, you're probably done. You know? So at what point are you looking at this from a logical standpoint? So as Trevor said, you know, it's like they're all different body parts. But with your supplements, you take this supplement as like maybe your intra-workout, your post-workout, the supplements that you take upon waking. They all usually have different mechanisms. It wouldn't make sense to take three free workouts, three different pre-workouts. Like taking all these secreted guards, for instance, because as I mentioned, you just really don't know what is working, what is causing that fluid retention, what has stopped working over a duration of time in order to pull back. All right. Is it your question? Gotcha. I guess adding to that, talk about exosomes. So in addition to, complementary to everything else that you're doing, doing like exosomes every quarter. I see. For not. So somebody else, I'm going to know a bit. How are you? Yeah. So biologics were all with exosomes and step cells. Obviously, we're not supposed to be doing step cells. They don't have like a target. So when you put them in your body, you don't know what they're going to do. Doesn't mean they're going to be bad or anything. You just don't know. That's what the scary for the FDA. Like we use with some of your body. We have no idea what's doing inside of you. Whereas exosomes are more like a peptide. They have a target. They're going to do what you kind of program them to do. So I do a mitts anyway of like 100 billion step cells, 100 billion exosomes. And if I do some like PRP and stuff like that, I actually injected my head once a quarter. Yeah. My hair was about as short as this a year ago. My hair is probably, when you try to bunch it out, but my hair probably grew about 20 inches in the year by doing this method. So they do, they can't work. But I think it's important just to say, I don't want to interrupt you, even though I did. Hair loss is cured now. I'm not joking. If you have active follicles on your scalp, we can regrow your hair. Now, obviously you have to have the money, the means, and the know-how. But it's a bill. Like, do not think that you have you at a turkey and spend five, six, 70 grand to get an air transplant. You can absolutely regrow your hair. But going on that same method, though, they're not going to just stay in my head the whole time. They'll get utilized, and then they'll just filter through the stem cells within your lungs, kind of hang out there until repeat to be used. So, yeah, just having them in there can show benefit. The only problem with it is they take a long time. So you don't really know if they're working or not for you. And then the other thing is they're based on inflammation receptors. So if you take exosomes with BPC or TV500, they kind of get lost. They don't know what to do. They get confused. So it's not as easy as just, like, throwing them. They're actually very cheap to make. It's just a big farce. Oh, $10,000 for this. And then also, don't believe everything. So it comes out, they go, oh, I got, you know, $4 trillion exosomes. Okay. Like, where did you get them from? How were they harvested? Like, there's so much that goes. It's probably the most confusing industries because they just don't know what these people are doing or where they're getting them from. How much should someone actually pay? If you're going to go do next to opportunity, you should probably pay somewhere between depending on how much. Right. So, like, you know, I use, like, nebulizers for people that are dealing with brain. We'll do treatment circuit basically maybe $2,000 for $100 billion. So it really isn't that expensive, depending on the quality level. So there's a lot of almost, yeah, the data's hard on this weapon. So everybody kind of says that theirs works best. But the only real step cell that I see really actively regrow, like, you know, rope to my knees and shoulders, is actually when you pull it from your own hip bump and you pull your own actual, no, no, no. Was it Valbera? Valbera, sorry. It was late night outside of this Vegas, right? But when we take your own bone marrow and you spin the stem cells off of that and then re-inject those, that's where we see the most actual quick rebuilding of, like, a knee or a shoulder in those cases. So just food for thought. Is there anything you guys recommend for vision? So, like, say, 45 to 50, we all, you know, have this issue with, like, reading glasses, that kind of stuff. Anything, peptides or et cetera? Yeah, basically all of us that use computers actively, which is, like, 98% of us in society today, either have farsighted or now farsighted or farsighted, right? And that's, again, because our vision is being compressed in these narrow ranges of looking at screens and, you know, sitting in front of computers and stuff like that. There's some amazing bioregulators that improve vision. Hunter, you want to talk? Yeah, there's some oral bioregulars. I think it's called Fisolut is the Russian name. Yeah, that works pretty well. I think there's another one. I can't think of the name right now. Heptanlides. Scorchopeptides. Yeah. Yeah. There's some Russian ones that I cannot think of a name right now. It's, like, because it's a Russian name that, like, click, you know, like an English word would. But SS31 has actually been shown, again, you know, like kind of weirdness, all these things. SS31, I think, helps with ocular nerves. A lot of the mitochondrial compounds actually will have fission benefits because it's mitochondria in the eyes. I'm not recommending to do this at home. I have taken BBC and TB-500 and reconstituted them with actual eye drops. And I don't know the efficacy over time because those typically don't have preservatives in them. But for me, I've always had really good vision, even when I was a young kid. But, like, my wife has used them. They've improved her vision. So I don't know about a doctor, but it's worked. And I've seen other people say it's worked. So if someone can deliver, like, a way to manufacture those in a way that probably, like, has preservatives that's stable, that also is a birdie ride. Because I wouldn't want to use, like, backwater and shoot backwater in my eyes, you know. But I've seen that working people, and people have reported to me that extremely well, too. Actually, Thunst metaphor is an eye drop to read a from school-available eye drop. We get them in all the time as an eye drop. And it actually works really helpful a lot for vision. So do PRP eye drops. So just using your own playlets and making eye drops out, which can be actually really helpful for vision. As far as the mitocardial peptides, Huminin has some really good evidence on helping eyes in macular degeneration. And we've seen really, actually, good success with stable life and macular degeneration using Huminin. It may be the better peptide over SS31 for helping neurologic stuff like eyes. Exactly. And let me just, I'll just give you guys, like, one bonus. One of our good friends up here, Dr. Dominic Nischewitz, he's, like, the world's leading bio dentistry or bioidentical, or as he likes to say, biological dentists. We're actually working together right now. The next big wave for peptide bioregulators is going to be mouth rinses, right? So we're going to actually come out with stuff that will eliminate calculus, tarter, black. Again, BPC, TD500, even, like, some Phymus and beta that are actually, heck, and might this working on making a longer-acting one. So, I mean, again, if we understand, like, the root cause of caries and tooth decay, like, we can actually overcome this with BPC, with DB500, with the different Phymus and beta, with a binder that can be used as a mouthwash, as a toothpaste, you know, as an actual oral rinse. So there's a lot of amazing stuff coming. So thank you, all of you, for being here today. I thought this was literally an amazing panel. You got some incredible, great information. We appreciate you guys being here. We have a lot of views that come into our channel, and what we don't see is that many people subscribing. It would really help. It doesn't cost you anything. That being said, let's get on with some of our content.