 The number one thing we can do to reduce the number one thing we can do to reduce the burden of a cost of healthcare on society is to get more people GLPs. And when you look people for 50% less water when they are 50% less water when they are 50% less water when they are taking a GLP one agonist. You expect it. So we're pretty much lower. So we're pretty much lower. So we're pretty much lower. So we're pretty much lower. So we're pretty much lower. So we're pretty much lower. So we're pretty much lower. So we're pretty much lower. So we're pretty much lower. So we're pretty much lower. So we're pretty much lower. So we're pretty much lower. many normies and mainstream people are using them and they don't use them correctly. And most of the people up on this panel have not only been using them, some of the people up here manufacture them, some of us sell them. So there's a lot that we could give you guys from a feedback standpoint. But again, I would hope that some of you guys have some amazing questions. So I'm actually going to just start down to the right, Betsy. Please introduce yourself again, just to read people that might not know who you are. Hi, guys. I'm F.C. B.M. yesterday, Elizabeth Uris. I'm a physician. I've been in this world for about 20 years now. I have a clinic called Bola Longevity Institute in Boulder, Colorado, where we do longevity medicine, cellular medicine. I've been teaching peptides for about 10 years now. I've been doing peptides for a long time. So I think Jay and I first know a long time ago. And so see which world will come a long way. So basically, we are utilizing peptides, probably a little different from these guys. And then I, probably Dr. Faith, I'm a physician on our panels. We are in a much more clinical fashion, which limits us a little bit, I think. But it's still probably a good world for you guys to sound up. I think we'd be looking at GLP peptides. What's really interesting about that, and as these came out of the scene, they were for diabetics first, and now we know they're for weight loss. But if you look across the spectrum of society, I think there's a use case for almost every type of person, probably younger, definitely older. And we look at metabolic health. I talked on my anti-aging panel yesterday about metabolic health being one of the main drivers for one chip. And obviously, I'll come out of your own for long journey through metabolic health. And so when you look at GLP ones, a lot of the information out there, either some people that support them, there's other people that will poo-poo them, you know, and say, like, they're not good. Just to give you an example of how powerful they are, at Jason Harper this year, I talked to a guy that I think was, like, head of Medicaid for the state of Georgia. And he said the number one thing we can do to reduce the burden of a cost of health care on society is to get more people GLPs because the reduction in the amount of Medicaid payouts that we pay for heart attack patients and all these things that cost so much in society is to be dramatically reduced by people that are on GLPs. So maybe they're mankind's last race. I know there will be many more iterations of them, but I think that's something to keep in mind. They're not just for diabetic people every week. Keep up the use case. And we'll talk about the nuances of that because a lot of times it's not good right there. People want to make sure. Yeah, and just to follow up on what Hunter said there, you know, in regards to the GLPs, you know, what I find fascinating is sometimes that you'll prescribe a GLP to somebody and a lot of the benefits that they get back is something that neither of you expected. Of course, a lot of the time they're doing it for the static purposes. But then, you know, after like a couple of months, skin is completely cured up. Or there's somebody that I work with who is like a rock singer. He's in his early 60s there. He was obviously abusing his vocal cords. His vocal cords have come back out. Yeah, it's like so many unexpected benefits that come from these things that I don't think a lot of us know yet. And obviously, you know, there's a lot more to be done. But, you know, of course, these amino acids all have a place. And I think the more that we will understand and witness all these benefits that come back from this, you know, it's the benefits that are going to be limitless, limitless. And this is exactly what I feel that these are because, you know, Jay knows that, you know, I've been able to avoid surgery. I have a big chunk of cartilage knocked out on my shoulder last year. And when the medical system told me, there's nothing that you can do, you know, because I was like, oh, great. I've not cartilage yet. But I got a Tomianka that I had in there. I said, no, there's nothing we could do. I just spoke to a surgeon that is 3D printing of cartilage in New York. I wasn't a candidate for that. So I thought, OK, last resort to issue with my first. Let me do the peptides. After five weeks, my cartilage is fine. You know, so not only am I witnessing it, you know, we are witnessing it from an observational standpoint. He feel these peptides have been around for a long, long time. I feel that we're just scratching the surface for what these things could do. Good morning, everybody. Trevor Currier. And those that don't know me, I run a little gut-sized alpha biomed labs and about 40 other manufacturing companies in the United States. So I was one of the first guys developing peptides 11 years ago here in the States. We do everything from full drug manufacture, the septic ferrite, to tablets, all DA, FDA licenses. I have three 503Bs. I have multiple 503As. I basically didn't make anything from a heteroside one or two. It's immense and all two, like a GLB. So, but yeah, we're talking about the GLPs. I think a lot of people also get stuck in the rut that they know. SEMA, truzeptide, and now retitruetide. But there's a lot of others that are on the market, like servoductide, azductide. And then we have a lot of the AML and base products that are coming out now. Yeah, grilatide. I can't say it. Or, Ron, whatever that one is. But big drug companies have auto-titrated everybody up on these products. And they're starting to remedy, oh, they don't work anymore. You burn down your receptors. Start. Yeah, yeah. Start high. They go really high for no reason. You know, so it is one of the six that we're going to have to start looking at the other categories and adding things like Rilatide to get people, their receptors back down to a normal state that they can actually still lose weight, not just give out on life, essentially. So just look for a lot of the other fun new products, especially like CERC you were talking about, other things about CERC. But it's actually being studied for chronic fatigue and getting rid of fatty liver. So it actually helps people lose weight and give them more energy. Hey, everyone. For those of you who weren't here, I'm Dr. Eric Fates. I do telemedicine. And I also work with Betsy on the world of longevity. And in terms of GLPs, I'm sure we're going to get more deep into reason. I agree. If you heard me talk yesterday, sometimes more is not always fair. I agree with what these gentlemen said, that oftentimes you have to go lower on the dose to get everything else out of life, too. Make sure you peel back all the layers of the yawning. You're addressing any gut issues, lifestyle issues. Some people give this short shrift. It's very, very forwarded. Often, if you get away with blasts and get better effect. In addition to everything else that I do, I used to do a lot with addiction medicine. And one of the interesting things that I felt, you probably heard about this, too, is that it can help a lot of people with cutting back. It turns down not only the food noise, the brain handling it with eating, eating cleaner, but with addiction issues, too. Whether it's opiate, it's even with alcohol. I've had many, many patients tell me that, you know, alcohol, I can't give up my glass of water. I can't give up this. And after a dollar, GLPs are like, eh, I don't need it anymore. Sometimes that moves the deal. Same with OVS and other drugs. So just it works. A lot of people forget about its effects of the brain. And I'm sure we'll talk more about the anti-athlangular effects, the or protective effects. But from an addiction perspective, if you'll cut it back on those vices, either we'll link our vices sometimes. But sometimes it helps with a lot of patients, too. And they sometimes get free. Hello, everybody. My name is Ali Doherty. I work dominantly as a research scientist. My PhD is at gastrointestinal physiology, interdisciplinary health science. I did a lot of work with the GLP-1s, but I mostly concentrate on the metabolics and looking at the muscle wasting. So I was curious when, with all the stuff that comes out where it says you lose all your muscle and how much of that's true. So we did a, I think it was about a nine-month study with basically everybody in the county. We could get a doctor to send us. The interesting thing that I found out is they didn't lose muscle. You were supposed to lose tons of muscle. Actually, they lost no muscle. And quite a few of them even gained muscle. Oh, I took it. Last time I was here, I think I was like 310. And it was before I started competing. I dropped 100 pounds fat, but on 12 pounds, oh, that's a beast. So I found that with the GLP-1 said, as long as you're still doing enough strength, you're not going to lose that muscle that everybody thinks you're going to. It's just if you do the starvation power. Well said, Lee. Really, Milsen. So I kind of want to, I want to say in the GLP world, because again, it's such a powerful, you know, important topic. I think it's bi-racking and anti-aging and longevity. Hunter and I, it's crazy to think, three years ago, came out with like a Ten Commandments of GLP years. And going from memory here, you know, these guys can, you know, pick it off or finish it off from what I'm going to say. But basically what he was saying, the rumors that we hear of the mainstream, you know, that it leads to these, as he said, it causes muscle wasting, thyroid damage, metabolic derangement, you know, all these horrible supported or purported side effects. But the truth is when they're done clinically and used correctly, and again, defining used correctly is eating enough protein, right? So we want to make sure that we maintain muscle mass, so we have to eat enough protein. It's usually your goal body weight, not, you know, most people can't really figure out what their actual weak body mass is. So if you're a person and needs to lose 35 pounds or 50 pounds or 70 pounds, or as he said, 100 pounds, you're going to eat what your goal body weight is a protein, right? The next one would be, again, there's really no order of these things. I think I am in specific order, but there's really no order, you know, are you hormonally optimized? You know, are you in your 40s, 50s, and 60s starting these therapeutics and not hormonally optimized? I mean, again, as Lee said, and everyone on the panel will agree, these are highly effective, you know, peptides. And they are metabolically active. They are suppressing appetite. They are doing all the things that they do, improving gastric motility, et cetera. So if you're not a oral altivist, you're not eating enough protein, you are going to lose muscle. And that's what's happening in me, the 85% of people in the general public who, you know, report Wigobi neck or Wigobi bite or Wigobi chin or all these things that you guys hear about, which are in the mainstream that plums onto and, you know, tells everybody that these GLPs are horrible. And none of it is true if you really interpret the data and the clinical research, because clinical research shows that, as he said, that there really isn't much muscle wasting or muscle loss. Well, this is tight corrected. Now, again, we have to remember the majority of clinical research is in co-orbit patient population groups, right? So type 2 diabetics, obese people, again, insulin-deranged or insulin-sensitive people. So you got to kind of question that or, you know, understand that the studies, you know, a lot of these people are people that are compromised and sick. And then I would also say that, you know, Hunter and I talk about this a lot is that many people who are tempted to lose weight in the United States are eating low-carb diets, right? They're cardboard, keto, they're, you know, Atkins, if it fits your macros, you know, et cetera, et cetera. And what Hunter and I keep to find out literally probably 18 months ago, and I don't think anyone was talking about this, was that carb-or and keto people are not getting enough carbohydrates in the diet to make the GLPs affected. And so all those people eating all this meat and all this fat and all this animal protein are literally not be able to push through and have effective bowel movements and, you know, just cleanse themselves. And so you're getting the gallbladder issues, you're getting the digested issues, the liver issues, all these things we see in the mainstream because a lot of these people are carb-phobic, right? I'm doing keto, I'm doing carb-or, you know, it works for me, I lose one weight, et cetera, et cetera. But because some of these type two GOPs, again, like, for Zappetide, which is, you guys know, it was Monjaro or Zappbound, ReditruTide, which is obviously the research stage three Lilly product. It's coming and will be approved at some point early next year. These things turn on insulin signaling, nutrient partitioning, the massively upbrakely metabolism, resting thermogenesis. I mean, these are very powerful products. And so what they're done correctly, again, if I go back and read to say enough protein, lift weights, come hormonally optimized, right? If you do that in the context of everything else, these products are literally life-changing. They're transformative. And I'm not even mentioning what Chris was talking about, the indirect things, right? Like the elimination of food noise, the curing of addictive personality disorders, right? Dambling, port addiction, all these things that people are using these for that they show, you know, direct benefit in the studies. So it's pretty amazing what these tools are capable of doing. But again, it's very important for each of you. And again, we're going to get to you guys' questions about them shortly. But it's very important that you're getting your information about these tools from the right people. And you're not listening to the stuff that you see in the mainstream news. Because again, if you listen to the mainstream about Wagobi or Smagdata or Zepbound or any of those things, you'll think that they're god-awful and that they're causing all these problems. And, you know, I'm sure all of you out there have heard about multiple classification malls since they're on-line right now. The majority of those are actually going to be thrown out at the federal level because it's a use case issue, right? Like it's all on the warning labels for the drugs. I mean, the manufacturers are not trying to hide that. But again, people are just not getting good information when they actually go down this path. And as Betsy and, of course, Eric know, there's tons of physicians who are not actually probably qualified to be prescribed in these things or go to leacane seminars and stuff like that. And they don't actually get their patients' correct instructions on how to use these. So there's really fault and I think blame, you know, all across the spectrum. But the reality of these things are amazing, absolutely amazing tools. And they just have to be used within the context of what I call hell longevity. And I would just say, and I'll set Betsy up with this, microdosing appears to be the way. And again, depending on which one you're using, depending on the person, you know, the actual patient slash the end user, some people obviously, depending on how let them all would range there are, are going to obviously require a little bit of a higher dose to start. But microdosing seems to be the way. I want to comment about one more thing about muscle loss because it actually isn't just protein intake. We do some research. One of the big reasons we see muscle loss with the GLPs is because it decreases thirst. And when you look, people are 50% less water when they are taking a GLP-1 agonist. Muscle actually is very dependent on hydration. So that is actually why even if you look at protein intake being good, people would lose muscle mass if they weren't hydrated. We actually encourage, we use a product called Icel water. It actually gives it osmotic load. You add a little bit to your water, it gives it osmotic load. It pushes the water into the cell so you can increase the intracellular volume. But those are because it's like an in-body scan. You can follow that and see that their intracellular water is good because that's actually a huge, huge, huge piece of muscle loss that gets really neglected to people in the world. I think we also have protein and we forget about water and hydration. So it's just why they add that point. It's really, really important. And we see that really dramatically. Anything that's a tea in the GLP months, you actually don't want to drink. You really don't want to drink more. So you're thirsty. It's a great decrease. And Todd, in terms of the microdose, I think the big question that everybody is, what is a microdose? And it's not an easy answer to that because it is going to be different for different people. My tendency is to, because we don't really know what that dose is, it's going to be particularly therapeutic and still benefits. You know, how low can you go and still be getting benefits? So my tendency is to just find the dose for people that they have zero effect on appetite, they have zero side effects, they feel good. So I'll dose them up to that point and then back off. If you have any reduction in your appetite, you don't want to eat. If you have any nausea, if you have fatigue, any of those things, you back it down further. You look at the doses we probably need for things like, so I'm an orthopedic doctor by trade, so I have a lot of interest in joints. One of the interesting things about GLK months is their effect on joint health. And it's actually pretty interesting. It's beyond the weight loss effect. We know it's an anti-inflammatory effect of joints. It probably takes a little bit higher dose to see that thermos. So I think that's where you have to kind of dose it up and then bring it down to a tolerated level. For things like neurodegeneration, the dose is looking like you can actually do a pretty low dose of it. But this is, you know, as was said here, these are drugs that I think almost everybody should be on, at least at some dose, especially, bang, it's your neurodegeneration in your family. If you have osteoarthritis, if you're joint injuries, if you have an autoimmune condition, if you have long code, if you have mitochondrial dysfunction, all these things are benefited by this microdose. And again, microdose is going to be, there's not a magic, this is the right dose for you. That's where you really have to find somebody who understands this because it's not what's going to help. Everybody needs, you know, one milligram or .5 milligrams. It's going to be different for each. I think what's interesting too about the microdosing conversation is, GNI really started to look at this probably about 80 months ago of like, there's a website I think everyone should write down or do it. It was called glp1plotter.com. I don't know if that's the exact URL, but you can Google it. And you can map out the half-life and the basically like zero concentration of the drug in your system. So we know the half of the drug is supposed to be like six or seven days. And so that allows for already once per week injection. And actually where people push that on is it actually like needs to be a once per week injection and it's not. What I started to see just like myself in practice and coaching people is that if you look at that GLP1plotter, let's just say someone injects two milligrams of trizabletide on a Tuesday. What happens is you'd have this spike, kind of like we were talking about yesterday with testosterone. You know, the how about testosterone typically at seven, ten days? We don't agree it's better to do it every other day. But you have this massive spike and then it kind of goes and then like day three or four, you're like peaking and then you're kind of falling off. And so people go on this weekly cycle of like, I inject, I don't really feel anything the first day. Day two starts to come up and day three or four, I'm peaking and I kind of drop out. And they're actually kind of born on this roller coaster a little bit. But if you look on the GLP1plotter, what's happening is over time, they're actually like you eat higher serum concentration levels and then crashing. Versus if you took that same attack dose, so let's say two milligrams a week, and you did four shots of 0.5 milligrams, you're actually not reaching the same peak serum concentration levels. And you move in this narrow frequency band to where you're actually not reaching the same concentration on a lower dose, or on the same dose, but you're staying within a lower defined range. And I think what's interesting about that is if we look at like compliance and the ride, right? Like what kind of roller coaster is this road going to put me on? It's actually better to be within that. And then what you see over time is people have more sensitivity because they're not hitting these like big spikes where their gum muffle or higher of a drug. So I think that's interesting. I've heard people push back on that. But in practice, even though the half load of the drug is six or seven days, I see it better administered every other day or even in some cases every day because it makes the ride a lot more enjoyable. Who wants to go in a car that's on, you know, you hit 10 speed bumps along the way you're going versus like a nice to me ride. So I think that's interesting, you know, like people will claim the other way that it's better to do once a week. But I think when we look at like staying on the lowest dose and getting like the most bang for a buck on the lowest dose, it's a lot better to do that. And I'm sure like in the coming years, like we'll find out what the optimal way is. But in practice, that's what it looks like is the best to be. Yeah. Yeah. So staying on the GLBs, I guess it will be here for a little while. What I, you know, based on what you said as well with microdosing over the once a week, I think it's per person as well. Of course, I think everybody should microdose. But I noticed, and I don't know if you guys have noticed this, some people seem to metabolize that GLP or whatever so much quicker than others where they feel the effects, of course, but then within a couple of days, even if they'd done a higher dose, they had that need for food they get. And I think much like, you know, you have some people that are fast caffeine metabolizers. I think to a certain extent, maybe you are getting people that are metabolizing the GLP a little bit quicker than others. I certainly do. And what I've noticed that there seems to be like two spectrums as well. You know, we talked about making sure that they're getting a hydration, getting a protein in, is that some people are low on energy where they do the GLP. Maybe they aren't getting a nutrient soon as they should be, of course. They're not hydrating. If I'm working with an athlete and their performance is there, chances are it's because they're not hydrated, you know. So we're going to get electrolytes into that individual and ensuring that they're getting plenty of fluid. But then you add the other spectrum who have like plenty of energy now because now you've shut off the food noise and a lot of the energy that the brain utilizes is decision-making. And they've got this decision-making fatigue because they're looking at food and they don't want the food, but they're fighting to not pick up that stuff for the cat-based soil. So they have got like a huge amount of energy, which is absolutely phenomenal. So I think, you know, we really do need to really focus on the people that are getting those nutrients in, getting the hydration in because they do not have the enthusiasm to go work out, to go get their cardio done, et cetera. You know, they just don't want to work out because they're absolutely exhausted. So, you know, what I do with a lot of my clients, make sure that they get their electrolytes in, having their essential amino acids because they just can't get the food in. Maybe they're going to have more liquid meals like meal replacements, protein powers until we're able to facilitate more food into that individual. I'm working on them micronutrients as well because Chastart, we're slowing down the gastric enteum or they're not eating with as much macros. They're definitely not getting the microzoom. You know, let's face it, a lot of the population, especially in here of America, as well as down. Agnesium, you know, our vital micronutrients, our fiber, et cetera. So I will always look on supplementation as well. Maybe immunoglobulins, you know, the gethyl clostrid, maybe glutamine as well to help with that gut integrity because if we're slowing the gastric enteum, that food, especially protein, can fester and cause issues in the gut. So we want to ensure that we're clays that feed good bacteria at the same time. And obviously we're here at a bodybuilding event. You know, I see it absolutely changing the game when it comes to bodybuilding, you know, because not only getting ready for a show, you're dealing with the food noise, a lot of athletes that are working with, they're just focused. They're on, but they have a schedule. They have a purpose. They have the numbers. They have the mappers. They wake up at a certain time, go to bed. But as soon as that show is over with, now they go haywire because they don't have that purpose. Maybe they didn't have the place that they wanted and they just go off the rails now. And they look in the mirror the next day. They're a bit watery. They're washed out. They have shade. So what do they do to comfort themselves? They eat more and they cannot shut off that food noise now. So I have found a lot of success with athletes, actually post-show, as well as pre-show. Like a lot of female athletes, I'll generally have a little bit more hormonal dysregulation as they're dieting down and getting into the low body fat ranges. So maybe, you know, a GLP comes in a little bit more handy there. But a lot of athletes, post-show, it really, really helps them prevent that rebound that we see. And, of course, you know, these athletes don't mind putting in a little sub-Q injection. But, you know, talking about the GLPs, you know, we've got the Ophocupron. That is the future as well as an oral peptide. And, you know, there are a big portion. It's biozapatite. Biozapatite, baby. Two tabs in the hallway. But, you know, there's a lot of people out there that just have that phobia of injecting themselves. And I think, you know, that is where you've got to quash that and open it up to even a bigger category in the future. Man, what's that like about reach out? I want to add to go. Just one point to where you give the mic to Trevor. Almost all people who suffer from fatigue using GLPs are in the category that you said, also best to say. They're dehydrated and their magnesium, micro, micromitrior, repeated. And again, this standard American diet is a worthless diet, right? So if you're a person that has 25, 50, 75 pounds of loose, as Betsy said, you start taking this, and all of a sudden now you're not drinking water or not you're any, you know, food. You can see where the fatigue comes in right away, right? So it's very easily addressed. I think there's probably a future coming now where there's going to actually just be literally people out there and we're going to be specific. GLP coaches, both in the clinical space and also opposite the bodybuilding performance space because they're going to be the ones like assessing the data and understanding the truck and tracking the analytics of what makes a GLP, you know, use or protocol or cycle most effective. Well, I think one thing that we got to get over to, the stigma that by taking GLP, if you don't feel like crap and you're throwing up, that you're not taking enough, yeah, that's like, oh man, I did throw up today, so I must do more. The human body is not supposed to lose 10 pounds a week every week for six weeks. It's just, if I told everybody in this room that they could lose one pound a week, they'd lose 52 pounds this year. That is a lot of weight, tabletop muscle, everyday muscle. It's about slow, it's about getting people to buy in that it's a long-term goal. It's a health goal. It's not just a weight loss goal. And then, you know, we haven't really talked about all these other peptides, so you can blend in with these outside the GLPs that are highly effective and helping them, A, do their jobs, but keep muscle tissue on, help with energy. And then, you know, they're so big, I think, I actually was bodybuilder at GLPs when I was bodybuilder early on. And it's probably the worst thing you could do. I remember I put 37 pounds on in two days after a show. And I have, like, pockets of water all over me. It was disgusting. But really using GLPs. Yeah, it's brisbrew. But, yeah, looking at other ways to use things with, like, testomarelin, using it with either things like tesopensi, AOD, sloop, especially the high-dose sloop now, to our millerams, you know, that's like a stigma everybody's been sitting there going. Believe it or not, I actually get really good results at about 1.5 millerams when I can find them, you know, one. But, you know, they kind of only last for about four to six weeks, and then you can't see those results go. But, you know, if you're just trying to get it done, they need to, you know, prep or the wedding or something like that, there's a must-safety ways to go than start being yourself. So you always have to jump to a GLP to lose weight now.