 This is a, an 18 gauge, one inch, one inch, inline filter needle. So what that means is there's a filter within this needle that helps filter out any glass particles because I open up that ampoule, there are microscopic glass particles inside potentially. We want that to filter out. So it's going to filter out to about 5 microns. Good practice for sterility is I'll use an Alco wipe and I will wipe off the neck of the area in between. election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election election ampule. If you do, you're going to end up with having less than the full amount of the ampule when you're open because all of a good chunk of the oil is stuck in the top of the ampule. So to remove that, there's a couple of different techniques you can follow. One, you can try to flick down the ampule and that should remove the oil. Another option is to flick it with your finger and that should push the oil down. So either way, either a quick movement of your hand or flicking it with your finger should remove any of the excess oil that would sit in the top part of the ampule or the neck of the ampule. Then have a look at the ampule and look for a blue dot if that is on your actual ampule. This other ampule I have here does not have a blue dot. And as a guide, I find it easier to just locate where the writing is and have the writing facing me and then follow with the motion where I break it away from myself. If you have a blue dot on your ampule like here, then have that blue dot facing yourself. And when you open this, a lot of people complained about cutting their finger. And one thing you want to make sure of is that you keep your finger away from the opening, but also that when you do open it, you open it in a quick movement away from yourself. If you were to do the opposite towards yourself, you're going to break it or you're going to shatter it. And that could happen as well. You can shatter this thing if you squeeze it too tight at the top of the neck. So good practice for sterility is I'll use an Alco wipe and I will wipe off the neck of the area in between the ampule and ampule neck of the main body. Okay. Once that's dry, of course, you'd have your hands washed before this. Once it's dry, you locate the blue dot on the ampule. I'm right-handed. So I hold the actual ampule with my left hand. And then with my right hand, I put my thumb on that blue dot and I've got my two fingers holding the ampule like so. And really it's just one swift move. One, two, three. And I've opened up. I didn't cut myself. I didn't shatter it. I do this nearly every day. And it's really, really that simple. And as you notice, there's no oil in the top bit of my ampule. Then if I need to draw out, draw out the solution, then I just want to have a syringe. This is a 1ml syringe. This is a 18 gauge, one inch inline filter needle. So what that means is there's a filter within this needle that helps filter out any glass particles. Because I've opened up that ampule, there are microscopic glass particles inside potentially. We want that to filter out. So it's going to filter it out to about five microns. But it's for glass, but it's not for anything else. So if you're using a 1ml syringe, that's what I'll demonstrate. With a 1ml syringe, you simply open it, open up the 18 gauge filter needle. And then this is a lua lock. That means it screws in. So I'm going to screw the syringe into the needle or the filter needle. I can remove the cap. You can notice we do not want to ever inject with this. This is only for filling your syringe. This is a syringe. That's your filter needle. And it's thick, 18 gauges because it allows for quicker aspiration or allows you to quickly remove the content of your ampule. Again, these are called ampules, not vials. And you just place in there. And what I find, it's sometimes really hard to fill 1ml, 1ml of solution in a 1ml syringe without having issues. So my technique is I will fill this about halfway. I'm going to stop. And then you see a bubble in there. And I'm going to pull back on the plunger. I'm going to have more air. And I got all these air bubbles. And so with the air bubble, I'm going to just flick it and keep flicking, flicking, flicking, flicking until you have one large air bubble. Okay. And then I'm going to push up. Okay. And I see just a tiny, tiny bit of oil. And flick that over. And I go back into the syringe. And I'm able to get out the entire 1ml. One thing to note with some of the BD1ml syringes, there is no stopper. It means if you keep pulling out, you'll pull the plunger all the way out of the body of the syringe. You don't want to do that. Okay. So now I've got this. Okay. Now I've got lots of bubbles. And those are annoying. If you hold your finger so that it doesn't come out plunger and then just flick, you'll see that now most of those bubbles are merging together. Okay. Now both of those bubbles are merging together. And then what you'll do is you can recap it. There really is no more room left. So you can't really pull back any further because you will risk the plunger coming out. And you don't want to do that because it won't be sterile. You can unscrew the needle filter. And then you can pick which syringe. So if you want to do a subcutaneous or shallow intramuscular injection, you can use, this is a 27 gauge, half of an inch needle. Or if you want a more deep intramuscular injection, that's a one inch needle. That's a one inch needle that you could use as well. So I'll just, I'll just pick one, the 27 gauge because it's a little lock. So I just screwed that on. And then there's a little bubble of air. And I just push from the bottom of the plunger, making sure there's no tap a few times that I push from the bottom. And then if I were ready to inject, I would make sure all the bubbles are out. Keep going. And it's, there might be a little tiny bubble. And if you just keep, okay, so you might, so here I am right exactly at one mil and ready to inject. So that's an easier way to get out one full mil. If you were to draw out the whole thing at once, then the risk is you would probably have even less in that. But because we removed anything from the sustenone in the neck of the ampule, we were able to get nearly all of it out of the one mil. That's it. Forward. If you're serious about long-term vitality, check the links below. At BMH, we've got resources, we've got education, we've got guidance to help you take a smarter path. And don't gamble with your health for a temporary gain at the gym. Build the foundation that lasts. I'm Mike with BMH. Thanks for watching. And I'll see you in the next video. Oh, and by the way, now you can listen to this podcast on Spotify as well.