 Th ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ ᮣ for price of a Rolls Royce for a Honda Pacific product. I'm burning three, 4,000 calories a day easily and already under eating and having no fat in my diet. Your body also can't tell time. So deciding to stop eating at 5 p.m. being so popular and women will get fat if they eat at 7 p.m. Why? If you guys go hunting and kill all your own food, you're probably fine. You don't need creatine. You probably get plenty. So I'm going to go back to the sucralose thing real quick. I'm going to tell you guys something interesting that I learned not too long ago because the study just came out and it was like the nail in the coffin for me on this one. So sucralose, they have found, they did a cancer study, okay? And not that it causes cancer. That's not what they said. But what it does is it blocks the action of arginine and arginine turns on the T cells that go and attack cancer cells. So they were doing this study on cancer patients and found that those that were consuming sucralose, it actually blocked the action of their immunotherapy. So sucralose was counteracting their cancer treatment. So I was like, okay, I think that's done now. Why are we still giving this to people? So they really are those artificial sweeteners. The pink, yellow, blues, I always tell people, that's another big one. That's right up there with plastic in my world. Like don't eat that stuff. That's a really good one for your gut for sure. So my next question for the panel is this. If there was, what is your favorite supplement to recommend and why? I think it's pretty simple. It's creatine. It's the most proven. I think it's probably the most obvious, but it's the most proven. It's been around the longest. It does the most. I'm going to look at it from a little bit different perspective. I think when everybody thinks of creatine, they think of muscle size or strength, right? Which is great. That's great. I mean, I think that's the obvious, but I'm looking at it as something that is going to help menopausal women. It's going to help men and women alike as we age to fight against sarcopenia, which is the last thing that you want to have go on. And of course, it does get more difficult to build muscle as we age. And it's one of the aspects that I have so many of the people that I coach and teach on. But women in menopause are going to have several different issues. One is like bone degradation. And it helps with that. It helps with some of the side effects of menopause. It helps men and women alike with mental clarity, thinking clearer. And I think that being that it's tried and true and proven, we know it's safe. We know it's effective. There's a lot of supplements out there that claim to do a lot of different things. And some do, some don't. But sometimes you don't know what the hell is in the pill. Not everything is put through an FDA-regulated facility. And even if it is, it's not necessarily tested. And if it's not, sometimes you could be getting way more of something in there. Unfortunately, I've been around it long enough to know, and I've seen it all, that there's a lot of hit and miss. And, excuse me, so creatine, basic ass creatine. I mean, you can say, yes, there you go. I mean, Chris will probably speak on this because he's got a little bit added onto his that's a little bit special that I use myself. But if you're not, if just general, you don't need all the fancy crap. I mean, all these things that people want to tell you and everything. There might be some argument on HCL. I'm not going to get into it. Regular old basic monohydrate. I mean, Creapyr, maybe if you want to try to go get the cleanest, whatever. But that would be my favorite, hands down. I think probably a lot will be in agreement on that. But that's why I grabbed it from you. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, creatine for sure. I mean, it's no big secret. But like a lot of that, a lot of the stuff with creatine, I will give credit to a lot of my friends and colleagues that do sport nutrition research, and especially individuals from international society who support nutrition. My good longtime friend, Dr. Scott Forbes, Darren Kandow, who's done a lot of creatine research. I mean, really creatine is like, has probably at this point in time, like well over 2,000 studies on it, both clinical trials, reviews. Like when it first came out, obviously in the early 90s, it was like all about, you know, strength, hypertrophy, like sports performance, explosive power. Like, and that still goes on today. But really like the last 5 to 10 years, it's been a lot more focused on like the clinical aspect, the immune system marker responses, especially in the brain, because people can actually have a genetic deficiency in creatine. And it's very rare. And of course, older adults, and in terms of the traditional loading protocol, like you don't need to do the traditional loading protocol anymore. Some people still think, like you need like a glucose transporter, like receptor. No, you don't. You just take it with water. It's creatine micronized monohydrate. The other forms of creatine, like creatine, like ethyl esters and stuff, like they're all inferior. Creatine micronized monohydrate is by far the most superior form of creatine. Don't need the loading protocol anymore. You can just start taking it. It's not an anabolic steroid. You don't need to cycle on and off for six weeks. In fact, if you look at a lot of sport nutrition research that do like cross-sectional studies and various interventions, like if you're trying to compare like a creatine with like say another supplement or creatine combined with like a protein supplement, etc., you often have to do like what's called a washout period. So creatine takes about six weeks to kind of like completely wash out from the skeletal muscle system. So you can't just introduce your next supplement while you still have creatine in your system. You have to wait. So the creatine studies that you see, they're like maybe six weeks, 10 weeks. Those took a total of like a year. You have to get the funding anywhere from six months to a year. And I can tell you because I've been involved with sports supplements, research projects, and training studies. They take several, several weeks, like from inception to idea, to approval, to an abstract, like to publication. It can take anywhere from six months to a year. So the effects of, you know, six weeks creatine supplementation on, you know, athletic performance, etc., fill in the blanks. Like that probably, like, and I'm just making this timeline up, like January to like May or June. And the study came out like almost, you know, early the next year. So that's kind of like the timeline of what these studies entail. So yeah, creatine is pretty awesome. Older adults actually need to be taking more. They need to be taking 10 to 20 grams of creatine. And because either if you're creatine deficient, but also like if you're a vegan, which I don't do vegan stuff, but you're automatically going to be lower on creatine, like from the get-go from a baseline level. So you don't need to do the traditional loading protocol anymore. You can just start taking it. I've done a lot of talks on supplements, and I always talk about creatine from like a sports performance perspective and a clinical marker, you know, point of view. And I've talked about the various studies on this. ISSN have wonderful position statements just on creatine alone, as well as like protein and energy drinks. And the thing like with like pre-workouts, like for example, you will always see creatine, but the creatine gummies, they're garbage. Personally, my professional assessment on, they're complete garbage because you have to get into it with other fillers and, you know, guar gums and all this stuff in there. But pre-workouts, obviously every single pre-workout out there, whether it's a drink or a powder, all have like, there's various ingredients, but they all have the same three. It's going to be caffeine, creatine, or beta-alanine. Okay. Creatine should always have five grams in it. Anything less than five grams, you're basically paying for the price of a Rolls Royce for a Honda Pacific product. Okay. beta-alanine is a different story. Now, physiologically, beta-alanine does the exact same thing as creatine monohydrate physiologically in terms of adding phosphate groups onto the breakdown of ATP so you can train at higher levels of intensity at a faster rate. But beta-alanine has a, the dosage is overlapped. So creatine is five, beta-alanine is four to six. You can look that up in ISIS and position statements as well. However, pre-workouts never have, almost never, 90% of the time, never have anything over three grams. One of the reasons in my professional assessment is that a very low side effect of beta-alanine is paresthesia, which you get like this small tingling in the hands, excuse me, the fingers, like the back of the neck. Nobody really knows why it really occurs, but from like a consumer's perspective, from a company's perspective, if they're getting complaints about people getting tingling and may affect potential bottom line of the sales. But if they do have beta-alanine in it, two or three grams, it's not enough. They'll usually have five grams. beta-alanine needs to have between four or six grams. Powders, most powders don't have four or six grams and energy drinks don't have four or six grams. And the other one, of course, is caffeine. And that's a whole different topic about, you know, caffeine because not like protein, not all caffeine is created equal. I'll stop there because I'm sure we're going to talk about it. I do like, I do like creatine. I do like creatine, but I'm just, I'm just trying to think of something else that I like. I guess I could do some creatine now for my brain function. So I guess it all depends on the individual and where they are in the world, you know? So for instance, if I think of people in Europe, like in the UK, for instance, they think drinking tea and coffee is hydrating themselves. They don't drink water and they don't have any electrolytes. So I really like electrolytes, you know, again, dependent on, you know, where they are in the world. So I'm going to give you an example. I was just in Wales now about, or in the UK about four weeks ago and I met up with my uncle Nigel. They're all farmers. All my family are farmers, you know? And he'd been going to the doctor earlier this year. He's been several times because he's had no energy. He said, I'd look out, you know, he's got a small holding farm. I'd look outside. I knew I had to go out there, but I've just slept like eight and a half hours and I still don't have the energy and the enthusiasm to go out there and do the work. Doctors didn't know what was wrong with him. It was all in his head or getting old or whatever. But then my father actually gave him some electrolytes, started drinking the electrolytes and because they tasted good, it encouraged him to drink more as well. All of a sudden, he's got his energy back and this tub was like magic. It was absolute magic and I actually filmed him talking about it to my wife because I thought it's very authentic, you know? So I guess the supplement side is all dependent on the person, you know? So if that is a deficiency in that person then that's going to be the best supplement for them, I guess. So there isn't like a be-all, one-all, end-all to any of them. I really like L-glutamine not for like the aesthetic, athletic purposes but more for the protective purposes. Taking L-glutamine is really good for your gut lining. Kind of helps keep, again, going back to the gut. Really good for it. It's not really that advertised for that reason as opposed to being advertised for you're not going to be a sore, take this. But I like it more for like the gut protective purposes and then like a cheating answer is vitamin D. We don't really go outside. People are on their screens a lot. It's actually a hormone. I'm not sure why it's made its way into the supplement world since it is a hormone that our body produces. It's a byproduct, you know, but those are my two. Mine is going to be a very, very, very boring supplement. Very boring, very cheap, very inexpensive. No bangs, no whistles. Boring. Melatonin. So, three to five milligrams of low dose melatonin. Not some of these 15, 20, that's too much. Boring old melatonin in a soft gel. Do not ever buy it in a tablet. In a soft gel. I use it with my athletes. 100% of the time. It doesn't matter if it's a 430 pound Brian Shaw or if it's a 220 pound Saquon Barkley. Every single one we're told to use melatonin in the evening, low dose, three to five milligrams. It has a profound impact on insulin sensitivity. It has a profound impact on helping your body mitigate cortisol timing and release. Everybody knows about the sleep part and that's great. And of course, anytime you sleep better, you're going to have better hormonal responses. And anyhow, because as you sleep is when your body is releasing its growth hormone, releasing its other hormones in order to balance things out through the evening. You set yourself up for success for how you're going to start the next day by taking a very simple low dose melatonin three to five milligrams. I've even had my guys do extensive blood tests because I needed to see, like, there's a couple other things I put with it, but even just with the melatonin, the results were basically the same. They have a profound ability to recover from, so let's say, Eddie Hall. I worked with Eddie Hall. So when Eddie did the 1,102-pound deadlift, when you have a situation like that with an athlete or like when Brian's done his 1,000-pound deadlifts as well or any of these guys, Tom Stoltman with his 600-pound Atlas Stone load, anytime you have these guys that go through a competition where they blow out their central nervous system because, mind you, if you do that activity or your central nervous system is blown out, every single one of those instances I had them do that melatonin protocol of mine and every single one of those individuals was able to recover within one or two days whereas before it would be a couple of weeks but they were back on, everything regulated. People fail to recognize the symptoms of your central nervous system being blown out. People think that while I'm exhausted my nervous system might be blown out. That they pick up on. It's kind of the opposite. If you truly blow it out like doing something like that, you're a nervous mess. You are jittery. You are lit up because you're in permanent stuck fight or flight load and that low dose melatonin 3 or 5 million still would shut it off every single time and their cortisol levels when they would get their blood work done were always drastically down off that stupid, cheap, boring supplement. So I think one of the things to take away from this is that good old tried and true is probably the way to go when it comes to supplements. I'm going to add a few more things just about creatine just because I'm a huge believer of it. There is actually a lot of theory especially in the ISSN this is where I kind of cut my teeth on a lot of things that we as a society are highly deficient in creatine. The creatine in our brain is not what it was and part of that is because of our food supply. So you asked before about can we get everything we need from food. If you guys go hunting and kill all your own food you're probably fine. You don't need creatine. You probably get plenty because those are animals that are running around with muscles full of creatine. Our animals are not like that anymore because they're on farms they're not walking they're not running around and so we're not getting the same amount. So there's a very very large theory that part of the reason that we're having metabolic brain disease is that we're all creatine deficient. And so that's one of those that I honestly I tell everybody to take I don't care mom, dad, kids I don't it's not going to hurt anybody it never has they've done long-term studies on it even in children and it's never hurt anyone. And so as long as the people that say well, what are the muscle cramps and stuff? Be hydrated people. It's not a creatine problem it's a water hydration problem. So don't blame something that it didn't do because creatine never caused it. It was dehydration dehydration that causes that kind of stuff because it pulls those fluids into the muscle. So it's important to kind of look past those weird things that people say and kind of go wait a second what was really the problem there? But yeah I'm a big believer in that the people's brains are just not they're getting neglected and creatine is a big big part of that. I think more than anything like yes it's good for our muscles yay but taking care of your brain should be the primary reason to take creatine for sure. What was your question? I'll talk on the short chain fatty acids exogenous ketones I'm not sold on so I'm just going to say that right now I just ketones are there for survival reasons we have them we produce them so that our brain doesn't die like that's what they're for taking them exogenously I still haven't seen very clear evidence of that maybe you guys can if you've seen anything but I don't I have never used those short chain fatty acids do have a place now I'm going to go back to gut health on this though if you have a healthy functioning gut you are going to produce short chain fatty acids that go directly to the brain and heal the brain that's what they do that is the purpose of short chain fatty acids is our nervous system if your gut is functioning right you are producing those and you're producing them in adequate amounts how many people have a functioning gut 100% probably 3% of the population I would say not very many so I like using them adjunctly as part of a gut healing protocol so people can kind of feel and teach the gut how to make those again I don't necessarily do it all the time but that is that would be the reason to use them I don't think they should be a permanent part of someone's nutrition plan as long as we're working on some gut healing protocols with that yeah I'll do I haven't done ketones for a while I'm not really into like the ketone aids or ketone IQs I do like BHB salts because sometimes dependent on the type of training that I'm doing let's say if I'm doing a lot of endurance training then I like to double up on my fuel sources so I know I'm getting ATP from the BHB I'm going to get ATP from creatine or you know even if I'm having like a lot of people will take like BHBs or ketones without carbohydrates I do them with carbohydrates I personally feel that you're getting a double fuel source utilizing both so I feel that my ATP production is enhanced if I'm doing BHB and I'm doing you know the regular carbohydrates with creatine I think it works well it does for me anyway but I'm like I said I'm not into like the the other type of ketones that you get out there like you do in your ketone IQs any ketone aids I prefer the pure BHB salts the food guide pyramid is off the table what is the worst piece of nutrition advice that you have ever seen or heard go crazy it's very very easy for me because it's been something personal and something I've seen with everybody and that is the low fat diet which I would argue is one of the worst creations I've ever seen in the dietary world if not the worst I mean the food guide pyramid is pretty fucked but the the low fat diet in itself I fell victim to this for I don't know my whole life it's called lipophobia fear of fats and Lacey talked with me this in detail I've talked about it on several shows I've done I've gone on podcasts to talk about it to try to talk to people to explain them just how bad this was and even being a nutritionist for so long and knowing and teaching clients it's still embedded in your head and you have this fear and you correlate the word fat with being fat and it couldn't be more inaccurate and more wrong and the body really thrives and needs fats and they've been demonized they've been put into a light of putting people into darkness by not you know having them and understanding the need and necessity for them in your overall health and once I made that change and you're talking to somebody that over trains admittedly but I'm burning three four thousand calories a day easily and already under eating and having a no fat in my diet just destroying me probably a contributor to why I've had heart issues it contributed to why I've had trouble staying focused longer than 30 minutes probably why I'm irritable probably by every bad quality I've ever had could probably be attributed to that and so once I made these changes once I started to understand everything that I was teaching I needed to start doing my own and getting past my own mental block and putting that into play I mean my whole world's opened up everything has changed for me I'm a lot kinder I'm a lot nicer but I'm a lot more focused and I'm able to absorb I kept asking myself why are you not able to sit and listen longer and absorb information when you used to do so well and it was because of this and over time it will degrade because your body requires it in so many different ways and you know that brings on another topic of understanding cholesterol and that's a whole other rabbit hole that I would talk forever on and I don't want to be that guy today but to me that whole thing that started was it late 80s early 90s and just got thrown down our throats and I've talked to some of the biggest experts all over the world about this and skewing studies to make it look a certain way for whatever purpose and you could get into it that's a whole another hole but it's gotten pushed down our throats and we've been made to believe something completely and utterly inaccurate and I can prove it through so many different ways blood panels experiences things I've done with so many people that will try to tell you all of these fats are so bad they're going to ruin your cholesterol ruin your heart all of my markers have improved so drastically performance everything and it's something that I've known the whole time but I like to when I teach tell people mistakes I've made so that I can then teach them how to fix them and then things that I've seen other people make but it's good to come up and discuss all of these parts and components that are missing but I swear to you I promise you that there are so many important aspects of implementing implementing fats into your diet and it's something that you never ever ever want to short change or you know let deplete because it will come at a cost I would say two things the phrase of eat less and move more which I understand the intention behind that and most of that from and please correct me if I'm wrong most of that phrase comes from like medical professionals who have less than three weeks of actual nutrition experience and or knowledge in the medical system so that that phrase I think is has become as being a very large disservice the other one which ranks higher than that is the this illusion and this fake story of carbohydrates and sugars cause obesity that has been one of the worst things that people like the whole mentality behind it is an illusion like if carbohydrates or sugar cause obesity we would all be obese okay obesity is very multifactorial it is partly genetic it's environmental it's psychological it's mental it's physiological it's nutritional it's how you respond you know to food I would argue that probably of those factors and there's more I would say that the genetic and environmental aspects are the greatest contributors you know to obesity but if you also look in terms of families like you have one obese parent you know you're 50 to 60% in chances of your kid being you know obese right out the gate if you have two parents that are very overweight and obese now it's like you know 80 90% plus so environment alone if you had the genetic environment I would say environment alone is a higher risk factor for somebody because I'm genetically like bigger like my you know my dad his brothers like we're all just genetically bigger and so I've had to fight my whole life like I was really chubby when I was a kid you know there was we ate a lot of junk food and but we were really active right I mean I'm a multi-sport athlete I competed in strong man so I really didn't understand how the nutrition side works until I was almost like kind of way past you know my PhD when I actually started teaching it and getting more involved with it so I would I would say the you know just eat less and move more it's like okay but what does that really mean like how much less do I have to eat like there's there's a whole I mean we've been sitting here for two hours talking about this I would say that and then the carbohydrates and sugars alone like are the reason like why everyone's obese which is a complete horse shit are they small contributors yes but they're not like the key underlying reasons of why people are obese even though obesity is a very multifactorial process yeah the one that I think is a huge misconception is that all macros are created equal so you know I'd see people have all this deli meat and yeah I'm having my protein and not really understanding the form of that protein or how it is being digested or how it's having an effect on your gut microbiome they're all very very different you know talking about carbohydrates before you know the way that someone is going to process rice could be very different to how they're going to process like bleached flour for instance has been stripped of all its fiber that is actually providing good bacteria to your gut so I'd say that's the biggest thing even though we consider a lot of these macronutrients healthy a lot of them aren't because a lot of them are stripped of their essential aspects that is contributing to your gut microbiome or your health you know so and of course you know we could talk about the insulin spikes that are associated with some of those so I'd say that's it for me placing a priority on counting calories it's not my thing body can't do math I guarantee if you give your cells a math test they will all fail so that's my biggie focus on your macros do not spend time wasting on obtaining your 2800 calories a day or 2650 calories a day irrelevant put your priority on your macros your meal prep getting the right supplements that you need to supplement your diet if that's necessary to your lifestyle but definitely stop wasting time counting calories kind of got a short and sweet one too your body also can't tell time so deciding to stop eating at 5 p.m. being so popular and women will get fat if they eat at 7 p.m. why that's my biggest thing that I like even with private people that I work with outside of the hospital things like that so many women that I work with are like but I go to bed at 9 I'm gonna eat dinner at 7 yes and you will be okay and watch our channel for more interesting information like this but if you do want a more breakdown of real science versus media fear-mongering subscribe drop me a like and share this with someone and check us out on Instagram TikTok and now on Spotify you can listen to content like this you