 coulacetriac, Masters Masters Masters Masters Masters Masters Masters Masters Masters Masters Masters Masters Masters Masters Masters Masters This is a very specific video for men in the UK who may be low in testosterone treatment and who might be struggling to find the right clinic and the right information about what qualifies you to be on testosterone therapy. You know, it's interesting over the years, some men that would come in to the clinic, they would come through, they would do the blood tests and they would discuss any symptoms that they would have. And strangely enough, some men would be really disappointed that they didn't qualify for therapy. And many of these men, there may have been other issues besides testosterone being one of them. In fact, many times the testosterone was well in the healthy range, not just the total, but the free and the SHBG. But yet they had some of these symptoms which normally pointed to other points in their life. But for the majority of our patients would rather not want to have to go on testosterone therapy and be able to get their body to perform in the way they would want it to as far as having a good mood, improved libido. I think most people would rather be under their own steam than having to rely on a lifelong of testosterone therapy. I know testosterone therapy has become quite popular industry, if you will, in what I call American style TRT with British sensibilities. I brought a particular way of offering TRT when it wasn't available. And now we have seen others that have cropped up in this space. And we are the leaders in this field because of the years of experience. And my own personal experience and journey on TRT helps us to understand what a man goes through or a woman goes through who have low testosterone. Because at Balance For Hormones, testosterone therapy is not just for a man, it's also for women. Many, many women, even at younger ages, are suffering from low testosterone. You wouldn't think because you think females get estradiol, men get testosterone. But really, men need estradiol and women need testosterone as well. So what is the journey? What is the process? What does one go through to see if they're eligible for testosterone treatment, testosterone therapy? Well, it usually starts with, you know, contacting us at Balance My Hormones. And that might come off the back of filling out some online hormone quiz or survey or Adam's questionnaire. All these are ways to help potentially screen a patient to help them understand if their symptoms match up with low testosterone. The next step is having some biomarkers, some blood tests done to know if one is deficient on the biomarker. But keep in mind that many things that can affect the outcomes of those tests. So one to be very careful of is if you are taking biotin. Biotin is a B vitamin that you might find in your B complex or even in a multivitamin. Biotin, whilst it might be okay for hair and hair growth and nice nails, it tends to skew the analyzers at the lab. So what does that mean? That means you think you have low testosterone, you've got all the symptoms. You go to take the blood test, you forgot to stop taking your biotin. You should not take your biotin with it. But let's say you took your biotin within days or a week of doing the blood test. You get your blood result back. You don't understand why are your levels high or normal? Well, what happens, tends to happen, is the biotin skews the analyzer for both testosterone levels and thyroid hormones. So in a sense, it gives the patient a false reading, gives the doctor a false reading. And it does not give them the blood level that you would expect and that they actually have. The way a patient goes through the process to get diagnosed for low testosterone is to look at a combination of symptoms. But the biomarkers play a big role. It's a bit strange, really, because for women who are going through the menopause and HRT, no biomarkers or blood tests are required. Just the age and some symptoms tied to menopause. But for males, it's this huge gauntlet of tests and symptoms and questionnaires that are required for one to get approved for testosterone therapy approved. It almost sounds like you're applying for a loan or a mortgage. Very, very bizarre. But that's the way the regulatory environment is really around the world. And in the UK in particular, what we want to make sure of is that we don't or that the patient doesn't go on testosterone therapy if they don't have a medical or clinical need. I think at Balanced by Hormones, we take a more pragmatic approach and we look at the symptoms. We look at the patient. If a patient's right on the precipice of one or the other, it doesn't mean they magically have gone from having low testosterone to having normal testosterone within a fraction of a percent. You know, it has to or within one point. We have to look at the patient as a whole, the quality of life, the symptoms they've been suffering from. And another fact that you don't realize is that a blood test, the biomarker, is just one point in time. So a good night's sleep or bad night's sleep can skew the blood level, the reading. And even if you have diabetes, you've got the continuous glucose monitors, the CGMs. Imagine if we had those for testosterone, what the data would look like. And I have spoken with some endocrinologists about this very topic where if you were to measure, maybe through a cannula, frequent every five to ten minutes, what your testosterone level would be. They've shown some of the data they've collected. They have a vastly different level from almost minute to minute in some cases. So you might, your first level that you take might show, oh, this person doesn't need testosterone treatment. And then the next five or ten minutes when they pull the level again, actually they are quite deficient. And then if you were to look at the aggregate of all those different readings, you might say, well, actually the area under the curve or the total testosterone over this period of time, a day or two days. So this is a story to tell you that one blood test at one point in time may not always be the most accurate. That certain biomarkers like testosterone and thyroid can be skewed if you take biotin. And that we need to look at many tests over time, right? Not just one test. So having multiple tests paints the picture of what's going wrong with a man's testosterone levels. And that the fact that if you're sleeping well and that's your normal state and you're still having low levels, then that's an issue. Another thing to be aware of is after the age of 40, it may not be necessary to have a morning test. But many times we would recommend a morning test because we look at other biomarkers like cortisol because cortisol tends to be the highest in the morning. That also drops during the day. And that's usually why you end up waking up because the cortisol spikes. And then you're like, oh, it's time to get up. It gives you a little bit of energy. If you have low cortisol in the morning, they'll tend to be a bit more sleepy. So these are some things to consider. Another biomarker that we like to look at on the blood test is estradiol. Because let's face it, many of the symptoms of low testosterone are linked to low levels of the female hormone estradiol or estradiol or estrogen or estrogen. This biomarker is really important because testosterone is three drugs for the price of one. Testosterone, estradiol, dihydrotestosterone all play a part. So essentially one hormone is like a pro-hormone and converse to these other two very important hormones. And if estradiol is too low, even if the testosterone is borderline, that tells us that actually your testosterone is probably not high enough. Optimal testosterone should also have optimal estradiol. And if the two aren't in sync, then chances are you're probably deficient in testosterone. And then same thing for females. We'll look at total and calculated free and SHBG for females. And females tend to have higher levels of sex hormone binding globulin, which is SHBG. And if a man has higher levels of SHBG as well, they'll tend to have lower levels of free testosterone. And we prefer at BMH to have calculated free testosterone. That's what's normally found in most clinical trials anyway. And so those are very reproducible to have those done that way. So how do you know if you're eligible for TRT in the UK? Symptoms and blood tests are the ways that we can measure if you're low. But having an expert clinic like BMH, we're able to look at the data in ways that other clinics called or don't. So that you are getting a real expert opinion before you go on TRT. Because there is a good chance, based on some recent studies and data showing that picking your testosterone, deciding to go on testosterone treatment based off of just a few tests, you know, these tests can be off. And it's not, doesn't mean the lab was off. It's just your own body, the way things have been secreted. And there can be these more variations than most people would like to think in the actual testosterone level, the result of these tests. So again, if you have the symptoms, usually the sexual symptoms, the, you know, symptoms from the Adams questionnaire, everything from a decrease in sex drive, that's a large correlation. But there are other symptoms that occur, probably close to that level of 15 nanomoles per liter, that are a bit more subtle, but do have an effect on your overall well-being and your mood, your mental health. All these can start at higher levels. And then when they get to be really bad, that's when you see some of the questions on the Adams questionnaire really take hold. Obviously, as I started, if one doesn't need to be on treatment, then you don't need to be on treatment. And there may be other things you can do on your own. Also, when you're starting testosterone to find out if you're eligible is to understand whether or not fertility is important. You can maintain a level of fertility if you were fertile before starting treatment. And then with along with your testosterone treatment, whether it's injections or creams or oral Kaiser trex, you can also add in something like HCG. The HCG sends a signal to your testes, kind of mimics what your brain would normally send out to keep the fertility going and potentially maintaining some level of size to the testes. Though for men that don't do HCG, many men also maintain some size to the testes. There may be some minor shrinkage. It depends on the individual. There's a lot that goes into whether or not you're eligible. But it starts with you taking the first step, contacting us at BMH and see how we can take you through the process in a very seamless, convenient way. Hopefully, if you found that information helpful, let us know what your thoughts are about the eligibility criteria in the UK. And if you haven't already, why not subscribe to the channel where you'll get the latest information on all things HRT, TRT, interesting podcasts. It doesn't cost you anything to subscribe because it really does make a difference for our algorithm as we grow the channel to get more information out to the general public, both in the UK and elsewhere. So we'd appreciate that and to your health.