plexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplexplex or circulating around and maybe they're getting some testosterone, but it's blocking the receptors. Your body, your cells were accustomed to having a much higher level and a different pattern. So, quick quiz. Does anyone know, true or false, does testosterone therapy increase the risk of heart attacks? What do you guys think? Yeah. No. You think it does? It might. You've heard this. It might, depending on the depth. Yeah. All right. So... I thought we need to add resistance training to make the bone dancers. Well, of course, resistance training as well, but those men in the study, they already had some form of heart disease to begin with. But what's good, though, about debunking the myth behind heart disease is that actually testosterone can be beneficial to the heart and it wasn't having a negative effect on the heart. Well, it's better to look like wisdom like that, you know, that's quite a... Well, I don't want to be misleading. Not everyone can look like that and you can take testosterone. Yeah. But, you know, if you work at it, right... Well, yeah, it's funny because guys who've had, get the training right, eat well, but don't really make those gains pre-TRT. When they go on TRT, they sort of finally click. Like, it just seems to come on much more easily than the muscle mass and the body fat comes off. And that's the way it should be. Like, in your 20s, you know, everything's kind of primed. You should be able to... Here's a question for you, right? Let's say, for example, the thought... Ben, you said you don't want to be reliant on something. That's what people worry about. Some people. Yeah. That's the thought that I actually had when you were talking. Let's just say, for example, I've been taking it and let's say now I'm 40. Yeah. I take you 20 years. I'm 60 now. 70 years. Yeah. You know, I'm getting old now. You're taking this thing for fucking years. And I'm now looking to go into a care home. My wife's gone. You know, I'm alone in the care home. What am I going to do? I'm like, okay, let's say I'll stop taking it. Now, our body doesn't now produce testosterone. It's just so used to the externa testosterone. It will eventually, but there'll be a period of not... That'll feel great. And then, do I get my nurse in the care home to inject me or your arsehole? How does it work? Well, it doesn't go in your arsehole, but you're going to have the upper arsehole quadrant of your glutes. Yeah. But... Look. It's comfortable. You know, look, we got... Where's the creed, though? Where's the... So, okay, you can inject it. You can inject it. And you can inject the upper arse quadrant of your glutes. You can inject it in your quads. You can inject it in the side of your glute over here with tiny, small needles. You can inject it, though I don't love it because it leaves a lot of lumps and bumps, but some people like to have that control injected in their abs. And that, again, is personal preference, subcutaneous. I think the subcutaneous... You can do subcutaneous injections, but I find that it slows down the absorption too much. You can create lots of lumps and bumps and bruises. And if you wanted to go with your shirt off, it's not a good look. I mean, one... I got a warning on Facebook once because I posted... reposted a picture from someone who sent me a picture of their injection site. And it was so inflamed, it looked like a boob. It literally looked like a female breast. And they dinged me for showing nudity on a Facebook group. That's how large it was, right? So that's not ideal location for everyone. And it's not ideal to put oil into a fatty area like that. But you can do like a shallow intramuscular injection. I find areas like on the side over here, very easy to do. You could use a tiny needle. So it's not that hard to do it. And if you had to be injected, if you're in a care home, I'm sure they would inject you. But God, 60 is quite young to be in a care home. You should set your goal a little bit higher. I'm dependent on this thing for the rest of my life. Yeah, but you're also dependent on feeling very shitty for the rest of your life. And having some other... And you're also... But you might not even go that long. Because the data says those men with the lowest levels have a higher risk of mortality the next five years. On average. So you might not have to worry about a care home. I don't know. It's 60. I don't know. I didn't give you a shit about 60. Yeah, but it's not about the 60. That right there is where I lost. And that's a great, great comment you made. Because a lot of the people in the general public will say, it's about what I look like. No, this is not. And sorry, again, I should have put... I kind of gravitated towards the nice Ripley-Marsley guy. But we all do, right? It's human nature. But in reality, most of us on TRT... I mean, this guy's got good lighting. He's dieting down. It's not about that. It's about, you know, wellness. It's not about the things we can actually even see. It's about things that are happening internally to your body. Because your body needs testosterone for so many biological functions, for your metabolism, and help to slow down the aging process. Things that you can't visibly see straight away. Yeah. Mental health, the way your blood sugar works. That's why I make the joke about the endocrinologist being average or mediocre diabetes specialists. Because if they're a good diabetes specialist, they would recognize the power of testosterone to help fix diabetes. But they don't. So they get demoted in my book and many others. So that's why you've got to change the paradigm and saying testosterone that's low is not great for my health, regardless if I have to keep taking it for the rest of my life. Now, 20, 30 years, will there be other treatments? Maybe. Maybe will there be a genetic treatment to rejuvenate with stem cells, your testes, to make it work? I don't know. But the least expensive option, easiest option, is to be able to essentially do testosterone therapy. In which you're using testosterone to fix what's not there. Makes sense? Hopefully I'd be a bit reassured. But yeah, that's a really, really good question. Quick question about that. Is there any evidence, or could you say, that while a young male is growing up to a certain point past puberty, I thought he was around about 20 or something, Is there any evidence that there is a baseline set of testosterone that you think that these environmental factors and sensory lifestyle is actually having an effect on their future production of testosterone? So if you're not actually activating something in the body by behaving a certain way, I'm actually tramping it down, throw shitty food and stuff. Does that set a very low baseline? Is it something that we know? Well, if there's damage to the testes, because testes are your factory for testosterone. So if the environmental toxins are damaging the testes, or affecting the brain, or circulating around, and maybe they're getting some testosterone, but it's blocking the receptors. So now they're almost like an androgen insensitivity syndrome. So whilst there is circulating testosterone, one, it might be lower than it should, because the environmental, you know, estrogens are basically sending a false signal to the brain to slow down the whole mechanism of LH to the testes, and then, you know, it's just such a vicious cycle. So yeah, is there a set number? Well, that number could be changed, right? But if they don't get the testosterone to all their cells at a young enough age, one, they're not going to fully develop in puberty, you know, two, it might negatively affect the brain, three, you know, they're not going to have the same, you know, benefits of reaching adulthood without having, you know, adequate testosterone as a younger person. Now, some people go through delayed puberty, you know, and we've, you know, we don't treat teenagers or anyone that's an adult, like 18. And even that, you know, we like to push a little to a little bit older. But for these young people, they've contacted us, and they're, you know, they're desperate because they don't get help from the NHS. We had one chap that was, during COVID, the NHS started him on androgens, you know, like 15, 16, and then just stopped and then didn't give him any more. He was supposed to get two rounds, nothing. So it's just a shame. It's really awful. There's a very terrible, terrible treatment on the part of the NHS. But in general, you want to set people up for the right stages in life. And if the younger generation, because of all these other bits, aren't getting their testosterone in an adequate amount, what's going to happen to our future? Because that's a bit scary. Just as a follow-up question so that I understand it. When are we done growing down there? You know, at what age is that set? What's that taken? When does it, like, in terms of being an adult man, everything being fully functional and that's how it's set, when does that part stop? Because they understand that we become adults. Yeah, yeah. When there does that kind of stop, typically? So there was a good study about what causes the cessation of your manhood, yeah? That's what you're asking? Yeah. And there's certain chemical signals, TGF beta 1, which can cause fibrosis. That may, if I'm fully agreed, that may... So the funny thing is, we make androgens, right? Well, we make androgens as a mini-puberty six months after we're born. Within six months after you get this spike that's nearly as high as your adolescent level of testosterone. And it drops back down to very low levels. But even children have some low levels of testosterone. I think even they can get erections. Then, you know, puberty hits and you get the sudden surge and the signaling from the brain. They think something called Kispeptin sits above. And you may have heard of this peptide, Kispeptin. I don't know if you guys have heard of this. I think Imperial College was doing a study on Kispeptin, a version of it. And essentially, that sits high on the food chain. Like Kispeptin tells you other gonadotropins, LH and FSH. No, G and RH, gonadotropin releasing hormone to release, which then causes LH and FSH to signal your testes. And they start growing and maturing. LH making your testosterone, FSH helping the sperm to develop. And then there's a feedback loop for both inhibing A and B. And there's the estradiol that your testosterone aromatizes into. Then tells the brain, hey, we've got enough testosterone. And the cycle slows down or speeds up depending on how it senses the estradiol. You know. You know, I asked you a little the last time. But could you maybe elaborate a little bit about going on and then maybe dropping out of TRT? Oh, yeah. Stopping and starting. You start it for a while, then you start. I mean, you regret. Like cycling it. Yeah, so. Even just getting out, you know. What sticks? Yeah, say it went for five years straight. Then I was just like, I just don't do it. Then I just stop. Yeah, well, look, it's. They used to say you should taper it. But that's kind of pointless because you're just delaying the inevitable. So a better approach that I've seen. If you would have figured you wanted to stop it. Let's say you just did testosterone treatment during that course of therapy. The best option is to try to get the testes back online. But if you just put HCG in on its own, it's going to take a while to get to the levels that you had. So sometimes patients will be on testosterone and HCG to get the testes at least working. Or sometimes they'll be on it from the beginning of treatment to get the testes working. So that if you do stop the exogenous testosterone, you still have the exogenous signal, the proxy for your LH and FSH. But that signal has been keeping what I call the factory open and running, at least on a lower capacity. Right. Whilst you're on the testosterone treatment. So then when you finally stop, there is still a day of reckoning. There's still a day where the Easter dial has to drop low enough. The testosterone has to drop low enough. So the brain will finally say, ah, we've got to start ramping up the orders, you know, from the head office to get the factory going on again. Right. So that has to has to occur. And then eventually they'll start coming back online again. But your body, your cells were accustomed to having a much higher level and a different pattern. Right. Your normal variation, you get higher testosterone levels normally in the morning. Though after the age of 40, it's not as much of a difference between the morning and the evening level. But there's a certain symphony of things that are happening between the brain and the body and how all this is working. And you got used to that thing on insolidinous testosterone. And you you probably overall, if you were to measure the area under the curve, the volume of all the testosterone you were getting on the external treatment, insolidinous treatment versus what your own body would be making, you're probably getting a lot larger area than you would with just natural production. So you're going to be spoiled. You're going to like those levels. Your body is going to function better with those levels. So there's going to be an adjustment going back to being the old Jew. So the question is, why? Why would you want to do that if it's enhancing the quality of life of your body going forward? So I've been on treatment since I was at 22 years old. I'm now 51. So I've been on it and I never went without my treatment. Well, the most I've been is probably about 25 days. I've been 30 days. It started to feel a slowdown, but it wasn't awful. I think the benefit for me, though, and it couldn't work out because I kept testing my testosterone levels. They're kind of staying hanging about for a while. So I started at about like 39 nanomoles per liter or 40. Oh, it's so high. It's so high. My brother is naturally about 39 nanomoles per liter. So how could that be that high? If you were to look at my age versus, you know, the peers of mine are around 50 or older, may have lower levels when you look at the aggregate of people who got blood tests. But overall, 39, 40 is not a dangerous level. So the time I was in HCG, keeping the testes going, along with my exogenous testosterone. But when we removed HCG and the testosterone, they seemed quite buoyant. It took a very long time for them to come down. It took nearly about 20 to 23 days before they got down to around 12 nanomoles per liter. You know, and then I was like, OK, I need to do an injection now. So it was OK. It wasn't the end of the world. And sometimes for some patients, you know, there may be just a few, you know, a week or two break. Sometimes it may help reset things. Sometimes it's not reset to go back on their own, but just it may help help them feel maybe lower the estradiol over time or maybe help lower hematocrit or hemoglobin. If you can sometimes that happens as well. If it goes too high, you either stop the treatment for a while, a couple of weeks and lower the dose when you restart. Just a little bit of like a test. And also I should get blood. Yeah, so that has to do with what they call a thickening of the blood. So in the studies where they looked at, so there's never been any study that says men on testosterone treatment are at higher risk of stroke or any sort of issue with clotting of the blood. OK, with testosterone treatment. We know that people who have thickening of the blood, they call that polycythemia vera, is different to erythrocytosis secondary to androgen therapy. It's kind of a benefit when many men who are traditionally hypogranadal go on testosterone treatment. They have really low, they're almost anemic. And so it's really a good thing that testosterone raises that so they're no longer anemic. So that's a benefit. But men who are kind of borderline or young or, you know, just tend to have higher levels of hematocrit and hemoglobin, they can produce quite high levels sometimes. It also depends on how the treatment is. So the testosterone gels, which are the weaker ones, tend not to increase it as much, but it depends on the individual. Creams in general tend not to increase it as much, but it still can. Again, dose dependent. I think the predictor is how high your free testosterone level is on trough. That means the time at the lowest point, right before your next application or injection or dose that you take away, that's your trough. And so the higher the free testosterone is at trough, the more likely you will be to have a higher hematocrit and hemoglobin in many cases. But there can be other... Your skin gets like a little more red when you work out and stuff. Yeah, but it's more like out of the shower, you get dry itchy skin and there's some other factors. But donating blood in general is okay. I mean, you can give blood if you're going to be just to donate to people. I think once every three plus months or so. It's fine. And if you go consistently, I think they give you a free meal at the end of the year, depending on the bloodstaking society, right? Well, no, no. They'll give you like a reward meal or some gift certificate. I'm curious if that's like a regimen. I haven't given blood. And a real simple way is you just lower the dose. Or you go small, more frequent dosing. And that helps you not need to have to give blood. But giving blood isn't bad because there are some studies to remove the forever chemicals. Donating blood helps get them out of the system. And there may be some other benefits for the turnover of blood like that. But there are, again, in the TRT community, there's a whole other group that says, no, never give blood. You don't need to do this. I think what they're saying is that there has been too much fear and panic around this elevation of hematocrit and hemoglobin. And hemoglobin being on TRT. And I get their point because people who live in really high altitude, they're not giving blood. And they're not dying of heart attacks and strokes because of the thickening of the blood. So it is, like I said, originally quite a theoretical thing when it comes to men on TRT. And it's usually only those that have the kidney disease that had a problem. I mean, look, the FDA, like I said earlier, you do need to check your blood pressure. That's huge. Some men will have extra edema or water retention, depending on usually injections will cause that more. But then as we also get to middle age and beyond, it's really important to keep that under control because, you know, high blood pressure is a silent killer. You don't even know you have it. And so getting that managed and sometimes, you know, diet and exercise gets you so far, maybe a little bit of Tadalafil. See, oh, this just doesn't work good for down there, but it helps the blood vessels. It dilates them, improves nitric oxygen or nitroxide. Probably to a certain degree, you know, your low carb diet is good. But if you do need to have blood pressure medications, there are the nasty ones that are like the calcium channel blockers that make your prolactin elevate and kill your libido. Or there are some that are actually, some of them are even exercise mimetics. And those are the ARBs, the angiotensin receptor blockers, which keep your body from, you know, it acts like an extra help for exercise. It helps you burn fat a little bit. And it also keeps your blood pressure down. And there really aren't really any side effects unless you take too much. And then you get hyper orthostatic hypotension. That's when you get up very quickly and you're a bit dizzy. So anyway, that's important, the blood pressure, too, to keep it in check. Do you have any help for too much testosterone? Too much? We did a video on that, didn't we, Paul Kitt? We made a video of what happens if I take too much. What happens? I think there was... Too much natural. I think there was one study. It's even when the packets leave for someone. They took weight. They overdosed on it. And I think it's like one or two cases of someone dying. So, my vision. If someone has low testosterone, what I'm hearing is that the reason why by using it, like, when we get on it, you're on it for a while, right? That's what kind of people are saying. Is because if you have low testosterone and then you take exogenous testosterone in some foreign, that's going to boost you up. It doesn't actually harm anything permanently. It's just if you go off it, you go back to your... You go back to your testosterone. But you may not be happy living with that level of living up here. You know, it's like... You haven't made yourself... Like, your volatile testosterone is not going to get lower. Yeah. It's just... It was low to start, right? You're happier when it was high. It's like this. If you got used to flying first class all the time, all of a sudden you go back to an economy without any extra racket. You know, you could do it. You could do it. But would you want to? Obviously, there's an... It came to my head. I thought that might be good enough. Right? Second question. Are the side effects different by delivery modality? It can be. Yeah. So, I mean, I think, you know, even the gels, the gels on the package leaflet, you know, might cause skin irritation because of the alcohol, right? So you wouldn't want to rub that on your scrotum. I mean, the gels that we have use, I think, safe and non-BPA type of chemicals to get in. Some of them are like a form of vitamin E and things that help the absorption through the skin. Injections. Some of the side effects people have, there's certain injections, like I think sustenance tends to burn and sting the most for some people, but not everyone. And that's because there's a high concentration of preservative. But out there in the internet world, people think it has to do with the testosterone propionate. But I can say with certainty, that's not it because I use a testosterone propionate product daily, no burning and sting or PIP as they call it, after the injections. That's called post-injection pain, where you can just really feel like you've bruised or hit down there. So it depends on the modality. Yeah. Every day. For the past year, testosterone propionate. About a mil. Yeah. You don't do it like every week. But you can do it every week. You can do it every three days. You can do it every four days. You can do it every five days, every six days. That's just where I settled on. Sometimes we're doing the smaller, more frequent doses. It kind of offsets needing. It matches more closely with the body's spinal rhythm. And it's just, you know, you're doing it every day. But for some people, it's a real pain. If I skipped a day. You haven't considered using one of the creams or self-rave soft? A daily? I had in the past either for a long time. I just did. This is a cream to me. Now, I'm really high now. Not high, high. I'm really low. I've assumed, right? I have stabbed myself with a needle. Yeah. Like the rock. I've moved through. You've got to inject stuff in the heart, you know? But for some people, the creams might be more approachable, right? If the thought of giving yourself a shot. Is it just the efficacy that's the difference? I mean, obviously, the wreck. I have studies from another doctor, from our own clinic. You get some fantastic levels on the cream. But for some patients, they work for a while. Some. Everyone. And then we can do a blood test and then it's off. That could be because of timing. It could be consistently applying it to the same area. Maybe. But many patients have been on it for years and years and years. As a cream, no issue. Also, the cream could vary. I mean, we have really good, high-quality control at our pharmacy. But, you know, the creams can vary based on how they mix and the formulation. And we had our earlier formulations that were just a little bit more gritty. And then we kind of reformulated to get rid of the grit. You learn things. It's not just a matter of following a recipe because you're kind of out there. But it's just getting the art down to be able to know how many times to spin it. We have a special device that spins. The creams are really high speeds. You know, one way, one the other. And then we do that several times. And there's a whole science behind it. And there's a certain way that you have to add it. Because the testosterone itself is a very fluffy powder. It goes everywhere. And then you have to have another agent that's called a thoxyglycol. That way it kind of liquefies it. And then you put it with the base of the cream. And then you spin it in a big jar. And then it gets dispensed into these things. So that's, again, but the formulation is usually spot on every time. But if you went to a different compounding pharmacy, it might be slightly different. Or they might use a different base. Other treatment modalities like injections. Sometimes people like those because they're in. Some people are worried about spreading a transference to a partner or the pet. You know, though I had one guy said, well, we were talking about the scrotum cream. And they said, what if my pet likes it? I'm like, it's on your scrotum. I hope your pet's not going down there. But if that's what you're into. Yeah, it's pet, yeah. No, you meant pet. Oh, it's partner, yeah. Yeah, maybe. Maybe. Well, but testosterone, if you take it in the mouth like that, it would not really. Even though with this oil tablets, your stomach acid would kill it. You'd probably get very minimal absorption. And women make testosterone as well. So there's also some due fear that, you know, my partner's going to grow a mustache. But I think you can't control for how much they're going to actually absorb, you know, especially sitting in the skin. Where the creams are nice, because look, I put it in a small area, unlikely, unless I'm holding someone for a long time, and skin-to-skin contact, unlikely to cause an issue. Or if you have it on your scrotum, I would joke and say, you know, unless you're, like, going balls deep, taking that literally, you know, kind of thumbing them in, you're probably not going to have an issue of transference. So, just a good question on life insurance. Obviously, if I've got any medical changes on any medication, if I'm measuring any changes, obviously, in my lifestyle, I need to let my colicine insurance hold on. Yeah, there's, you know, and if I phone them up and I say, I'll touch you CRT now. But if it happens to me, you've got to be, you know, 10 years in time. Right, and then if you don't disclose it, yeah. Look, I've had some patients that have disclosed it, some patients that didn't disclose it. And it's quite normal now, and it's not, when a death sentence doesn't mean you have a terrible medical condition, it's just this is something that you need to enhance your quality of life. I don't think there's any penalty by being on testosterone replacement, or testosterone therapy, as we call it now. But if you have low testosterone, you're at higher risk of early death anyway, so, you know, maybe they will bump it up because you're going to be living longer, I don't know. So, what, curious, what is like the standard dose that's what you consider optimal? Is that, across the board, would be the same, right? Everyone's different how they absorb it. You know, we've got people in all different doses. So, if the, I always say when we've done an audit of our clinical records, then some of the most common doses are anywhere from 100 milligrams to 125 milligrams of an injectable testosterone every four to six days. Usually every four to five days. And actually, I would say every five days seems to be the sweet spot between twice a week and once a week. Not quite twice, but not quite once a week. Five weeks. Yeah, about 100 to 125 milligrams, depending. So, in the UK, sustenone is a licensed product, where in the USA, it's considered like an underground thing because it's not available. There's never been FDA approved sustenone. It has a blend of four different testosterone esters. And the esters are what the fatty acids that slow down its release, almost like the MCT oil, in fact. But it's the fatty acid chain. Anyway, the blend, if I say 125 milligrams of sustenone, it's not actually 125 milligrams of testosterone that you'll receive because the weight of the ester being attached to the testosterone, if you had to calculate the testosterone, you'd have less. So, you'd probably have 100 milligrams of testosterone every four, five, six days, depending. Exactly. That would be more. One whole two, the gas. On the ampoule, that would be half of an ampoule. An ampoule is what we have here in Europe that you crack open. In the US, if you're doing 200 milligrams per mil, you would probably do half a mil, give you about 100 milligrams. Every five days. Every five days, yeah. It's different. Yeah. Yeah. So, do... One of those hours. Yeah. But you could do every seven days. Some guys choose every seven days. You know, look, there's a fear that your level's going to go too low, too quickly, because if you've been deficient for too long, you're like, no, I've got to always have it in. But once your androgen receptors are saturated, if you will, they're not going to unsaturate the minute you missed that injection. And you're still going to have some beneficial things happening. Like me, I didn't really notice anything until, you know, maybe day 25, 26. You know? And I was still going on Pornhub, so it wasn't a problem. It's easier. It's like every Sunday. Five days is every... Yeah. So, some people... And then some people calculate those. They'll say, all right, so what dose am I... Are you doing this? I'm doing 100 milligrams a week. Okay. But then you have to ask, are you doing it once a week? Are you doing it twice a week? Because I like the language of saying, how much are you doing per dose and how many doses are you doing per week? That's better than saying... Some people just like to think in, you're right, weekly terms. And I like to think dosing terms. What are you doing for that particular dose and how often are you doing that dose? Now, like... Yeah. Let's say you start a new patient out and you're, you know, you're doing your follow-up or new patient. What would you... What could you see that would make you say, okay, wait a minute. Something is going on this side. Usually the only recommendation for stopping would be... The most common ones would be a patient who has elevated hematocrit over about 54, 55. And as if it starts approaching that on the follow-up tests, then the first step would be to usually dial them down. Sometimes the doctor will prescribe a low-dose aspirin and the doctor will usually ask that they give blood a few times or start doing it consistently. So a combination of all those would be a good option. If there were any issue... I mean, obviously, if you have... I think it's like the worst form of heart failure, then one would be contraindicated. So you wouldn't want to... Because what happens is you may get some watery tension and the heart can't really pump enough blood around. But that would... You know, that's... We would know that before you came to us if you had that. Sometimes, even though I said it with the saturation model, you know, testosterone, low testosterone is linked with prostate cancer. But if we discovered someone had active prostate cancer, more than likely they would be then taken over by their urologist and follow that program that the urologist wants them to follow, which would usually include stopping testosterone for a bit. And then once the prostate cancer is sorted, you know, there is a time when it looks like it's all in all clear they can resume testosterone treatment. So, and there's even something called BAT therapy, which is, I think, like bilateral therapy or bilateral androgen therapy, which means they go through parts of restricting the androgens, get really low, non-existent, followed by high doses of testosterone to kill the prostate cancer. That's quite new. It came out in 2017. You'll hear a lot about it. But, you know, I mean, other things... I mean, why else would you stop? I mean, if you're having so severe side effects, et cetera, but usually you can adjust the dose rather than just stopping, you know, or try a different treatment. What is the side effect that you would say, like, is the most... I know everybody's going to be different, but, like, the most scary for people when they think about it? Some of them is really bad acne. If they had acne as a young adult, some if it gets really bad, some people really would stop because of that. It's probably the biggest... Everyone's... Hair loss, my skin really do. Yeah, some men just kind of crack on, and they're like, fuck it, I feel great. I don't care about the hair loss. And you move forward. Other men, if they had experience... Some men will experience... Can, not always, a slight increase in anxiety. It does normalize. And many of the men that have stuck with it got better, but the ones that panicked and stopped, then they don't see it through. So that... The idea that he had it and stopped, that's how you're on. They go, oh, stop it, and then don't do it. So, you know, it really depends on the individual. I mean, there's... Many times men will stop because they had higher expectations. They're saying, I don't feel anything. And yet, but I lost all this weight. I put on all this muscle mass, but I don't feel anything. And they're expecting it to be like a bump of coke or something. And I think part of it is when they first started the treatment, you do get a rise in dopamine. But many of the I don't feel anything guys had previously been on antidepressants, particularly the serotonin kind, which has dulls all senses. And even though they may not have been on it for five or 10 years, something's changed in the brain where literally, like I said earlier, they don't get the wow effect. They don't feel the benefit that they think they're going to feel. And so that's one of the reasons why they stopped. Their expectations are misaligned and they have that issue to deal with. So, all right. All right. Hope you guys enjoyed it. Just interested, the testosterone itself, was it derived from? Is it the same as... Oh, they're exogenous. So, I think initially, like all the hormones, like cortisol as well, came from a yam, like an old sweet potato. And they extracted it from a plant and synthetically created the testosterone. But in order to make it more stable, they had to put a fatty acid, ester chemically synthesized together so that it wouldn't just go everywhere. I mean, the cream is completely understirified. There's no fatty acid with the cream other than the components that allow it to absorb through your body. But yeah, it comes from, I think like a wild Mexican yam. I think dioscorrhea is... Is that just because the chemical compound that they happened to be able to extract? Yeah, it was a steroid. Yeah. And I think cortisol was also extracted from the yam. So cortisol... So, because all the... And it all comes from like a form of cholesterol, right? So in many of the hormones, they put them through chemical reactions then to get the next bit. So, I mean, DHEA could be another step on the path. But DHEA, I think, converts androstenedione and then converts to testosterone. But then in men, you take DHEA, you'll tend to get more estradiol or estrogen type out. And women that do DHEA will tend to get more androgens. So sometimes women who are on HRT don't always need to go on testosterone. You can give them DHEA. So is this still from yams? DHEA or... Yeah, I think so. I think it's... Well, I don't know if it's exactly that it's squeezing out the yams, but I don't know. I'd ask the people that supply our API. I know historically it was discovered through yams. You can sell one of your testes. Yeah. So with my testes, you know, my testes are all full of varicose seals. And that's good. But yeah, it's interesting that the whole... How my life got all intertwined with testosterone. It's kind of... But I enjoy it. And it's fun helping people and seeing... I mean, we do other hormones as well, but I thought, you know, testosterone is quite popular. And it brings in the views. It's not going to do it. You know what? Eating more yams is not. No, probably not. Or even if you take some of the precursor ones or the pro... The pro hormones... Pro hormones are really big in the mid-naughty, early noughties. People take these pro hormones, but they end up being somewhat liver toxic. And yeah, you might get some of the increase in synthetic steroids, but it's... You know, you want bioidentical testosterone and your body makes it. And exogenous testosterone is the easiest route to getting there, at least for now. So... I mean, I can go on and on and on, but there's loads. But I think that's it. So hopefully you guys enjoyed that. I enjoyed presenting. Yeah, you're welcome. Thank you. Thanks, sir. If you found this video helpful, hit the like button and subscribe for more content on hormones and men and women's health. And until next time, take control of your body and your health.