ieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieuxieux If you're new to the channel, please press the subscribe button and like, and also leave comments so we can address any questions you might have. Welcome, Dr. George, to the ATOS with us today for one of our question time videos. And we're going to talk about mental health issues. So why don't you tell us a little bit about what are the biggest mental health issues people face related to low testosterone, George? Well, mainly it's depression and anxiety, but mainly depression because the lack of DHT, which has major and the depressive effect and the lack of the neurotransmitters that which is dopamine that gives you the phoenombre reward and determination and also serotonin, which is the joy hormone and linked to estrogens also. So these neurotransmitters are optimized, but also DHT has major and the depressive effect. We know that castrated men are lacking of self-confidence, self-esteem, you know, and ego. And of course, they should be depressive. So lack of testosterone, hypergonadism, lack of adrenogens mainly is one of the reasons of depression. Of course, there might be also brain chemistry, but it's certain that hypergonadism men that receive optimized doses of testosterone, then they go from depression state to normalized in the field of emotions, emotional status. What other areas of mental health do men have to be worried about in regards to, I mean, would you consider brain fog a form of mental health? Yes. Also, I've heard of this brain fog that you have, not clear thoughts, you know, not acute and sharp internal vision, you know, lack of concentration perhaps. This is also experienced under low testosterone levels. So for men who have low testosterone, they're suffering from anything from, you know, depression to brain fog. And how does testosterone actually help lift men from depression then? If they're low on testosterone, they get these symptoms, they get supplementation of testosterone. What's the mechanism behind it? Well, actually, there's a reduction to DHT. Well, basically, the testosterone is a proffermontic DHT. DHT is five times more androgenic in the tissues than testosterone. And DHT has the antidepressive effects, but also testosterone optimizes serotonin and dopamine. Okay. And this should be aware of the psychiatrist that just giving SSRIs to somebody with low testosterone that hasn't been diagnosed doesn't solve, obviously, the problem from where it initiates. So SSRIs will mess up with prolactin and prolactin, but testosterone will still remain low and depression also will stay there if there's hypogonitis. So for those who don't know, SSRIs are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. So those are used commonly for depression and anxiety as well, I believe. Yeah, I think so. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, but they have the side effect of giving too much serotonin or, I mean, we've heard men of complaining that they're very flat in their mood. Yeah, they use prolactinemia actually. And this is lead-stern orgasm. We know that it's a problem when it's a levator prolactin that antagonizes testosterone production. And actually SSRIs is a treatment for premature ejaculation. Oh, for premature ejaculation. Yeah. So, so if you don't have premature ejaculation and it will delay your ejaculation SSRIs, does it also affect your erection quality SSRIs? Yes, I think so. You know, I have to tell you that when I was a medical student, I had my first, let's say, failure to relationships with a medical student. You know, I noticed that I was just about to graduate from medical school and I couldn't masturbate myself while taking SSRIs, you know. So it was crazy that even though there was someone perhaps urged in order to have an orgasm, I mean, there was no and not enough the erection, you know. It was so, erectile dysfunction and, you know, it was messed up. So, so George, you were talking about the role of prolactin being elevated due to SSRIs. And I can say on blood tests, we've also seen the elevation of SSRI, the elevation of the prolactin that you, when people start TRT or even before they come onto TRT, they have this elevation of prolactin. What is your thought on the role of prolactin and how does testosterone help or does it help when you're on TRT? Prolactin is multifactorial effect. It could be by stress. Insomnia is also a form of stress. Fasting is a form of stress. Also, hypothyroidism elevates prolactin is associated with prolactinemia. Opiates, marijuana also. So it's multifactorial. And prolactinemia, we know that is linked to an orgasm and lack of ejaculation, you know, the opposite of primitive ejaculation. And in native people that do not receive testosterone, prolactin antagonizes testosterone in production, you know. So some people have moderate prolactinemia, let's say, between, in the scale of what we use over here, it's up to 15. They have up to 25. I've seen over 30, you know. In this case, of course, we treat with a dopamine agonist, mainly cabergoline. But I knew I have a patient who was working nearly at night, you know, he was a doorman, and his prolactin was always elevated. And I guess it's also from the lifestyle, from the insomnia, from the, you know, when you mess up with your menstrual, with your, I'm sorry, with your chycardia and rhythm, you know, and lack of sleep. So what about, well, that's a good point, lack of sleep. How much is a lack of sleep linked with depression? I suppose it's because of the interlink between lack of sleep and low testosterone, or are there other factors? Could be both, both of it. But we know that people that do not sleep have elevated cortisol that leads to anxiety, okay, and of course, eating disorders. And then prolonged insomnia will lead to adrenal fatigue, you know. And the chycardia arrhythmia is a major, you know, organizer of testosterone synthesis, of course, because testosterone synthesis is night during night, GH also the same. And the best sleep is from 11 to 7, according to me, it's eight hours before midnight. Okay. And you cannot substitute night sleep by sleeping in the morning during the day. So if someone, you know, it's typical when someone has low testosterone, it's difficult to either fall asleep or actually stay asleep. You know, patients will report hot flushing or night sweats from hypogonadal symptoms. So really, what are your thoughts on that part of this? This sounds like the menopause when they have half-lashed women, you know, and these night sweats, just before the end of the oestrogens, you know, when they go down. But what I'm experiencing now during testosterone, basically, that I have this kind of red face. But this is not just because of elevated hemoglobin. It's also because nitric oxide out of testosterone. Okay. Okay. I don't have this pale skin, but this does not necessarily be related with hemoglobin because when I drop my hemoglobin with phlevatomis and it goes down to 16 or 17, I still have this redish face that is the result of oxygenation out of nitric oxide that testosterone produces. So probably not a bad thing then. So what is the actual mechanism of action when one goes on testosterone replacement treatment as far as, you know, relieving the symptoms of certain depressive issues? I believe it has to do with the optimization of the two neurotransmitters, serotonin and dopamine. And dopamine. Dopamine and serotonin also because issues are related to serotonin. And serotonin is the joy hormone, you know. Serotonin is increased after eating carbs. Also, some people that are depressive are eating carbs in order to feel better. Chocolate also elevates serotonin through tryptophanin. Okay. Can you have too much dopamine then? Would that lead and what's the role of dopamine with... Dopamine is linked to the feeling of your work, you know, and satisfaction. Also determination, you know. You know, when we listen to a song that makes us high, you know, dopamine is high also. Of course, being in love means elevated dopamine. Also oxytocin and serotonin, of course. But dopamine has a lot to do with the satisfaction feeling. And actually, some steroids like Dianabol elevates serotonin and dopamine that gives you this feeling of well-being, you know. Well-being. Okay. Now, we're going to have a... We want to talk about the anxiety part of low testosterone and linkage. What have you seen in your practice around anxiety and low testosterone? People with low testosterone feel edgy, irritated. They cannot fall asleep easily. And even though the testosterone is low, they can be, you know, agitated. And after going into replacement therapy, their stress control is improved. And now we have to know that... Of course, they're taking also DHA that improves the adrenal metabolism and also manages stress because they control the ratio to DHA with cortisol. But we also know that anabolic endogenic steroids and testosterone antagonize cortisol. So perhaps if you have elevated cortisol out of stress and because of hypergonautism, then optimizing the testosterone then manages the cortisol, the elevated cortisol. And then this is how you can manage the stress situation along perhaps with DHA. So it's kind of a milieu of different hormones all working in tandem. And if they're out of balance, then that's obviously not going to give you the best result from a mental health point of view. How quickly... Not to pregnenol. I'm sorry to interrupt you. I'm pregnenol. It's a neurosteroid that comes down the nervous system. And I'm also taking pregnenol personally along with DHA and DHA with provirium. Yes, during my PEROS replacement therapy. So I've also come across a paper on the use of DHA may help in some cases with anxiety. Have you seen something similar? I've heard of that. I'm aware of that DHA use can manage the stress control, you know, and how to handle the situation because people who are freaking out and panicking, they cannot manage the elevated cortisol, you know. Unlike other people that may come and can handle the situation under elevated stress, this fight over flight. So for those who don't know what DHA is, can you let everyone know? It is a secondary androgen released by the adrenals called dehydoepiandosterone, okay? It starts everything from the cholesterol to pregnenolone and then progesterone fall, you know, that leads to afterwards to testosterone, DHT, estrogen, you know. But DHA is called the mother hormone because after DHA then the sexual steroids are produced, okay? Now in men mainly, it's the, they dominate the estrogenic metabolites, especially strong E1, which is produced from androstenedion. Unlike with female, the women that dominate the testosterone production out of DHA because they lack of androgens, of course, okay? So DHA then you're saying is an adrenal hormone that falls with age? Yes, yes. And also with adrenals, I think you have low DHA because adrenals collapse. Actually, in a very stressful situation, DHA is also a bit, you know? So it's important for DHA to be in the balanced range because it, I guess, it protects the adrenal glands, right? So if you're supplementing with DHA, you're getting some sort of protection. So if your body's stressed and you can't keep producing these high levels, then the DHA... Somebody told me that Chrysler was using injectable DHA. Okay. During the latest days of his life. DHA could also be the poor man's IGF-1 or poor man's growth hormone because it can increase IGF-1. Well, remember Chrysler used to tell that taking DHA before bed helps you to improve your GH release. And if you take it in the morning, so split the dose. It makes your mood better, you know? So is there a component for human growth hormone as well for mental health and mental health issues? Are you aware of any studies or clinical... No, but what I know from her talk's book is that G8s can lower SHBG and raise free testosterone that makes you mood. Yeah. This is the only correlation that I find. You need a high enough level of growth hormone treatment, though. I don't think therapeutically growth hormone is going to lower your SHBG that much. And we've not seen that in the clinic in the past. Well, according to the IGF-1 level, you know, when you inject G8s, then the liver releases. That's a good point. So getting back to anxiety, we talked about DHA may help with anxiety. There is a little-known molecule that we'll talk about shortly that has been known to improve the symptoms of anxiety equal to amitripline. So I don't know if you wanted to talk about that at all. It's something I've come across from a paper from 1985. I know it's a little bit older, but sometimes the old ones are the good ones. And as a result, it's been known to be equally as effective to amitripline. And it has less side effects than amitripline. So that hormone is called mysterolone. Yeah. Systetheric DHT, yes. Proviron. So do you want to talk a little bit about proviron and its use in mental illness or potential use? Well, I remember that her talk said that before taking, starting taking testosterone, he took proviron, which is a synthetic DHT. That improves, of course, free testosterone levels by lowering SHBG. And sex drive, libido, of course, cognitive function, self-esteem. You know, it makes you more of a man if you take proviron. And also it has slight endestrogenic action, you know. So it doesn't give you puffiness or edema. It's not estrogenic at all. And, of course, as synthetic DHT may give you her thinning or perhaps some prostatic enlargement, you know, it feeds the prostate. Oh, her thinning. Yeah. Does it feed it on its own or does it feed it in combination with elevated estradiol? Yes, this is a good point. Everything is kind of working together, right? The growth hormone, estradiol. Higher estradiol can raise growth hormone. DHT gets into the mix and it's hard to know. So not to demonize any of the hormones because they're all very important, right? If we don't have enough. Yes, yes. And we have a pharmaceutical grade, Mr. Earl. I'm taking all year around 25 milligrams twice a day with proviron. I have to tell you my HDL is over 40. My LDL is too digital always, you know. I'm not prone to hair thinning. So my PSA is always below one, you know. It's a very useful drug, you know. It's not liver toxic. It's not lipid toxic. So with 50 milligrams, you have a very decent result, you know, and it's very safe. Well, it wasn't, I believe, in its packaged leaflet. It was actually used as a monotherapy in some cases. And some of the studies showed it worked as a monotherapy for lowering, well, I guess, SHBG, which gives you more free testosterone, but also just the general feeling of well-being. But it's not bio-identical, is it? No, no, no. It's synthetic, no, no. But still better than probably amitripolyne, according to the 1985 study, which we'll put in the description below. So, all right. So we're talking about there are benefits then to testosterone, to the adrenal hormones, DHEA, to synthetic forms of testosterone like mysteridone. They can all help with depression. They can help with potential anxiety and just general mental health issues. But can there be too much of a good thing, or can testosterone lead to hypomania? What do you think? To some people that are prone, yes, that are emotionally unstable. Yes, it could be because other people are emotionally stable and calm, remain calm, no. So, if you're Ugandala already and you're taking too much of testosterone, let's say over 250 milligrams, and you don't have depression, to some people, yes, it may give them irritability, aggressiveness, no. And this could trigger hypomania under pressure, you know, under fragiles in the mental status, you know. And, of course, if you add on this stack anabolic endogenic steroids for the sake of muscle growth, you know, you may have the next plus in combination of roid rage and afterwards depression when you stop the cycle. You know, it's going like this, psychosis to some rare cases. It's after depression, of course, yes. So, but is it a transient issue or is it something that could lead to some serious harm if it were to continue? Well, it depends. Some people, some steroids are neurotoxic, like trembling, this lead to Alzheimer's disease and some infections to the limbic system, hippocampus, amygdala, that leads to also amnesia, you know, and memory loss. And some people with lower androgenic activity, like the DHT derivative, oxandrolol and stanozolol, they have less impact on the brain, you know, and the suppression of testosterone. Okay. So there's, I guess it could be too much of a good thing for some. So it's different taking one gram of testosterone per week rather than taking 200 milligrams. So as what Dr. Crisley used to say, the dose makes the poison. Of course. And also the duration because it depends. If you have, let's say, 500 milligrams for one year long, this is also accumulated in toxic effects. All right. Here's a question. So someone starts testosterone, how soon? And they have depression. They also have bona fide levels of... I believe within one month, you're going to be much better and improved, you know. It reminds me of this hyperglycemia. People are taking sugar and they are reborn, you know. They are resurrected. So... In one month, you think people... Absolutely. Yeah. You need at least one month to have some decent levels, you know, and they are feeling so good, man. So one of the doctors that we've had on this program before, Dr. Crisley, used to argue against the use of injectable testosterone because he felt that it would increase your dopamine too high and that he was more of a proponent of testosterone. Yeah, but the testosterone, on the other hand, you may elevate your DHT higher than makes more ground to some people. And some bodybuilders have told me that. They're taking the cream, they're feeling, you know, edgy, you know. Okay. But either cream or injections could be an alternative. Cream also has more stable levels. You apply every day. Injections have a trough, have a spike, you know. But of course, injections go to the bloodstream initially, you know, rather than the creams that are 90% is wasted. Different pharmacokinetics. So it's everything has advantages and disadvantages. Okay. So essentially it's an individual bespoke option for patients, depending on what's going to work best for their lifestyle and what's going to work best for their general well-being. And I suppose it may be a trial and error before they come up with the right solution. Yeah, we shouldn't generalize, you know. And so it's not a complete failure if someone starts down one road of one particular treatment and it gets changed. I suppose that's a sign of a good TRT clinic to make the changes along the way. You speak about the way of administration. The way of administration. So if someone may start on a certain dosing regime or even start on the cream, it's okay if it, you know, six months or six weeks later, it gets changed to a different therapy. I suggest them decide what you like. So it's kind of vehicle. It has different lifespan, you know, and half-life. And if you cannot handle injections and if it's too much for you injecting twice a week, then go to creams, it has more stable levels, but perhaps they cost more. You know, some bodybuilders are afraid. Is the cream effective? Yes, you can reach the same levels for the cream, perhaps to a higher cost. And it has also more steady levels. But it's not about bodybuilding being jacked with the cream, you know. So it's about replacement therapy, of course. Yes, because some people are not familiar with injections, you know. They're afraid they cannot do them themselves. They rely on other people, you know. They're ashamed of injecting themselves, you know, when they have a relationship. They're afraid that the cream will transmit to the genitalia, you know, of the female, perhaps. Yeah, I know. I've often joked that, I mean, unless you just put the cream on down there and literally take the phrase going balls deep, literally, I really don't think you're going to have an issue with... Yeah, of course. Some apply on the forearms and wrists and they have the children, you know. Because they... I think you can't read it, yeah. Because it's sticky. And it's usually referred to the studies for the test. And liposomal creams are absorbed rapidly, you know. It's not like the ethanol. Right, like the gel, the alcohol-based gel. Some of the complaints were they were still very sticky. And in more warm climates, it was not a good option for patients because of the stickiness. And that causes the transference more easily. So that you wouldn't want to put on the cream on your body or the gel. Also, her dog speaks about the jugular veins here, you know, after he gets shaved. It's crazy. Well, we've seen Belgian endocrinologists recommend the cream on people's foreheads. Yes. Which is bizarre. Now, I remember Chrysler used to tell, of course, four arms or apt, it's four arms together because the skin is so thin. The veins here are visible, you know. And just like the squattom, also you have so thin skin and high vascularity. This is the main reason of applying. So into the thighs, unless your rib-like bodybuilders on stage or in the stomach, it's full of fat, you know, and the structure is low. We've seen that where patients haven't used the cream in the proper location. And then we get the levels back and they're surprised that they're not as high as they could be. And then you find out that they weren't applying it to their scrotum. They were applying it to, you know, to the rib cage or a fattier, like the stomach or the chest. You know, they think the cream is the same as the testo gel and it's not. And we tell them, do not use it. So I guess the reason why we went down this road was, does the different treatment modality, whether it's injections or cream, make the difference in improving mental health? I believe some people that they lack of HD, they're going to feel better on the cream. Okay. But also you can apply DHT cream as well. Yeah. And that's something that is available through Balance My Hormones as well. So through our partner pharmacies. So, all right. Well, is there anything else you wanted to talk about on mental health? Anything people need to be aware of before starting TRT or whilst they're on TRT in regards to their mental health? No, I would say that a proper assessment of depression in a psychiatrist, you know, evaluation should be the, you know, the examination of HPDA. Because if somebody's hypergonal, then testosterone may improve also. And there's no 100% need of a social rise, you know, just like the diabetic people. If diabetics are hypergonal, testosterone will improve insulin resistance, you know. So you have to check it out. I mean, because we, you know, we've come across certain patients who were, you know, through no fault of their own on the last leg. They, you know, they were on the verge of, you know, suicidal thoughts and tendencies when their testosterone was low. And unfortunately for their journey, they were rejected by the mainstream doctors, endocrinologists. And fortunately, they were able to find doctors like you and, you know, through our clinic. This is also very common under anabolic steroid, induced hypogonitis and withdrawal syndrome. After a cycle, they crash. They feel horrible. They want to suicide. They miss the juice, you know. And this is where testosterone should be applied. So after anabolic steroids is a way to reduce harm. But even more so, in the general public, there's so many people that are struggling, struggling day in and day out, you know, the, you know, the, on the verge of calling Samaritans. And, you know, when they discover, in many cases, I can't say it for all, but in many cases, the testosterone, and what we've heard from patients, they turn their whole life around, and the whole mentality and their mental illness seem to dissipate. Yes, I remember how her talk describes when hypogonidal men drive slowly to the right of the highway, and the ugandidal men with testosterone speed up to the left lane, you know. Well, in the UK, maybe it's the opposite. Oh, yeah. But I'm telling you that the teenagers that are full of testosterone actually run, you know, because they are fearless and they're dead. Because they have elevated testosterone gives you the feeling that, you know, you're untouchable. Yeah. And not to mention some of the cognitive benefits. I think that's the last thing we'll talk about. Of course. Improvement in cognition. Yeah, the foggy mind we're talking about. Yeah, the foggy brain. And just being able to think more clearly and have a bit more assertiveness. I mean, that's... Making decisions, you know, sharp mind. And this is, again, found with both either testosterone cream or... This is improved by provironols. And proviron as well, yeah. All right. Anything else then? No, I mean, steroids is another chapter, of course. We can get into that next time. No, but... So prognosis, DHD, DHEA, and testosterone are excellent stack for people who want to have emotional stability. And improve their general mental health. So, all right. Well, that's mental health and testosterone. What you need to know. I hope you found this video helpful. Thanks. Thanks, George, for coming on the program. And if you like this video, we'll have other content, you know, like this on the topic of testosterone. Or any topics that you're interested in, please leave comments below so that we can, you know, discuss future topics. And do press like and subscribe to the channel if you like it. So, thanks again. Thanks again, George. And we'll see you next time.