 Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri Pri is the talk of everything at the moment. There are a lot of theories going around and sort of people making logical links with things. So today we're going to talk about, you know, having hormonal imbalances, low hormones, how it might affect your resistance to maybe fighting this off or getting the virus itself and some thoughts from Dr. George Tuliatos. So Dr. George, so with COVID, I mean, I think you've had some exposure talking to some of the medical groups in Greece and things as well. What are your thoughts? What things have you seen with regards to maybe having low testosterone? I mean, I think you've talked before about low thyroid, adrenal sort of being affected and low cortisone. What are your thoughts? So there are some studies that point out that being already hypogonadol before entering the ICU or the ER makes you more vulnerable and fragile to the cytokine storm. So a hypogonadic man has more mental fat, visceral fat that releases tumor nectosis factor and interleukin 6, the basic cytokines, the inflammatory cytokines like prostaglandins also. So it's a different story being already hypogonadol at home, giving the COVID and rushed to the hospital, hypogonadol, rather than getting eugonadol at the ICU because in the ICU, they administer you corticosteroids that will crush your testosterone. And also you have this kind of emotional stress, the mental stress that will elevate cortisol and cortisolemia is antagonistic to testosterone, of course. So you were thinking in the ICU, we were talking about how there was some evidence showing that people with lower testosterone did worse. Yeah, good enough. They have low chances. They are high chances of mortality. Yes. But of course, it's more than that. You need proper immune system, you know, you need elevated glutathione levels in the liver, you need elevated N-acetylcysteine levels in the lungs, because it's a major antioxidant made in the lungs and in the liver. Also, you need calcifer, which is vitamin D3, that has been shown that under low levels is linked to mortality rates in the COVID also, but generally as well. You know, and I guess abusing testosterone or anabolic endogenic steroids is not cool because anabolic endogenic steroids are antagonistic to corticosteroids that are catabolic. So then if you lack of cortisol, that also takes place, of course, under adrenal fatigue, then you don't have this inflammatory response. So you need this optimal cortisol in order to speed up your inflammatory response, you know, but crushing on cortisol is not something cool. People don't know that. People don't know that cortisol is a good point to mention there. People don't know that cortisol actually helps us in times of stress. We release it to... Yes. There's even some studies where administering, they're looking at it now. Fight over flight, yes. Yeah, yeah. Administering post-PTSD. If you have a traumatic experience, administering... Also, cortisol, yes. Stimulates gluconeogenesis and release blood sugar to the brain and to the muscles. So if you see a tiger running towards you, then you release cortisol to speed up and to have alert. Yeah. So I think... Progressively, simulations, yes, of the adrenals by catecholamines will elevate cortisol. Now, progressively, this will crash, will fatigue adrenals. We have a secondary sufficiency. And in this case, you don't have the response of the immune response that is triggered by cortisol. You know, it's like prostaglandins. You need a little bit of them to have the flame, you know. Not too much, but not too low. Yeah. So I think that... So if you're trying to prevent getting any virus, I suppose, COVID or not, you want a good immune system. You want a good diet that can involve having your hormones optimized. Obviously, there's a strong link between that evidence for, like, in Hashimoto's and things, regulating the immune system with testosterone and estrogen. And it is anti-inflammatory. So maybe the anti-inflammatory properties there can help with the effects of any virus, I suppose, causing inflammation. Also, the gut, the intestine plays a major role to the immune response, you know. So you need bacteria, the tobacco, the probiotics, you know. Yeah. I think that's going to be a lot. They're going to go that into sort of the gut more, aren't they, in medicine, more links with mental health, physical health, immune system. You know, that's why there's a strong link with autoimmunity in the gut, right? So, yeah. Okay. So, yeah, I think so. We were just basically mentioning then about... About why? I'm sorry. Yes. I've chatted before, having low testosterone in IT versus before you come in. Yeah. On the other hand, why women live more with COVID and have less mortality rates? So, I guess it's 55 over 45 women survive against men. And they believe that testicles possess receptors for angiodesine, converting enzyme is where the virus is attached. So, in these receptors, it gets through the lungs, okay, the respiratory system. Now, under this theory, if we castrate men, it means that they have no... The lack of the receptors where the virus is going to go and link to. But I guess it's not because if you castrate a man, it becomes hypergonadol. So, this is not also a good scenario. And that's why they believe that administrating estrogens, perhaps, will make men more sustainable to COVID. But just a theory, you know. Yes, because we were talking about that, that somebody said because of the ACE receptor, basically, the ACE receptor... The ACE2. The ACE2 receptors, the virus can go in there. But I mean, look, they're everywhere, like in the... Yeah, in the lungs also, yes. They get through the lungs, the ACE2, yes. So, I mean, and having no testosterone is... The testicles are two of them, you know. So, they believe that we die because of our testicles, you know. But on the other hand, having low testosterone is not cool as well. Well, perhaps the two are being conflated. You know, one acquiring the virus versus two fighting the virus. And one shouldn't make the supposition that, oh, well, let's just take away all the testosterone from men. Or women don't get it as much as men. Well, maybe it's because men who do not survive as well as women from COVID, maybe it's because they have gone hypogranadal. Yes, men in general have more testosterone than women. But that doesn't mean that they're all optimal with the hormone balance. And so, maybe that's what we're looking at. Now, statistically, the men who die are over 70 with underlying diseases. Now, it's more likely over 70 to be hypogonadic in the first place, you know. They don't make it. 50-year-old guys, 40-year-old are more likely to make it, you know, and survive. I guess it's multifactorial, you know. It's not just one or the other. But it's about the immune system, the respiratory condition. If you have low oxygen saturation, you're not able to breathe well, you know. You cannot fight the infection. I remember we were talking about the study early on about it was for flu. And they used male mice. And I think they looked at testosterone levels in the male mice and its ability to get the flu. I think what they found was, yes, the higher testosterone allowed them to get the flu more readily. But the mice with the higher amounts of testosterone actually had a greater survivability for the flu compared to those who had lower levels of testosterone. So while she may contract the flu more easily in the study, you tended to survive with the more optimal higher levels of testosterone. So I don't know if you can draw any conclusions from that. Tobacco also lowers respiratory capacity, you know. Smoking. Smoking. Smoking. Smoking. What do you think, Sam? Yeah. No, it's just some interesting thoughts, isn't it? Because we still don't know anything really about this virus. Well, we know some, but not enough to start really effective treatments. So I'd be interested to see if there is anything hormonal. And of course, you need to work out. If you don't work out, your physical stamina goes downhill. Your cardiorespiratory capacity and your physical overall condition. So by sitting on the couch indoors during the cardio, it's not good for your overall health, you know. So you need to be around and at least work, perform some cardio and some resistance exercise in order to burn this visceral fat. Otherwise, more cytokines will be released out of your, you know, your belly fat, you know. Do you want else to help reduce the cytokines? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's turning into a running joke. Oh no, it's true. Yeah. It does reduce TNF alpha and TGF beta one and some other cytokines that come about. So. Yeah. I've heard that. Crazy drug. Anyway. Oh, that's good. Yeah. Cool. What up then? How things are there? Now we have back the masks here in the supermarkets, pharmacy stores, restaurants. Crazy. We have a rebound in COVID here. This is my mask. Yeah. You look like this guy in Batman. How you call it? Oh, no. Hey. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's our COVID discussion done. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Asking the gym is not good because it elevates hematocrit, yeah? Hypoxia. Oh yeah. Yeah. It's true. Yeah. So that was COVID. Just some thoughts about some theories that we've heard and the hormones and how they might affect the immune system. We're going to obviously find out more as this virus probably stays around, whether it comes back. It may do. It goes away. So hopefully maybe over the years, someone will start pointing the direction of optimizing hormones. Finally, that's going to help immune system. Maybe that'll catch on. We don't know, but thanks for watching. If you liked the video, please like subscribe, bring that notification bell and we'll be back next time. So thanks for watching. Bye bye. Thanks for watching. Bye. Thanks, George. Bye bye.