 Rụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụụ certain stress, you know, you can only do so much. You know, something's not right there. If there's environmental chemical exposure, is your damage to your testes? Something going on with your brain is a combination of all of that. As you guys know, I'm Mike from Balance My Hormones, and I'll be talking today about testosterone and hormone therapy, a bit of the history, some of the benefits, some of the myths around testosterone treatment. You know, and we'll talk about those, what's happening to our youth and their levels of testosterone and some of the best ways to optimize testosterone. So BMH, that's Balance My Hormones. I founded it in 2016 to help men and women. So I didn't call it keepyourpeckerup.com. It's to help men and women with their hormone balance and issues they were having because they couldn't access treatments easily from the NHS. Usually the NHS is a computer says no model. And even when patients do get treatment on the NHS, they usually find it to be not to their liking and an example of this, we had a patient the other day that came to us from an NHS endocrinologist, and he had already been on treatment from the NHS for about six months. And the endocrinologist that was treating him said, oh, I didn't measure your free testosterone level. So you're going to have to stop now for three to six months, and then we'll remeasure later. So after being on treatment, they just don't get it, endocrinology, which is why I have relabeled the profession. Rather than endocrinology, they're mediocre diabetes specialists because they really focus on diabetes but not on testosterone. So if you ever find yourself needing TRT, endocrinologists are probably the worst profession to go to. I would say a TRT clinic, maybe a urologist is going to be a bit better from the traditional healthcare. And if you're in the US, you're screwed because usually unless you have the classical hypogonadism that's tested in multiple different ways, they're most likely not going to cover it on insurance. Okay, so, you know, testosterone has been around longer than we'd like to realize. I think it was first discovered in the 1920s. The way they describe it, there's some papers written about it, and these are some quotes about the force around the treatment in the 1920s and 1930s. This is almost considered like an elixir of youth. They were talking about people who had melancholy, who were really down, and how when they were given testosterone, I think at the time it was testosterone propionate, it rejuvenated, it was a rejuvenation treatment. It improved their mood, improved their strength, it improved their vitality. So there's Dr. Werner in JAMA, through the Journal of American Medicine, in 1939 noticed that patients who had low testosterone, who were anxious and disturbed with mental issues, improved their emotional state. So that was a really, really big finding. And that's kind of straight to 1939. They were already noticing this. Then Dr. Cairns in 1939 noticed an increase in strength, enhanced libido, and an improvement in concentration. And again, in the paper in 1943, in the New England Journal of Medicine, they reported dramatic improvements in the therapeutic effects of the testosterone treatment, without any evidence of permanent harm. And that's important, because in the 1940s, there was a big scare in the treatment. So we haven't heard from it in a long time. So early 20th century, testosterone is discovered, becomes a popular medical treatment, maybe too popular. And then fears come in because of this guy, Huggins. Huggins won a Nobel Prize for coming up with this hypothesis that testosterone will cause prostate cancer. And do you know how many patients that study was based on? One. Two. I think one of them was either a woman or it wasn't a valid study of prostate cancer. And so they weren't even using the measure that we use today, the PSA. They used something like a phosphatase enzyme that would measure if prostate cancer was getting worse. Remember, this was in the 1940s. And so then he wrote up this big paper, thought he had really come up with something. And this was rediscovered. And he won a Nobel Prize for it. And then everyone got scared, you know, for the next 50, 60 years to even prescribe testosterone to men. You know, and if they did, they said, oh, well, you know, it might kill you. You might get prostate cancer, uncontrolled, et cetera. So, well, that's what we're going to show. And now in the modern era, we are with more and more testosterone therapy being recognized as actually being beneficial. And especially for the prostate, the heart and these others. There's kind of been this, the FDA made a warning, black box warning years ago about potential cardiovascular risks based on some flawed data from around 2017. And they slapped this warning on and then all the, or they call them the ambulance chasing, trial lawyers, you know, were trying to make money off of this. Well, recently, well, I'll show you what the answer is. It's actually false. And that's one of the myths we're kind of trying to debunk. So because of the FDA's black box warning from the period, I think around 2017 up until recently, then it was considered a cause. And the recent study that helped debunk the myth was something called the Traverse Study. And it was quite a big study, about 5,000 men who already had heart disease of one kind or the other put on testosterone gel. So testosterone treatment, topical. And they will follow to see if there's any further incidents of heart attacks or any kind of heart issue or heart event. Now, I have to caveat the study that traditionally, testosterone gels are quite weak. You know, you have to put them on a large area of your body compared to like, we've got these creams. These are testosterone creams. So these are highly concentrated and you can apply it to your scrotum under the arm, thin areas of the skin where the gels, you can put like on your shoulder, maybe the chest, if you can get on your back. But nonetheless, they looked at the patients. They removed some patients from the study who had levels that went above 700 nanograms per deciliter. So they try to keep them in a very narrow window. But despite that, those patients who are on the study, they did not see an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. I mean, I think there was a very slight increase, but it wasn't statistically significant in patients, I think, that either had atrial fibrillation and I think the other one was a slightly higher bit of blood pressure. There were some sub-studies that I've debunked on the channel. So if you want to watch, I've got a link somewhere in the description when we post this. The sub-study was completely bollocks. What they said was, they said some of the patients in this study experienced osteoporosis. Now what we know, and I'm going to show you later, is testosterone actually improves the bone, improves the muscle. And the theory behind why they said that was, one, these were really sick patients already entering the study. They already had some heart issues. They're already a bit older. And they probably had very low testosterone for a very, very long time. And low testosterone can also equate into low estradiol, which equates into having lower bone density. And the short time I think they were on the treatment was like a year or a year and a half. It was not long enough to recover the bone because usually the bone, the buildup of the bone occurs a little bit later, later on when you're on the treatment. So that was quite interesting. So this is really good groundbreaking information. It's called a traverse study. And this will open up the door potentially to more doctors being open to treating testosterone and breaking that stupid myth. You know, for something that's been around since the 1920s or 30s to coming out now, those who were doing this were all said, oh, you're crazy, you're ridiculous. But now we've got the data to back it up that it looks like it's going to be safe for those areas. So the traverse trials were just talked about. The next one is a guy named Abraham Morgenthaler, who I had the privilege of meeting, this guy, Abraham Morgenthaler. So I got to meet him in January. He's a urologist. He's done research into anything from when he was, I think, a graduate student or undergrad learning about lizards I was talking about. And they would remove the testicles from the lizards to see how they would interact. And he said, they just didn't want to do anything. They didn't want to mate. They didn't want to have anything to do with anything. And he saw that later on when he became a urologist in some of his male patients who were castrated because they had prostate cancer. And because he's a urologist, he'd treat a lot of prostate cancer patients. And he just didn't like how they were being left with a miserable quality of life. You know, either they would have the surgery, but then after the surgery, they're completely castrated. All the testosterone is cut out, which then leads to heart disease, cardiovascular disease, when you don't have an obesity and all the other diabetes, all the other negative effects of having low testosterone. So he came up with what's called the androgen saturation model. So the theory is there's a level at which, so if you have very low levels of testosterone, so this is one of the studies that they looked at. It's quite recent. This is Dr. Morgan-Toller. And what they looked at was levels of testosterone up on that site. So 24, the free testosterone. The higher the testosterone, you can see very low chance of prostate cancer. As the testosterone gets very low, much higher chance of prostate cancer. So it goes opposite to what Huggins had tried to propose like 60 years ago. But anyway, the point is higher testosterone can be protective of the prostate compared to the other way around. But what the saturation model showed was there was a certain threshold. Testosterone has to reach. There may be some further growth. We see this in patients who are starting on testosterone treatment. They have low PSA and low testosterone. So the low testosterone masks a PSA. So you could have something going on there that you don't want. But then you give testosterone and we sometimes see a slight bump up in the PSA. That's a prostate-specific antigen. It's not a great, it's kind of a proxy for what your prostate's doing. Women actually produce PSA, by the way. So you, and other organs in your body can produce PSA but in very, very small quantities. So it's not just for men but we tend to think of the PSA for men when we think of it with our prostate. So anyway, his model was, hey, you get to a certain level and then there might be some growth and then a plateau. So there's no more after that point. There's an adrenome receptor. The thing that absorbs the testosterone is saturated. You guys know how the hormone, there's a lock and a key. Hormone fits into the lock and once those are filled up can't do much more. So it was really revolutionary and this looks like everyone has agreed this is the way it's going and more than ever. Most of the medicine is now moving towards this model for prostate cancer and potentially BPH, the enlargement of the prostate that's not cancerous. So where does that leave us with hair loss and concerns? Because some men who start TRT want to say, well, what's going to happen to my hair? Will I lose my hair? And that is largely genetic. If you're predisposed losing your hair and loss of hair can happen for other reasons, you know, alopecia and autoimmune disease, certain stress. But there may be a role of DHT-based on your genetics. But the question is, well, is there a saturation model for this as well? And there could be, there's some early data that looks like there may be a saturation model where you get so much, you know, DHT, so many androgens, you might get some hair loss, but you continue to bring it up even higher, there may be an ending hair loss. You've kind of reached that saturation point. It looks like that's trending that way. There's still more data we still don't know a lot about. But that may give reassurance to some people about if we start TRT, what happens to your hair. There's no guarantee, but more than likely we've seen, you know, thousands of men keep their hair on TRT. And we've also heard of some men that thins further. Over years, I lost my hair, just decided to shave it. And again, saturation model, the genetic predisposition. If you had a hair transplant, your hair's going to be more resilient because it's pulling from the back to the front and that's going to help prevent the hair from being lost due to the androgen exposure because there's hairs, like I have hair on the side which I shaved, you know, and you get hair in the beard and you get body hair. These hairs are a bit more impervious to androgens. So that's where potentially the androgen receptor saturation model comes in. Right, so here are the benefits of testosterone that we all know about. Muscle gain, fat loss, improved bone density. There's many, many others. There's just kind of a few of the physical benefits. There's the metabolic benefits, mental health benefits, improved mood, reduced depression, anxiety. And that's not to say that if someone has severe major depressive disorder, the testosterone's going to fix it or make it better or that it won't initially drive some anxiety in some people depending on the dose or depending on how they react. So everyone's different in how they react to testosterone but over time, it does improve it. And a real key takeaway, and I probably should have had this on another slide, was those people with the lowest testosterone have the greatest risk of mortality. And there was a meta-analysis done in 2024 and the threshold for that was around 7.4 nanomolars per litre, or 213 nanograms per deciliter. That's low testosterone levels could link you to a higher risk of mortality. So some people will message on our YouTube channel or we have a Facebook group and they'll say, oh, you know, I'm 26 levels of less than 213 and, you know, and I try to eat healthily and maybe I can do a bit more for lifestyle and all these other activities and wait and see. But then you want to say, well, you know, you can only do so much. You know, something's not right there. If it's environmental or chemical exposures, you damage your testes, something going on with your brain, it's a combination of all of that. And if you can't, your lifestyle will get you so far, but you can also implement lifestyle changes with TRT. But I think it's because of the fear a lot of people still have. I understand why. There's one, I'm going to be on something. I'm going to be dependent on something. Everyone wants to be okay for when a zombie apocalypse comes and not to be dependent on anything or just a thought that your mood and your body, you need it. Without toilet paper. You can't, you know, you brush your teeth. It's pandemic, you know, like we're depending on toilet paper. We depend on everything. We depend on each other and in an ideal world because the status quo, if you've got low levels, continues. You can continue to be in a bad state of low testosterone. So testosterone power, testosterone muscle. Actually, I've got to thank Dorian for yesterday or the other day. He quoted this. He mentioned this study. It was the Bassin study from 1996. So I could appreciate that study because that was such a strange study that one, they gave these men 600 milligrams of testosterone. Well, all of them except for the placebo group, they got nothing. So there's one group that was just getting no testosterone at all and they were told to work out and eat healthily. So, you know, they can do that. One group was given 600 milligrams of testosterone and told to work out and eat healthily. And another group was told to sit on the sofa and work out, eat healthily. And the group that only got the testosterone a lot better than the guy that did the exercise and had low testosterone. And obviously, the one that did the exercise and the high testosterone had the best increase in muscle mass. And so this was a really good study to show, you know, the power and the benefit of testosterone and muscle mass. Now, muscle mass is not about vanity either because as we age, you notice, I mean, I saw some guy in the paddle gym the other day who's probably looks about 80 and he had really, really lean but he had no muscle mass. And I think as we age, we get the sarcopenia, the loss of muscle mass, which isn't great for the rest of our body, our metabolism, our strength, preventing falls, all the things we want to avoid when we get older. And so, yeah, muscle mass is important. It's not supposed to be just about vanity. We've said this on the channel many, many times. All right, we've also talked about what's happening to young men today and there seems to be an epidemic of low levels of testosterone in men. And, you know, there's so many, for similar reasons why there's low levels of testosterone in older men. Sometimes, though, we'll see some of the older generation have really high levels, surprisingly high levels of testosterone still. The only factor, though, that's just total. But when we go dig a little bit deeper, some of those same men have high levels of total testosterone, also have higher levels of SHBG. So SHBG is your sex hormone binding globulin and this binds your testosterone, preventing it from being free to be active in the body. Now, there are some theories that the complex of SHBG and testosterone may interact with the cell in a certain way, but overall, it's well understood that free testosterone is what does the thing, what you need it to do. It gets into the cell, it merges with the androgen complex and starts activating a host of things in your body. So anyway, SHBG can be problematic as it elevates because it gives you very little free testosterone left. That's what we see in older men. In younger people, they tend to have lower SHBG, but then they're also getting lower testosterone, but not always. Poor diet, sedentary lifestyle, environmental toxins, these are all maybe some of the causes for young people. And I would argue, I think, you know, adolescents should probably get screened for low testosterone because that low testosterone during adolescence may set them up for not having a great life often. And if you could help young adolescents and optimize their testosterone, try to remove, try to do what you can naturally, but if you can't, you know, maybe even something like an HCG to maintain the fertility, which is, in the medical literature and some of the recommendations are, that's what you would put a young person on, it would be like an HCG or HMG or something to kind of boost their own body's production, keep their testes in size as they go through puberty. So anyway, those signals continue and how that develops, I don't think everyone really knows why it stops other than potentially that TGF beta starts climbing at a certain stage in life and that just slows down at least, you know, the growth of your manhood because you have testosterone from a young age and if you didn't stop it, it would probably keep going down to your feet potentially, right? Or who knows, right? We don't know, but there's some mechanism that stops that bit, but then there's testosterone doing more than your secondary sex characteristics, right? They're doing both your facial hair, armpit hair, it happens at different stages, puberty, leg hair, which might have all fallen out for some reason, which could also be autoimmune, but we don't know. But there's all different, right? There's all different stages and the testosterone isn't just for that. It carries you forward all throughout life and having optimal levels because in young people when the testosterone is the highest, we're not seeing more prostate cancer, we're not seeing more hair loss, you know, you just don't. Obviously there's other mechanisms too, but you do have a high level of androgens, a high level of growth hormone, you know, at that like 16, like 23 age range and not to mention some people enter puberty a bit later, so there's a shifted further forward into the early 20s. So some people even on the growth, height growth, you know, will experience the height a little bit later into their 20s, they get their sudden burst. Now testosterone also helps trigger that growth as well as stopping the growth. So if you were to give a young person who's growing testosterone, but not the estrodial that it would convert to, would then signal the bones to start closing. And there have been some studies, a particular treatment using an aromatase inhibitor in adolescents with short stature to help accelerate the growth further. But long-term use of anastrozole in adults in high, high doses probably wouldn't be recommended because it could degrade your joints and your bones, not to mention kind of play with your mind. But there's always a sweet spot for everything. The ideal spot is not to need those. But everyone is so different. So I'm not in the camp in the TRT world, there's these camps of like no AI, and I'm not talking about chachi, BT, no aromatase inhibitor, because your body fat is where mostly aromatase enzymes sit, and that enzyme converts your testosterone into estradiol. But estradiol is so beneficial for your blood vessels, the endothelium. But in some people, women, et cetera, with high estradiol, there can be a slightly higher risk of blood clots. On the package leaflet for women on HRT, you're all kind of warned that you'd be careful, but usually it's the oral synthetic estradiol. But even men, for whatever reason, can also get DVTs and certain blood clots. So yeah, I think everyone's individual, and they have to be treated individually. And you can leave your estradiol a little bit higher, provided it's not giving you any side effects as well. But there are some, I've interviewed on my channel, some doctors, I think Dr. Rand McLean, great guy, he's in the camp that says, you know, why let this thing go crazy? We can knock it down a little bit and you shouldn't have any negative effects. But estradiols also, you guys know this, is very important for what else in the body? Does anyone know? Sexual function, libido. So having, if you're estradiol, it's a form of estrogen, there's other forms of estrogen like estrone, estrial, but estradiol is a predominant one. If it gets too low, you'll know because you'll go flat with your libido. And one of the reasons why we test estradiol in men, when they're coming in as a screen to get testosterone treatment, is to see how low their estradiol is because you can then say, well, if the testosterone is low and the estradiol is low, this isn't good. They need this for health and wellness. Where that level is, I think it's quite individual, but there's a general consensus over, I think, 30 kilograms, but some people see even higher. In the UK, we see about 120 to 160, even to 190. I think mine, last I checked, was about 210. I wasn't using an aromatase inhibitor and I had a bit of HCG in the mix as well. So, a few more slides left. Yeah, so this one I made for you guys, testosterone and carnivore, paleo or keto, I did miss one, I don't know. But anabolic diet that I used to do where I would carb load on the weekends and then meat and cheese and similar to keto, kind of a weird version of the Atkins. Anyway, obviously, what you guys are doing, if you're not on testosterone treatment, cholesterol makes testosterone, you know, through the whole pathway. you can get some benefit of getting more hormones from that. I'm not going to go through it all in detail, it's like teaching you, and to suck eggs, you guys know what you're doing here. Yeah, so increase testosterone, increase protein, because you're having so much more protein, that's this. But there is a little bit of worry, bless you, about SHBG, that, you know, having the low, because you're driving down insulin, you know, secreting a lot, can that be affecting the SHBG? And I think time will tell. Some will say, and I've seen a couple of slides, that correlations between both high SHBG and low SHBG and mortality as well, but you don't want to, sometimes statistics can be, we might have to believe this, but sometimes statistics can be assholes, right? Statistics don't always tell the full picture, and then there always is a conclusion at the end that doesn't always kind of fit, or it fits the narrative of what the researcher wants them to say. But the only bad thing about SHBG, if there is one, and it's not bad in and of itself, it's just kind of a metric to see what your state is. I mean, aging itself raises the SHBG level. I've seen some blood tests on my one mate, he was swimming every morning, really lean, total testosterone is very good. SHBG also was there to match. Unfortunately, his total wasn't as high as the SHBG. And then one could argue, and this is when we do a calculation of free testosterone, and I don't know if you guys know this, there's a difference between when you go to the lab, you give your blood, I think in the US they do this a lot, they'll look at your free testosterone because they've looked at it under the analyzer, right? And if they're using a technique called LC mass spec, it could be pretty accurate. I mean, it's going to be pretty, you know, that's what they're seeing, that's what they're seeing. However, there can be some artifacts of other things. I think it's like CRP could inflate the number. So you end up getting this higher amount of free testosterone than you actually have sometimes from that. I know Abraham Morgan-Taller says, no, no, free testosterone assay is fine. It's cheaper to run the states only one test. In the UK, we don't use LC mass spec and throughout Europe, it's radioimmuno assay. It's a technique when they measure your blood. And so we like to look at what they do in all the peer-reviewed studies. They look at SHBG, they look at total testosterone and then they calculate the free testosterone with also the albumin as well. So albumin is a protein. Have you guys heard of bioavailable testosterone? So there's free testosterone, bioavailable testosterone, the fully bound. Bioavailable testosterone is bound to this protein called albumin, but it's a very weak link and it can disassociate very easily and then you get more free testosterone. That's not as bad as completely bound up testosterone with the SHBG. But that's why we measure it the way we do and that's SHBG. You know, watch this space. It's just one of those things you kind of want to bring it down to a more normal range and when SHBG is too high or too low, the calculations might not be as accurate at that point. So again, my brother, he had really good levels of testosterone total. His was 39% conversion, probably over 1,000. But he also had higher SHBG. Fortunately, his total was high enough that more than likely he had plenty of free testosterone. So we didn't have LCL at mass spec so we just went by the calculation. If you found this video helpful, hit the like button and subscribe for more content on hormones and men and women's health. And until next time, take control of your body and your health.