 So, welcome to our newest podcast for balance my hormones. And, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and Thanks for having me. So I'm 44. I live in Belgium and I've been lifting weights since I was 16. I started into the fitness world because I was doing a lot of judo competition at that time. So I wanted to bring my strength a bit up. But after I was 25 something, I stopped the judo competition because of injury, risk, etc. And I just kept on lifting weights and it was more into the aesthetics that I was interested in. Okay. So in the meanwhile, when I was 25, I became an MD. And four years later, I became a dermatologist. In Belgium, it takes 11 years to become a dermatologist. Wow, really? Seven to be a doctor, a general doctor, and then four more years of specialization. Okay. So you must have been interested in it to put in the work to get there after 11 years. Yeah, you must be. But the interest in fitness and the interest in dermatology blends in nicely because I've always believed that boats are into aesthetics a lot. Because if you have acne, for example, or just wrinkles getting older, it's always talking about aesthetics, the looks, how you come over to other people. So it crosses over with fitness, having a nice body. Yeah. And you're in pretty good shape. I've seen your videos. I think you mentioned in one of your videos that you had very good genes, but I don't think that's the excuse for everything. You've done a fair amount of lifting in your life. But I mean, judo is... I've done 28 years of lifting now, but you have to have the good genes. My granddad was a boxing champion in the 1920s something. But I have the same build. So that's where it comes from anyway. And judo is quite taxing as well. I think I did a small amount when I was younger, but that's a tough sport, right? Yeah. When you're still 18 years old, you can do whatever you want and you recover. But when you're getting over 20, 25, you have more and more injuries and the risk isn't worth it anymore. So I stopped it for that reason because I thought you can't do judo on just recreational kind of manner because you're 25, you have to train and you can think on the training, well, I won't take it too hard today. But then you have an opponent of 16 years old and he wants to give it all. So you fall on your head all the time or you just give it all as well. Yeah, you're either 100% or it's not like you can go for a jog instead of a sprint. You know, you have to be there because you're fighting someone, I suppose. Did you have any serious injuries? What injuries did you have? Or is it just gradual? No, nothing serious. But I was 25. I was just starting as a general doctor then in the clinic and I was all the time with the blue eye, with the sore. I used to play rugby until a year ago. And when I was working in the hospital, you know, a fair amount of time ago, people actually, they never asked. They thought I had a skin condition. My face was always like smashed up. So I was like, oh, you know, your face looks really good at the moment. I was like, yeah, I've stopped playing rugby. Oh, I thought you had like some serious psoriasis or something like that. I was just, you know, nose all over the place. So I can attest to that as well. Yeah. Absolutely. So you worked as a doctor. What point did you realize that something you needed TRT or what point did you start looking into TRT? Well, I haven't always been in shape. Of course, I've got three little children in the meanwhile as well. They're 11, 9 and 6 years old. And maybe that can be an excuse for being a bit out of shape. You're a baby. You have tough times having tough nights. Dad board. Yeah, the dad board. Difficult eating. You eat all their junk food as well. So in 2013, 14 and even 15, together with my wife, we got a bit fatter after the lost baby. May 2015, we said, okay, this has to stop. We have to get back into shape again. And we started tracking our food or calories intake with my fitness pal. Oh, yeah. And we lost a lot of kilos. My wife lost 12 kilos in six months and I lost 17 kilos in six months just by being more aware of what you put in your mouth. Yeah. So by 2016, I was very lean again. And then I looked into the mirror and I said, well, you can see all the definition of the muscles. Let's train hard again as well. So I started working out again. But by the end of 2016, I felt there was something wrong. I wasn't in shape. I hadn't had any energy to train. I was irritated easily. And I never had checked my testosterone levels. But one way or the other, I just knew that was it. Yeah. I said to my wife before I had measured them, I think my testosterone must be very low. And she said, like everyone would, that can't be possible. I said she brings shape. Yeah. Muscular and all. But in January 2017, two years ago, I had them checked and the levels were, well, classic 250, 260. Wow. Yeah. Really. Yeah. Yeah. So at that moment, I didn't know what to do about it. So I went to see a friend, a urologist that I know here in my town. And of course, he put me on an andro gel. Of course. Yeah. The standard. How was that for you? Well, that brought up my levels from 250 to 700, really. Not too bad. But the symptoms didn't change at all. No. What time of day did you measure? I mean, did you measure mid-peak, post-application, or 12 hours post? In the middle of the morning. So I put it on 7 a.m. So I had them measured the levels 10, 11 a.m. That's because, yeah, it just happened. So, but if you measured at 12 hours later, you may have been low again, which is why you may have not felt as good towards, you know, even at 700 at that moment in time. Did you have to kind of lather it on you all over your body and things like that as well? Because you have to spread it out over a big surface area as well. Is that right? When you apply those gels? I just did the shoulders. The shoulders. Okay. Yeah. That must cause problems, you know, going into your other speciality. Surely that must aggravate, like, some skin conditions, like acne and things. Yeah. I got more folliculitis on the shoulders because it was very poor blocking, those gels. Interesting. I didn't like them anyway. But I did that for a good half year, six months. And then I went back to the urologist and I said, well, I don't feel better. And he said, well, your levels are 700. Yeah. So that was it for him. So I mailed him the week after that and I said, well, I looked on the internet and I decided I would rather like injections. And he said, really? I said, yeah, why not? Yeah. And he said, well, I don't know nothing about that. And he said, you just have to go to a transgender clinic. They already know how to do that. Why? Really? Yeah. So you went to a transgender clinic? I know nothing's about it. That's it for me. Oh. So did you go to that clinic and then... No. I was going to say. You'll be desperate. Yeah. So I looked on the internet. I found Jay Campbell's TOT revolution channel. I got myself educated on that. So that's how I got into the TRT really. Okay. Great. So did you try injections then for a while? Yes. And yeah, last year I started in June 2018 on Sustanon because that's the only thing we got here in Belgium. So I did a few injections. Well, I started once a week. Well, I felt great on them the first days. And then again, the levels declined. I checked my levels and a few days after injection was 1,700. Okay. Of course, then you feel great. But the last part of the week, that declined again. But how were you... You said, I think you mentioned to me you had injected subcutaneous on those? That's the whole point. Yeah. Yeah. I injected subcutaneously then two or three times a week after that. And I got these very painful, hard subcutaneous lumps, nodules that I didn't like, of course. Well, that's what happens. We've seen clients that have missed the mark from doing intramuscular and did a shallow or just reached the fat or just under the skin. And they would get the lumps and bumps, which is why sustenance is not really formulated for subcutaneous injections. And I know the Americans will promote subcutaneous injections, but they have compounding pharmacies that can make sterile injections in a thinner liquid or a thinner base, which doesn't usually cause those issues. And you're using a smaller amount to get there. So did you try the intramuscular injection of sustenal never? Yeah. I can't inject intramuscularly myself. Subcutaneously, I can do. But intramuscularly, I had to ask my wife. So she did that two or three times. Really? But you're a doctor. No. Is that because you hate doing the self-injection or you can't? Yeah. I hate it anyway. Yeah. You hate it anyway. Okay. You know what? I've spoken to lots of doctors that have said that exact same thing. And nurses, they're like doing it every day on patients. As soon as it comes near themselves, they're like, I can't do that. Well, I give both those injections every day to 10 patients. I got each time 20 injections. So I give over 200 injections a day. But that's in the skin, of course. Go back to what you said. I think that's really important, actually. Symptoms of low testosterone. A lot of it is the mental effects. I think people, well, I've heard this from men. They walk around and they're like, well, I'm in good shape. I exercise. I can recover. Okay. But I've got increased anxiety, flatter mood, irritability, like you said. Just no drive. And they write themselves off as being okay. And so do lots of other doctors because they say, oh, you must, you know, you're not fat. You're not super skinny or anything like that. And I think that's important for people to notice, you know, particularly if you've got good genes like yourself, that actually you might look okay, but you might be really struggling, you know, with those symptoms. So I thought that's something important to know. Because I think that happens to a lot of people. So you went on to the creams then. Is this right? Is that right? You went on to the scrotal application cream. Is that after sort of Dr. Nichols and Jay sort of suggested it? Yeah. I contacted Dr. Nichols directly after having the trouble with the sustenal. Yeah. And he said, well, you have this formula. You really have to try it. I have a lot of patients on it. And it works really fine for them. And so it does for me as well. So I started on the cream, I guess, in August or September. And, yeah, I feel... How often do you apply? Once or twice a day or... Twice a day. Twice a day. Okay. Scrochially then, at both times. Yeah. Right. What did you do when you... So I started twice a day. Twice a day. Yeah, I'd always done twice a day. I never did once a day. Was this in Canada? No. So it was in California. So I was living in Ohio at the time. And I was on... Well, originally put on injections. I was 22. So I was just quite young then. And then after the injections, the doctor said, okay, we're taking you off everything. See if your body recovers. I think that was the thought. It's just going to miraculously recover. And eventually a couple of the other endocrinologists I'd come across like six months later, eight months later, wasn't recovering, said, all right, maybe you need to be on some patches. So we started with some patches. But one, two, three patches. It just was ridiculous to feel optimal. I saw a doctor at the Cleveland Clinic for one final request to say, hey, can you do anything about this? Can you put me on clomiphene? Can you do something so I can recover my natural levels or anything to make this better, quicker? And he said, just leave it alone. Don't touch it. Don't do anything. Don't touch it. So I said, well, this isn't the right answer for me. So I found this doctor in California. And he said, look, you know, your levels at 300, 400, those are too low. Even levels at 500 are too low for someone your age at 22. So, you know, I've got this high concentration testosterone cream. He called it testo cream in a PLO base. And I think this would work really well for you to come out to my clinic and I can do a workup and see if you feel better. So, you know, he started me on. I would do an eighth of a teaspoon of cream. So it came in a pot. It came in a little pot. And you scooped it. You scooped it with it. And then you'd have to make sure you'd get levels. But it wasn't as metered as you can get as far as the dose goes. I would apply it to my scrotum, sometimes on the rib cage, sometimes on the back. I got really good levels. But the thing I learned was the levels, it was dependent on when you measured it. So I'd measured it a couple hours post. And again, I went super physiological. But to be fair, you would get the same thing with an injection. And then we'd measure 12 or 24 hours later. And it was still, it was quite good. It was like, you know, 700 12 hours later. So it was working. By getting that average, isn't it? At that level that it's not, you know, statements, you can get it twice a day. You're trying to match that and sort of give regular symptomatic relief. I think that's key. Yeah. Thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this video, please like and subscribe for future content. Bye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.