 naringin, We are here with Dr. Sanjay Gupta, who is a pretty famous cardiologist. So he is based out of York. The channel is called York Cardiology. So thank you for coming on. Thank you. Thank you for having me. And the whole idea is to make people aware because the reality is we're not going to have a big, big randomized placebo control trial anytime soon. And when we do, there'll be a bunch of people who will sit there and say, oh, we need more data or they'll pick holes in the data. And so the poor guy, you know, the poor person who's just a little bit unhappy with his overall health, he's never going to know about any of this. Yeah. Yeah. And so to educate people is a good thing because they can then A, become informed, B, look out for data, C, contact people like yourselves who have experience with this kind of thing. The endocrinologist, it seems like it's endemic in that profession in that they really frustrate and anger some of our patients that you hear stories of just torturing the patients in some ways. I mean, oh, no, you're fine. You're fine. Leave it alone. Putting them on antidepressants and things like this. And so they're so willing to put them on artificial antidepressant, but not the bioidentical hormone their own body makes. I don't understand why that's somehow safer. Even stories of like guys who've lost a testicle or had testicular torsion and all these things and have very low testosterone and actually meet like even some of the sexual medicine guidelines are refused. Like guys, I refused for six years of low testosterone, crippling depression, anxiety, no sexual dysfunction. B, agro and citalopram was the answer. You're not a candidate for TRT. And it's like all those things for me, which is like, surely that ticks a box somewhere, you know, trauma. And yeah. So yeah, it seems to be a bit of an issue, but like, you know, I used to work in the NHS and, you know, we train, you know, as a physiotherapist, like in orthopedics and trauma and, you know, musculoskeletal side, we learn within, within the boundaries of what that place offers. Right. As well. So we are influenced by, you know, that as well, that we can offer that. So you won't get training in that to utilize it, you know, I don't think you're trained in critical thinking. And, you know, we're not, we're not allowed to think like that. Anything like that is in some ways it is okay. And, and most, most researchers has a vested interest at the back of it anyway. So it's all a money-making machine. Medicine, healthcare is, is a very, disease is very profitable. Health is not profitable. Disease is very profitable. Yeah, that's so true. And that's always this little tinge of a conspiracy theory behind why men can't get their testosterone. You know, it's a big drug companies would rather sell these other molecules rather than you'd want a cheap testosterone. And I suppose we say it so much and hear it so much. It's, we are probably true to a certain extent. And the regulators don't help. They all are part of the same, same side. Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. So anyway, hopefully the information gets out and our channel doesn't get shut down or our company gets shut down. Oh, I don't think so. I think, I think it's, you know, if it's, if the information is presented in the way whereby it's honest and you're not trying to say, oh, do this or do that. You're just saying, this is what we know. And, and you're allowed to ask questions about it. Yeah, that's fair. At least you got some free speech still. Next one on thyroid. It's changed my life, thyroid. Yeah. And Sam's as well. We were, testosterone got us to a point, but I looked at some old pictures of me, how bloaty and the mix of these. We've known the Hashimoto's, haven't we? That's what we didn't know. It's, and there's all the ultra immune. It's all kind of tied together. So testosterone is a start. The thyroid kind of, you know, polishes it off. It's interesting. That's why we're not disbalanced my testosterone, even though I own that site. It's very interesting. I think there's this underlying process that goes on. And I suspect stress and inflammation contributes. And every organ system, if you think about it, the pancreas suffers, the heart suffers, the brain suffers with dementia and all that kind of stuff. The liver suffers with fatty liver. We see it all the time. We see the kidney starts suffering. Now, you know, the current creatinine measurements, they're only looking for, you've lost one kidney by the time your creatinine starts going up, really. So to my mind, you know, when you think about it, the body is, you know, one big, it's one big machine, isn't it? And one side of it affects the other. And it's very interesting. And we have to start thinking holistically. We have to start thinking of all those things. You know, ideally, I would like every single patient. So I was very interested. I was saying to my patients, I was in a meeting one day, and they said, oh, you know, diabetes can cause heart disease. And I said, what about heart disease causing diabetes? Meaning that, yes, when someone comes in with a heart attack, you say, oh, are they diabetic? No, they're not. But how many times do you follow people who've had a heart attack and go and look to see whether they develop diabetes? And I bet you'll find a much higher incidence of diabetic patients becoming diabetic after their heart attack. Well, they have the pre-diabetes, like you said, all along. Exactly. Exactly. And that is precisely it. That is precisely it. I think it's really interesting. You should definitely look into the SGLT2 inhibitors, which are going to revolutionize. Now, this is a medication which has been around for five years, proven in a really big randomized placebo-controlled study. It ticks all the boxes. Yeah. Emperglyphlozin. In patients who have any kind of vascular thing, you give it to them, they live longer. Any major side effects? Not really. Not really. How does it compare to metformin? Because you kind of alluded to the fact that they were on the metformin, changed the numbers, but didn't change the outcome. So what is it? Yeah. I mean, you know, it does change the outcomes in the sense that if you have lots of blood sugar wandering around, then that blood sugar will cause more harm. So that makes sense, that lower the blood sugar. But it doesn't tackle the thing as to why the blood sugar went up in the first place. And if that is a much more kind of generalized, indolent process, which is harming the body, then maybe treatments that aim at tackling that will do both. Yeah. Tackle the underlying process and improve the damage done by the symptom of the process, which is the high blood sugar. I want to go to that. This is exactly the same with high blood pressure, isn't it? But yes, we worry about blood pressure. Why? We worry about it because we're worried it'll cause heart attacks and strokes. So everyone said, treat the blood pressure, you reduce heart attacks and strokes. But one, treating the blood pressure, you can treat it with an ACE inhibitor, you can treat it with a beta blocker. You can reduce the blood pressure to the same amount, but the outcomes are different. Suggesting that it's not just about reducing the number. One type of medication may have something else, some other effect, over and above reducing the number, which seems to improve outcomes. So, and the second thing is, if your high blood pressure has been caused by sleep apnea, then making the number better and not tackling the sleep apnea is missing a trick and a big one. Yeah. That was great. That was great. We both had sleep apnea. We're like brothers and we did with mother. Yeah. Well, this is exactly a chronic disease. Everyone's got sleep apnea. Everyone's got disrupted hormones. Everyone's, you know, all these things. Everyone's got fatty livers. So I'm sure, I'm sure. I do. How do you measure for fatty liver? I mean, we can sometimes guess from high SHBG levels that there may be a fatty liver. But what other measurements do you use to determine fatty liver other than a scan? Do you do a ultrasound or MRI? You know, again, I think, I think the reality is that, um, you know, who's got a fatty liver because when they walk in, you know, they're generally middle age. They're generally, um, you know, truncally obese. They'll say I've got diabetes on high blood pressure. If you look hard enough, you'll find kidney disease. It's just no one looks high enough. They wait for the creatinine to go up. They all have underlying sleep apnea in patients with atrial fibrillation. One in two people have sleep apnea. One in five people in the population have sleep apnea. 85% of sleep apnea is undiagnosed. That's crazy. You have sleep apnea. It affects your thyroid. It affects your testosterone. Yeah. Yeah. And testosterone sometimes unmask the sleep apnea. Exactly. And to make it so obvious, because it seems like with the poor NHS, unless it slaps some square across the face, they don't even know what you've got. No. It has to be so textbook, you know, for them. Then they'll be, oh yeah, well treated. I had to, uh, I've got sleep apnea. Um, I've got, I think I've got a weird neck and jaw probably, um, great genetics. But the, um, I, I had to, I figured out before obviously speaking to GP friends and stuff, sort of what the scores were that you have to score on the questionnaire. Just to get a referral. And, um, I was falling asleep when I was reading a book, when I was driving a car, like I was highly likely to fall asleep doing all of those things to score. And then I got there and they were like, yeah, you've got sleep apnea. It's again, it's the outcome measures, right? It's like, it is these things that I. This is why I think what I've done is I've produced leaflets for patients. I've given them the scores to measure because they may go to a GP and they may see a clinical assistant. Who knows who, who knows who you're seeing now? Yeah. When you go and see a doctor, what, what is this GP? Well, what is this? Who is this doctor? Just because they've got her name doctor, you know, what does that mean? They've got now the NHS is about treat training, um, you know, nurses to become advanced healthcare practitioners. Right. So I've seen an advanced healthcare practitioner. The problem with this thing is that you are taking a person. You are not teaching them to think critically. You're saying, this is what you do. This is what you do. And nurses are very good at following that. So when a 95 year old comes with a heart attack, he'll get put on statins and aspirin and clopidogrel and God knows what else. And you've got this and you've got that. And no one has the common sense to ask, well, why am I giving it? I'm giving it because I'm going to make him live longer. So the next question is, well, how long do people live? Generally, the life expectancy in this country is 81, 82 years. The guy at 95 has already beaten the, won the race by 15 years. Yeah. You are not going to make him live longer by giving him a statin. Yeah. Yeah. But it will make him miserable. Yeah. I was going to say it could compromise other lifestyle. Yeah. Of course you'll make him miserable. You know, who likes, who, how at 95, do I want to be given a bucket load of pills today? The only thing I want is for someone to come and ask me nicely, how do you feel today? And if I feel good, that's a blessing. And if I feel bad and I've got pain, then yes, give me something to take me, you know, improve my symptoms. But we shouldn't. And this kind of thinking, this kind of just simple common sense, the courage that is required these days to think outside is incredible. You know, the courage you have to demonstrate to ask questions like this is incredible. It's unbelievable. I was at Harvard as a research fellow. And I was appointed. And I remember before going to Harvard, I was like with my wife and I said, oh my God, this is going to be a, this is one of the biggest names in the world, this hospital, this center, this guy's got 30 of the best people from around the world working for him for free because they think they deem it such an honor to work with this guy. I don't know how I'm going to function. How am I going to work? How am I going to manage with people like that? You know, I'm not something special. And anyway, I went in there and my first research meeting, this guy turns up and he's got his computer and 30 researchers are working away on the computers and he's barking out orders. And what does this show? What does this show? And they're all like, it shows this, it shows this. And I was like, I don't know what this is all about. Let me ask the question that came into my head, which was, I simply said, I'm really sorry for this, but could you tell me what your research question is? Because you're doing all this analysis and I don't know what you're asking. So I can't contribute. So please tell me. And they all looked at me absolutely horrified. And they said, what do you mean? What is the question? There is no question. The question comes later. What? We're going to analyze data. We're going to find a correlation. We're then going to build a question around the correlation we've found. Why? And this is how research is done. Yeah, that's backwards. And this is a part of it, medical school. So to my mind, you know, I have, the more degrees a person has, the more devoid they are of common sense. The problem here is a productive doctor is a doctor who will get as many people in and out of the door in the shortest period of time. That is the definition of productive doctor. Yeah. Yeah. No one looks at the outcome measure. No one says, well, well, were those patients satisfied with? And this is how it's practiced. Training has been curtailed. Doctors are now being produced earlier. Consultants are made consultants at a much earlier stage. And a lot of their grading is based on tick boxing. Did you see three of these? Did you fill in five dots where someone observed you do this? That to my mind is not, you don't train a doctor. And there's more to, you know, the job that we're doing at the moment, a monkey can do. Well, the way they force you guys. Yeah. You can, you can, because you can have a tick boxing thing. You can say, okay, you've got diabetes. No one's going to say on what basis you've got high blood pressure. Oh, you're on a blood pressure tablet. No one's going to say, well, did, was that even warranted? Yeah. But now you've been, now you see, as soon as you've got a blood pressure diagnosis, the insurance companies make money out of you. The blood pressure tablet medication makes money out of you. The GP gets a nice little earning from whoever, the CCG or whatever for diagnosing hypertension. Yeah. The pharmaceutical company make a lifetime of money out of you. And the reality is, after all this, it's been, you have been sold the idea that this is good for you. And you will never know. That's the most incredible thing. The most incredible thing is, if I come to you today and I say, buy this pill because it will make you live longer. The first thing you'd want to know is, what's the evidence that will make me live longer? No GP will be able to give you numbers needed to treat for giving you a pill. Because anything that is good for you, if science is, if true science is being practiced, anything that is good for you will be based around a number. Because all science is about controlling and measuring, isn't it? You control something, you measure it, and then you decide whether it's good. Well, that measurement is the number. Yeah. Right. Right. And the number is the number. The number is the number. No professor knows the number better than, you know, he doesn't know a different number. The number is the number. If a study has been shown the statins are beneficial, what is the number? You will struggle to find anyone who knows the number. And, you know, the reality is, as patients, we should know the number. We would do that if we were going away on, if we were getting life insurance, we'd want to know how much we were going to be paid. If something bad happened to you, we'd want to know. Yet we're here taking a medication for the rest of our lives, and we will never let. That's crazy. I think you said something really good, like, in terms of lifestyle advice, like, if you're looking for evidence of it, we sort of roughly know what is good for us. And what is bad for us. And you just sort of make sure you don't do too much of the stuff that's bad for you, you know, while still dabbling in that, if it makes your quality of life better. And you try and do that, you know, as many good things as you can without compromising your life in that way as well. And modern day medicine is about patient enslavement. Modern day medicine is enslaving the patient. You don't do this. Don't do that. Oh, that's bad for you. Oh, that's bad for you. You know, I believe good medicine is about liberating the patient. I believe that the patient should be told, hang on, you know, your life, your choices. My job is to give you the information you want in a language you can understand and to facilitate that which works for you. That's the way it should be. In fact, I had a guy, one of my stroke physicians came back and he came to me the other day and he said, look, I need to have words with you. And I said, yeah, why? And he said, well, you said in a video that atrial fibrillation doesn't cause strokes and it is associated with strokes and doesn't cause strokes. And I said, yeah, I said that. Well, you can't say stuff like that. And I said, can you prove it otherwise? And then he said, no, you're right, but you can't say stuff like that. And I said, well, why can't I say stuff like that? Well, people won't understand. I said, well, that's why, you know, that's for them to decide. I've not said anything. I've just given them data. Give me insights. Yeah. I've given them data. But it's crazy, isn't it? When people just turn around and sensible doctors turn around and say, well, you can't. And there's no good reason why you can't, but you can't. Yeah. There's like this whole thing with medicine in the UK in general, it's no basic rule of law applies. Things like freedom of speech or the right to a trial and not be judged guilty or be told you're guilty to prove an innocent. They turn in all the legal basis on its head, you know, for doctors here. Yeah. I think there's a real hunger for patients to have this information, a huge hunger because they're not getting it. Absolutely. Absolutely. I would love for the channel to grow bigger. I would love for that, you know, to become like an NHS place, but you're getting more carefully dissected information. Yeah. You're definitely achieving that already. A hundred percent. I mean, we sit on our front, on the TRT side is kind of the basis for so many people. And we're saying, well, look, you don't have to worry if you don't have insurance or, you know, if we're not part of the NHS. We try to make it affordable, sustainable for people. And I think we do a nice job of kind of opening up that access where they wouldn't have had it before. So, we're an example. Yeah. Yeah. And just the education just about hormones. And it is literally just explaining in a way that, you know, like I spoke to a chap today that was just like, well, just thanks for doing that on YouTube channel. Because actually there's a lot of things that actually you say that others have explained with a load of waffle. And you just sort of bring it down to simplifying it just so that you can feel if you're a patient before considering, you know, hormone therapy, that you can make an informed decision. Right. It's not like you need to do this. You must do that. If your levels are low, you've got to do that. It's all very much about these are the, these are the risks. You know, these are the things that people can see. These are the expectations. There are people that it doesn't help. You know, it might be something else. And people, like you say, it's exactly that. You're giving them the information and then they do what they want to do with it. But you've given them, you've given them the information and not advice. Right. Exactly. That I think is the crucial thing because information is everywhere. They can't, you know, information is you switch on TV. Information is there. Yeah. And you can't criticize me for giving information. Absolutely. I think that's how we change things. Okay. So thank you, Dr. Gupta, for joining us today. I hope the viewers found that helpful. If you would like to listen to more information and get more information about this, please subscribe, ring the notification bell because you'll get notified of more content like this. Yeah. And thanks for joining us. So we'll see you next time. Okay. See you next time. Thanks.