 Here's my, here's my conspiracy theory popping on here, the worst thing we ever did to people was the food guide pyramid. I just ate a thousand calorie meal and I feel like I could go run 20 miles because it was what I ate and how I ate and how I ate it and how I ate it and how I ate it and how it was cooked. 80% of your immune system is located in your small intestines. Because how many of us have actually eaten a big meal but we've always got like another extra stomach to put in the sweets and the dessert? If your cortisol is spiking correctly, spiking in the morning, waking you up, you eat breakfast, it's gonna naturally decrease. The cortisol level is a lot of the food, but the cortisol level is higher, so we're not gonna utilize the food for energy, we're gonna store it instead. But if you have a BUM cortisol in the morning and it spikes in the afternoon, that lets you know that it sends cortisol and insulin are opposite. I recently started taking Sheila shit, activated charcoal, it ended up getting sick for like a day and a half. You don't need to sit down at a meal and begin that meal with fluid. Well, I'll tell you, here's my conspiracy theory popping on here. The worst thing we ever did to people was the food guide pyramid. The worst thing we ever did. We were not meant to have a diet based on carbohydrate, particularly processed carbohydrate, but we as humans were not meant, especially modern society humans, we were not meant for that. We're not running 25,000 miles every day. Now, if you're Chris and you're doing triathlons, maybe carbohydrate based diet's gonna work for him, but it doesn't. We're so metabolically unhealthy at this point that most people cannot tolerate that level. So when you bring their carbs down to a level where, oh, now we're using insulin properly, we're getting good carbohydrate, the gut's healthier now, it all comes into play. So that makes total sense to me. Yeah. Back to Nathan's point, talking about like diabetes, I, we eat like you, like we go through the educational program, which the educational system in this country, let's just, it's, it's higher indoctrination. That's exactly what it is. But like, you know, like you go through the education system and it's like, oh, someone has type two diabetes because like they eat too many carbs or it's like sugar. I, I, I'm at a point where 80, like 80% of your immune system is located in your small intestines, in your gut. I, I know for a fact, and you can look this up. Um, type two diabetes is a thousand percent reversible. Like, like, because if you look at, if you look at review papers and position statements, like from the American college of sports medicine and combine a joint position savings with American dietetics association, a single bout of exercise, like resistance exercise. I'm not talking about methods. I'm like, you go in the gym and go from machine to machine to machine, treadmill stuff, super elementary things. A single bout of resistance training increases insulin and glucose sensitivity for up to 48 hours. Okay. So that alone, coupled with a dietary lifestyle change will completely reverse diabetes. So like I'm at the theory now where people taking insulin, I actually think like, uh, one of my family members is type two diabetic and she has to take insulin like every day. And sometimes she doesn't take it. I'm, I'm, my theory is that sometimes I feel like the insulin actually makes people. Worse. Um, yeah, lazy, but just like mentally, psychologically, like physically, there's like worse. Um, and she also has Alzheimer's, which of course that doesn't really help anything. Totally. Um, so most of these type three diabetes. Yeah. Most of this stuff is almost completely reversible. Just do diet and lifestyle changes. But again, we live in a culture that's, you know, cheap, fast, you know, convenient. People are lazy. You know, we have 60 plus percent obesity in this country. Um, what's interesting. If any, has anybody ever been to Asia? Oh yeah. What part Philippines? Okay. I was in Singapore for a week and then Bangkok. And then I was in South Korea, uh, last year. Um, if you look at the rate of obesity in countries around the world, there's 182 countries. Japan has one of the lowest rates of obesity in the entire world. Out of 182 countries, Japan has one of the lowest. They also have fast food. Okay. Most, most countries have fast food. Now here's what's interesting about like Japan. Um, even though they have fast food, they eat a lot of fish, they eat a lot of rice. However, um, they have more physical activity. They walk everywhere. Okay. That's part of their culture. Also that it is, they don't have like 64 ounce buckets of like fucking fried chicken. Okay. They, yeah. So they're, even though they have a lot of the same types of food that we do here in America, their portion sizes of any given meal is significantly smaller. Um, you know, you don't have a half gallon of popcorn, you know, that type of stuff. But also it's also a negative cultural stipulation to be fat in a lot of these countries. Like when I was in Singapore, like I saw some people that had like a few chubby bellies here and there, no obesity. Same thing in Bangkok, Thailand, same thing in South, in South Korea. Uh, and then when I, uh, flying back to San Francisco, like within the first hour and a half, I see like 500 obesity people, obese people, you know? So again, like even though the, we have the fattest station in the world, but these things can be completely reversed. Um, and a lot of that just comes down to, you know, state, local, you know, governmental policy. Um, by the way, just never listen to the government. I, so many amazing things. You said the thing I liked the best about the gummy bears and I, and I, I fight this. It's that calorie bro shit where it's calories in calories out. And my main argument is similar to what you said. I said, you tell me that you take 500 calories of a Big Mac and 500 calories of probably 12 ounces of grass fed, 85% ground beef and put them in your hand. And you argue with me after somebody takes that in, that their blood panels are going to look similar because they're not. You, you cannot outwork a bad diet. You cannot do it. I don't care what anybody tells you. I don't care what anybody tells you about these numbers and these equations and all of this math and everything with the calories in calories out thing. Go do a 2000 calorie a day diet on good whole foods that we've all been discussing and then do one on McDonald's, Burger King, pizza, cake, and do the equivalents. Go work out the same and everything. And then a month come and talk to me because you're just setting yourself up for being diabetic, heart trouble, atherosclerosis, everything you can think of. You're putting oxidative stress, inflammation, everything under the sun. So, I mean, I always offer them, okay, let's test this out and let's put it on paper and see. So, I guess what my point in saying that is, is that some of these things that get parroted and said and beaten down on you, when it sounds messed up, chances are high, it probably is. I love the answers that we're getting here because I'm like, I agree with that. I agree with that. I agree with that. But they're all very different answers. So, you know, just to, you know, carry on what you were saying, Nathan, in regards to the cortisol, you know, this is a very real thing. So, especially in a day and age, you know, where we are exposed to artificial light, raising our cortisol levels, you know, the harsh artificial light with low ceilings. We have the screens and a lot of the time we're consuming our foods, not in a rest or digest state, but we're in a sympathetic dominant state. So, we're not digesting our food and the brain doesn't get the signal to say, hey, you've had enough. We'll light up that bliss point. You're okay now. You can stop eating. Instead, we're usually consuming something while we're driving, while we're scrolling, while we're reading, watching a screen. And we don't understand, much like, you know, that mind-muscle connection when you're working out, you have to concentrate to say, basically, I'm full. Like, there's a great book by Mark David called The Slow Down Diet. I don't know if anybody's read it, where studies actually prove if you are conscious to your senses, your smell, your taste, the texture, et cetera, of the food, and you're putting your fork down between bites, your cortisol level is going to be much, much lower, and you will digest much more of that food to say, I'm full. Because how many of us have actually eaten a big meal, but we've always got, like, another extra stomach to put in the sweets and the dessert? You know, we're not cows. We don't have an extra stomach, but we find that somewhere. And the chances are it's because we're distracted, and the cortisol level is higher, so we're not going to utilize the food for energy. We're going to store it instead, you know, and hence where we get this insulin resistance is one of these contributing factors. And that's why we cannot compare ourselves to the next person. Or, as you mentioned as well, we have this mitochondrial dysfunction where this engine is no longer circulating the food into energy. That gives us now the enthusiasm to actually get up in the morning and exercise and work out. So it's a vicious circle. And a lot of the time, the devil is in these little tiny intricate details that we've got to look at as opposed to, what are my calories? What are my macros? There's, you know, there's something usually underlying that's deeper than that that creates this resistance or dysfunction. When Chris mentions the slowdown, what's interesting is one of the things that I work with all my athletes, and they find it to be a complete mind screw, basically, on how they've ever done things, is that when it comes to slowing down, that has such a profound impact because, again, it's impacting insulin. The first thing that people tend to do that they can correct is don't sit down at the table without being aware, without having awareness. As Chris said, slowing down, being mindful about those actions that you're taking. Because the first screw-up happens the second you sit down at the table, and you begin that meal with a glass of water or a soda. And it's not about the carbohydrates. It's about the fluid. You don't need to sit down at a meal and begin that meal with fluid. The first thing you're doing is you are sabotaging what that release and response to insulin is going to be to those nutrients. Because when you pump a bunch of fluid through the stomach prior to eating a meal, you're diluting your digestive enzymes. When you do that, you are now, again, changing the impact and the role that that food has once it's digested and reaches the stomach. Because you're either, A, heavily diluted to begin with, meaning you're going to have a little bit of a backup because there's just not as many available digestive enzymes to digest that steak or potato or whatever you may have. Or worse, you're going to drastically impact the effects of insulin because you're going to take something that is supposed to be slower digesting to allow your body to naturally, over a span of two or three hours, assimilate and take those nutrients like the amino acids and stuff like that off. You're going to push it and drastically accelerate, basically through a fluid pump. All that food that is sitting in there, you're pushing it down into the intestines so that it is partially digested. But at the same time, what's coming through is also coming through faster. So more insulin has to be released in order to deal with this flood of nutrients in that space. So the first thing that my clients have to do is they can have sips of water when they sit down, wet the palate. They're done with their fluid consumption until that meal is finished. And they're allowed a grand total of one water during that meal because, again, I'm preventing them from over-diluting their digestive enzymes. I'm preventing them from influencing through speed rate how that is processed. But I'm putting them in a mindful state as well because they're having to slow down, like Chris said, and have those meals. So being mindful when you sit down at the table and not just raging through what you have has a profound impact. Because at the end of the day, if you ever watch animals eat in the wild, we're animals. We like to think that we're so much far above and beyond everything. At the end of the day, we're just animals that wear cool clothes. You never see a lion, a tiger, a rhino, any of these animals that are predators in the wild. You never see them kill their prey, drag it eight miles to a stream, then have water from the stream and eat the lamb. Water from the stream and eat the lamb. They eat and then they go on about their day until they come across water. Or they drink and they go about their day until they come across prey. So we have got it all twisted about because we've overthought everything and we like the luxuries. But at the end of the day, if you look at the animal kingdom, the animal kingdom shows you how to sit down, slow down, and prioritize how it is that you approach your meals. And with cortisol, that too is something that is demonized appropriately sometimes and inappropriately a lot of times. Because, you know, when you wake up, your cortisol is supposed to spike. That is its job in the morning, right? So that's another thing that depending on what lab you're getting cortisol-wise, are you just getting a blood test cortisol and you've woken up or tell you to be fasted? Or are you doing something like a four-point cortisol salivary and it's showing you at multiple times in the day what is happening to your cortisol? That lets you know too from, you know, a nutrition perspective, what is happening with the food I'm eating? Is my insulin working the way it's supposed to? Is the food I'm eating even getting processed, digested, and, you know, stored if it's supposed to for glycogen to be used later? Or, you know, go straight to the brain if you're exercising, be used right away. If, you know, if your cortisol is spiking correctly, spiking in the morning, waking you up, you eat breakfast, blah, blah, blah. Yeah, it's going to naturally decrease. But if you have a bum cortisol in the morning and it spikes in the afternoon when most people are usually kind of, you know, they've had a couple meals, they're snacking, lunch is heavier, dinner is heavier. That lets you know that since cortisol and insulin are opposite, your insulin is going to be very dull in response to this cortisol that is now high at the wrong time. So a lot of times you could have this perfect diet. You could be doing what you think is great. But if you're not testing regularly, going beyond just the standard like clinical test, it kind of gives you that you're missing a piece of just your overall nutrition and what is actually working with you being given the tools. So I'll do because I we do all of those in our office. So I'll kind of give you from my perspective. I typically I try to hold off on some of them unless people are presenting with very specific problems like like they're just obviously presenting with maybe some gut health issues, vitamin, mineral deficiencies, things that I can kind of very clearly see. I usually try to give them about 30 to 60 days. Let's clean up your diet and let's see how far we get with that, because sometimes that's all it takes rather than spend five, six, seven, eight hundred dollars on some of these specialties, which I love them. Trust me. I love data. I love the numbers. I think they're amazing. Right. I'm looking at basic stuff first and then I usually will. I love doing it, but I also will if if the client is like, hey, you know, can we do something else right off the bat or is this really worth it right now? A lot of times I'll say, let's give it two months. Let's change your diet first and let's see how you pan out, because a lot of times I'll tell you things like IBS, things like, you know, brain fog, that kind of stuff. You clean up somebody's diet and they go away. And now we're like, OK, do I really need to do food sensitivity testing? Probably not, because we don't we're not even there anymore. So I do see value in them. Absolutely. Especially as we age, I think like metabolomics, I'm a big fan of that one. I think it can really narrow in if somebody's like not methylating or just B vitamins, things that they may not be absorbing. But I do try to clean up the diet first. That's that's first and foremost, because all those tests mean nothing if you're eating trash. Big point with what you're just talking about with the B vitamins, too. If you have gut issues, the intrinsic factor for B vitamin absorption is in your gut. So that, too, if you're really tired and you fix your gut, fix your diet. A lot of times that fixes your energy as well. Yeah, you have to focus on the gut first. I say, number one, get rid of the plastics in your life. Do not drink out of plastic water bottles. I know there's a bunch of them sitting here because you guys are traveling. I get that. But everyday life, do not drink out of plastic. Do not microwave in plastic. Do not. If you have a Keurig at home, do not brew your coffee in those plastic little cups. Buy the little stainless steel ones and buy whole coffee grounds. Do not use that stuff. I think those are things that are just they're disrupting the gut bacteria in a way that we almost can't fix. And so that would be my biggest thing is get rid of that stuff out of your life as much as you can. I recently started taking shilishit and activated charcoal. I usually take those like if I if I'm trapped. So, like, for example, I was in Korea last year and I ended up getting sick for like a day and a half, probably because I took my own food with me like chicken that. It was not refrigerated like it should have been for like it went long without being refrigerated. And of course, it was like I ate it on the plane. The next day I was fine. And it's like then we were at this mall and I ate dinner like literally within 10 minutes. I was like. So I ended up like throwing up and I took activated charcoal and two days later I'm back to normal. So I take that like after heavy like if I eat late at night, which I usually don't, I will take it and take shilishit. Awesome shit for like lower lowering bloat and like inflammation and stuff. Really great on like micro minerals and stuff like that. Yeah. Oh, the plastics for sure. And we're all guilty of it. Like for sure. Heating stuff up in the microwave with plastic stuff. Like I've had a couple of family members in the past. I'll heat stuff up. He'd step up in the microwave like in a brown plastic bag. I'm like, you're like, what are you doing? Like, just stop. Just stop. First of all, like it's disgusting. And second of all, the house smells like weed. So. But yeah, I mean, I think. Those are probably some of the biggest things to help mitigate. Even some of the higher premium greens and like red powders are pretty well is pretty good. Depending on the company and what they have in them. I take greens and reds. I've kind of backed off a little bit. Like instead of every day, now I'm doing like maybe two, three times a week. But I've had success with that as well. Um, but most of my success in terms of the gut stuff was what I mentioned previously was just substituting out some of the carbohydrates for other things and just being more aware of how I respond to various types of foods. Like for me, for example, if I eat, um, like I love like nut butters, like I just go like for whatever reason, like I just go like insane on like nut butters, like almond butter or like pecan butter. I will literally eat the whole freaking jar. Um, and I have a lot of self-discipline. But I've also noticed that if I eat a little bit too much fat, um, beginning of the day or throughout the entire day, I don't eat as much in terms of total calories. And it's hard for me to get a little bit more protein in. Um, I typically eat more fat like on like longer flights or like travel days. Um, but I've just kind of noticed that if I, if I eat a lot of like red meat or like grass fed beef, then in like with some fat as well, like I feel a little heavy. So I will eat a little bit more or less fat, like more chicken. It's just something I'm trying to experiment with a little bit. Um, but that's, I try to mitigate back and forth to different things. So I know like what I'm responding well to and what's still giving me some issues. So there, there's a couple of things, um, fermented foods, sauerkrauts. Um, yeah. And, and like bitter is better, you know, um, when you're talking about your, your gut, it's going to be. Things that you want to look at, uh, avoiding like high lectins that like poke and getting more polyphenols and protections and avoiding seed oils and processed foods. And these things they all call the, I mean, aside from the gut, there's a lot of other damage that it causes, but like aspects that are, you have to pay attention and you have to see what's how your food's being cooked. This is like, for me, I, I don't eat out. I don't care where I travel. I don't care where we go. You know, we drove here and we have loaded with our own eggs, avocados, everything brought here, cooked, done because I know who's touching it and who's doing it. And, um, I, I would say too, what, what you were talking about. Sometimes it's the order of how you eat your plate. You start with your protein, then you go to your fats, then you go to your carbs last. And there's multitudes of reasons why in digestion. But, um, and, and I've done a lot of CGM monitoring and seeing like glucose spikes and things, and I'm a data guy and that controls it better, but that can also be lighter on you and help you digest better, help you feel better. I mean, we were talking, uh, and, and Nathan brought up a point about, we don't count calories. And, and I, you know, just off the top of my head when I just ate a thousand calorie meal now, and I just know by the macros, right? Because nine grams, you know, for fat to calorie. Anyway, when Lacey brought up about how you feel, I would have thought three or four years ago, shit, I eat a, well, I would have never eaten a thousand calorie meal. But if I did, I would have thought, oh my gosh, I mean, I'll be dragging all day and I could eat a 500 calorie meal right now. If it was the wrong food and feel terrible, I just ate a thousand calorie meal. And I feel like I could go run 20 miles because it was what I ate and how I ate it and the order of how I ate it and how it was cooked. Um, so, but yes, the fermented foods and, and like think bitter better. That's going to be really good for fixing leaky gut. Yeah. I love the fermented foods and, you know, soaking, sprouting, uh, a lot of your foods as well. The, the one thing that has really helped a lot of my clients heal, uh, their gut, especially here in the U S because there's so much that has artificial sweeteners. And, uh, you know, we, we always want something sweet, right? So that lights up that bliss point. And, uh, you know, what I've noticed since with my clients, when I start eliminating all the artificial sweeteners that they're consuming for their pre-workout, intra-workout proteins, energy drinks, or whatever it may be, putting splendor in their coffee, then their gut issues have usually become so much better. They just don't have the gut issues. Like I have some competitors and this, this included myself actually some years ago, my, my father, even though he doesn't drink and he doesn't really eat bad, he's just got one of those bellies, you know, that's solid. It's not like fat, but just bloated. And I was like, I think I've got those genetics. My transverses must be loose. You know, I'm getting this bit of a belly. But then when I started removing all these artificial sweeteners that was hidden in my diet, my waist got in tighter again. I felt, wow, it actually came from that. And that's what, you know, a lot of my clients have experienced as well. And that's why, you know, with my supplement brand, I've just gone naturally sweetened. Yeah, it takes a lot longer to do that. But I just think it's very, very important because we are in the health and fitness industry. So shouldn't we be contributing to it as opposed to just thinking, I want something sweet all the time and kind of just masking the area with something that's probably worse than sugar. Had long discussions with Chris about his supplement line, what he does, why he does it. And I did a test with my wife and I said, let's go on the counter and go through all my shit here and look at it and see what's actually in here. Because I start taking different powders and looking and they all have blue dyes and sucralose. And they might be down at the bottom. It might be a little bit, but that accumulates over time. He came to me when he was and we talked and we were discussing when he was making like earlier stages of the supplements and how we were doing it with putting in the right kind of components. And no sucralose, no dyes, no nothing. And you were telling me how difficult it was. But that's, we don't have enough people doing that. And it's a massive, massive problem. And we don't even realize it because it's buried down at the bottom of a label. Or you just don't even look. You're like, oh, it's a BCAAs. Great. Let's take it. And yeah. And understand natural flavors here are different than they are in Europe. It's a completely, it's a whole different concept and story. So I think, A, understanding how to read a food label and understanding the order of listing is how much is in each. But B, understanding what you're actually reading and what it is that you're ingesting. I just, and I'm not saying it because he's my friend. What he does is special because not a lot of people do it. And we need far more people doing what Chris has done with his line. I think one of the ways that you can dramatically influence gut health is basically by being instinctive with yourself. What I mean by that is I feel that often we feel ingrained that, oh, we need to eat every two hours, every two and a half hours, every three hours. Yes, that's somewhat correct. But there also has to be a degree of self-accountability that basically is being instinctively aware of yourself. Do you actually need to eat at that time? Or are you just sitting down because you ate at 8 and now it's 1030 and you eat every two and a half hours? What I mean by that is you can inadvertently stress your gut and your gut health out through actions like that by not being instinctively in tune with yourself. That has a profound impact on your gut because if you're still full at 1030, if you feel full, you are full. You're the car that pulled up to put gas in your gas tank. You're still on full. That's a little bizarre. So when that happens, be instinctive. Now, I'm not saying you skip a meal, but don't stress and strain your digestive system by further demanding more upon the digestive enzymes and the availability of such, which are clearly not keeping up or not at least finished with their task yet, by putting another meal of chicken and rice in there. Be instinctive. Use the tools that are available out there with modern society and take some of these companies' supplements and put it to your use. But be creative on how you do it. Fake a meal. So take something like a protein powder, but add actual real beef tallow to it. Add actual real duck fat to it. You're taking an item that is somewhat synthetic, but it's at least very, very small in size. And you're able to kind of turn it into a mock whole food, if you will, so that you don't stress your digestive system out. But you still have the same impact of having received nutrition at that two and a half or three hour mark so that you're not going in these fasted chunks in between. That has a profound impact on reducing the inflammation, the stress on the body because you're not stressing it out. Anytime your digestive system is working, you're diverting blood flow to it to do that job. So then if you need to go train or work out or it's your time of day, that's not a great match either. So be instinctive with yourself to put yourself in the right position to be successful with those foods and how you receive it. And just a pet peeve for the love of God, stop with these protein shaker cups that are this big, that are, you know, 20 ounces of water, you know, for a scoop of protein or two scoops of protein. That's ridiculous. Again, you are diluting that item down so heavily and adding so much fluid to it. I got news for you. If 30 minutes later you go and you do a little short jog down your hallway in your house and you feel like you've got a goldfish swimming in there, that nutrients aren't being delivered to your system effectively. They're still hung up because you have diluted the digestive enzymes. Only use five, six ounces of fluid with your two scoops of protein powder so that it is more food-like. Who cares if it's a little thicker? You actually feel fuller a little bit longer, but legitimately full, not I've got a belly full of water full. And watch our channel for more interesting information like this. But if you do want a more breakdown of real science versus media fear-mongering, subscribe, drop me a like, and share this with someone. And check us out on Instagram, TikTok, and now on Spotify, you can listen to content like this. Bye.