考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考考 We're fully getting all these side effects that we don't want. If we look at exercise as a medicine. I enjoy going and doing my stuff. I don't eat till like 1 or 2 o'clock in the afternoon. So I have a period of time where I'm not eating. And usually I'm doing some kind of exercise. Yeah, the other day, I think you started with cardio. You did, where we met you. Cardio, but sprints, cardio, sprints, cardio. Yeah, I don't do 45 minutes cardio. And that's one of the things we were talking about. Getting the benefits of cardiovascular fitness. In a short period of time, which is what I did with bodybuilding. I think it applies to cardio as well. Unless you're in some kind of specialist sport. Like marathon running or something. But I'm talking about health here. And too much exercise is not healthy. Because it has a negative. You're looking for the benefit. So my question is, how can we get the benefit? We're minimizing the negative. And what's the negative? Well, it's kind of like free radical production by the use of oxygen. And you're doing all this endurance training. Which you're doing it to be fitter. Have a better quality of life. Maybe live longer. But on the other side, you're aging yourselves with all this excessive amount of exercise. So my question is, what do we need to do? What's the minimum amount of dose, let's say? It's a medicine. What's the effective dose? Before we're getting all these side effects that we don't want. If we look at exercise as a medicine, which you could do. How do we get most of the benefits without the negatives? And the cardio that I do is internal sprints. I talked about it on Joe Rogan in 2017. Not that I'm the first guy to come up with it. But I understood that you could get the benefit from that from short sprints. Same benefit as doing an hour or 45 minutes cardio. And you could achieve this in five minutes, which sounds crazy. One minute of cardio, i.e. three 20-minute all-out sprints. I use an air bike, a cell bike, because it engages all the muscles. So really, you could use a rowing machine or a cross trainer. Not quite as good. Or you could run up hills. Same kind of thing. All-out sprints with some little downtime between. So like a minute to warm up, a 20-second sprint. A minute down, 20 seconds. Do three or four 20-second sprints. And in that six minutes or so that it takes, you can achieve the same as you get from doing 45 minutes an hour of, you know, long, boring, tedious. Two sessions a week. But I do do, I suppose you could say it's like low-level cardio, because I walk quite a bit. I go hiking. I take my dog for a walk. Yeah. So, and I'll probably go one long bike ride a week, where it's an hour or two, just out on my bike. So I'm not really thinking this is like a super workout or anything, but I'm guessing it's a bit of long cardio. So one thing, when you said you did intensity, and I think the benefit of that is it's exercising the heart better than just a slow. I think I feel better when I do intense cardio, get the heart rate up. It's like a shock again. You know, it's the human body, the organism, it functions best when it's under stress, but a controlled amount of stress, right? So you can get benefits by being in the cold, right? In a cold water, a cold shower, you can get benefits because it's stressful for the body, which kicks off some mechanism which is beneficial for you. But you could also fucking freeze to death, couldn't you? All right. So there's the extreme, right? We can go in the sauna, and from the stress of the heat, and you produce heat shock proteins and so on, you get a benefit. Well, if I left you in there all day, you could also die, yeah? So exercise is a stress as well, which you get a beneficial reaction from. But what's the right amount before we get in, you know, what happened to the first guy that ran from the Battle of Marathon that, you know, the first 26 miler, he fucking dropped dead when he got there, yeah? So there's a message there somewhere. Too much exercise can also potentially kill you or have a negative effect. And back then, they didn't have environmental toxins and any other. I'm putting out this information, and some people, they get it, but they're still, yeah, I get it, but hey, I like going to the gym. I want to be in there two or three hours. Like, okay, if you want it, but then you go there for, like, to get the benefit you're looking for, not to just socialize or whatever else it is you're doing for two or three hours because you're certainly not really training hard for, you know, do a set and rest for 10 minutes. I don't know what you're doing in there for two or three hours, but, like, get a life, man. What is your rest period between sets? Are you, uh... I don't ever go by the clock, and this is how I coach people when I'm coaching, is to explain that when the muscle contracts, you use oxygen. So you're going to push the muscle to failure. There's going to be an oxygen debt to pay. Right? But let's imagine we do curls to failure with a bicep. It's not a big muscle. It's not going to use that much oxygen, right? So the question is, when can you go to the next set and be assured that you're going to do it with muscular failure? I don't know. After a bicep curl, you've arguably 45 seconds a minute. You could probably go again, and you wouldn't be in oxygen debt. But if you do the 20 reps to failure leg press, deadlift, or squat, you're probably looking at three, four, maybe more minutes before you're breathing somewhat normal, and you've got your faculties back, and you're able to go hit another set and hit that muscular failure before you're doing cardio failure. You know, if we're three together, and I said, come on, we're going to do a set of 20 reps squat, absolute failure, and you're nearly falling out with a bar, and we rack it back up, and you're on the floor, and I'm telling you a minute later, let's go again. You're not going to be able to perform because you're going to run out of air, oxygen, right? So the answer is it depends on the size of the muscles involved, the muscle groups involved, something you can't put an exact time on, and different people will have. So I just look at people. Generally, if they're able to start talking to me fairly well, then I'm feeling they're pretty much ready to go again. But if they're still breathing, there's no point putting another set because they won't reach muscular failure, they'll reach cardio failure. So somewhere between one and four minutes is a big variance depending on what you're doing, yeah. Do you do press-ups as a warm-up? I don't. I mean, I could barely do three or four push-ups before because of my rotator clock. I probably, like, I've done a lot of work on my shoulders now. I probably, if I did 15 press-ups, it'd probably be to failure now because the weakness through the rotator cuff and the tricep and everything. But yeah, why not if you're doing shoulders or triceps? Not a bad exercise. That's part of my warm-up and I do 100 standing squats on my own. Just getting the heart rate up. And one thing that I'm telling all my guys is very, very simple but very effective. It's just dead hanging. It's dead hanging from the chin and bar, yeah? Yeah. This is going to stretch the tendons and ligaments in the shoulders and kind of help to get them back in the right place because as you get bigger and stronger on the pecs and the lats, it, like, rotates around. And there's not much room at the front. You've got the bass hip tendon going through there. The supraspinatus. It kind of gets pinched in there and it gets inflamed. And, you know, we all had it. I had it, but I don't have a fucking clue what it was. Like, nobody explained to me. And, like, there was no internet to go look. You know, I had anatomy books and everything, but it's not quite the same. So just to get the shoulders sitting back in a more correct place, just dead hanging. And it's good for your grip as well. It's good for everything. Speaking of grip, so we were talking about Peter Attia earlier. And you see you on his... All these parameters of what benefit? The grip strength is one of them. Well, grip strength and leg strength and hanging from the chin and all those things. I mean, grip strength makes sense because grip strength is probably reflective of your general strength. I don't think it just, you know, the fact that you get to get a good grip and your legs don't fucking work, it wouldn't be too good. But it's probably a good measurement of your overall... Have you tried? Have you probably done it before? You grab two weights on either side, each half of what your body weight is, and then you walk around. I think it's for a minute. Yeah. You have a pretty far... The farmer's walk. The farmer's walk, yeah. Yeah. I tried it the other day. But it's hard because if you have to look at your watch, if I can see a clock, then you can, like, hold out. And, you know, you're walking, you're standing still. I was walking up and down to the gym. And so I did the... About 50 minutes I did, yeah, about 50 kilos, 59 kilos each side. That's like, you know... It's a good exercise farmer's walk, you know, especially, like, when you're, like, careful with your pace and you feel everything going up the chain and you put your shoulders back and, you know, concentrate on doing it with really good posture. Yeah. I've been doing it as part of my recovery from the hip surgery and everything. I didn't get quite up to those weights because I want to do a bit longer, like two minutes walking up and down. But I use the kettlebells. It's quite... I feel a bit more comfortable to hold and walk with those. But, you know, really concentrate on the posture and my walking and everything because of the recovery. So, yeah, it's a good exercise. But some of these, you know, these things, these numbers that you hear, you know, muscle mass is 400% protective. And I don't know if some of those things work out, you know. I'm sure it's very beneficial for your health. We're talking about the VO2 max. And I know, like, when Peter Batia says that, he says it's a natural fact. Like, if you don't have a great VO2 max, you're going to die. And that's an obsessive killer, as they would anyone else. But he's just so magical. I probably don't. I don't think they necessarily outlive people that are just generally healthy because how they achieve such an extraordinary VO2 max is excessive amounts of exercise, which brings its own negatives. Or something genetic. And then the thought is, if you don't have their genetic gift, then you have to bring it with. Yeah, there's only so much you can improve. Just like strength. Some people are going to have double their strength with somebody else just genetically. So I think it's difficult to put percentages on the benefits of different types of exercise. I think... It's been an honor to have Dorian Yates on our program today and delve into the extraordinary story of invaluable insights. To our viewers, take these lessons to heart. And remember to subscribe, like, and comment on your favorite takeaways. And stay strolled. Stay balanced. We'll catch you next time on Balance Way. All that was... All that was...