 dd I was massively overweight. That was when I went down the route of using steroids back in the day. Certain things I always thought if I was going to focus on bodybuilding, the most direct route is from A to B. The weight lifting, the diet, you know, the sleep, some cardio. It's probably some of the reasons why testosterone is an issue. It's quite black and white. It's either you've got it or you don't. The testosterone is cut off either you're in or you're out. You keep that lifestyle where you're at and you keep stressing yourself out more and more and more, we could turn into full blown autoimmune five, 10, 15 years from now. And I think that's where a lot of the, we can see the signs of autoimmune and increasing. Most men don't realize they're slowly declining, not because of age, but because of how they're living. Today's guest believes the modern world is quietly destroying men's health physically, hormonally and mentally. And that most men don't even know what's happening. Oli Matthews has built a following by challenging conventional advice on men's health, testosterone, lifestyle, and what it really means to feel like a man in today's world. But what's interesting is not just what he says, it's why it resonates so deeply. Oli, who are you really? And what are the problems you're trying to solve? Oli Matthews Well, I'm Oli Matthews. I'm a functional medicine practitioner. Oli Matthews And I think it's just this problem that we have when we get guys going into their thirties, forties, and fifties is that we've been brought up a lot of times by our dads, grand, grand dads, grandparents, and they've pushed their health to the side because we had to man up. Oli Matthews Right. Oli Matthews We can't ask for help, but we have to just kind of hide these symptoms, not see these weaknesses or anything like that. Oli Matthews And I actually first saw it because my dad died when I was 15. And he was the guy I looked up to. He was the guy that provided for people. Oli Matthews My mum and dad were split up. Oli Matthews So I would see my dad at weekends. Oli Matthews I live in Norwich. Oli Matthews He used to then live in Clacton and then Colchester, where he was headhunted to turn caravan parks around from sales to manager to like holiday parks. Oli Matthews So I would see him at weekends. Oli Matthews I would see him at school holidays, but he was always stressed and he would suffer from migraines and he would suffer from problems with sleep. Oli Matthews And it wasn't this where people would look at health as someone who's potentially unhealthy as really overweight, really tired all the time. Oli Matthews He would seem happy, but he was always just on the go. Oli Matthews I remember the last Christmas we had with him, Christmas of 2000, we were on the park on Christmas Eve and he got called out at like eight o'clock at night by the security to go and deal with something that was going on in the park. Oli Matthews So he was literally not able to switch off. Oli Matthews And what actually happened with him is that it was 2001, just finished school for the summer holidays. Oli Matthews And I actually got told by who was his girlfriend at the time that basically a week before he died, he said, this job's going to kill me. Oli Matthews And he was fighting and fighting to retire at 55. He ended up dying at 47. Oli Matthews And he texts me and it's ironic that last text that he had that he gave me was, did you get your money? Oli Matthews It's like back in the day, we used to send like cash in the post. Oli Matthews There's no like quick transfers back in the early 2000s, right? Oli Matthews And he sent me this text message, did you get your cash? Oli Matthews Did you get your money? Oli Matthews And then he was on a course in Grantham and then had a migraine, severe migraine. Oli Matthews He was playing volleyball, got hit around the head, went into hospital and ended up having a stroke. Oli Matthews And we look at that and I just truly, truly know that his death could have been prevented if we'd have seen these signs of stress beforehand. Literally on the Wednesday though, they said he was absolutely fine. Oli Matthews The first day he then suffered more complications. And then the Saturday we had to turn off his life support machine. Oli Matthews Oh, come on, so tragic. Oli Matthews I didn't realize that would hit me to, yeah, a child at 15, losing a dad and so forth. But why it would actually be such a big reason of why I do what I do? Because then I went down the route of the closest I went to sport was like playing FIFA on the PlayStation or something like that. And then went into music college, went into sound engineering. Oli Matthews And then I just wanted to be this guy involved in music, involved in rap and hip hop. And then I suddenly found fitness and I became obsessed, seriously obsessed. Oli Matthews What old were you then? Oli Matthews 19, 20. Oli Matthews Okay. Oli Matthews Must have been 19. Because I remember trying to get into the army and like trying to convince the doctor to write something to say, you've got asthma, but like, we're not going to, we're not going to say that. Oli Matthews Yeah. Oli Matthews Doctor can't put his life on his mind to get you in the army. Oli Matthews Right, right, right. But I ended up losing a hundred pounds competing in bodybuilding. Oli Matthews And it became that massive obsession. Oli Matthews Were you quite overweight then? Oli Matthews Massively overweight. Oli Matthews Okay. Oli Matthews I remember trying to run to the end of the driveway and being out of breath. Oli Matthews At 19? Oli Matthews Yeah. Oli Matthews And you just think that was that whole, I went down the comfort eating route. Oli Matthews Okay. Oli Matthews My nan would give me sweets. We'd always have crisps and stuff. Oli Matthews When my dad, like watching Match of the day, we'd have like four or five packs of crisps. Oli Matthews I'd have like three or four and he would have like one or two. Oli Matthews And that bodybuilding aspect, that control kicked in. Oli Matthews Because no one else could dictate whether I was going to get to the gym, I was going to eat okay or anything like that. Oli Matthews We know that in the fitness world, you go there to the gym, you train, you have training partners. Oli Matthews It's not just a single solo thing. Oli Matthews There is a bit more of a team around you, but at the end of the day, it's on you. Oli Matthews You eat extra if you don't do something. Oli Matthews It's solo for me though. Oli Matthews Yeah. Oli Matthews I can't coordinate with anyone. Oli Matthews My goal is if I can get to the gym, that's success. Oli Matthews Yeah, you get there. Oli Matthews Remember like, we said about our ages, this is like 20 years ago now. Oli Matthews Right, right, right. Oli Matthews It's a much different person. Oli Matthews But I literally, everything became about bodybuilding. Oli Matthews Tracked all the calories, tracked all my workouts. Oli Matthews And I competed six times naturally, but it just wasn't enough. Oli Matthews Yeah. Oli Matthews And that was when I went down the route of using steroids back in the day. Oli Matthews Okay. Oli Matthews And I mean, you had to use them if you were to compete. Oli Matthews Yeah, I competed in drug tested shows. Oli Matthews Did you? Okay. Oli Matthews But then it was very much- Oli Matthews But you're trying to take it to the next level. Oli Matthews You're trying to take it to the next level. Oli Matthews I'm never going to be like an IFBB pro or anything. And when you look at some of the amounts of steroids that people would take, I never took this. It was about 350, 300, 350 milligrams of testosterone a week, but you would chuck in, train, masteron other things in there. Oli Matthews But it was never like the amounts that people would say, and then ended up that tried to come off because those cycles get significantly longer. Oli Matthews Time off gets shorter. Oli Matthews Yeah. Oli Matthews You try to come off. And when people say that testosterone or steroids aren't addictive, they absolutely are. And I really feel that it's that psychological aspect. And I look back and I had signs of low testosterone before I went on, struggled to lose weight, grew up in a room with black mold for like 18 years. Oli Matthews Yeah. Oli Matthews And then that was when I basically went into the world of, right, I've done the bodybuilding thing, became a personal trainer. I went into performance nutrition. I've very well gone off on a tangent. Oli Matthews Yeah. Oli Matthews Yeah. We went into performance nutrition while studying bodybuilding or, Oli Matthews Because I wanted to come back to something you said about steroids are addictive. And let's not conflate steroids with testosterone though that makes the base… Oli Matthews Yeah, that's why I said steroids. Oli Matthews Yeah, that makes the base though. Oli Matthews Usually testosterone is part of the base of the quote cycle, Oli Matthews Because it's testosterone, and then you add, you said 350. But could it be that you're actually deficient before you even sort out steroids? Oli Matthews I felt I was, yeah. As I said, I grew up in that room with black mold. Oli Matthews Yeah. Oli Matthews And not having, Oli Matthews Coming off the steroids. And you had the feeling of what it's like being on optimal testosterone plus all the other anabolics added to it. And even if you came off the other anabolics and stay on the testosterone, you wouldn't have noticed. But then when you came off the testosterone, which your body probably needed, you then had the deficiency that would have been there anyway. Oli Matthews Yeah. I wish I had blood tests back in my 20s. Oli Matthews Yeah. Oli Matthews It was, you could still get blood tests then, but they weren't as easy to come by now. Oli Matthews Yeah. Oli Matthews The price was a lot higher. But even then going to the doctors, and I went in 24 years old, 23, 24 years old, I went to my doctors. And I said, I've got low sex drive. I had erectile dysfunction to a degree. This is then saying I couldn't- Oli Matthews Was this after you stopped the cycle? Oli Matthews This is before I used it. Oli Matthews Before you said it, right. Okay, good. Oli Matthews I've competed naturally a couple of times. Oli Matthews Yeah. I think my first shows were 2008, then 2010, and 2012 was the last show I used it. Oli Matthews So you went to the GP, you asked them, and they fobbed you off. They said no to you. Oli Matthews Gave me Viagra and Zopaclone. Oli Matthews Oh my God, they put it. Oli Matthews This is a guy, and also I had addictive tendencies. So you give someone addictive tendencies, a sleep medication, which is highly addictive really. And it's a frustration of mine that I didn't have those blood tests done. Because everyone will always say that low testosterone came because of the steroids. Oli Matthews Yeah. And I think it is, Oli Matthews Yeah. We get those testosterone levels up. But then I was going for super physiological levels. I'd love to have my bloods done. Oli Matthews To know what you were at baseline. Oli Matthews To know what you were at baseline. Oli Matthews We tell a lot of young people that, I mean, you can use our blood testing service to find out where your levels are. Even more so, if you're feeling optimal or great, or you think you're great. Oli Matthews Do it, yeah. Oli Matthews Do it, frame it, put on the wall, and then you'll have it for at a later date, something changes in your diet, your lifestyle, or just your genetic predisposition. Oli Matthews To know what you're doing. Oli Matthews Yeah. Oli Matthews Yeah. Oli Matthews Yeah. range when you're younger, and even if you fall just above what the treatable range is, that's really good evidence to say that actually for me, my body operated here, I need to be here. And if you don't have that baseline, I think young people are missing out on doing this because the data is really important. Now, keep in mind that it's only one moment in time. So if you had a bad sleep the night before, even if you had good sleep and you tested that first measure, it might come out a bit lower, the analyzer might be off, it just might be the blood sample. There was a doctor in the Research Imperial College, professor, I can't remember his name, was telling me they've done studies where they take every 10 minutes blood draws from different men. And what they found was the first draw that they would do might look normal and subsequent draws on the same day were actually showing low. And when you added up all the different tests they did over every 10 minutes throughout the day, many of these people should have been treated, but if they just went by that first test, they would have been passed over. So that's a problem with just one point testing. Yeah. And then we've got for the moment until there's some sort of like continuous testosterone monitor that's available. Yeah. Or if you want to do like, as you say, multiple blood tests. Well, you're going to be there all day at the clinic. Yeah, exactly. And you're going to have a lot of blood going as well. Yeah, we're not asking that much, but it's common they'll do that for prolactinoma or high levels of prolactin. They can do a test with it. It's called cannulated. They put a cannula in your arm, we leave it for a few hours and they do several measurements over that period of time. So you just don't get one level. Though normally if you're consistently going back and forth to the doctor to have low, high prolactin levels, then most likely you're going to have high prolactin. And that could be, we talked about earlier about ADHD and these other issues. So, and we're going to show up on a tangent, but there are men who, who have ADHD tendencies who we can see sometimes have high levels of prolactin when you take out the possibility of medications interfering with it, you know, or even higher estrogen levels. This could be something that needs to be looked at further. But anyway, we digress. Actually, before we stop digressing, I tried L-Vance for ADHD and my prolactin raised quite a bit. You did a raise? Yeah. And it went, I can't remember the actual numbers, but it went like higher than the actual like ranges were. So L-Vance is a, so that works in another part of the brain. Yeah. Normally anything that affects the D2 receptor, like an agonist would lower it. Yeah, it went the other way. A stimulant, but that's a stimulant. So without, I think that we said a L-Vance or Vyvanse? L-Vance. L-Vance, which is some kind of amphetamine, right? Amphetamine. L-Vance. Those tend to work, they're quite potent. And they tend to work in the, what's it called? Dopamine reuptake inhibitors, essentially. And they might even release a bit of dopamine as well. Plus there's some other effects of it. This is in my area specialty, but I looked into it. So that is more from the psychological point of view. But if someone truly has this, you need to have something that stimulates the dopamine receptor. And there was a study for another dopamine reuptake inhibitor called bupropion, where a few of the studies in the 80s, 90s showed that, you know, a few doses of bupropion in this cohort of patients they looked at actually lowered their prolactin. So it could be something specific to the way that particular strong stimulant works. So there's keeping more dopamine in the synapse rather than agonizing the dopamine receptor, which then tends to shrink it. But generally speaking, if someone is of a naturally high dopaminergic tone, usually that would come down unless there's a tumor. But anyway, we don't want to go too far off there. Yeah. We could go into ADHD like for hours. Exactly. Which I think a lot of it is linked in with testosterone as well. But let's go back to your story. So was there a specific moment where you realized something was off, you know, physically or mentally after you did the, I guess you stopped the cycle? Stopped the cycle because I went into performance nutrition and I was working with guys in the Olympics in Rio 2016, someone in the Tour de France and world champion triathletes. And it was that year or 2017, I think it was, working with a guy, Inaki, who won the Ultraman world champions, world championship. And it was on nutrition. So I wasn't programming their training, I was programming their nutrition. And so I went, I've been, as we know now, diagnosed with autism, diagnosed with ADHD. I went all in with trying to do the endurance stuff. Basically tore both my, to the point of tearing both my Achilles, had MRIs, trying to run the London Marathon. I worked with a company, I don't know if you've heard of Alex Viada from Complete Human Performance. So I actually asked him to train me. Okay. As in like, I'm looking at coaching and he's like, oh yeah, I've seen your stuff. I'd love you to be one of our coaches. And I'm like, hang on, I was only asking for you to coach me. Coach you, yeah. Because I was getting coached by John Meadows, the late John Meadows. I think I heard, yeah. It was, I absolutely loved working with him, a great guy. And then I asked to do endurance and bodybuilding at the same time. This is 2014, 15. And that's where I came across Alex Viada, where he'd done hybrid training, where we would have people do powerlifting meets and marathons in the same weekend. Okay. I think he actually coached Ben Pakulski to do a triathlon and Chris Geffen as well. So you, you got involved in the more... So we had our team behind the scenes. I never worked with Chris or Ben directly. Like Ben was one of my favorite bodybuilders. And like him and John Meadows were my two favorite bodybuilders. They'd done a podcast together. And then I got to work with John. But we, we were like speaking behind the scenes. We didn't have team meetings. What we'd done were programming and nutrition and so forth, which is really... So that's some of your experience that you got into learning about it. But you also participated in marathons or... Tried to. I got to the last 22 mile run and I couldn't walk afterwards. Okay. And it's, I went to the doctors and they said that if you continue running, then you're going to basically, both your Achilles will detach. So a lot of people really think that, hey, this is going to be healthy. I do these ultra triathlons, marathons. And I've always felt, maybe just said it, I can't be asked, but I felt like I don't need to have that, I am competitive in my own way, but certain things I've always thought if I was going to focus on bodybuilding, the most direct route is from A to B, the weightlifting, the diet, you know, sleep, some cardio. And anything that was going to be too much, me breaking down the body, it's quite intense. You know, the, the level of running or running, swimming, cycling is quite damaging to the body long term, as you've, as you've seen. So I've always shied away from that. If you remember, I stopped competing in 2012. Okay. So I had no intention of competing. Yeah. So. No, but you did that back then. I would just say this for other people, because I've had other people that come to me and say, oh, I'm getting in shape, I'm doing a marathon, a half marathon. And I think that's more ego based. Like I can do it, see if I can do this, see if I can go out and get it done. It's ego, but it's also dopamine related, I think. Or the endorphins from running. The endorphins from running. That release. People do a marathon, but then what's next? I'll do an ultra. Okay. I'll do a hundred mile, 200 mile. Okay. And when you then see that, and when you look at blood tests as well, I don't know whether you've done bloods of like people that have done high level of endurance, but their testosterone has dipped quite a bit after these extreme endurance. There's some studies that even look at testosterone when it comes to Tour de France. I believe after those three weeks, big epic races, their testosterone actually drops. And I've seen that before. Even some elite Olympic athletes who train over training. I mean, that's overtraining. Absolutely. And this is where I switched after working with these guys for two, three years. And it was getting them A to B as fast as possible with an aftershock thought of health. And I actually started working with some entrepreneurs. I was grateful for work with a guy called Rick Barker, who was Taylor Swift's first manager. Basically messaged me after a referral. And I looked on his website and I was thinking, why is Rick Barker's manager messaging me? This guy in Norwich, a couple of hours later, he'd messaged him, I'm sick and tired. I've been sick and tired. I know what to do. I need you to tell me to do it. And signed up three months later, I'm actually in his house in Nashville, Tennessee, doing a musician's health course. And he told me there that you've given my wife and kids back what they didn't have. You give my wife back what she married 10 years ago. And I realized right there, his 15-year-old daughter, 13-year-old son is that I couldn't help my dad, but I could help other guys, other parents not die before seeing their children grow up. And that's when I went all in with functional medicine and everything else from there. Okay. Now tell me about this functional medicine, because functional medicine is actually in the remit of like, I know there's doctors in the US, MDs who, they got the medical degree and then they practice functional medicine. Are you a practicing doctor? No. Okay. Yeah. Nor am I. So you're more a health fitness coach with looking more holistically. Yeah, exactly. Okay. Yeah. I can't describe anything or anything like that. Yeah. Okay. And did you take a special course for the functional medicine? So there's so many different courses over the years. And this is where the industry is so unregulated with that stuff, because you can get insurance on like very low amount of courses. But I was lucky enough to go, there's a guy called Dr. Thys Karazian. And he has his Karazian Institute and he lectures for Harvard and does a lot of work with Harvard and Harvard Medical School. And I just always wanted to do his course and do it over and over again. And I was one of the first 10 in the UK to be listed on the website after doing it, which is very cool. And he specializes more in functional medicine and then the links of autoimmune as well. Right. Which again, the amount of times I see people tell me that you've cured autoimmune and you can't cure autoimmune. You put it into remission. Yeah. But that's something that is getting more and more prominent now as well. So many more people with autoimmune conditions. Yeah. Why do you think that is? It's probably some of the reasons why testosterone is an issue. When we look at- Environmental toxins. Environmental toxins. As Dave Lee mentions, like the plastics, pollutants and pesticides, those three Ps. It's just, we look at genetics as well. As we had a conversation about when we started here, we're not getting as much testosterone passed down from our genetics, right? In our actual makeup. There's more toxins when you're saturated in baby's tissues when they're just born. Studies show that. So that then is going to have an impact on if someone, have you ever seen the Cyrex Labs blood tests? It sounds familiar. So, like, Dutis actually links in with them. So they do a lot of autoimmune testing and they do one there with autoimmune antibodies. But thyroid are all of them. There's like 26 different tissues they test. But it's not to say you've got full-blown autoimmune. Because most of the bloods you see, thyroglobulin, thyroproxidase, right? But these actually go into, like, testing full 26 different tissues. So it's to say you've got these antibodies that you've not necessarily got full-blown autoimmune. But you could do. If you keep that lifestyle where you're at and you keep stressing yourself out more and more and more, we could turn it into full-blown autoimmune 5, 10, 15 years from now. And I think that's where a lot of the, we can see the signs of autoimmune then increasing from there. But it doesn't, is there a bit of an overlap between autoimmune and gut health? Yeah. Where there's some sort of, they're saying with the celiac or those who eat a lot of gluten, it's the wheat's been treated with glyphosate. And this breaks the tight junctions in the gut and causing the leak. Leaky gut with like zonulin and everything. Which then causes the body to overreact. Yeah. So obviously you want to remove those. I guess organic wheat is an option for those who aren't celiac. Yeah. And also as well, people could have autoimmune, but not even know about it because they've such good lifestyle. And they're not constantly getting their body attack itself. But you could have an autoimmune reaction as well from people just severely overtraining. And their body is just not able to deal with the reaction to certain food as much. You ever, you looked into primed glial cells in the brain? What about? Like when they're like primed and they overreact and overreact and overreact. Primed glial cells. Yeah. So microglial. Leading to anxiety or? Just where you can't. Yeah. You've got like the neurons in the brain and then you've got the glial cells, the immune cells. And they end up clearing out dead neurons. But people go through high levels of stress over and over and over again. And they get activated and activated and activated. And then they get primed. So they're literally on high alert. So anything that comes in, like someone overtrains without primed glial cells, they'll feel really tired, knackered for a couple of days. Someone with primed glial cells might be bedridden. Someone who's got a reaction to gluten without primed glial cells might be bloated, be run into the toilet and so forth. The reactions we would hear about. But someone with primed glial cells, again, might be bedridden. All that aspect. Now, some people argue, play devil's advocate, that, well, why isn't the NHS looking at this if these are real, you know, biomarkers and real things? And even in the U.S., I know they call it the sick care model is their traditional insurance-based system. And then, you know, I guess functional medicine practitioners, there's different conferences you go to. But even in some of those conferences, we've kind of mixed how far they go into it. And there's always something new coming out. So what you tend to find at some of these conferences is something really new that may not even be heard of in the U.K. But I guess a lot of people will be skeptical. They say, oh, yeah, of course, that sounds too simplistic. Or, you know, it can't really be because my doctor said, you know, I don't have that. And I know, like, even if you look at one of the biggest ones is the Hashimoto's or some variation. But many times in medicine, it's quite black and white. It's either you've got it or you don't. The testosterone, there's this cutoff, either you're in or you're out. And that's, I guess, frustrating. I think where some of you, Dave Lee, others are looking, and other practitioners who are medical doctors who have taken on more functional medicine approach, are looking at how you help those other shades of gray a bit, how you can help them. Just individualize it right to the person. And I think that's a good sign. But are we going down a rabbit hole that we can't get out of when we're… And also what we have to worry, not worry about, look at, in my eyes, right, is that people then go down the route of functional medicine practitioners or doctors if they've been trained that way, and they're protocol driven. So you've got this, you have this protocol with these 10 supplements that I'm getting 25% commission each time. And before you know it, they're moaning about the doctors giving drugs, and they're doing the same thing with supplements. Supplements, yeah. So how do we keep a very individualized approach that this diet is the only way? But that diet may not work for that person. And how viable is that diet to actually be able to be implemented day in, day out to someone who's single, no kids, or someone that's like a dad of three running two businesses, traveling all the time, and needs to eat on the go all the time. So everything needs to… In my eyes, we need to have that very personalized approach to healthcare. And ideally, there's a budget for testing, regular testing before you're sick, to see, as you say, where you're optimal. And what works, what protocol works for you isn't necessarily going to work for me, isn't going to work for the other guy and the other guy. Because our genetics are different. Our preferences are different. Individual stress levels are different. I've worked with twins, great guys, and there aren't one to be saying their name, the guy, Stephen and Scott. One of them, military vet. One of them worked quite high up in Wells Fargo. One of them was in Budapest. One of them was in Philadelphia. Twins are as close as we can get genetically with each other, right? But you'll see it. As they… They're close when they're born, but then they start drifting apart and drifting apart and drifting apart, depending on epigenetics and the stress they've been through in their lives. So what worked for Stephen didn't work for Scott, but we got results both the same. But equally, so they… I would say, but despite the drift. Yeah, despite the drift, but we had to work with them completely differently. I think it was basically what their lifestyle is. And watch our channel for more interesting information like this. But if you do want a more breakdown of real science versus media fear-mongering, subscribe, drop me a like, and share this with someone. And check us out on Instagram, TikTok. And now on Spotify, you can listen to content like this.