 Number one, number one way to guarantee that you live longest and strongest by building muscle. Muscle. Muscle protects you more than anything else. Because if you're doing 20 different things at one time, it's really hard to say like, what works if it does work or what doesn't work or what doesn't work if it doesn't work. 80% of the people put on weights, but he decided to kind of come off and not use it as a crush. With GLPs when you're done correctly, there's no remount weight gain, how to use GLPs in the context of health and longevity. Just like any addict, if you stop doing a behavior for a long time, for long enough, which is actually only 12 weeks. Yeah, so I'm going to break up a little bit of the momentum and run it back to the GLPs here a little bit. And about a year ago, he started taking the GLP2 Monjaro, Brett. And following, because I know you didn't start training to begin with, you just wanted to do this in isolation to see how it worked for you. And then obviously you started working out after. But, you know, talk us through that. And what was the amount of weight that you dropped? I was fighting with my weight for the last 20 years, being about 250, 260. And last year at the same time, October 17th, I was 302 on. 302. 302, wow. I let myself go, you know, eating whatever I wanted. My blood pressure was high. My sugar levels were high. My doctor says you're borderline diabetic. We want medication. And I was at Foreman for about two years. It really didn't help me too much. So I decided I got to do some. So when I found out about this shot, I waited about a year to see what the side effects were with the O7 pick, like they said. And then after about a year, I'm like, I'm not losing any weight. I wasn't dieting like I'm sure. So I told the doctor to get on Sasha and see what happens. So I get on it. It says it's supposed to be a type. It did. So what I said to myself is, I want to see if I give it diabetes. My father passed away with diabetes. The daughter has it. And the doctor said it's very hard to reverse. So I would love this were about 140, 150. So I said to myself, I'm going to show it as diabetes for that fact too. So this banjaro suppresses your appetite. I didn't eat as much, but I decided I'm going to start eating right and see if I can, you know, make this go fast. So the first eight, on the first four months I had lost about 60 pounds and I didn't work out. I just want to see what this shot does. And the fat was coming off. I was, I was winning myself every day. And I just, you make the right decisions when it came to food choices. No, I decided myself, you know what? I'm going to eat my chicken and my eggs and no more pancakes and no more shoes. I cut all sugars and carbs out to see if I could beat this diabetes. And slowly the weight was coming off every day. I checked myself on the scale and I was amazed. I'm like, okay, I lost 60 pounds, 70 pounds. My goals through is 80 pounds. I lost eight pounds and my doc said, let's keep on going. So after about 10 months, I'd lost 115 pounds. I've been off the one job and I'm out there. Three months. They said that 80% of patients getting their weight back. So when I got off the shot that last week, I was scared. I'm like, is it, you know, how, how I going to respond if I can start getting, you know, hungers, cravings, nothing. So I just kept on eating healthy foods, organic foods. Since I went to a restaurant, I had easy access to, you know, eating his petty cakes, shaking and stay, you know, eating like a body mother now and see what happens. And, uh, since then the last three months, I haven't had any cravings and it doesn't monitor me and I've lost over 15 pounds and I'm amazed. So I, in the fifth month I started working out, I said, let's start working out. Let's see. We can push this a lot faster. And to be honest with you, uh, Chris, when I was in my twenties, I never looked this good for only, for only five months of working out. Somehow I got lean and I've stayed lean like this. I'm, I'm amazed. I'm that my doc said you're a testament to this. I'm into this, uh, shot. So I'm going to keep on going and I hope I stay lean like this. So, I mean, that's all I got to say that, you know, it's, it's pretty amazing. So whoever's wants to take the Mudge Hour shot, there's no side effects for me. And I would say, yeah, it did work. And the one thing that I absolutely love about this is, uh, you know, the doc basically did say that 80% of the people put on weights, but he decided to kind of come off and not use it as a crutch, but use it as a supplement. It gave you the purpose to actually make the right decisions at the end of the day, you know, which I think is absolutely phenomenal. You know, your heart is absolutely fine. Now your blood sugar is absolutely fine. Your cholesterol, blood pressure. Yeah. That's absolutely awesome. Yeah. First off, I commend you. Congratulations, Pete. And again, he is what we have been talking about from the moment that we started talking about how to use GLPs in the context of health and longevity. And when they're done correctly and used correctly, there are no side effects. I mean, again, you know, may there be some initial gastric issues, you know, might you have appetite suppression and you might feel again, if you're taking a higher dose, a little bit of nausea, you know, there's, there's always going to be something because again, we're all my chemically unique and individual, but he's again, proof positive that when these are done and used correctly, again, within, as I love to say, the context of health and longevity, I've never seen a peptide overdose. You can see profound change, a profound transformation. And I think I want to take questions and some, I'm going to go to Betsy here in a second, because I wanted to talk about the brain chemistry changes with GLPs, because this is where the data is really showing us, you know, transformation, profound effects. And he, you know, he just told us he for three months now, he's not had any rebound weight gain. He doesn't have any excess cravings because again, these things are rewiring our brains to be in a better, healthier, you know, mindset of not craving junk, of not craving, or excuse me, craving hyper-palated foods, which is, as you guys know, are all the GMO that are out there in boxes that all the fast food restaurants are constantly spending, you know, millions if not hundreds of millions of dollars a year to engineer these foods. So the people are addicted to their tastes, sense and feel of them. So it's just, it's again, just a testament. I mean, obviously to him and his condition and his hard work and diligence and attempting to lose 150 pounds, that's a great thing. Many people or most people can't do that. But again, that tool really allowed him to do that. So I just want to, for one second, just get this to Betsy, because I know she's probably more familiar with the research than any of us. But I think that's the one thing that GLBs are doing is we're learning because most people in the diet industry, you know, fat loss, energy, weight loss, it was sure, however you want to look at it, fail, right? The mean is they lose weight, they go on a program or protocol or whatever, and then they've got 80% of them regained weight and many of them gained beyond where they were before. With GLPs, when they're done correctly, there's no brain amount, weight gain and the weight loss and the brain weight for the, just called the brain pattern change is permanent. Yeah. I think that actually this whole paradigm is the taught that everybody, once they stop their GLP, you will just gain all their weight back is actually false. And in fact, once you've changed the braid, you actually get to permanent changes, especially if you stop eating these foods that have fed into these pathways, right? So you actually started to achieve some of these neural pathways. Remember these foods that were, were given diet sodas and all these, you know, processed foods are meant to actually wire our brain to Wabba Warbos. Just like any addict, if you stop doing a behavior for a long time, for long enough, which is actually only 12 weeks, you can actually rewire the brain. So honestly, it's not, that's a really misnomer that we all just gained back. If somebody really continues to just eat while they're on the GLP continues to eat, like, if you eat processed food and drink Diet Cokes and sodas and things like that, that process will not occur in the early days dramatically. And so that's why these people regained the weight is not counsel. You know, what you did, people was the right thing, right? You changed everything and that change is a break. Because these really do, it's kind of interesting. Like I actually drank a lot of coffee. Once I did a GLP, I actually lost my craving for coffee, which actually never came back. You know, so I, they must have had some open. I'm addicted to that or chocolate. He used to love Chaman. I don't care for it. And so it's really interesting that some of these behaviors actually get permanently changed because of the rewiring that occurs. It's also the same process that we know we're occurring with neurodegenerative diseases, probably more that's an anti-inflammatory effect. We also know we may be actually rewiring some neural pathways to actually have more preventative effect for our cognition as well. That we get more hippocampal volume. We see less hippocampal loss and people are on GLP ones. So our hippocampus is the main thing that atrophies with us as we get cognitive decline. People are about GLP once we see less of that. So we know that there's actually a lot of effects that we don't even understand fully that are occurring with these. And that's why, you know, and, and Pete, in your case, even being, continue, I wouldn't be shy about going back on a low dose, as we're talked about here, like a twice a week dosing just to maintain some of these really other beneficial, you know, things for it in terms of anti-inflammatory effects and things like that. Thank you for the clotho's sake. For you guys who don't, I've been looking for clotho's for 10 years. It's, it's, it really will be a game changer, especially in the kidney disease community. There is no treatment right now for chronic kidney disease. And it kills a lot more people than you think is actually very high up there. Clotho's is actually probably a cure for chronic kidney disease. So this is actually a huge thing to actually, like I've been, you know, following through these companies, trying to make clotho's for a long time, trying to get clotho's. I'm trying to get clotho's and I have connections to a lot of people. So this is huge, you know, and. I do want to say, Trevor could talk about it. And again, please get your questions that wind up because I'm going to take the microphone out to you guys. So you guys can ask questions. We've recorded, give the answers to these guys. Be very careful now of fraudsters and scammers with clotho. A lot of fake clothes. 95% of everything out there is fake. If it's not fake, it might be potentially harmful. You know, we have Google Earth set up everywhere for Alibaba and for China and for everywhere that's, you know, manufacturing, et cetera, attempting to sell it. And when we look at the actual molecules and how they're engineered, we know it's fake because we know what the actual dosing is and stuff like that. So just be very, very cautious. Again, our chemist has patented his formulation and we are at least we're already at a phase one. So we should be in phase two with by middle to early next year. But how we're going to, you know, push clotho internationally, globally through the USA is from the right to try in Montana. So everybody's going to have the access to it again, who can afford it again for what it does is as Betsy just said. And that's like maybe from affordability, maybe the one thing you need. Exactly. A whole lot of things. Exactly. I mean, I mean, it's a good point in truth. And I do want to get your guys questions. I promise I'll stop talking. But in truth, as we age clotho, a GLP. And again, I like Betsy Gizmanomy. I like twos or threes. A phallostatin to present prevent catabolism, muscle loss, muscle wasting. There's your Holy Grail, Holy Trinity, you know, triumvirate. I mean, those three things right there will allow people to age slower, reduce their biological ages from from a standpoint and maintain muscle. And again, as all these genius guys said yesterday, what is the number one way to get number one way to guarantee that you live longest and strongest by building muscle muscle protection more than anything else? Right. That's critically important. But yes, like I said, we are on right now the very precipice of a paradigm shift in longevity medicine because of these new agents that are coming up. Yeah. So the bioregulators. Okay. So something that's really fun about bioregulars. So when I take a pen type, let's like look at something like a GLB or BBC, you're actually pushing the body beyond its natural bounds. Right. So, no, you're not losing weight. We give you GLP. We force the body to lose weight. Bioregulators will only regulate you to basically the maximum output that your body knows, and it will never push it further. So they're virtually impossible to harm yourself, which is pretty cool. You know, you could definitely do a bunch of different shots. You can probably get away if you mix it at two seconds and throw them in your body. But the problem is if they sit at all for any length of time, they will basically cancel each other out. I know he was talking about fraudulent goods and so forth. But, you know, you look at these guys that are from 503As to God knows where some of these guys are manufacturing, but they start putting like a million different things in one model. But if the pHs don't align, you'll get gelling effects. You'll get, you know, things like they won't even last maybe two or three days in the fridge. So, yeah, if you get it reconstituted and were sectioned but out tested, you're like, okay, great. Yeah, that's what it is. But three days later, it's completely gone. So, yeah, but bioregulators, you know, you can do twice a year, you know, because they're basically, like she said, they're going to kind of get into your DNA and shist you around for a little bit and held you that organ, whatever it might be. If we have enough for the eyes, we have them for prostate, liver, kidneys, bronchial, diving it up, you know, for the brain. I mean, literally, I think we have like 30 bioregulators. Yeah, there's 200,000 peptides in your body. When I started the manufacturing 11 years ago now, which just seems like forever. I remember just getting so excited to be like one new one that had like real data. And we knew we could like synthesizing your Mickey everything every like six months. And then it was like one every four months. And it was like one a month. Now, you know, of those 200,000, you probably have close to, I'd probably say somewhere around maybe 14,000 of those that we kind of know what they do. But since the body is completely connected in a million different ways, probably a billion different ways, to be honest. Sometimes they just don't work the way you think they should, even though you're like, well, this should be it because it needs to be. You need to find that other piece. That's why you see like tripeptides. It's like that going together. And there's like a new one for regrown hair, for instance. Right. And the crazy part about the tripeptide that produce here for hair, we're going to combine it with blood cord exosomes. You've, it's just top full. You rub it up. But it actually regrows your hair as original pulver in some cases. So just really cool, weird things. But it's probably one of the hardest ones to make right now, besides colifo. I've only been able to make about 26.5 brands in the last six months. So it's just a, it just constantly wants to break. But any of those really small molecules, they're so fast acting, they'll knock each other out. So just pick like three at a time, run them for three weeks. You know, you need everything like 200 micrograms a day when you're doing that. You're up to like two milligrams a day when you do the oral ones. Honestly, you probably have to do more like 50 milligrams just because of the oral bio-viability. But they do, you're absolutely 100% right. They work passing through because they are so small. So you're saying, they're saying that C's is full of shit? As far as stacking goes, it's kind of one of those questions like we don't know the best. Now, I've poured it pretty extensively over like some of the Russian literature. And they do have protocols. Most of those are based on the oral ones. All of us get to ask this question like, okay, what's the best stack? Because everyone is like, I want this, I want this, I want this. I always tell people it's the bleeding neck problem. And so like, what is the stack like? That's gonna look different for everyone. And that doesn't mean that you have to have like an emergency per se, but you also have to evaluate a hierarchy of what you need for your specific body. And I think what's cool is like, we got this by regulators that we use them to like address tissue specific things that all can address one, Longevity or acute disease or whatever it is. But just understand that like, probably it's hard to get it to like staffing because there's infinite permutations of like this, this, this. And you have, even with like 20 different things, you could have infinite amount of, not infinite, but like tens of thousands of combinations. There are certain things though, like you said, okay, I want a staff on my bladder, like props max and jazz allude that probably like vestiging because it helps with blood flow is all going to help that. So in the Russian literature, they say it's not advised to do one at five at a time. I think probably the sweet spot is like two to four, probably three, like Trevor said would be like a really good sweet spot. And what you also want to do is like, I like to think everyone is like our own science experiment and use control variables on yourself. Say, okay, I have X issue. Let me use these things. I know address that for like a 12 week period and then see the results. Because if you're doing 20 different things at one time, it's really hard to say like what works if it does work or what doesn't work if it doesn't work. So again, it's one of those things like the best answers like right now in terms of stacking, we don't know. There's more advisable protocols based on some of the stuff we've seen in Russia and I've written on that and everything. But I mean, it's like also one of those things like you don't know. So like there's the optimal solution is still like in development. It's going to take all of us in this room doing stuff and learning that's abusing on ourself to kind of like come to a community and say like, okay, this works, this works. Do not get shiny object syndrome with guptides and bioregulars. Okay. A lot of you guys are going to be like, oh, I want this, I want this, I want this. I want this. I want to do that. I want to do that. I want to do this. As Eric said earlier, pick one or two things. Okay. Make sure the fundamentals are dialed in first and then pick one or two things. Now, that's not to say that you can't, you know, use a healing peptide or a healing bioregulator stack with a cognitive enhancing peptide bioregulator stack. But the other thing to take into account and is correctly important is you've got to understand what is doing what, right? Like if you're taking all these different compounds, you have absolutely no idea, right? So it's always best to start something or one or two things in isolation, assess your individual response patterning, and then, you know, change, titrate, whatever from there. But I just think that I see way too many people, Hunter sees way too many people, Chris sees way too many people who get excited. And again, it's called the shiny object syndrome, and they want to do them all, and they want to do them all at the same time. And it's like, dude, like you've got to understand why you're doing what it is. And as Hunter likes to call it the bleeding neck syndrome, what is the biggest problem you have? Okay. Address that problem, you know, mitochondrial, GH agonists, fat loss, because that's the majority of people, right? The majority of people want to lose weight. They want to become metabolically healthier. So address that, you know, bleeding neck issue first and foremost, before you start throwing in willy nilly scattershot peptides. We have a lot of views that come into our channel. And what we don't see is that many people subscribing, it would really help. It doesn't cost you anything. That being said, let's get on with some of our content. Let's get on with some of our content. Let's get on with some of our content. Let's get on with some of our content.