 narararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararararar Today's topic will be reasons for stopping TRT. Why would you want to stop TRT? Do you need to stop TRT? So, George, welcome. So, if we take a look before starting TRT, the contradictions about it, there are mainly erythrocytosis and benign prostatic hypertrophy, not prostate cancer, okay? So, an elevated PSA over 4, for instance, 5, and 3 PSA also, but also hemoglobin over 18 and hematocrit over 54. Now, some people are more prone to elevated hematocrit as myself, which is genetically predisposed, of course, and the same applies for some people that they have this genetic predisposition. Their dad maybe died of prostatic cancer. So, they have already an elevated PSA. Of course, we have to know that PSA is elevated either from sexual intercourse, from biopsy for excessive bicycle, you know, and cycling. So, if we are into testosterone replacement therapy, and then even though you perform donations every three or four months, or even sometimes every two months, then you realize that your hematocritic elevates, and then you have to use some aspirin, pentoxyphiline, some fish oil. Some people also speculate that grapefruit juice and arginine also helps to lower your hematocritic erythropoiesis. They have to stop testosterone replacement therapy for a while in order to stop this exotinous stimulus, which is androgens that stimulate erythropoietin. However, it's not just the androgens that stimulate erythropoietin, which is secondary erythropoietin, but also the hypoxia. Hypoxia now takes place under obstructive acid apnea and snoring, which is a major stimulus for low oxygen saturation that kicks the kidneys for EPO, and then the bone marrow for erythropoietin production. All right? So, you have two factors, the androgens and the low oxygen saturation. Of course, smoking is contradicted because it's also elevated and living in high altitude as well. So, but people in high altitudes, they're not required to give blood, and are they not able to go on TRT because they're already having high... It's different when you're born in high altitude, and yet you get accustomed and you get used to this, and other people that live, for instance, for a brief period of time from sea level going to 2,000 meters high, for instance. You mean one of these who are training specifically for... Yes, yes. So, in first place, they get adapted, and then there's no such a medical issue, but unlike some endurance athletes that prefer to train up, to live upwards and then in high levels, and then to train in sea level with elevated hemoglobin, you know? Sorry to interrupt, but if those people could get adapted to it, why could you not be adapted on your TRT over the years of having high... I mean, are we sure that elevated hematocritic hemoglobin rethrow... Yeah, this is a good point that we also... ...is necessarily harmful. Yes, this is a good point that we also discussed in previous videos with Sam also, but you know, what concerns me most of elevated hemoglobin is about viscosity, the thickening of the blood, but also other factors come into play, which is blood pressure, insulin resistance, atherosclerosis, you know, endothelial disruption. So, it doesn't mean that necessary if you have a hemoglobin of 20 that you're going to die out of a stroke in first place, you know? So, you're saying, as a doctor, it's just being a little bit extra cautious with some patients, but trying to balance that out without creating unnecessary fear. So, you have to take every case where individually, looking at other factors. Sure, sure. Yeah, well, the standards say that over 18 and 54, because it's three times your hemoglobin hematocrit, you're supposed to be considered as ill, so you donate because your blood cannot be transfused to somebody else because of the high viscosity. It's very viscous and thick, you know? And then, if your hemoglobin is 17 and 51 hematocrit, then you're considered as a healthy individual in order to blood donate, you know, and not get thlavotomized, which is wasted afterwards, they're throwing away the blood. Personally, when I was attending to the Red Cross, they asked me, what's wrong with you in your eye? You know? And I was telling them that maybe I was smoking and was living in high altitude, you know? Of course, they had no clue about the androgen I was using. And yes, generally the people, they have to suffer from polycythemia vera in order to have such elevated hematocrit. Otherwise, if you're not using testosterone, then I remember myself when I was not using steroids for six months, my hemoglobin was about 15 to 16. So my hematocrit was just raising below 50, which is actually high for a natural guy, but still you don't expect high levels. So I guess that there has to be a stimulus, either OSHA or obstructive sleep apnea, smoking, and of course androgen use. Okay. So I guess you have to be very careful before you take someone off the TRT treatment. Yes, I'm sorry. I forgot to mention that cutting off the substrates for hemoglobin synthesis, which is iron plus ascorbic acid, cobalamin, B12, and folic acid. So practically skipping red meat consumption, it might help you not to reach such high hemoglobin levels if you are prone to it. So in my case, I eat fish and white meat in order to avoid getting X of B12 folic acid and iron that will synthesize easier hemoglobin. So with some of your patients, then you may have them trial things like reducing their red meat consumption, making sure they don't have any iron supplements, but you'd also have them look into getting treated potentially for obstructive sleep apnea, right? Yeah, sir. I can't get them. That's what it is. Yeah. That's what it is. Dropping a weight because also the thicker your neck is, then there's an obstruction of the upper pathways, you know, and then it becomes a cubulence and you snore and then you have this kind of hypoxia. But also, in order to distinguish polycythemia vera from erythrocytosis, because in polycythemia vera also you have elevated thrombocytes, which is platelets, you have to distinguish erythropoietin levels. So in polycythemia vera, erythropoietin is very low. It's about one lower than two. Now, the lowest levels are four. Mine was seven. So when I was consulted by the hematologist, he told me that you don't have polycythemia vera, not only because your platelets are low, 150,000, but also because your hemoglobin is up to seven, four to 30 are the ranges. So if you had vera, it should be down to one, your EPO. So you're excluded. You don't need hydroxyurea. You just need to stop TRT for a while and also stop other androgens such as proviron, DHCA, and pregnenolone that may also stimulate some of the erythropoietin. So for a while, essentially doing washouts. So I've heard of some doctors doing that in the United States as well from time to time. So that's kind of an interesting option. And frequent donations may have a rebound effect and further stimulate EPO because bone marrow, because the system senses kind of anemia and low ferritin and low iron levels. So it has to kick back with further production of erythrocytes in order to counterbalance this loss of the blood after frequent phlebotomies. The therapeutic phlebotomy to the range that they would, in the way they would do it for someone with polycythemia would be counterproductive in someone with erythrocytosis. It's very frequent, less of them two months because the half-life of the erythrocytes are 90 to 120 days. So roughly three to four months. Now, if you perform it frequently every two months, then you're going to have the negative effect and will further kick your EPO. I believe I read that the average person who's donating to like the Red Cross or the NHS blood donation service for a man, at least according to this, who can give blood through the NHS blood service for a man every 12 weeks and a woman can give blood every 16 weeks. So that's about... Every 12 weeks is 90 days. So it's three months, yes. To be honest with you, my last three donations were every two months. Okay, so you mean... I guess it had a negative feedback. So that wasn't beneficial. I suppose the other things you were doing with the fish oils that was helping, and maybe a slight, for you anyway, a slight break from TRT or even a reduction of TRT. One of the other things we spoke about was the trough level being a predictor for your erythrocytosis or your hematocritic hemoglobin. There were some papers that were pulled up about, you know, how high your trough level is before the next injection. So if you could talk about that a little bit, what your thoughts are. Have you seen any... Your what? Your trough? So the lowest... So when you do, let's say you're injecting every three days, as long as your free testosterone isn't in the super physiological range... Frito-stosterone is responsible for E2 production, DHT is the real deal that spikes. But it can also spike... So according to this one paper, your free testosterone level, calculated free testosterone, was a predictor for erythrocytosis. Yes, because it's not the total testosterone that is affected, it's the free testosterone that if it spikes and how it spikes with shooting once a week, for instance, then it gets affected higher estradiol and higher DHT. And that erythrocytosis also is DHT induced. So by shooting in smaller doses every day, for instance, very frequent doses, then you diminish your spike in free testosterone that has an effect in the other two factors. But it could also be that... So if you look at the traditional treatments, and not that this is being advocated, but if you go to the package leaflets, it's every two weeks for the injection. And you get a really super physiological level followed by a big drop off. Do people who get the every two week injection, are they as prone to erythrocytosis? Because that low level for three or four days in the trough may... Is it reducing the amount? Is it just the peak? Or is it... Are you injecting too frequently? Therefore, your free testosterone level is constantly really, really high. Now listen, if you inject frequently, you obviously inject smaller doses. You would hope so, but if you're... I don't know. I'm just throwing that out. I'm telling you to shoot either 100 milligrams on Monday or to shoot 25 milligrams four times a week every other day. It's a totally different result. And think about the other one thing. Why Nebido is blamed for spiking hemoglobin? Because you shoot 1000 milligrams, and this is tremendous, the result in free testosterone. And why transdermal testosterone is not blamed such as injectable at erythrocytosis? Because you apply every day small doses. So I think what you're saying is the dose has to be right. So if you inject every day and the dose is too high, you'll get erythrocytosis. Oh, of course. Come on. Like Ronnie Coleman was using one gram every day. So he's doing frequent dosing, but it's not... Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I guess people have to be careful with the dose amount. So doing frequent doses is really doing small, more frequent dosing. Okay. You divide your total dose in frequent, smaller ones. Okay. You don't take your weekly dose every day. Okay. Anything else that we want to cover for reasons for... About the prostate. I have to tell about the prostate. Now, I have to tell you that I had an argument and a conflict with a urologist, a famous urologist from Cyprus in a Greek conference that he told me, Dr. Tulliatos, are you sure you're not supposed... You can proceed with testosterone placement therapy after prostatectomy due to prostate cancer? I said, yes. Read about and listen about the saturation receptor therapy of Dr. Abraham O'Gettler in Harvard. And obviously, this doctor was not using testosterone itself. You know, he was just going by the book, you know. And actually, he's very notorious for injecting, doing injections in the penis for electric action. But obviously, this does not affect your libido, your sex drive. It's just a blood flow, you know. An artificial blood flow that doesn't mean that you want to have sex. So you're talking about the aloprostadil and the PG1? Yes, yes, yes. Injecting now with an insulin serum, so you get deep before you're having sex, you know. That's what the porn stars do. Yeah, the porn stars do those injections. Really? Yeah, well, you know, if you get stage fright, what are you going to do? Well, I thought we were using androgynous a lot with PDs. Well, yeah, but if you get a surge of adrenaline or vasoconstriction, you need to have something that's going to override your... Yeah, if you sniff cocaine, actually, it's going to lead to peripheral vasoconstriction, yes. So, I mean, the penis and erection is all about the vasodilation, so... Yes, yes, yes. I had to tell about the prostate. Now, Mokitala believes that if your PSA is over 4, then just perform a biopsy, that's all. Because with biopsy, you see just within the gland and the cells and any kind of proliferation, you know. So, biopsy tells you the truth, and then you avoid the digital rectal examination or the MRI, you know, in case you have elevated PSA and symptoms of an elevated... So... Wait, so you're saying do a biopsy instead? Yeah, in case within TRT your PSA is over 4, then just perform a biopsy, that's all. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, hang on a minute. A biopsy isn't just, oh, just do a biopsy. There's a risk of serious infection if you do a biopsy. Okay, of course, with sterilization, it's like a surgery, but you have to know that biopsy itself elevates PSA, you know, the puncture of the gland. But in order to estimate what's happening inside, if there's any malignant or benign hypertrophy, you know, then biopsy tells the truth. As a matter of fact, I had two 55-year-old guys with elevated PSA and they performed a biopsy, it was negative and then they proceed also after with testosterone placement. Okay, what about an MRI over a biopsy? Well, MRI tells the truth also, but of course, nothing beats a biopsy because you just read the cells inside, you know. The MRI also is more effective than the digital rectal examination, the pelvic MRI, okay? I mean, there's a new procedure actually, it uses a blood test and this blood test, I think it's been developed near Oxford or maybe Cambridge in the UK here, where they look at actual malignant cells in the blood to see... Yes, there are the tumor markers of CA 19.9 that predicts some inflammation and cancerous cells. CA 19.9 and also CEA and alpha-fetoprotein. These are the three tumor markers apart from the... Well, this is a new one where they're actually looking at malignant cells that they can discover in the blood. However, they say it's not for diagnostic uses yet, they're still waiting for approval. But this may be something in future that we might have as an option that would actually tell us you'd have a higher PSA and then you can also look at the actual cells that are found in the blood. Anyway, I guess I'll have to watch some of the things. Of course, prostatitis also may elevate PSA, you know? So it doesn't mean, of course, that something in the gland is elevated itself from the androgens or the DHT elevation, but also by taking antibiotics, under prostatitis will lower PSA. Right, so prostatitis may be another cause of PSA. A very common cause of prostatitis is anal sex without condom, you know? You get a Cerecha coli back to your urethra and then to the prostate. So a good practical way is to pee to urine after your anal sex, you know, in case you don't take a... You don't use condom in order to flush away all the anal bacteria, you know, that may lead you to prostatitis. Of course, that's a good plan. But you know, all these things can be very stressful for a patient, right? So I think the last thing a patient wants to do who's been put on TRT is to want to come off. I mean, for most men. I believe in order to manage erythrocytosis, okay, eight-week stop would be enough. And also, for instance, one month in order to measure out what's going on with your prostate. So I don't think it's... It's just postponing for a while your replacement therapy is cutting off, yes. I mean, reasons for not for quitting, but stopping for a while and examining the factors, okay? What about... I don't know if you've seen this in some maybe younger men who will go on TRT in their 20s, start getting their life improved, and then say, Yeah, maybe all my exercise, proper sleep, diet has led me to feeling better. So maybe I can stop the testosterone treatment. Have you seen this in practice? Where then guys say, well, hey, can I just stop my testosterone treatment now? Because I think everything's better. And what we found, people just call us back in, you know, three to four months later saying, Actually, I do need my testosterone. Of course, because when you are plagued with testosterone, then your own production shuts off. And then you get out of fuel, you know, when you stop using testosterone, because it is a homeostasis with every hormone, thyroid hormones, cortisol, androgens. You shut off your own production, then there is a horrible rebound, you know? But eventually, they go back to maybe where they started, but they still don't feel as good as they did. It matters the age, also the time of the abuse. But we're talking just normal young men who get put on TRT. We're not talking abuse. That they think, well, okay, my life's turned around now. Things are better. My exercise, my diet is there. I think I'm going to stop. That's why I'm asking and I'm telling them HRT is not a trendy thing, but it's a lifetime treatment for somebody who is hypognetic. So it's not something to get jacked for a couple of, you don't on and off this. That may not have been their intention. Their intention was, oh, I'll get better. So do you think maybe for some of these, maybe younger people, maybe it's buyer's remorse, or maybe they didn't realize that they weren't committed to staying on it? They have not already decided very maturely. So it's like some people would want to do a tattoo and they have not decided what to ink. And later they regret it. So it's a lifetime decision that actually it's a treatment of a disease. You know, just about, I tell them if you want to get jacked, do a steroid cycle and then do a PCT. But eventually you get your end to TRT, but you cannot use for life something if you don't need it and later regret of this. So I guess there is some guilt built into some guys or the hope. I think it's a hope for a lot of people that they don't have to depend on something to feel better. Yes, it's a commitment, it's a lifetime commitment, you know, the discipline. And also the lifestyle. You're not just use testosterone and eat junk, you know, and expect them to be optimized and have a different effects. Yeah, like my friend the psychiatrist would say, testosterone in donuts don't mix. Yeah, of course. Of course. You know, I've been on TRT for about 24 years and I think I'm in the opposite spectrum where... Are you tired of that? No, no. I mean, I say, oh, what's today? Today's injection day. Okay, listen, back in your 20s you thought, oh, I'm going to do it for the rest of my life. I was in my 20s. Well, there was a time in my early 20s where I was a little bit concerned, but I realized how terrible I felt trying to recover on my own, you know, seeking out other doctors. I was, some of the doctors made me feel like some sort of criminal for looking to maintain better levels. I just didn't feel good anymore until I finally found the doctor in California who put me on testosterone. And then from there eventually got on injections, etc. The same goes for thyroid patients, but you know, taking your thyroid medicine is much easier than injecting yourself. True. So maybe it's the method of either application, either your creams or your injection. Maybe there's this taboo in society, oh, needles, injections, you must be a junkie. So sometimes this might grate on people's psyche. I mean, that's why we make these videos. It's for, you know, both our clients and our friends of Balance My Hormones and other people in the TRT community. We don't want to dogmatize. We don't want to stigmatize. Okay. And we don't like labels. Exactly. And it's good to get your opinion as a doctor, a well-known doctor in the community to see what your thoughts are. So that's exactly why we're here. So these are things that can help. So, all right, well, that's this episode of Balance My Hormones with Dr. George Tamiatos, talking about reasons why you may consider stopping TRT. So thanks for watching. And we hope you subscribe to our channel and press a like if you do like the video. Please leave your comments for different videos that you'd like to see or different topics you'd like us to talk about. And we'll be back for the next episode shortly. So thanks again. Thanks, George. And we'll see you all next time on Question Time with Dr. T. I'm Dr. T. Well, we hope you guys have a great experience. Thank you.