 So, you're on TRT, and you've been on it for a while, and all of a sudden, your sex drive hits a dip, or it's plateaued, what do you do? We're gonna tell you all about it, after this, so keep watching. Welcome to Balance My Hormones, where we support men, and women on their journey to optimal hormone balance. If you're new to the channel, please consider subscribing. So, welcome today, we're here with Dr. George Tuliatos, an author, a bodybuilder, TRT doctor, and we're here to talk about what happens if you hit a plateau with your sex drive whilst on TRT. If you've experienced this, please let us know in the comments what your experience has been, and today we'll discuss it. Hi, Dr. George, how are you? Hello, Michael, thank you for having me, and thanks for the invitation, bringing me here in Birmingham, at the Arnold Schwarzenegger Festival, UK. So, yes, about this topic, it's quite often referred by people who start using testosterone, but after a while, the sex drive is not as it's supposed to be in the beginning, where it was superb. So, there are different reasons for that. As we know, testosterone is metabolized into DHT and estradiol. Now, DHT is actually a step further than testosterone, it's reduced testosterone to DHT, and so testosterone is a pro-hormone to DHT. But DHT is responsible for all the benefits of testosterone in the mind status, you know, in the sex drive, in the self-esteem. So, DHT then reflects directly on free testosterone and on SHBG. So, SHBG is the main carrier of testosterone in the blood, the protein that carries total testosterone. However, only the unbound form, the 2%, is able to work. In such case that SHBG elevates under conditions like fasting, like using metformin, like using thyroid hormones, or when you have a liver inflammation, when you have an insulin resistance, the portion of the free testosterone goes down. So, it's not active. So, it doesn't matter really how much you have total distortion, but what matters is the portion of the free testosterone that circulates and it's active. And if it doesn't work by suppressing, by suppressed due to the SHBG, then I guess the picture does not reflect to the amount of total testosterone but the free testosterone. So, we need to suppress SHBG by the use of DHT or perhaps we can use a Mesterloin or Dinozole, agents like that. Also, other parameters that are reflected on the sex drive is the amount of estradiol. Too high estradiol may reflect on the duration of the erection. Crashed the estradiol also kills the libido and also prolactinism is another factor. It's a hormone that elevates under stress, under insomnia, under taking opiates, under hypothyroidism. So, prolactin may give you an orgasmia and actually it kills the sexual desire feeling, you know. Okay. So, you mentioned lowering or having more free testosterone. Yes. Okay. And sometimes free testosterone can be sequestered by SHBG. They are reversely related, yes. Okay. What about in those men who have metabolic syndrome and have low SHBG? Yes, true. Diabetics and metabolic syndrome is found that it has low SHBG and supposedly they have higher free testosterone. In diabetic people, they have also vascular issues in endothelium and cavernous bodies. So, the blood supply to the penis is not ideal. Okay. So, those guys, they need the 5-phosphodiesterase inhibitors in order to improve the nitroxide and the blood flow. But somebody who's diabetic type 2, he needs to be introduced into insulin because most likely his insulin resistance will be much improved by the use of testosterone. If he's hypogonadal, then it's another reason to take testosterone to improve the insulin sensitivity and also fight his hypogonadal. So, essentially, those who are type 2 diabetes or those who have metabolic syndrome, they're going to be the ones that are kind of outliers. Candidates. They're outliers compared to, in general, we're talking about people who are going along swimmingly with their TRT. One day, they get this drop in libido or sex strong. And another parameter that should be referred is the introduction of HG that improves intratesticular testosterone. HCG, so getting your own mechanics, if you will, of the testes to actually secrete their own intratesticular. It's a libido enhancer, actually. Why is that? In small doses, not high doses, because high doses will aromatize indirectly through the elevation of the intratesticular testosterone. Why is that? Because after a while, with the introduction of the exogenous testosterone, this homostatic mechanism, shuts off total production of LH, you know. And I suppose that the synthesis of testosterone into the testicles will give a kick to the sex drive through elevation also of the 3-testosterone. Okay. So, you know, that's a little bit too much. It has to be microdosing as well because you also kick on E2 after a while. So, you mentioned just a little while ago that, I guess, it's well understood that low estradiol, usually in combination with low testosterone, is usually the reason why men are seeking out TRT. The low estradiol is linking to, obviously, you know, bone loss and osteopenia, osteoporosis. Also, using aromatousine inhibitors will crash single-digit. The estradiol will kill the sex drive. We've seen that from bodybuilders before the show. Even though they are taking one gram of testosterone, they feel nothing because they are abusing massively the aromatousine inhibitors to kill the fat. You know, it looks grainy. So, I guess we should back up and then go to some of the, what you think are some of the causes, and you already explained a few of them, so just to summarize, some of the causes of low libido when you're… Too high SHBG. Too high SHBG. Too low for testosterone. Too low estradiol. Too low estradiol, too high prolactin. And too high prolactin. Yeah. Okay. So, these are the three big ones. These have to be fixed, yes. That may fluctuate. And let's go back to prolactin. You know, stress, right? Stress could be fasting, of course. Stress like physical stress or mental stress. Insomnia is a form of stress also. Insomnia. Insomnia elevates prolactinemia, elevates prolactin leading to prolactinemia. I know people who stay up all night, you know, and they have elevated prolactin, and they endos, put them on MRI in order to see if they have prolactinoma. And after taking cabergoline or bromocliptin, okay, so parlor there or doastinex, they have improved. And actually some of them have, you know, some milky production galactoria, you know. So, these are the ones with the high prolactinemia. Yes, also weed, marijuana, may elevate. Sure. Okay. Opiates, painkillers. What if, does bromocryptine always work? Or not bromocryptine, but cabergoline or cromocryptine, do they always work? Bromocryptine has been shown to suppress also appetite. Because serotonin improves mood and improves appetite. So, by, it's a dopamine agonist actually. So, by controlling prolactin, you may suppress appetite. Actually, after ejaculation prolactin elevates. Sure. That you want to go to the fridge and have something to eat after sex, you know. So, now you can also lower prolactin too much as well. And there are people who can use cabergoline or bromocryptine and don't really experience that boost in sex drive. Then what? Listen, there is a flip side to the coin. So, people who have primitive ejaculation, this is due to low prolactin. And they want to have elevated prolactin through SSRIs. So, the treatment to primitive ejaculation is SSRIs to lead them to prolactinemia and avoid primitive ejaculation, which is something that may kill your sex pleasure, you know. So, it has to be balanced because if you're too low prolactin, it will make you calm so fast. Instead of having a prolactin over 10, for instance, up to 15, that may you hold your ejaculation, you know. Okay. What about, I think you mentioned before, large doses maybe less frequently or larger doses of TRT? A larger dose, let's say every seven days, once a week, a larger dose of 200 milligrams will spike, will crash first of all on SHBG. We liberate more fitosestosterone. We liberate a little bit of oestrogens also. And then a couple of days, the second or the third day when we have the spike, okay, then we feel superb. But eventually, this gradually will go downhill. And then one or two days before the next shot, we'll have a, not plateau, a trough level that is not significant and not enough to make you feel good. So essentially, it's a very personal, individualized protocol. Every patient is different. They need different options based on their own biochemistry. Yes. And also, the mental status, you know. The lack of sex drive is too much of stress, lack of self-confidence, you know, too high expectations, you know. That's a good point. Expectations are too high. So some men that we talk to will assume that I'm now on testosterone treatment and my libido, I should be like a pornostar. Yeah. And of course, it's different to have in your blood 250 injected rather than 100 milligrams. 250 of the testosterone, you mean, the dose. Yeah, which is super physiological, leads to about 2000 nanograms. Yeah. Okay. This is enough to have a good sex drive. In some men. In more men rather than using half of this amount, obviously. Right. So sometimes what you're saying is microdosing doesn't always fix the… No, microdosing elevates SHBG. Right. All right. And then the single dose crush SHBG. So the point is how you feel with this SHBG. Some people feel okay with SHBG over 50. Some others need to be down 20. But SHBG isn't the problem in and of itself. It's the lack of free testosterone. SHBG just happens to be the… It regulates the free testosterone. Yeah. You know. So obviously, as you said in the past, by raising the testosterone, yes, you'll bring down the SHBG. But more importantly, you'll bring up the free testosterone. Absolutely. So, because lots of people will focus on just lowering SHBG in and of itself when in reality… Well, usually this reflects to higher free testosterone. Okay. Okay. And more estradiol as well. Okay. Fair enough. So, those are some of the, I guess, the top things that you mentioned. Let's go over through, summarize it in a bit. Things to do to improve your libido when you've reached a plateau. And that would be improved free testosterone, maybe lower prolactin if it's too elevated… Optimization of estradiol. Optimize estradiol. Optimize estradiol. Introduction of HG. And introduce HCG. All right. So, those are the top tips. If you have other tips or comments that you'd like to make about how to boost your sex drive on TRT, please let us know in the comments. I hope you enjoyed today's video. We're here at the Arnold Expo in Birmingham and we'll have more very soon. So, thanks for watching. See you next time. Bye.