 If you're new to the channel, please press the subscribe button and like and also leave comments so we can address any questions you might have. So testosterone cream is relatively straightforward and simple, but there can be little tricks to applying it. Now, some of you may have the traditional testosterone cream pump and it comes in various concentrations. And there's also something called Topiclick, which as its name suggests, it's you click rather than pump to get the cream out. I'm going to show you how to use both just so you can compare and contrast the two different ways of using it. If you have the testosterone pump, one of the key ways to use it and to use it successfully is to make sure that you only do one pump. So you have to depress the pump all the way into your hands. OK, so when you pump it, you press all the way and you'll have about this much cream as a result. If you do a partial pump, you'll damage the pump and you will not get the right amount of meter dose out. So you may get too much, you may get too little. So it's very important that you do a full pump. So I'm going to wipe my hands now. Or if you had the cream and you applied it that way, you would scoop the cream up, which is about this much. This volume is the correct amount. And then you would apply that to your scrotum or the other areas that you're instructed to apply it. Some other hormone creams, women are instructed to apply it to thin parts of their arms, so the forearms. The danger for us men is when you use a testo cream, you don't want to get it anywhere near the fold of your arm because that's where you'll have a venipuncture test done. In order to measure your levels of testosterone, usually 12 hours or 24 hours post-application, depending on how your cream is prescribed. So stay away from those areas. Other areas that have been suggested are the areas under your rib cage, where the skin is thin, or again, under scrotum are the two best locations for it. So that's how you use that cream. So the second type of cream that you'll use, a testo cream, usually comes in what's called Topiclick. Topiclick is more available in America, but in the UK and in Europe, we have Topiclick available. So with Topiclick, it has a lid. It almost looks like an antiperspirant container where you would rub. You can rub it on your rib cage and you can apply it directly to your rib cage or your scrotum. With this cream, you'll simply, it should be primed already. They all come primed, including the pumps, but you'll turn the bottom. You can see the bottom. You just twist the bottom and you'll get one dose. And in this particular concentration, it is 100 milligrams per two clicks. So it's 50 milligrams per click. And you do your second click and that's it. And then you would take the amount of cream and you would apply it, never to this area, but you would apply it to your scrotum or your rib cage. That's all you have to do. So that's how you use the testo cream in either the pump form or in the Topiclick form. I hope you found the content helpful. If you like the video, please press like and subscribe to the channel as we will have more content after this. So thanks again for watching and see you next time.