 naringin,Kapigul, pyrrhe,phetamine, Hi and welcome, it's Balance For Hormones here, I'm Sam and I'm here with Dr. George Tuliatos. Get Dr. George is a specialist in treating men with hormones, TRT, particularly if they have past experience of steroid use or performance-enhancing drug use. He's written this book and other books, but this is Bodybuilding, The Good, Bad and the Ugly. He goes through a multitude of different things. You guys can check that out online. He specializes in biopathology. He's got the longest CV, so I'll go through some of it. He's a competitive bodybuilder himself for a number of years. He's been through that whole world, the ins and outs of what it entails. I believe now he's on TRT himself, so he has to go through the whole experience of coming off the hormones and being treated in that way. He's got that experience in it. He's an expert on medical prevention regarding performance-enhancing drugs in sports, harm reduction. It goes on and on and on. He's written countless articles. We'll put some links underneath the videos to give you access to some of his work. Welcome, George. Thank you for coming on. We're going to do some regular ones of these as well, aren't we, to help answer some of these questions that guys have got. I've got some questions here. So welcome. Hello, Sam. Thank you for this video, and I'm glad to be on the show. We cooperate together since August, and we've done some excellent job with various patients across Europe. And here we are now with our third video. We've done two videos so far held in my office, and now we're going to have this online. And I'm ready to ask any questions to our patients. Fantastic. So we've collected some of these questions from guys, and every chance you can post questions afterwards for the next episode that we do in the comments underneath. So Dr. George Tiliatos is one of our doctors here at Balance My Hormones. So if you do want to speak to him or get in contact with him, you can contact us. You can see the website over on his backdrop there. I think I need that on mine. But first of all, okay, so we've got these first questions that guys have sent in. So we'll start off. So generally today is around things to know before starting TRT, because we've got a lot of questions on this. So first of all, George, what are the symptoms of low testosterone? Yes. There is a plethora of symptoms that occur actually around the 40 years old. So we have the so-called middle age crisis that starts with number one, which is low sex drive and low libido. That is also accompanied with low self-esteem, moodiness, and perhaps some melancholy or depression. That also is accompanied by lower muscle endurance, fatigue, and the mental fat of visceral fat accumulation. And we also have a drop in bone mineral density and perhaps in erythrocytes. So the patient may become closer to anemia or to osteoporosis. And yes, we have this kind of downhill of the hormones. So we feel that we age. So you said 40, though. It can happen in some guys, right? Yeah. Actually, after 35, it declines or 40. It declines 1% every year. So every decade declines 10%. But also it's a matter of lifestyle and of drug use, you know. And of course, there are other cases of brain trauma or genetical predisposition. I mean, having Kleinefelder syndrome, of course, it's a hypergonautism. Yeah. But there are various cases that lead to hypergonautism, either primary or secondary. Right. Okay. And obviously, you know, do you use steroids or SARMs or performance? Yes, of course. This is another class of latent set, secondary hypergonautism. The anabolic steroid-induced hypergonautism that every bodybuilder, of course, competitive bodybuilders 100% will face because there is a homostatic mechanism to every hormone we introduce to the system. Either there are androgens, either there are corticosteroids or thyroid hormones. So basically, the organ is shuts off its own production when you feed it with the hormone. So after on-off of using steroids for decades, then there's a shock to the system when we throw the withdrawal symptom, you know. And then we have no production. And basically, the gonadotropins, the LHNF-8 are shut off. So there's no production from the brain. And we have the secondary, which is anabolic steroid-induced hypergonautism. Right. Okay. And andropause, I suppose, is the term, you know, like menopause. Yes. Yes. However, andropause is more of a taboo subject. Why? Because it's linked with erythic dysfunction. It is actually is fragile for the ego of a man. So you see, women are supposed to be, you know, women are, it's not a bushfire for women because women are supposed to be, you know, the, you know, the, how you say it, they're supposed to be beautiful women. So it doesn't matter if they give, if they take hormones, if they have sex after the 50s, you know. But for a guy, it's a problem if it's linked to erythic dysfunction. And unfortunately, in this case, quite many men consulted by urologists, they get prescribed from a special class of drugs, five phosphodiesterate inhibitors, that there are vasodilators for the, for the penis. Yeah. But actually, this does not solve the problem from where it initiates, you know. Yeah. So men obviously have that pressure of needing to get an erection before they get. So mentally, do you think that? The desire, the desire is libido. Having just an erection doesn't mean you want to have sex, you know. Yeah. Yeah. So it can get the job done, but it's not the actual drive that, so that's like Viagra, Cialis. Levitra. Levitra, things like that. And that probably links in with some of the mental health side effects, the low hormones, because like you said, can cause anxiety, low mood. But if you've got the pressure of sexual dysfunction as well, that can all link in with it. And I suppose then that same thing happens to these guys at younger age who may have had head injuries or taken form of handsome drugs. It all links into the same. Also, cortisone, cortisolemia from stress, you know, weed, marijuana. Also, other medications such as, you know, spironolactone that's also in the fridge with adrenal cortex. Ranitidine also, which was for ulcer, you know. Yeah. Of course, a huge class of painkillers, you know. Mind that alcohol leads to aromatization and lower, estrogens lower the testosterone production from the brain, you know. Insomnia leads to cortisolemia and prolactinemia that also hinder testosterone production and erectile behavior, you know. Yeah. That actually gets on to our next question, which is what can cause low testosterone? So you've listed a load there. Yes. You know, there's... Several different drugs, lifestyle also, the lack of sleep from 11 to 7, you know. You said brunitidine from... That's literally like, I know, the most commonly, or I see all the time, omeprazole, brunitidine, the anti-acid medication. Yes. Yes. Yes. And antidepressants? Absolutely. They lead to prolactinemia, that prolactinemia may give you an orgasmia, you know. So it's a problem still. So, and SSRI is linked to this, you know, drugs prescribed for depression. As I said, chronic stress cortisolemia is inhibitory to testosterone production. Yeah. And insomnia, that also leads to cortisolemia, you know. And depression is also linked to cortisolemia, so it's a circle, you know. So tick to the right. Smoking marijuana also may lead to gynecomastia, and gynecomastia is linked to overproduction of estrogens, you know. And estrogens are inhibitory for the brain, you know. Insular resistance also may lead to erectile dysfunction due to vasculopathy, you know. Yeah. Yes. So they say that that can be a first sign of a vascular issue is that erectile dysfunction. I think I heard that somewhere, that if you've got, if that vascular system isn't working down there. But actually, the five PD drugs that are responsible for this vasodilation, the nitric oxide production drugs, as we mentioned before, leviterous hialis and the Viagra, they are actually, they work perfectly well for those who have vascular issues in the cavernous bodies of the banks. So diabetics or third age people, you know. But actually, it does not lead to better sex drive. As a matter of fact, testosterone improves nitric oxide production. And in a way, it does the job of Viagra or Hialis or leviterous, you know. And in this way, testosterone optimization is beneficial for the heart because it vasodilates the coronary arteries. In fact, it has been shown, injected testosterone into a coronary artery, it vasodilates. But of course, we have to optimize the amount of testosterone, you know. Yeah. Wow. Okay. Fine. So it's that testosterone having that cascade from the brain to stimulate that whole process. You need that, you know, to work. And so someone with the vascular issues down there, that may work for them. But I suppose they would need the normal drive and libido from testosterone as well. But like you said, testosterone does that same thing. It increases nitric oxide. Yes. Yes. Interesting. That's why our vessels are, you know, we expect when we inject testosterone for performance enhancing results, we expect and we observe a better vascularity, you know. You get the pump. Yes. Okay. So that's the same thing that can help with that blood flow. Yes. So we actually, again, we've crossed over onto, you know, what are the benefits, which is the next question. What are the benefits of taking TRT? So. Well, several issues. First of all, we see that testosterone can treat anemia because all the androgens will stimulate EPO. Then testosterone may treat also staporosis because all steroids lead to increased and improved calcium retention from the kidney tubal, you know. Yes. But also it may lead to better against muscle wasting and sarcopenia because it improves aldosterone and water retention, but mostly protein synthesis in the muscle tissue, in the skeletal muscle. Also, we will have a burn sex drive, you know. Testosterone is the main androgen that directly affects the limbic system in the brain that is linked with behavior, the amygdala and the hippocampus. And abusing testosterone will affect and lead to a right way, perhaps, according to the individual, because it affects also the limbic system. Now, of course, it will lead to a better mood. Why? Because it optimizes the neurotransmitters, dopamine and serotonin. Serotonin is the joy hormone. It's linked to aromatization. Dopamine is also linked with the feeling of reward, you know. Yes. And also DHT, which is a main androgen that is reduced from testosterone. So actually, testosterone is a pro-hormone to DHT. DHT is a main androgen that has antidepressant effects. So when you persuade a man, actually, you tank his DHT. His self-esteem is so low and his confidence is gone, you know. So what differentiates men from boys and women is testosterone and DHT, of course. He's responsible for all the benefits. Yeah. So the mood thing is really important as well. So those things you mentioned, osteoporosis, insulin sensitivity, all those sorts of things. But it's not, you know, I think a lot of guys think that, oh, I only must have low testosterone if I am putting on weight or if I have erectile issues or libido issues. But some, their predominant issues may be that they've got increased anxiety, low mood. And anxiety, yes. And for melanctomy, yes. Also, cognitive function is poor without this foggy mind, you know. Right. So when you post testosterone, you're more sharp. You can take more decisions, you know. Your cognitive function is supreme. And also, all androgens may oxidize fat tissue. So you become leaner with testosterone because androgens affect the bit oxidation of adipose tissue. And also indirectly through gaining muscle. That muscle is a tissue with a very expensive, caloric expensive, you know. So, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So a common one this is, is when I start TRT, when I'm on TRT, what side effects may I expect? Yes. Yes. Every drug, every medication has potential side effects. And of course, if we consider what testosterone treats, then we may conclude that in the long term, because abuse also refers to the duration. So in the long term, we may have some side effects that there are potential, they are according to the individual, but they can be treated or controlled. So the most common one is erythrocytosis. You know that testosterone fights anemia. So even a low dose of 100 or 200 milligrams after years may lead to elevation of hematoprote and red blood cells production and hemoglobin, of course, because it stimulates simply EPO from the kidneys that afterwards stimulates red bone marrow, okay, and blood production. So this is treated by either getting regular blood donations or phlebotomies. And you may also, as precocious, you can use salicylic acid, aspirin, and some fish oil as well. Okay. Then you may also expect an increase of PSA, which actually refers to the size of the gland. So perhaps some... Yes, A2, prostate. Yeah, the niposatia hypertrophy. You know, that, of course, is another story from prostate cancer. You know, there's no direct link between these two. Also, you may expect some thickening of the neck that may lead to some sleep apnea sometimes, you know, because if you work out as well, your neck becomes thicker. And this means that the inner, the upper respiratory pathways, you know, are narrowed. So this may lead to snoring, turbulence flow, you know, and some sleep apnea that is treated with a CPAP mask, you know, or by dropping on weight. So I've got sleep apnea. So I noticed that that got slightly worse, as in they needed to adjust my mass pressure when I started TRT. So that makes sense. The neck gets thicker, you know, has that effect, maybe constricts a little bit more. Right. Some people also may discover some slight drop in HDL that has to be treated with a more often low-paced cardio, cardiovascular exercise, quit smoking, of course, and use niacin or carderine as a supplement, you know, to elevate your HDL. So, yes, more or less, these are the potential side effects that did not happen to all the people you know. Yeah, what about, I mean, we've got another couple of questions. Some guys have actually asked these. So this is some of the side effects, I suppose. But there is acne, you know, people ask. Yeah, acne, yes, true. Acne. Now, this sounds reasonable because testosterone is reduced to DHT. Now, acne is linked directly to DHT. And as a matter of fact, testosterone increases the production of sebum from the sebaceous blends. The sebum is good. It makes the skin more elastic. But, however, when it's overproduced, it can trap some microbes and then there may be inflammation, you know. Yeah. So to the hair follicles. Yeah. So this can be treated with azelaic acid, which is a cream that is shown to lower DHT in the skin in epidermis, you know, and dry out the skin from the overproduction of sebum. And also you have other things like clindamic emulation or you may have accutane, which is retinoic acid. And it's more potent drug for cystic acne and more severe cases. Yeah, you speak to dermatologists about that, right? That's pretty sure. But personally, I'm using Provirum, which is synthetic DHT, all year long. Yeah. And I've never had serious cases of acne. You know, sometimes you may have a breakout spot, you know, but once in a month or even less in frequency. But it's purely genetic predisposible. The same goes for with perlose, you know, and endogenic alopecia. So male pattern bones. There are some people prone to it. Some others, no. I'm prone to arthrocytosis. Other people are not. So they are blessed to have a low hematoprid. And of course, they are closer to anemia, but I'll never become anemic. But I have to become phlemono-vised, if not every month, at least every six weeks or two months. So with the hair, the hair thing is then genetic, whether you're going to lose it or not. Yes. And then if you get the hormones. You have to watch out your grandfather's for mom's and dad's side. Ah, okay. This shows if you are predisposed, you know. I think I'm going to lose my hair. But isn't it? So the thing is. The first sign is temporary here. And then goes occipital. Mine's pretty thick at the moment, I suppose. Hopefully I'm not too bad. But is it true that like, so you've got the genes. You're going to lose your hair anyway. But if you have lower hormones, you know, you would be slower. And then you would restore them on TRT. It could speed up. Yes, it can. But you still can use locally finasteride. Not systemically from the mouth, you know, for us. Locally finasteride or minoxidil. Minoxidil, you know. Yeah. And, um, how do you call it? There are three, there are three. There's a tanacrost I've heard of. No. One is the regain, which is the foam. Another is the nizoral, the shampoo. Oh, nizoral, the ketoconazole. Ketoconazole, yes. Ketoconazole, yes. Yes. But you can get that over the counter, I think, here. And actually, it's for, I think it's for Danfur. Ketoconazole is to treat high sebum production. But sebum, of course, is linked to DHT. So it lowers DHT, perhaps, in the scalp. Okay. And it's an antifungal, isn't it, I think? Yeah, sorry, yes. It's antifungal, yes. Okay, cool. So these are the other, so these are the side effects. I know you left these out because, you know, we've got, will taking testosterone affect my fertility? It's a common question. Yes, yes. It will because we expect also testicular shrinkage. Why? We explained before this homostatic mechanism. When you introduce a hormone there, you have a stop in the endogenous production. So it will also include testicular failure. That also includes the Sertoli and Leidig cells. In case you want to restore your fertility or keep your fertility on, you may use small doses of HGG. In some cases, if you want to boost your fertility to conceive with your partner, you may use HMG, which is synthetic FSH. Okay. Plus some vitamin E, tocopherol, 400 I use with breakfast. It's a fat-solid vitamin that improves the motility of the sperms, you know. So, yes, these two peptides along with vitamin E for a brief period of time, you know, and then you may have sex through an ovulation, you know, and you're able to be left pregnant. I suppose we maybe need to do a video on how to counter all of the side effects potentially. Personally, I was using HGG for three years in a row, every day, three years in a row. And I was able to triple my sperm production. And afterwards, I froze it because the HGG was no longer produced in Greece. So, I had to store it, yes. Okay. So, you touched on it as well. This is, what are the chances of getting shrunken testicles, a.k.a. testicular atrophy? What are the chances? This is a fact. And they will shrink. And also, the sperm production, the ejaculation, the volume, the will go down, will lower, of course. And when I was using HGG, I remember my ball size was really good, you know. Yeah. But after a year, then it goes back, you know. And you expect a shrinkage of 20 or 30%, you know. Okay. And it happens in most people? To everyone, to everyone. This is a fact. Run on CRT. Okay. Yeah, it's a fact. Okay. But you still can reverse this, and you can avoid this. And I have to say that the guys that I speak to, it doesn't seem a massive issue, you know. They're not like, oh, my. But how they started, I mean, you expect this after five years, you know. Hmm. But even if they are shrunken, it doesn't seem to be a concern, I think. No, no. It's just an aesthetic part, you know. And, of course, the amount of sperm you're talking about. That's true. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So, this is another question. So, do I have to tell other doctors that I see that I am on therapy, that I'm on TRT? You have. And personally, I do when I give blood, you know. But they have to be open-minded. They have to consider that this is a way of living. It's a medical treatment, you know. It's not a habit. It's not a trendy thing to do. It's a replacement of hormones. And there is no turning back, you know. As soon as you introduce hormones to yourself, because of your lack of them, obviously, there's no hormone production, especially after you use extra hormones to replace, you know. So, we watch out the pros and the cons and we balance. And then, under medical supervision, we have to… Because, you know, it's not a silver bullet. And, of course, it has nothing to do with steroid cycles. It's about optimization and giving the amount that you lack. And, of course, you have to be within the range, you know, in order to avoid the side effects. And to be helpful. Yeah, it's medical treatment that you're trying to restore your health, basically. Optimize your health. It's not about getting jacked, you know, and super muscular. So, there was another question on here that was, do you cycle TRT or is it for life? Absolutely not. In my case, I tried to stop to quit and to test if I could recover for an eight-week period, so for two months. So, the first week, the first month, I'm sorry, I give a try with a PCT that maybe slightly worked, but during the second half, the second month, it was horrible, you know. And I was just waiting to get back. And the main reason was in order to lower my hematocritic because I was tired to be phlemono-vised all the time. So, yes, the first month, it didn't drop, but the second month, it dropped efficiently, effectively, in order to start using testosterone as well, again. But, no, there's no turning back. You shouldn't, you shouldn't on and off testosterone. Otherwise, you're going to go back to your hypogonetic levels with all the symptoms, you know. Yeah. And the only reason I can justify this is just to lower your hematocritic. But right after a month, you should start using again testosterone because you cannot simply live. You will suck mentally and physically. So, it's not even a common thing to do, but you might do that as like a last resort or something. I'm sorry. If you have aromatization, which is another side effect, we should consider this. But it doesn't occur to everybody. Now, we have to use some either antistrogenic agents or lower the use of testosterone, you know, or perhaps stop using for a couple of weeks. But also, we shouldn't neglect that aromatization is also for estrogen production. And, of course, testosterone is metabolized to estrogen and DHT, you know. So, we should consider that aromatization is a fact. Yeah. However, there is a big dilemma and there is a huge, you know, argument between the society about the aromatization inhibitors, you know. Either to be used, not to be abused, or not totally to be used, you know, according to the individual. So, it's a big, it's a huge argument at the moment. But it's important to know, like you said there, that testosterone therapy is actually, you're getting benefits from testosterone, but DHT and estrogen is like a team that it provides. You start off with the testosterone and then it gives you the benefits of DHT and estrogen as well. And I think, I don't think a lot of people really are. Even though estrogens are female hormones, they are still useful for a man, for sex drive, for good mood, for joint health, for bone health, you know, for glycogen, for glycogen synthesis, you know. But they need to be optimized, of course, for cardiovascular health also. Yes. Okay. And DHT, of course, is not just a villain because you lose hair or you enlarge your prostate, but also it has all the benefits to the self-esteem, to the libido, you know. And so, it's a flip side to the coin. Okay, great. So, next one I've got is, how long until I notice a difference on therapy? Well, it depends on the type of administration. Now, using testosterone and faith will take at least one month to start feeling a substantial difference. Now, transdermal has the benefit of daily introduction that mimics the natural levels, so you have more steady levels. The other, the system that you use, it has the propionate ester that enters rapidly to the system and has this benefit related to the CPNH or to the NFA ester. Faster. So, it's according, but you can realize something for two to four weeks. So, 15 days to one month, you know, start feeling much better and notice the benefits. Okay. And then, obviously, I think going through the process, I mean, when I started therapy, you know, I felt obviously dramatically better, but then there was a period of just finding what was best for me, I suppose, as well, like monitoring all those other things. So, I suppose that can take a bit longer to sort of fine-tune, maybe. We have to watch out all the blood panel, you know, the free testosterone, the total testosterone, the esterges, the prolactin, the SHBG, the SDHEA. So, it's multifactorial. Maybe you should lower your estergens, lower your prolactin, elevate your free testosterone, elevate your SDHEA. So, it's multifactorial, you know. Mixed bag. Lots of things going on, a mixed bag of all this. Yes. So, just looking by the total testosterone doesn't tell the truth. The hidden truth lies beneath. So, it's the 2% of free testosterone that tells the truth and does the job. So, I've seen a total testosterone of 700 by the guy who has full sex drive, and he says HBG was over 100, you know. So, yeah. So, what is free testosterone? So, free testosterone is the unbound. It's the one that does not circulate. It's not bound to the protein carrier or the hormone carrier of SHBG, which is a protein, it's a globulin made in the liver. So, it's the real deal, the one that does the job, you know. And the more SHBG, the lower your free testosterone is. So, they are reversely related. And actually, the free testosterone is the one that will aromatize. So, if you have sky-high free testosterone, then most likely you're going to have estradiol high also. So, it has to be all managed, you know. Okay. Awesome. Okay. So, are there any contraindicating medications or just conditions to be aware of before you start TRT? I mean, you mentioned sleep apnea as one. Yes. Sleep apnea, erythrocytosis vera, or polycythemia vera, I'm sorry. So, this is a case where you have to introduce hydroxyurea, which is a toxic drug that affects bone marrow. And also, prostate cancer, you know, or elevated PSA over 4. And low HDL, so we wait until the HDL reaches a point of 40 in order to start. What else? What about if you've got, like, pre-existing cardiac issues? Issues, yes. So, heart failure, yes. Perhaps a heart failure would be a negative factor. And now, if you are already using cortisol, you have to expect more edema, because both cortisol and testosterone lead to sodium retention through aldosterone. That's why you should cut off your sodium intake, your terrible salt. And you have to manage this moon-like phase, you know, because we have to, I have to tell you that JFK was the first patient who was using HRT. He was born with Addison, or he ended in Addison disease where his adrenals failed. He was not producing cortisone. Therefore, he was injected with cortisone that was leading to this moon phase. But also, cortisone, we know, that leads to sarcopenia and also osteopenia. So, as a contradiction to this, he was using testosterone. Mind also that cortisone lowers testosterone production, you know. So, he was, from the other side, he was using testosterone, but with bone cortisone, he had this bloated moon phase, you know. So, it's a case that you have to be worried about when you're already using cortisone before. Okay. And cortisone is like things like prednisone, hylidazone, Addison. But sometimes things like rheumatoid arthritis or arthritis, they can reduce inflammation acutely in the things. Okay. Great. Okay. We've got, is TRT the same as steroids? No, absolutely no. Even though testosterone belongs to the androgenic anabolic steroids class, and actually testosterone is the main androgen, okay? Because you cannot live without testosterone. But testosterone is not, it's a familiar hormone, unlike the anabolic steroids are synthetic derivatives of testosterone. So, you cannot live without testosterone, but you can live without DECA, for instance, or ANAVAR. Yeah, yeah. So, they were synthetically made from the testosterone model. So, besides that, testosterone has no, has zero side effects to the liver and to the lipids compared to the toxic compounds. And even the non-toxic compounds that, if they are abused, they lead to deviation from lipids and liver enzymes. So, testosterone is a familiar hormone that is necessary for vitality, you know. And, absolutely, you can live without growth hormone, for instance, but you cannot live without testosterone, if you lack a bit. And it's the drug that separates the boys from the men, you know, and even from the women, of course. So, we shouldn't think that TRT is a trendy thing to become a drug, because we just use a fraction of what bodybuilders use. So, either one-tenth or one-fifth. So, I don't know, 200 milligrams compared to the one gram they use, or two grams they use, you know. Okay. So, the anabolic steroids were the ones that were changed from testosterone synthetically to have more of an anabolic effect. It's an androgen with anabolic effect also, we have to say that. But, actually, it's considered as the main androgen of all testosterone. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, that's how it's different. So, I suppose you can compare it to a diabetic using insulin to keep, you know, good functional physiological levels. Bodybuilders abuse insulin, right? Yes, of course. Yes. It's different. The use is complete. It's abusive. Same goes for Durfins. They use small amounts of growth hormone for a brief period of time, while bodybuilders abuse growth hormone for years. And thyroid hormone, I suppose, for trying to lose weight, they would use teeth. Yes. Yes. And, as a matter of fact, prolonged abuse of growth hormones will elevate these shades, and the thyroid function will go down. I was reading about that in your book. Yeah. That makes sense. Okay. So, last question. So, we'll wrap up in a minute. So, if you're worried about it, maybe you've got some of the symptoms we mentioned, the anxiety, sexual dysfunction, things like that, and, you know, you're looking down the road of, may I have actually got, have I got low testosterone? What are the first steps? So, they've said, what are the first steps of getting invested? So, as soon as you have the symptoms, you have to clarify also with bad work. Yeah. So, we need an assessment of certain LH, FSH, the gonadotropins, total lymphocytosterone, then estradiol beta-2, which is the main representative of the estrogen, prolactin. Also, SHBG, and, of course, the sulfated DHA. Okay. This is the hormonal panel, and, plus, you have to have a CBC in order to clarify if you are erythrocytopic or not, you know, because if you are, there is an issue, and you have to consider the regular fibromyalgia or bladder nations, you know. So, that's it. Of course, a PSA before starting, you know, for cholesterol therapy. Okay. And another benefit that I forgot was that the improvement of succulent sensitivity. So, as John Chrysler said, in the near future, diabetics, they will be checking about hypogonitis because if they are, testosterone administration will either improve their insulin sensitivity and hemoglobin A1c will lower. Wow. And why that happens? Because you burn mental fat, visceral fat, and visceral fat is linked with insulin resistance. So, you build muscle that is reverse related with the mental fat, and this improves insulin sensitivity. Okay. So, having low testosterone could, in theory, lead to pre-diabetes diabetes? Absolutely, yes. Yes. Because these people are obese, you know, they have more fat tissue inside their stomach. Yeah. And this, of course, is linked to inflammatory cytokines, interleptine 6, tumor nectasis factor, and insulin resistance. Wow. Okay. Perfect. Well, thank you for answering all the questions. You know, we'll get another load next week. I think the topics will be slightly different, but if you've got any questions, please leave them in the comments, and, you know, we can get on to them next week. Obviously, if you want to give us a call or go onto the website and just chat to us about, you know, getting TRT or HRT or seeing Dr. George, you know, in the UK and Europe, you know, you can visit the website, balance and hormones.co.uk. If you like the video, just please, you know, like, subscribe, put the notification bell on if you want to hear some more videos like this. And thank you, George, for coming on. And we'll have another chat next week. Absolutely. And answer some of those questions. So, thank you. You're welcome. Cheers. Cheers. Thank you. Thank you.