 Okay, roma-bidb Long question, yes. Do you know of anyone in the group that has experience in keeping testosterone levels in the 1200 nanogram range for any length of time? I'm 54, 220 pounds, around 10% fat. My levels, I assume he means his testosterone levels came back at 510 and 540. I have worked out, played rugby and been active my whole life. I left three times per week and trained Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. Here is the problem. I have a very demanding business. I own a moving business, lots of hands-on physical work for hours a day over the summer season. My body is beat to shit and I can't recover. Some days it's like doing an effing CrossFit for seven or eight hours. I'm willing to gamble a trade-off. I'm 55, so it's not like I have all the time in the world anyway. I think he's saying a trade-off between, I don't know, maybe having more testosterone, let's finish. He says, my soy boy doctor won't refer me for TRT, so I have to do the research. All my blood panels are fine. So I think he's asking, do you know of anyone with experience in keeping testosterone levels in the 1200 range and would it help with things like doing lots of physical activity? I mean, it's a tough one. It's a real personal journey going through TRT. So first of all, you've got to be symptomatic. It's not about numbers. You know, no one's aiming for a certain number above a certain level or anything like that. I mean, if you're going to see one of the doctors, you've got to arrive and say, okay, well, I am symptomatic of, you know, it could be low energy. You know, we know the symptoms, low libido, could be mental health issues, things like that. So obviously the blood tests are a key part, supporting a bit of information, but you need to go to the doctor with that. Now, 1200, I think, you know, we hear that a lot from the US and, you know, that's a nanograms per deciliter. Is that like the ideal that you want to reach? Is that the upper end of the range? I think for a while, yeah. I mean, you know, we have our reference range we normally see, or now it's something like 7 to 30, right? I believe 30 is something like 900 in theirs and like 44 is around 1200, something like that. So there was, you know, due to the old reference ranges in America and how it used to be, the older sort of thought was that, you know, that's your optimum. Everyone's got to aim to get there. But we also know it's actually more like free testosterone, consistency of the testosterone going into the body, you know, estrogen, you need enough estrogen and things like that for energy and mood and libido. So really just saying, is there any experience of someone aiming to get there? That's not really ever the aim. You know, you're looking at a person, you know, the doctors will look at every situation, every person that comes in front of them as a patient and take everything into account. If they need a level that is above 1200 or 1200 to get a free testosterone to a good level to feel symptomatic relief, then one person may get there. But then another person might need 700, 800, you know, as a total testosterone to try and get a certain level. Because, you know, from the sounds of, I mean, he's doing jujitsu, he's training, he's working hard. That doesn't sound like someone who has low testosterone. I mean, people with low testosterone struggle to do those things, that kind of activity. Yeah. I mean, so obviously he's a busy guy. And again, maybe there are other things going on. I mean, we speak to some guys, they go, yeah, I'm struggling to get through the day. And it's the energy they're talking about. But then, you know. And he's 54. He's 54. It sounds like he's doing well. I couldn't do that now. Exactly, yeah. But, you know, they may have other things that they're unaware of, you know, like poor sleep and increased anxiety. And maybe they're still dealing with it. So it's not that he may not have a case or, you know, it's still worth seeing a doctor, I suppose, knows what they're talking about for a full assessment. But in terms of targeting a range like that, you know, that's not really something that happens. It's a case-by-case basis. But, you know, if he's suffering, you know, how mentally strong are people, you know, he could be doing all of these things. Maybe he did them for a long period of time. He's always done them. And now it's very, very hard. Yeah. And he's still doing it. So maybe there is, you know, he's adapted. He's got good genes, you know. So I don't know how to write off the potential need for it. He said his blood levels are good, though. I'm sure he means, you know. He said, you mean talk about the testosterone. Yeah. He said about 5'10 and 5'40, which is sort of mid-range, I think. Yeah. Yeah, sort of middle of the range, isn't it? But, you know, I mean, I spoke to a guy that's one of the doctors the other day who was mid-20s and his levels were naturally, total, was above 42. And I've seen, like, a 62-year-old come through who actually just wanted to get some blood tests and get a baseline. You know, he felt fine. And his levels were 33 total. So, you know, this chap could have had double that. You don't know. But that's where you have to speak to the doctor, make a case, you know, and actually work with him and see if there's something that could be going on. So let's say someone like this comes in and you're not sure if he's low or not. But he's, you know, you hear a lot of these guys in the community talk about TRT optimization. Yeah. How do you guys normally handle a situation like that? Is it something that you're open to or? Well, this is the thing. It's optimizing based on symptoms. Exactly. You know, so no one's going, oh, you know, if you're sitting at 700 and your free testosterone is good enough, for example. Not that it's really common for that to be the case. But if you were then, you're like, you know, sex drive's good and recovery's great and, you know, no other side effects. And you're like, why would you not, you know, you don't want to try and fix something that's, you know, not broken. Just because of some number you think is a magical number. I'm going to go to 1,200. You know, personally, you know, even in my case, if I go too high, I feel more anxious. I feel more tired, you know. So actually, it's not higher is better. People forget that as well, you know. Coming from a low level to a good level might be a good experience. Exactly. You know, but going past that, you know, you find your sort of limits. So optimization for you has got to be, you know, symptoms, working with the doctor, going through the process. So I think that's where it's key about optimization. If you need to be slightly higher to feel better, then, you know, I'm sure the doctor's going to, you know, go through that process and potentially find what works to you. Yeah, because I know personally, if I'm feeling good and I'm chasing some magical number, I'd be worried that if I increase the testosterone more than what I'm on now, that other side effects will start taking place. Yeah. I'd be paranoid about that, but that's just me. Yeah, I mean, some guys, when they go too high, you know, their sleep gets affected. You know, they feel like they've got a bit too much energy. They can feel a bit wired, things like that. So, yeah, like I say, if you're balanced and you're feeling good, why would you want to mess around with it, you know? Exactly, yeah. So optimization is, I suppose, a symptomatic relief for you in trying to optimally deal with those symptoms, I would say. So what, I mean, just briefly, what do you think this guy should do, you know? Hey, look, he may be more symptomatic than just the fatigue and, you know, like he's mentioning, you know. Yeah. So it is subjective fatigue, I suppose. You know, you could put it onto an objective measure, but he might have been doing all of these things all of his life. So I think he should probably, you know, speak to the doctor. You know, if he's in the UK, obviously, you can speak to one of us and come through the doctor or approach a doctor that if he knows, you know, is willing to be open. But there's other things, you know, there's thyroid. You know, we quite often know that, you know, the NHS, if he's gone to a GP, their sort of, their impression of when a thyroid is okay is not really in tune with the rest of the evidence in the rest of the world. Yeah. And we know that if, you know, I've seen men that have been hypothyroid be treated with thyroid hormone and it's sorted everything out, you know, the testosterone has improved. Yeah. You know, so I think he probably needs to go and get some good bloods, you know, speak to a doctor, get some advice from somewhere that probably is in the know, if that makes sense. Because he's obviously in the reference range there, but we know that's not really the... Do you think the likelihood of him getting what he wants on the NHS is probably low in his bed, it's probably go privately maybe? I would say it's probably a good bit of advice maybe to research privately. I mean, I've seen men in the past, you know, come through when they've literally been at the bottom of the reference range, you know. Still there. Below, like, there are studies out there. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, similar for me, you know. I was, you know, I was below the levels where there were studies showing where, like, the 85 to 100 year olds were and things like that. And because I was in the reference range, like, well, no, actually, even before a blood test, because I had facial hair, I wasn't getting a blood test, you know. You've got facial hair, you've got a good testosterone. I was like, what about all these symptoms, all of these things? And it was obviously, like, have an antidepressant, which was the only option for me. Yeah. Have some Viagra if you've got those issues, you know. Yeah. So, yeah, so maybe private's a good shout. We know the provision isn't great, but, you know, you always, you've always got that right to maybe try another NHS GP. You know, you may come across someone that maybe is in tune with the new evidence. The problem is, though, even if they're willing, often the NHS is still restricted in cost and the way that they do it. But, you know, there was a question about Nibido earlier that is quite attractive for the NHS because of the types of injection every 12 weeks and things and how easy it is for them. And we know that's just not very, you know, efficacious. It doesn't work very well. But that might even be what you end up having, even if they think that you are suitable, you know, on the NHS. So, I'd say he's probably got a higher chance of going privately, you know, but always worth a punt, you know. That's what I tell the guys also. It's like do what you can with your public health, you know, with maybe your local doctor. And if you're sort of at wit's end and you can't find any solution, then consider going private. No one's putting a gun to your head to go private. Do what you can. And if you can get treatment that's not private, good for you, great. But if you can't, then maybe consider it. I think, you know, the things that you discuss in your videos and things, you know, if you're speaking to a doctor and you're asking about free testosterone and issue control and injection frequency, if it is injections, things like that. You can usually get a good feel if the doctor's got a hold on, you know, what needs to be done. And usually if they don't, you get your pick. If you tend to have more of an insight than the doctor. Yeah. And they're not willing to change things based on the evidence that you show them, then it's probably a bit of a red flag. You know, you can't find somewhere. But if you find someone that's willing to, you know, to learn, you know, and say, okay, well, this isn't something I know about. But, you know, you know this, that and the other. And you've got this evidence in front of me. I'm willing to work with you. And that'd be fantastic. I might be a bit of a unicorn to try and find from my experience, but it's still, you're within that right. You know, there's still a national health service that provides a certain amount of care. And, you know, you can definitely try that route. And then, you know, you've got a backup of, you know, private services. It seems kind of twisted, though, that in this day and age, we've got to teach the doctors, basically. But, like, it's a tough one. Not all of them, but, you know. No, yeah. But in their defense, you know, they, you know, they have to learn every, you know, particularly if they train within the NHS. They call it a GP for a reason. They're general practitioners. And you go thereafter. So you have to learn every disease process, you know, in the NHS. You go to wards where you've got, you know, 20 different patients with 20 different medical histories, three or four different conditions. And they're really unwell. And, you know, you're learning all of those things. And then you branch off to become a GP. You know, even endocrinologists, a lot of them don't learn about. You know, we hear this, that TRT is not something they usually train in. You know, they'll maybe have basic guidelines that they might use, but it's not something they specialize in. They're dealing with the sickness stuff, right, you know. Serious tumors, you know, diabetes, where, you know, the life-threatening stuff is that the NHS has to provide for. So, you know, it's not something they learn until they learn it. And then let's just say you were in, you know, like, yeah, definitely want to do this. And real good thing that, you know, you wanted to start working on was TRT. You've still got the restrictions, haven't you, of what the NHS can provide. And it's almost a combination. Some of them become very arrogant, like, oh, no, no, this is the way it's done, you know. But there are others who realize their hands are effectively tied, you know, by red tape. You know, the bureaucracy of the system. But, I mean, we won't go into that again. No, no, of course. I think the most frustrating thing is when you meet someone. And I'm not just talking about doctors, you know. I'm a healthcare professional by trade. And I've worked with, you know, various healthcare professionals. And if a patient comes to you and goes, oh, what about this? And if you haven't heard of it and you pretend like it doesn't exist and you dismiss it, that's the worst sort of patient care. You've got to be open to that. So I think any sort of healthcare practitioner, it doesn't matter who, doctor or otherwise, if they're not willing to listen or to be, you know. The thing about being a healthcare practitioner is you're supposed to follow evidence. You're supposed to follow the most recent evidence. And you're supposed to be proved wrong. That must be the most exciting thing is when you discover something new. Same with scientists, you know. You're always looking for that separate thing. So if you do get a doctor or, you know, again, it's another red flag for me. And sadly, there are a few of those healthcare professionals out there in general, you know. Yeah. And not just doctors. I think cards and my face, you have them too. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Okay. Well, Logan or Dean Logan, I hope that answers your question. So thanks for the question. Okay. The next question we have comes from Locutus. And he says, or he asks, are there people who are not used to therapy? In other words, is there a chance to return to your old natural testosterone levels after three years, for example, of testosterone replacement therapy? So what's the first part of the question? He said he's not used to therapy. Yeah, I'm not sure what he means by that. He said other people are not used to therapy. Is there a chance to return to your old natural testosterone levels after three years of TRT? So I think maybe he's not getting on with it. Maybe he's not feeling good. Oh, yeah. Maybe he wants to come off again. Potentially. I mean, I think the first thing is, if somebody's not used to it or whatever he described, if you're not feeling good, then potentially there's something else going on. Or either the dosage schedule, frequency, all those sorts of things may need. So I'm guessing he's worked with the doctor. I mean, that's something you usually got to sort of figure out within the first year. You know, the getting dialed in, you know, finding what works for you, not too high, not too low. Do you think maybe it could also be a case of maybe he was an ex-bodybuilder, you know, and he screwed his system up and he went on TRT to try and, you know, deal with it. And maybe now he thinks he can go back to normal or come off it? Yeah, potentially. I mean, so answering that part of the question where if he's been suppressed for three years, you know, there's a good chance. I mean, the studies show that it can take some time, but it's very personal in terms of the amount of suppression you sort of experience. Whether he's been suppressed before, like you said, I mean, if you took some suppressive hormones or steroids, whatever, for years prior, you may be completely irreversibly affected your hormone production. So it is very personal in that aspect. So knowing a bit more about the history without knowing that, you know, it would be hard to sort of give you any sort of idea of what the doctors might say, you know, in that situation. But, I mean, even if someone wasn't suppressed, still had poor levels, obviously started TRT and then for three years was on therapy. If you stop, obviously, you can go through, you know, like a restart program, kind of using Clomid or HCG or something similar to try and get the signal back first, get the testicles up and running, you know, with the HCG and try and restore whatever the body may actually produce. But then you've also got the three years of natural aging, I suppose. So, you know, even if you manage to get back what the body is fully functionally able to do, you've got three years of suppression. Yeah. And you've also got three years of aging. So you can always try it and you know you've got to back up. Yeah. So, you know, but I would say normally if someone's at that point, which I've not really seen, but because usually there's something else going on that maybe isn't testosterone, for example, that needs dealing with. So maybe he needs to talk to the doctor about getting, looking at thyroid, and we talked about prolactin earlier, I think you did. So prolactin, even nutritional, you know, deficiencies and things like that. Obviously, there are lifestyle factors. Big one, I think, is mental health. I mean, the other things that can benefit mental health. I mean, if you're still experiencing anxiety, low mood, again, we don't really know why he's not getting on with it. You know, things like clinical psychology, CBT, things like that, you know, going down that road. I find that men and women, when they have their hormones optimized and they feel better in general, but they've still got some things going on there. It's more hormone related, yeah. Maybe there was a part hormone relation there, but actually when the hormones are better, they then attempt these things, and it seems to be so much more successful. You know, some guys and women that have done that before getting hormones checked and have anxiety or low mood got their hormones optimized, and then revisiting those same things just blew it away. It was so much easier, less self-criticism, things like that. And I've gone on a bit of a tangent, but those are things I've seen before. Okay, so let's swing back to the question then, right? So it's possible to have your levels return to natural levels. It's possible. What's the likelihood, though? You know, because you hear stories, at least I hear in the community, about once you're on TRT, you're on TRT for life. Is that because the likelihood of you getting natural again is so low? I mean, it's possible, but it's more unlikely than likely, or what? It's really hard to say. It's literally on an individual basis. You don't know the history of why. You've got age. You've got lifestyle factors. You've got, you know, why do you have, you know, low testosterone production to start with? Yeah. So it's almost you need to try and see. Okay. You know, if that's your aim, work with the doctor. Try and bring it back to normal. It's close to normal. But if you were low to start with, you know, you needed TRT. You know, the doctor would have thought that was something you needed to try. And if you've seen no improvement at all, you know, then maybe there's something else there that you need to revisit. But you're only going to get back to where you were before. Yeah, it makes sense. You know? Okay. So that was from Locotus. So thank you for the question. Okay. The next question comes from Craig Shales. And he asks, does Balance My Hormones offer HGH, human growth hormone, for cosmetic purposes? Example, fat loss and muscle gain. And could they talk a bit more about this service, please, if they do? Yeah. And they say, oh, by the way, they say appreciate what you and Mike and Sam are doing for men's health. Okay, good. All right. Thank you. Appreciate that. So cosmetic purposes, the answer would be no. Okay. Yeah. You know, the growth hormone, human growth hormone, you need to be diagnosed with a deficiency, you know, through testing. So there are symptoms that come alongside that. Like it can be, you know, sagging skin and mood and energy and things like that. And obviously, you'd be assessed by one of the doctors that does specialize in that. And then you may be treated if it's actually, you know, appropriate. But in terms of, I think when we, you know, we hear about human growth hormone being abused, you know, in super physiological doses, in the athletic world, in the bodybuilding world, where you're using it to get as much muscle gain as possible, to lose fat, which is where we actually hear about it more from that side, don't we? Yeah. That's what I heard about it first. You know, I didn't hear about, oh, you know, adult growth hormone deficiency in a 60-year-old where, you know, they were able to improve their quality of life and actually improved energy and bone density and things like that. I didn't hear of it from there. I heard from people using it to try and get jacked. Yeah. I've also heard, one of the books I read by, I think it was a Dr. Katz or something, it was a whole book on HGH and how it's almost like the fountain of youth for me. Yeah. And again, you have to have a deficiency. So these things are about restoring a good, you know, physiological optimal level for you. So going too high obviously has its issues as well. So if you've got good levels of production, you know, you're not going to be a suitable patient. Yeah. So you don't offer it for cosmetic purposes, but if there's a clinical need, you guys offer it. That would be a good summary. Yeah. And obviously it's the after assessment of the doctor and things like that too. And how, you know, this is just my question related to this. How do you tell the difference between, you know, for example, someone comes in and they have moodiness symptoms or they may complain about lack of energy or strength. How do you tell the difference between low testosterone and low HGH? Is it as simple as a blood test? Yeah. Yeah. So that's a good question. So IGF-1, you know, is, is, is a blood test that is used to sort of measure growth hormone production in the body. So in a simple sort of, you know, very layman's term, how I understand it is, is that growth hormone is produced by the, by the brain and sort of it floats around the body, does what it needs to do. And then the liver produces IGF-1 for extended period of time after that. So, but, you know, you can do a, you can do a stimulation test for growth hormone, but it can be dangerous. So they, measuring IGF-1 in the blood is usually something that's measured and then there are assessment tools and, you know, talking to the patient about those things as well. So IGF-1 can be tested, but you, I have said this to some, some people in the past, you know, that they, you know, they might, they might come through and we're looking to get them to the doctor and they're like, well, I'd like to speak to the doctor about growth hormone therapy. You know, that's something I'm really interested in and testosterone therapy and things like that too. But, you know, if you've got suboptimal low testosterone and estrogen, you know, low estrogen can reduce your IGF-1 levels. So you can actually get an improvement in sort of IGF levels from just having an optimal level of estrogen, you know. So if it was me and, you know, look from a patient point of view, I'd always try and look at, you know, my testosterone levels first, you know, get those optimized and then with my estrogen as well. And then measure maybe IGF-1, you know, down the line, if that makes sense. But some of the symptoms cross over. Testosterone is strongly sort of linked with the sexual side effects, you know. The mood, mood on when people are optimized with growth hormone, it's almost like a subtle thing. Yeah. I generally feel a bit better, but, you know, you and I from coming from like low levels of testosterone, I mean, I'm not sure how much, you know, your mood was affected, but, you know, mine was low. I was generally low all the time and it was just an immediate sort of change back to how I felt, you know, years ago. From what I've seen in patients, it's not as drastic as that. It's almost like you were irritable before that and now you're just a bit more calm. Yeah. It's very subtle. Definitely calm. And, you know, people who have that association don't know, oh, maybe it increases aggression. Oh, no, no. I had more aggression when I had low testosterone. I would be snapping for every little thing. Yeah, no. There's evidence showing increased anger with, you know, low testosterone. Low and high. Low and high. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, so absolutely. So the difference between those two, you know, what you normally see is, you know, more of the sexual side effects with the testosterone. But like I say, you can always discuss those things with the doctor. But if you're looking at therapies, I mean, you know, growth hormone therapy is a more expensive therapy. It's always been a more expensive medication. Yeah. So, you know, in my eyes, if you've got low estrogen causing low IGF-1, you know, and affecting sleep, you know, better sleep causes better growth hormone production as well. Low testosterone can cause poor sleep. Yeah. You know, so starting off with those other hormones on a step-by-step basis is probably a sensible thing to do. Okay. Now, let's take it. Let's take this guy, Craig Shales. Let's say for argument's sake, he's just interested in a cosmetic purpose. You know, he doesn't want to go through all of that. You guys obviously don't do the cosmetic side of things. Do those other men's health clinics, you know, the high street ones and like that, do they do these types of things? Or do you have to go the illegal route, for example, for what he wants to accomplish? I can't imagine they would. Yeah. I mean, they may. Yeah. You know, my opinion on whether that should happen, obviously, may differ. Yeah. You know, you're going for a medical need, clinical need, as you put. But, so, they may. Obviously, I wouldn't condone it. I mean, I'm not giving medical advice. You know, our doctors wouldn't be happy doing that sort of thing. Yeah. So, if he was trying to do that, then his only, you know, his option would be that. But, you know, black market is not only, I never advise anything like that. Yeah, exactly. You know, it's an absolute minefield. Yeah. You know, I don't know what you're getting. So, maybe he needs to look into other things, you know, potentially. You know, you can do all the other things that some people say are maybe sound a bit patronizing. But, you know, making sure the rest of your life, diet, exercise, and even making sure your hormones or your testosterone and things are okay. I'd like to assume that when people are answering the question, that they have taken care of those things first. I always say take care of your lifestyle habits. But, you know, everyone's looking for shortcuts. But, anyway. Yeah, absolutely. I don't think this is Craig. But, I hope that helps you, Craig, in what you're looking for and with your journey. But, thanks for the question. Thank you. Thank you.