 NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC, Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, NAC Recovery, N Now, listen, replacement therapy is a lifetime treatment for somebody who needs it and he's hypogonatic. So it's your medication actually because you're sick, you're ill, you have this kind of disease. However, it's different ending up hypogonatic as a result of steroid abuse or more hypogonatic, for instance, with a problem in your hypothyroidism with Kalman syndrome or with your testicles with Kleine-Felter syndrome or perhaps have a kick in your balls, you know, and then you have to, you have to stick to a failure. Now, I know I have a patient of mine who's 55 years old. He was using steroids. He has two kids with his wife, you know, but he told me that he never told you that he's using testosterone as a replacement therapy. Neither is that he was cycling steroids. So I believe that he thinks it's a taboo subject or because he's self-esteem and his ego is super high and he doesn't want to reveal his perhaps weakness. Personally, I'm not afraid to say that. And actually, when I meet a girlfriend, when I meet a girl and I date her, I'm telling him that, listen, I'm using testosterone for this reason. Some of them are open-minded, those that they perhaps they train and they form and they have this kind of perspective about fitness. But if the others are very conservative, you know, if I date a lawyer or if I date a doctor, then they say, oh, you're using this forever. So you're somebody, you're a junkie or you're ill. You're somebody who's taking meds so young. So, yeah, it's up to the person and the perspective and the culture of the individual. Now, my mother, of course, knows that and my sister. Now, my dad also knew that I was having abuse and cycling. He was a doctor also. My father, that I had issues with my endogenous testosterone production. But until my father passed away and I hadn't started yet using testosterone. Now, I don't have a problem saying that to my relatives also because my aunt and my godmother, we used to work together and she knows that I was using testosterone. But they kind of freak out of this thing, the daily thing or the weekly thing of the testosterone abuse. And they just believe that let it be and will elevate itself, which is, of course, non-true and false. I don't think it's a stick, but if testosterone is blamed and it stigmatizes through the abuse as an anabolic from the bodybuilding community, I believe testosterone is the most innocent steroid that is anabolic and anogenic steroid. It exists a familiar hormone. Men cannot live without testosterone if there is a need. Men can live without GH. Men can live without anabolic steroids, but nobody can live without testosterone healthy, both physically and mentally. And it's not just about sex or performing at the gym. It's about bone marrow and density. It's about anemia. It's about metabolic syndrome, insulin resistance. So it's multifactorial the benefits of testosterone, you know. So you're on a first date. Is this something that you bring up at dinner or do you wait until... Well, in the second date, I believe when things get more serious or I have to get in bed with this person, then we wake up and if she comes to my place and she opens my fridge and she injects and needles, I'm telling the truth. Now, you can live with it or you can walk. Okay. I guess it's the same thing if you're on Cialis. But also mind that people are afraid. I mean, they're not open up by using a Cialis. They're not proud of it. Okay. They just go to the bathroom, they wash and they swallow the magic pill, you know. But it's different with women that use an HRT because women are not so, how you say, blamed to use replacement therapy. And women actually follow HRT after menopause in order to get their period back and have sex. So they're not paying for that. But a man is not supposed to use something for his libido because it's very fragile for his ego and for his self-esteem. And that's why perhaps TRT is a taboo subject by some men, you know, in society. Do you think because we're in the community and we're seeing this day to day that for us it's become quite normal to have, you know, you're onto Solstron, it's what you're on and you're not going to let anyone get in the way of you feeling better. I mean, I see that. And then another... Do you believe that they see it as a cheating method? Some people may not understand. Well, coffee is cheating. And they'll say, well, they'll say, look at you. You don't look like you need testosterone. You know, that's quite... Can you clarify this by a minute? Well, years ago I heard this from a doctor, actually a urologist. Look at the size of you and the shape of you. You don't look like you need testosterone at all. It's like... Testosterone is not just about lifting and being... It was... It's not just about the looks. It's about medical issues deep into that. So I'll tell you this story. So this was a doctor that I went to see in Chicago and is kind of a famous urologist. And in that particular clinic, they make you just wear a gown and you have no shirt on. And he walked into the consulting room and this exactly said, oh, buddy, he said, you don't need any testosterone. Look, you're on way too much testosterone. I was like, are you kidding, mate? Have you even looked at my blood levels? My trough... No, listen, only small men use testosterone. This is crazy. So... Only small men use testosterone. No. That's an attitude some people have. And it's something that, you know, hopefully in time I found in my own life, you don't always bring it up in the first topic. When I was younger, it was almost like I was a little poster boy for TRT and informing other people of the need that you may have a deficiency. But over time, it becomes, I think, normal in your life and you just kind of get on with it. And I'm not going to let anyone detract from me just getting on with my life. I have to tell you that there are many hypogonatic men who are feared to discover their hypogonadins and they don't pay so much attention in the deficiency of testosterone. And also medical doctors on that. And there is this kind of hormonophobia and they say, oh, I'm going to get prostate cancer. Oh, I'm going to get this or that. So they prefer to leave hypogonadol, which is actually more worse than the side effects of testosterone. That's true. Look, I think the most important thing for men when they go on TRT is to not feel like they're a sick patient. And I think part of the benefit of us talking about it is to let them know that, you know what, it's okay. If you're on TRT, you're improving your life from where it is, you're increasing from baseline, you know, lots of your issues may go away. And it's okay. And whether or not you talk about it with a loved one, I think it's a personal choice and it's up to you. But I don't think you have to be afraid of it. I rarely see men who are not at least physically active because men are sexually active. And not use testosterone. So going, attending at the gym and having sexual partnerships is two main factors to start using testosterone. Because somebody who works at the office and is a bachelor and doesn't care about relationships or physical appearance, it's harder for him to realize that he's hypogonadol. So if he's not a very active person, doesn't want to be an alpha male, you know, so there are some reasons to justify your testosterone use. However, it's deeper than that. It's also about medical factors, depression, anemia, osteoporosis, obesity, metabolic syndrome, diabetes, okay, apart from cachexia or, or, um, erectile dysfunction. I don't have a problem discussing this with my sister, with my brother-in-law and, uh, with my mother. Uh, these are my closest. Of course, my grandmother does not understand anything about this. And what would you advise patients then overall? What would you, what would you say you, you just help patients? To be open up about this. Don't feel ashamed of this. It's a problem. And, uh, in case you need something, this is your meds. Your meds are the schizophrenic, take their meds, the hypertensive, get their meds, the diabetic, they take their meds, okay? So what's the big deal about this? All right. It's not about cheating, you know, it's about quality of life and getting healthy. Uh, well said. I absolutely agree. That's, that's a really good outlook. So I think we, we've covered it very, very well. So thank you, Dr. George, uh, to the Atos for being with us on another excellent video about TRT. If you liked the video, please, uh, press like, subscribe and, uh, hit the notification bell because we have more of these coming out and you don't want to miss them. So thanks again. And we'll see you next time. Thanks, George. Thanks, George. Thanks, George. Thanks, George.