 Neemellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellellell helping me get balanced on TRT. Hello, Balanced More Mains. So, Dr. Creasy is also the author of a book, the book called Listen to Your Hormones. And we have a book. Can't see. Hold it up higher. Let me read that. You hold it. I'll read it. So, let me see. So, listen to your hormones, a doctor's guide to sex, love, and long life. And then it says, especially for men. It's more than me. I like that. So, we're very happy to have Dr. Creasy here. And wanted to start with just saying thank you for agreeing to come on our video cast. Thank you. Okay. Thanks, Mike. Nice to see you again. And I'm here to answer your questions. You talked about it in your book about the importance of optimizing hormones, and especially in light of the EDNCs, the environmental disruptive, endocrine disrupting chemicals. So, the thought was, why do you find it important to optimize hormones? Well, what's happening is that we're noticing a change in how men respond to hormones. Over the past 20 or 30 years, sperm counts have dropped almost 40 to 50%. Infertility has increased. When I first started practicing, there was no such thing as infertility clinics. It was rare. Now, they're on every second corner. And more and more couples are having trouble conceiving. So, obviously, something has changed since the entire purpose of hormone is reproduction. And without reproduction, of course, the human race would cease to exist. We're seeing problems like this, for example, in some countries like Italy, where the birth rate is dropping and the people are living longer, but the number of children being born has considerably dropped. So, why are we seeing these low sperm counts and infertility clinics all over the place? Obviously, there is something in the environment which is affecting, and it seems to be mostly Western world, since we don't see a problem with fertility in countries like Africa and the Middle East, but more in the civilized, so to speak, countries. And what is happening is that we are recognizing that the environment is becoming loaded with compounds which block the action of hormones. Most of these compounds come in the form of pesticide residues, which have an estrogen-like activity. And in men, even though men have 10 times the amount of testosterone to estrogen, estrogen still plays a role. If estrogen levels become too high, again, from exposure to environmental estrogens, again, pesticide residues, dioxin residues, then what we see is a suppression of testosterone, an increase in estrogen, an increase in erectile dysfunction, a decrease in sperm count, shrinking of testicles, problems with weight gain, etc., etc. Not a good situation for men. And for women, what we're seeing as a result of this, because women need estrogen, they have 10 times the amount of estrogen to testosterone, is that there's an increase in breast cancer and sex-related cancers, such as prostate cancer in men, breast cancer, cervical cancer in women. And all of these seem to be linked to these environmental compounds. Okay, so you're basically sort of battling against the current environment, I suppose, is why we need to... Right. And of course, there are things that can be done. Most of the pesticide residues come from foods. They're incorporated into fat. So eating high up on the food chain, where most people like to eat, which is meats, animal products. Remember, they're also at the hot top of the food chain, because they eat compounds. They're fed pesticide, corn, veggies, various compounds, which then concentrate in their fat. Then humans eat their fat. And so that's where the exposure comes from. So, of course, by trying to get organic, or as we now see, eating less meat, if any, helps reduce the pesticide risk. Not using pesticides, farming organically, helps. So you can decrease your exposure by watching what you consume. Consumption is the main way that these compounds enter the body. Okay. Is that dioxin as well, did you say? Is that what they make the plastic credit cards out of, and things, or is that something? Well, dioxin is present everywhere, because it's used in the manufacture of vinyl. It's also the basis of most repellents, mosquito repellents, et cetera. There are residues left over from Agent Orange in some countries. Dioxin is so potent that as little as five parts per trillion, that's per trillion with a T, can cause cancer. So what we're seeing is, instead of people dying from heart disease the way they always did, and that's decreasing because of statins, dietary changes, better medical care, cancer is increasing, especially in these sex-related cancers. Prostate cancers were normally, or usually seen in men in their 70s and on. They were not that dangerous. They didn't kill the individuals. Now we're seeing them in the 30s and 40s. They're highly aggressive, and they're killing men. Interesting. What are your thoughts on testosterone and the prostate? We know that the latest saturation model that Dr. Morgenthaler has been mentioning, where the testosterone reaches a certain level, and then it saturates, and then you don't see any further growth. Could it be that the lack of, because I know a lower level of testosterone in the evidence is shown to be associated with more of these aggressive cancers. Could it be that the endocrine-disrupting chemicals are blocking testosterone production, and then these men are living with lower levels of testosterone and then potentially getting these types of prostate cancers? Well, that's an excellent theory, and actually some of the recent studies have shown that it's low testosterone that is associated with increasing prostate cancer, which of course you would expect because originally it was older men who have lower testosterone. Testosterone peaks around 21 to 24, and then drops by 1% a year after that. So depending on where the level starts, as the levels drop, it gets to a critical point where estrogen predominates, testosterone is low, prostate cancer is driven by estrogen, and prostate cancer increases. The problem is we're seeing it in younger and younger men. Now, in terms of treatment, there are basically several treatments for prostate cancer that are very successful. Some of them involve hormone suppression with progesterone forms that are long-lasting, injections, basically chemical castration, but usually what happens is after it stops, testosterone levels return, and prostate cancers feed on testosterone. So testosterone is usually stopped in men who have prostate cancer. There are some physicians, Morgan Taller being one of them, who say that testosterone therapy will actually stop aggressive prostate cancers from causing death. But this is all theoretical at this point, and right now the main therapies are radiation therapy, surgery, and hormonal suppression with some of these long-acting progesterones. Interesting. So I know bipolar androgen therapy is something they're looking into, isn't it, where they give high doses of testosterone, then remove, and then give high levels again. I think it's something they're sort of looking into, but not that it's in practice yet, I don't think. Right. Now, regarding your question about the effect of testosterone on the prostate, the prostate is a muscular organ at the base of the bladder. Its purpose is during ejaculation to see that the semen and sperm are forced out of the penis as ejaculate. What happens with age is that this muscular tissue becomes fibrous because the prostate is enclosed in a capsule. It starts to kink the tube that runs through the prostate from the bladder, which is called the urethra, and causes men to have frequent urination and problems with urination. Now, it's interesting in my over four decades of treatment, my patients on testosterone replacement have less problems with prostate enlargement. Their prostates tend to be smaller and more like a healthy young male than an older man. So I think in answer to your question, as men's testosterone levels drop and prostate enlargement starts to increase, those men on testosterone replacement therapy, if they're using a correct balance, will actually do better and have less problems with prostate enlargement. Interesting. What do you consider the right balance? Is it more individual per patient or is there some algorithm you work off of for treatment? Okay, now that's an excellent question and probably why balance my hormones is so successful. Balance is essential. And there are ranges that have been determined. In my book, as a matter of fact, at the back of the book, I list some of the age-specific ranges, which have not yet been publicized. Right now, the range for men over the age of 50 is somewhere between 300 to 1,200 for the total testosterone, which is 60% bound. I'll explain that later. And 52 to 280 for the free testosterone, which is the actual amount of testosterone that is effective on the receptors. So, because this range is so large, we're talking many times, you know, 50 to 250, that's five times range, 300 to 1,200. We're talking, again, four to five times of a range. How do you know where someone is supposed to fall within that range? In the United States, we are only allowed to treat men who fall below the level of normal for total or below the level of normal for free testosterone. Free testosterone is 1 to 2% of the total. Total testosterone is 60% bound. There's bioavailable testosterone. And free testosterone that compose that total. There's also a byproduct of testosterone called dihydrotestosterone or DHT. Sometimes when we see normal, free, normal, total, we will actually measure dihydrotestosterone because if that level is below normal, the man loses his sex drive. And therefore, we can treat men for low sex drive, which is another indication for testosterone replacement therapy. So again, Mike's question about what is the balance? The balance is different for every individual. As long as someone is in the range, a younger person might like to have levels towards the upper end. An older person might be comfortable just being above normal. A lot of it depends on one factor that I have found, which has now been proven to be a great indicator of testosterone function. And that is the frequency of morning erections. Men from the beginning usually wake up with a higher testosterone in the morning. It peaks from 8 to 10. And their levels peak in the morning, giving them a semi-erection, morning wood, whatever you want to call it. But when men are on adequate testosterone, that occurs every day, 7 out of 7. Some men, 5 out of 7, 4 out of 7, 3 out of 7 is still okay. But when men get no morning erections or no, as we call, spontaneous erections, which occur during the night, their testosterone levels are not adequate. It doesn't matter what the numbers show. So we go both by what the tests show and how the individual responds to treatment. Interesting. Fantastic. So obviously the well-known hormones for optimization are testosterone, estrogen, DHT, you know, pregnenolone, DHEA. Are there any, you know, thyroid hormones, obviously. Are there any others that you optimize that are maybe less well-known but obviously still really important? Well, what we do is I have a compounded product that I have developed over time, which we call Testocreme, which is a 10% testosterone in an organogel base. Organogels have been used for decades for transmitting drugs from the skin into the bloodstream. This product has a modified organo base, which allows it to be applied to the scrotum or any skin on the body. The alcohol-based testosterone, like Testogel, Androgel, Fortesta, et cetera, are alcohol-based and can only be applied to areas where the skin is relatively thin, like the shoulders or the biceps, but cannot be applied to the scrotum because the alcohol is irritating. Therefore, this product, because we can use scrotal application, and I should mention here that scrotal application allows five times the absorption of any other part of the body. So, when men apply the testosterone cream or Testocreme to their scrotum, they get rapid absorption. We use no more than two clicks or one half of a gram of testosterone, 10% on the scrotum because any more than that is going to convert to excess estrogen. The body has a way of handling excess testosterone by converting it to estrogen or dihydrotestosterone. We want the dihydrotestosterone, which causes secondary sexual characteristics. We don't want the high estrogen. So, other hormones. Sometimes we will add progesterone to this Testocreme gel or cream in order to block the conversion to estrogen. Progesterone seems to help with that. We have also given patients other hormones such as oxytocin, which increases the sex drive and is available on the internet and is very safe. It's a nasal spray. It increases bonding, trust, etc. But mostly it's pure testosterone, the same type and bio-identical to what is produced by the testicles. Great. Interesting. Have you found that there's higher DHT levels on scrotal application and is that of concern to you or your patients? No, it's not of concern. All high DHT does is increases beard growth, increases muscular development, increases sex drive for both men and women and is very safe and there does not seem to be a limit as to how much an individual can handle. And do you find the timing of the blood test makes a difference as well? Because I think when I was under your care I was a bit naughty and I'd put the cream on in the morning and I'd go off to the lab within an hour and I would get these massively high levels. But keeping it in context you would expect that early on after applying the cream. I mean do you have a recommendation or when the best time to test because you have a very small window don't you? Yes, testing is extremely important in terms of timing. For example the gels like Testogel and Androgel recommend testing within two hours of application. This is because they're very low concentration one or two percent and the levels peak quickly and then starts to drop. Testocreme on the other hand you can wait 12 hours before testing. In other words application is the night before because it has a very good stability for 24 to 25 hours. We actually had that checked and measured by an independent lab. The injectables need to be tested about four days after the injection because if testing is done immediately or before the four days or before the 12 hours you're going to see the peak levels as the testosterone is quickly absorbed and then it slowly drops during the rest of the time. Now the natural production of testosterone has a diurnal variation. What that means is it peaks in the morning and then drops as the day goes on. So by night time which is unfortunately when most people consider having sexual intercourse their testosterone levels are at the lowest but still adequate for erections and ejaculation but in the morning when they peak is probably the best time for sexual activity. Interesting. So you apply twice a day in the morning and night as I used to do and so you would still get a slow increase then from that nightly application so it's ready for you in the morning to have AI hope you're not applying twice a day because once a day for a 24 hour acting medication is adequate. We very rarely use twice a day application only for those patients where one up to one gram is not enough. I have some patients that need two to three grams. They have huge requirements or their skin doesn't absorb it well and in those cases we'll use twice daily application but it's rare. Most cases are once daily application at night. And do you do any 24 hour testing? What were the trough levels 24 hours? Do you remember? So with the testing to determine that it had a half-life of 25 hours, we tested every hour after application and we found again that the levels peaked within the first two to three hours and then slowly dropped so that at mid-day or at 12 hours, they were at halfway between the normal low and the normal high and then continued to drop as the day went on. This is the advantage of cream application because you can control it. Because it only lasts for a day and then it's gone, if you stop, the levels start to drop and will stay down for about two to three weeks until normal levels or pre-treatment levels return. And that's people always ask, patients say, well, what happens if I don't use the testosterone? Well, what will happen is your levels will return to what they were prior to using testosterone. With creams, with injectables, unfortunately, the levels get so high into supraphysiologic levels after injection that they may never return to pre-treatment levels and the individual may be forced to continue the injections for the rest of their life. I was going to say, I remember when I was using the cream, the testosterone cream, and at my trough level, at the lowest point, my total had gone down back to baseline, but I still felt absolutely fine, and I'm wondering if it's because of the secondary metabolites, the DHT, it's still an androgen, it's still making you feel all right, and that still should be present longer than how long the testosterone cream would be. Did you find anything like that in your pharmacodynamic studies? Well, again, that's a good theory, but what you need to know or understand is that when drug half-lives are measured, a half-life is the length of time for 50% of the drug to be clear of the system, and the rule is five half-lives to reach stability, and five half-lives to clear a drug out of your system. So if a compound like testocreme has a half-life of 12 to 24 or 25 hours, it would take five days for the testosterone to leave the system completely, even if a measurement might show that it's low. It would also take five days for it to come back to a stable level. For short-acting drugs like ibuprofen or Tylenol, it's three hours. So five times three within 15 hours, the drug would be out of the system, and it would take at least 15 hours to become effective. So half-lives require five half-lives to enter the system and five half-lives to leave. Therefore, if someone doesn't use their testosterone for a day or so, they're not going to notice much difference. Is that because the testosterone, it infiltrates into the different tissues? So if you did saliva testing, you might see a different level compared to serum testing, and therefore it's reached all the tissues. Is that why you might see it last a bit longer as well? Yes, that's part of it. Once it leaves the bloodstream, of course, it binds to the receptor sites, and there are receptor sites for testosterone throughout the body, from skin to hair blood to sex organs to brain, etc. So yes, once it's attached, it will continue to act for a period of time. Okay, so blood level doesn't necessarily mean tissue level? Correct. Okay, interesting. So how did you come across the testo cream for the scrotum? Because obviously this is a while ago now, and also what do you give advice wise to people around having sex afterwards? I know some people say four hours. After application for transfer risk, or if you went swimming or showering? Well, I'll tell you the story in just a moment. It's quite interesting. But in terms of clearance, what I tell patients is if you apply your testosterone cream at night, then you should apply it after sex. Because there is a transference issue with immediate contact from skin to skin. testo cream, which we developed, is so efficient that it's absorbed through the skin within the first few minutes, and transference is not a big issue. Of course, if you apply it in the morning, any shower or washing will remove it from the skin, whatever there is. It's not the same as the alcohol-based gels, which leave a residue of powder on the skin. And for up to 4 to 12 hours, it's recommended no skin-to-skin contact, wearing a t-shirt for sex, not having children, for example, ride on the shoulders because it can be transferred to the skin and has happened. But the newer products have less and less skin transference. It's one of the reasons that the injectables are still around is because there's no risk of transference with injectables. They go right into the system now I'll tell you the story of testocrine. I was working with a young triathlete who I met at the Ironman when I was working in Hawaii. And we were talking and he told me he had some thyroid issues but was having trouble finding a physician who could help him. So I suggested he come and see me when we returned. He was doing pretty well. He was 19 at the time, but he wasn't, you know, getting within the top 10 for sure. I mean, he was young and he was competing and he was doing relatively well. He came to see me and I checked his TSH levels, thyroid stimulating hormone, and found that they were inadequate for the amount of thyroid that he needed. In other words, the TSH, thyroid stimulating hormone, was too high. And so we balanced his thyroid and at the same time, because hormone problems occur in multiple hormone organs, not just in one, we checked his testosterone out of curiosity. It was so low that it fell below the level of a female. And it was amazing that he was functional. But he was very immature looking, pink rosy cheeks, fat face, not much muscular development, small sex organs, and it was obvious that he had some degree of hypogonadism. So at that time, only the injections were available, and he didn't want injections because he wanted to go professional and he didn't want to be tested for boosting his hormones. He wanted something natural. So I contacted my pharmacist and we worked together to develop a topical cream. By the way, Androgel had not been developed. This was before the year 2000 when Androgel came out, one of the first testosterone topicals. So we developed a cream which we started using and we went through various testing procedures with him to see if we could get it to the level of a 19 year old. Remember, 19 year levels are peaking, so he was supposed to have high levels. Eventually, we developed this product that we call Testocreme, which seemed to give him very good levels. Instead of being a low percentage, it was a high 10%, and he started applying it to his scrotum, and we checked his levels, and they were therapeutic, which means he would pass a drug test. It wouldn't show that he had any levels that were higher than normal. This young man went on to win the half Ironman six years in a row. After that, Testocreme became something that was available to other men who needed hormone replacement, and then some of the other products came out. We patented it in 2004. Okay. And you were trying to get FDA approval as a prescription drug. Oh, yeah. We have been trying to do that for a long time. We eventually got to the point where we had investors and the money just went so quickly that nowadays to bring a drug to market like that, you're talking $8 million to $80 million, which we did not have enough. So we just use it as a proprietary compound. compound. And when I come to visit with you, we can talk about giving some of the information to compounding pharmacists and produce it in the UK. It's a great product. It's been used now for decades successfully without any problems. In my 45 years of practice, I have only had two men develop prostate cancer out of hundreds to thousands of men using the testo cream. I started on that, I mean, restarted on that after I wasn't being treated. So I was on four patches and then on to the testo cream. The sex drive hormones predominantly, is it a balance of all of the ones that are involved or are there some if someone's lacking, obviously you already mentioned testosterone, but if that and DHT being that main thing, but is there anything else that if someone is on your therapy with testo cream, for example, and their sex drive isn't returning or optimal, where do you look hormone wise? So testosterone is responsible for the sex drive for both men and women. It acts on the brain by converting to DHT, dihydrotestosterone, and it's the dihydrotestosterone that regulates the sex drive. As far as I know from my research and I've written extensively on sex drive in my book, listen to your hormones, there is no other hormone involved in sex drive other than testosterone conversion to DHT. And DHT suppressing drugs like finasteride, crosscar, avodart, avodart less than the others, definitely decreases sex drive, as well as many other drugs like certain antidepressants, tranquilizers, alcohol, nicotine, all of which decrease sex drive. Interesting. So what about prolactin, like high prolactin? I know there's SSRIs and things like that can cause high prolactin, which I think can affect sex drive. Right. High prolactin can decrease sex drive. It's an indication that there's an imbalance in the pituitary. Have you seen an elevation prolactin when patients first start TRT in some cases, or is that normally due to hypothyroidism SSRIs or a benign pituitary tumor? No. What we do is we test prolactin if we can't find any reason for someone to have a low sex drive. They could have the pituitary tumor secreting prolactin. Interesting. Okay. So what about PD5 inhibitors like Cialis, Viagra, Levitra? Do you use them and how do you use them and are there any other alternatives if that doesn't work for a man? Yes. I use them frequently for patients, not personally. The PD5 inhibitors work by blocking an enzyme called PD5, 5-phosphodiesterase, which causes the breakdown of nitric oxide. Nitric oxide is what causes the erection to occur. It's released by the arterials in the penile body and cause the blood to increase in amount, the blood CCs from 8 to 62, which causes a firm, long-lasting erection. After ejaculation, PD5 breaks down the nitric oxide. So PDE5 inhibitors are purely mechanical. They work by blocking the breakdown of nitric oxide, which increases the amount that the individual have a longer-lasting fuller erection. It's a mechanical activity. It has nothing to do with sex drive, has nothing to do or little to do with arousal. But if an individual does not have adequate testosterone, PDE5 inhibitors are ineffective because you need testosterone to get the nitric oxide release in the first place. The nitric oxide is composed of various amino acids, and some men try to increase those amino acids to raise their levels of nitric oxide. No studies have ever shown that that really makes a difference. Is it like citrulline or arginine? Yeah, high-tose arginine, 5 grams, etc. It doesn't really do anything. So much of the effect is psychological that it's very hard to evaluate any of these products sold over the counter because if they tell you it's going to work, oftentimes the problem with erections is psychological. If the individual feels confident it's not going to be a problem, it's usually not a problem. There are now a stendra, which is a rapid acting PD5 inhibitor. It's still quite expensive. There's Levitra, there's Viagra, Cialis, which are now generic and costs from $50. They used to cost in brand down to $0.30 as generic. So they're cheap and certainly worth trying for individuals who are having problems with erections and have normal testosterone. Definitely seen that, men trying it before TRT, those drugs, doesn't work and then when you get the TRT and optimize the levels, then they begin to work again. So I've definitely seen that. Yeah, absolutely. Correct. Correct. Okay, that's our question. Thank you very much for joining us. Sure, my pleasure. You're helping a lot of people and that's what's important. Thank you, my pleasure. So we've got your book, but let's just give you a bit of a plug first. So listen to your hormones, a doctor's guide to sex, love and long life. Do you have a website or anything like that that you'd like people to visit? It's available on my website wellnessmd.com. It's also in electronic format and CD format, so that can be purchased. And we also have testocreme.com, testocreme spelled C-R-E-M-E, the French way, not C-R-E-A-M. And there's more information available on those sites for patients and people who are interested in testosterone replacement therapy. That's great. All right, so there it is, the founder of Testocreme, Dr. Crugier. Thanks again for joining us. Thanks, bye-bye. Thank you for watching another Balanced My Hormones video. If you would like to see more content like this, please like, subscribe, click the notification bell on YouTube and visit our website, www.balancedmyhormones.co.uk. There's www. They're not. No, I think they just do balancedmyhormones.co.uk. But it's old school. Yeah. I like that. Even though I'm a bit older. You'll call me in tonight. Yeah. Much older. All right. Cool. Thank you.