 could you take exogenous testosterone, could you take exogenous testosterone, could you take exogenous testosterone and also maintain, could you take exogenous testosterone and also maintain, we know testosterone the benefit of it is if you're in, when you start increasing testosterone, it's expected outcome, if you're a healthy individual, you know, you're not throwing clots, emoglobin goes up, you're going to now die of a stroke, you're seeing artificially increased hematocrit, when in reality it wasn't, positively affects your metabolism, you've written some articles saying there might actually be a benefit to this erythrocytosis, it's not only that you're increasing, you're increasing red blood cell reduction, you're increasing red blood cell reduction, you're also prolonging the life of red blood cells. We're here today to speak to Dr. Gabriel Alizadeh, he's a doctor from the United States who focuses on health, wellness, longevity, TRT, and avid poster on LinkedIn, and that's where we met, I think he messaged me, and I found many of your posts quite interesting, and somewhat academic in a positive way, where you actually are looking at the science behind certain practices, both in TRT and peptides and longevity, so I have you here today, and we were talking before we started about a lot of men struggle with who are put on testosterone treatment, we know testosterone the benefit of it is if you're anemic, you're going to raise your red blood cell count, and by virtue of that, you hematocritic and hemoglobin elevate, and there's kind of the mainstream thought or the theory, and we don't even know for sure if this has any negative effect on cardiovascular issues or stroke, it's all theoretical that if your erythrocytes go up, if your red blood cells go up, your hematocritic goes up, your hematocritic goes up, your hemoglobin goes up, you're going to now die of a stroke, is what some would have you think, but I think there are some in the TRT community, I say, well, hang on a minute, that doesn't seem to be the case, that it doesn't seem to be the evidence that we're seeing, much of this is based on conjecture, but you've written some articles saying there might actually be a benefit to this erythrocytosis, obviously, and that those are anemic, do you want to talk a little bit about that, what you had written about that, and kind of your thoughts behind, you know, when is it right to manage patients with erythrocytosis, and when, do you just leave it alone, and maybe this is a good thing? Yeah, yeah, for sure, so first of all, thanks for having me, so yeah, erythrocytosis is a very touchy subject, as you mentioned, it's a physiological response, so you're going to increase erythropoietin when you start increasing testosterone, it's an expected outcome, so that number one should be made very clear to everyone, it's not a pathological increase in red blood cell count, and so when people are worried about any cell count, especially red blood cell count, they're worried about it in a pathological state, it's also important to realize who you're increasing your red blood cell count in, so for example, I don't know if you're familiar with the doping scandals with Lance Armstrong, these people were, they were driving up their hematocrit on purpose for increased oxygenation, so if you're a healthy individual, you know, you're not throwing clots, and then another aspect to cover is red blood cells themselves are not, they're not causing clots, it's if you're, the reason why there's, there's this stigma against this increase is because with polycythemia, where you have a bunch of blood cell lines increased, like platelets, that can cause clots, so there's, there's conflation between different terms, terminologies, pathological states, physiological states, and so if you just put all that to the side and understand what red blood cells do, so they are, they need glucose to function, they cannot burn fat, and so interesting rat study where they were talking about how you can increase glucose metabolism because every red blood cell needs glucose, right, so if you increase the count, you're increasing glucose metabolism, and therefore you can indirectly influence blood glucose levels, so I thought that was fascinating, it's, I mean, there's many ways that testosterone positively affects your metabolism, and this is just one of those where we just, you know, we don't really think about it. It could also be one of the reasons of those who are put on SGLT2 inhibitors, like dapigliflozin, empigliflozin, they do caution against an increase in erythrocytosis, and part of it is, I think, better glucose handling, maybe keeping the red blood cells alive a bit longer, maybe it's this mechanism that you've mentioned from the rat study, might be the contributing factor for this, so it's not a bad thing, I guess, is what you're saying for so many men, because so many men are put through a lot of worry, obviously some doctors don't know how to read blood tests, some blood tests can be erroneous, because depending on how they're sent off, how long it takes between the lab, when they actually receive it on the analyzer, if they've been sitting there longer, it inflates the cells, because I think a lot of people don't realize most of the ways, unless it's different in the US, but the ways they measure hematocrit anyway, it's more of a calculation of red blood cells and mean cell volume, so if a cell's sitting around a bit longer, or the blood sample's sitting around longer, it kind of swells, it can swell, making the size, the mean cell volume a bit larger, and that goes into that calculation, red blood cells, I think, times mean cell volume, I think that's another part of the calculation, gives you the HCT, the hematocrit, and also the plasma, the volume of the plasma can also affect it, so I don't know what your thoughts are on that, but it is, it's nice to think that we're not, this is one of those side effects that we have to deal with, because you rightly said it's something expected from the treatment. At Maximus, we use at-home blood draws, and so it's a capillary draw, and so capillaries are very, very small vessels, right, they're at the end of vessels, and when you're pulling red blood cells from there, it can artificially increase the concentration, because you're getting a large amount of red blood cells, in a small finite space, and so when you get the results for hematocrit, it is two to three points higher, than what a venous draw would be, so when we were getting all of our blood tests drawn, we were seeing artificially increased hematocrit, when in reality it wasn't, so it's also super important about, you know, if you're doing a venous draw, a capillary draw, there's so much context around, and nuance around where you're doing these draws, that when someone says, oh, your hematocrit is above 54, blood draw right away, I'm like, come on. Well, yeah, and make sure it's probably done at the actual lab, I mean, where you guys always like LabQuest, or, but if you're all posting them, I mean, what we do here in the UK is, there are locations a patient can go, where it's really near to the analyzer for the lab, other times, there are other locations that will draw the blood, and then they get posted, so it might take a day or so to get to the lab, and then, you know, it gets put through the system, the queue, and then they analyze it, but, you know, that time can slightly affect it, so I, you know, our doctors look more, and the red blood cell count really is probably a better indicator, of what's, you know, what's really happening with the so-called thickness of the blood, but like you mentioned, there's other components, the white blood cell, the platelets, other factors that you should look into, I mean, I guess other arguments are that if, maybe if, the, the, the, the small red blood cells, is this somehow affecting fibrinogen levels, I don't, we don't normally measure those, but those could maybe potentially, potentially go up, and blood drawing, or, or blood letting, or therapeutic phlebotomy doesn't really reduce fibrinogen, does it, so, there really isn't a whole lot you can do, other than I think there's a drug called, uh, Trento or pentoxypheline that reduces fibrinogen, um, in some patients, which basically is a rheological agent that helps, I don't know if you're familiar with it, but it helps the blood flow more smoothly, to kind of tighter spaces, um, oxygenates it, decreases TGF beta 1, TNF alpha, uh, may indirectly increase clotho, which is a peptide that we might talk about later, but anyway, these are some other tools and techniques and options patients may have, that, that may improve rheology of the blood, but, but this panic of just therapeutic phlebotomy, I think you've written in, in some of your articles that, you know, might be, um, too much or overdone, especially when you can lower the ferritin too, too much. Exactly, yeah, there's another component that I would, I recently came upon was when you initially increase testosterone, it's not only that you're increasing red blood cells, production, but you're also prolonging the life of red blood cells too. So if you're doing a capture at, let's say three months, you, you might have extended the lifespan of existing red blood cells and you've increased production. So if you do that snapshot right then and there, that's an artificially inflated hematocrit number. So I, I think that the traditional timeline for doing your, your repeat hematocrit test is around three months, but there's some societies that encourage it at six months now too, which I think might be a better solution. Okay. We tend to do our, we do a test at six weeks, six months, one year, really thereafter, sometimes repeat testing. Yeah. If, um, if there's any other abnormalities on it, but that's interesting. I mean, how, how high is, is too high for that? And I suppose, uh, we kind of answered our own question earlier. You, you have to pick apart the different components of what you're looking at. I mean, hemoglobin is a sign you might have sleep apnea. If your hemoglobin is really high, you know, it's, if you're not at altitude and you, you know, you're not sleeping well, or, you know, you know, to snore, you may have an undiagnosed sleep apnea, right? That's usually a telltale sign. The hematocrit number, again, being a calculation, we have to take into account, you know, how was the test done? Capillary, Tasso, you know, Venus, blood draw, and what are the other factors, white blood cells, et cetera. So, uh, yeah, it's quite multifaceted, uh, on that. And then other drugs that you're on, you know, if you're on SLG2 inhibitors along with testosterone, as well as, you know, delivered altitude, there's, there's many considerations on that, but is, is a number that, that we, we should worry about if it's just purely elevations in red blood cell count? I think it's super context dependent. Um, if you wanted one number, I'd say, you know, 75, I'd be worried. Really? On which one? On, on, on hematocrit, 75%. Okay. I'm just putting, I'm getting a loud number. It's truly so context dependent that I, you know, 54, 55, truly, truly context dependent. Interesting. So, people share this video with, uh, with, uh, primary care doctors or GPs and say, you know, stop worrying about, I think as, as, as a doctor, you must worry about what your colleagues may, may say in the more mundane practice of, of day to day. You know, are you in, are you out of these ranges? Um, because they don't usually look past that, or maybe they're using AI now to, to do that. It's just one of those things that's very frustrating is you'd never want to get called out, especially if you're not into the, some people call the sick care model or the traditional model of healthcare. They always tend to, you know, snub their noses at the other doctors who have, you're on the cutting edge of things. So, I mean, how do you, how do you manage that? So I've, I've been hearing a lot about this, especially with the peptide spaces, you know, everyone's like, they're like, we only practice evidence-based medicine. And I keep on saying real world evidence is still evidence. Uh, instead of, you know, poo-pooing and saying, Oh, there's no RCTs that, you know, show prospective mace and, you know, clotting. How about we look at end of one trials? How about we do patient registries? How about we do, you know, collect all this real world evidence, put it together and, and use that to make decisions, you know, because standard of care is not determined by what the FDA says. And the FDA doesn't determine how medicines practice. They strictly do, you know, drugs and medications. So standard of care is based on consensus among peers. So let's come to a consensus with the evidence that's available. You know, it's instead of grandstanding and saying, you know, this is the data that we had from 1950 and we're not going to change anything. You know, let's move forward. Let's be progressive. Unfortunately here in Europe and in the UK in particular, we are stuck with some artificial constructs. Uh, one of them are called nice guidelines and everyone who've heard me talk about nice guidelines. They're not nice and they're not really good guidelines because they take into account cost effectiveness of a particular treatment that gets written into these circumstances. So called evidence-based because it's not even really based on real evidence other than, is it going to cost the national health service less money? And is it going to give us some sort of outcome that we want? And then basically it becomes a social cookery book. You step one, step two, step three, everyone's going to follow the same. They don't use their brains. They just follow whatever these, these guidelines set up on the NHS. And then many times they get conflated into private practice. And then because of the nature of the, so you're getting in trouble, socialist care. I don't want to offend anyone if, if their politics are on different, different side, but let's call it what it is. It's basically government monopoly of healthcare. And when there's someone that's not getting reimbursed by the government or paid for by the government, or the government actually provides the care. So that's what the people in America are watching. The NHS is, you know, unlike in the US or other, other countries in Europe, where the provider of the care might be a private provider who then get reimbursed by the government for doing certain procedures for certain sets of patients in the UK. The National Health Service is a provider of care and nearly all the cases, the government is managing that, you know, and different health ministers, their focus is on that part of the care. So my point being is they tend to try to dictate what the private sector can or should do. And then they somewhat sometimes dismiss some of the innovations that are happening in the private sector. That is when in reality, all of us are trying to make a difference. Many of us are to try to make a difference in patients' lives and offer things that they aren't able to get through the one size fits all National Health Service. So that's kind of always where there's been this, this, this difference between doing to the two systems. I'm sure you might have that with the insurance based care in America as well, against maybe some of the smaller men's health clinics, women's health clinics, longevity clinics. Yeah, they definitely, I don't know if you knew that. Yeah, they, like the, the 300 nanograms a deciliter cutoff. What is that truly based off of? And that's, insurance companies enforce that. That's why it's, it's such an arbitrary and silly number. Yeah. It's, it's something we've been fighting for years. I mean, you know, balance of hormones started in 2016. We've gone on our 10th year. And, you know, we have seen a big change. I think I mentioned earlier, you know, more and more people are recognizing throughout the UK and obviously around the world, the health benefits of optimal testosterone treatment. I think you're familiar with Dr. Abraham Morgenthaler. He's come from the more Harvard University, more traditional academic setting, and he actually has been making lots of awareness through those types of institutes and on social media about the importance of undertreatment of testosterone levels rather than the perceived overtreatment in the media we'd like to present because, in fact, many men and women are suffering from low testosterone. Do you treat women for low testosterone as well? We don't right now, but it's something we definitely want to do, yeah. Okay. That's the thing. So speaking of, before we go to peptides, I want to talk about some other modalities, and there are some other treatments. One of them is how to get one to make more of their own testosterone, and I would call it having your cake and eating it in the sense that could you take exogenous testosterone and also maintain your own LH, FSH, and pituitary axis? And I think one of the areas that contributed in the study or white paper is the use of N-clomiphene with testosterone of some sort. And I know that in the past, when N-clomiphene wasn't available, we've had some success with Dr. George, Dr. Tulliatos, in using Clomid with a non-aromatizing androgen amysterolone, which doesn't really suppress the HPTA access that much. Along with Clomid, it seemed to also offset some of the negative effects of Clomid. But N-clomiphene is a molecule, and we can literally talk about it, in which it's stripped of some of the negative pro-oestrogenic agonism, because it's a CIRM, a selective oestrogen receptor modulator, and has more of an antagonistic effect on the pituitary, so that it doesn't sense oestrodial, which then allows the body or the brain to release more LH and FSH. So you keep the whole thing ticking along. And then I think you've seen it both with creams, or you've also seen creams and N-clomiphene creams, and I think oral testosterone or Kaiser Trex. Have you seen low-dose injections as well with N-clomiphene? I'll let you talk about what you found in some of your white papers or research. But yeah, I know your thoughts are on that. So yeah, you explained N-clomiphene very well. It's the way it works. It's almost like, I don't like using the word biohacking, but it's like biohacking, where you're tricking your body into making more testosterone. And so what it's doing is it's blocking estrogen receptors centrally. Your body's like, oh, we have no estrogen. We need to make some ASAP. And so the way that estrogen is made in men is through testosterone first. So indirectly, you're tricking your body into making more testosterone. So what happens with different forms of testosterone, there's different half-lives, there's different absorption curves. And so injections work really, really well. They're reliable in the amount that you're getting, dose-dependent response, because it's going directly into your bloodstream. Eventually, it gets a bit of deep bow into your muscle, but eventually in your bloodstream. The other modalities, because of how they're absorbed, have shorter half-lives and don't cause an elevation in testosterone 24-7. And so if you look at how your natural diurnal rhythm of testosterone is released, you have a spike early on, usually around like 8 to 10 a.m., and then it goes up, and then it slowly goes down throughout the day. So if you're able to mimic this curve as closely as possible, and eventually at the end of the day have that natural come down, you can pair enclomiphene with some sort of testosterone and mitigate suppression altogether. Now, oral testosterone has the shortest half-life. If you take it, it's in your system for anywhere from 4 to 8 hours. It's absorbed through the lymphatic system. Before, it used to be in the form of methyl testosterone, which caused a bunch of liver issues. But now it bypasses the liver. So the lymphatic systems are where your fats, vitamins, part of your immune system lives. It's absorbed. It's a detour from your liver, before your liver. And so to get optimal absorption, you take the oral testosterone with 15 to 30 grams of fat. That increases absorption, goes into your serum, does its thing, and then it's out after 8 hours. And so this is so non-suppressive that if you take this in isolation once a day, you actually see very minimal impact on LH and FSH. And then if you take it with enclomiphene, you completely mitigate that suppression altogether. And you don't even need a high dose. 6.25 milligrams is sufficient to maintain your LH and FSH at baseline. With the top... 6.25 milligrams of enclomiphene. Enclomiphene, yeah. You're referring to it. Okay. And then you can even go lower, but that's just the lowest that we compound. And then with topical testosterone, it lasts for up to 16, 18 hours, and it's a higher elevated peak. Because of that, it's more suppressive. What concentration of the cream? The 20% or... The 20%, yes. 200 mg per milliliter, yeah. And then we use 100 milligrams. Per click or... Oh, it's 100 milligrams. It's 100 milligrams, yeah. Okay. The reason why we do it once a day is because if you do it twice a day, you're causing two suppressive events, and therefore the enclomiphene can work. Right, right. And then what's... I remember Mark Gordon years ago was talking about using enclomid with a low dose of testosterone siponate, but it was no more than 60 mg spaced out once or twice a week. I don't know if you've had trialed anything like that, or even the short-acting testosterone propionate. That would be an amazing experiment. In theory, it should work, but we haven't tried it. Yeah. Yeah. We have testosterone propionate available here, commercially available. In single-use gloss ampules at 25 milligrams per 1 ml, without a preservative. And it uses olive oil. It's made in Italy, or actually made in Spain, and a little bit of ethyl oleate. So it's a very thin injection, though the volume is quite large for some people. You don't have to use a full 25 milligrams. You can use 20 or less, and could potentially dose it every other day to daily. I suppose that would also work well with n-clomiphene in some cases. I personally use testosterone propionate on 20 mg daily. And sometimes it's intramuscular injections, sometimes it's shallow intramuscular. It's fine. You just get into the habit of doing it. But the n-clomiphene makes me curious. Potential rises in SHBG. Have you seen any increases in SHBG from the n-clomiphene that you guys have? Yeah. Okay. It depends on many factors. It seems like it's a dose-dependent response, but it might not be from the n-clomiphene itself, but it might be from the estrogen increases, which is then upregulating SHB expression at the liver. Okay. That's interesting. But then you would think the exogenous testosterone, especially the oral. Is it the Keisotrex you're using for the oral, is it a compounded version? A compounded version, yeah. That's why you'd have to take it with fat, because I think the Keisotrex has its own fat encapsulating it. Keisotrex, you still have to take it with food. You take it with a fatty meal, yeah. That's interesting. But yeah, I don't know. You may be right. But when you do testosterone treatment, I guess it depends on how much you're taking. You get a decrease in the SHBG. With the oral specifically, you can see a dramatic decrease, because just like with how oral androgens work, it can downregulate SHBG expression. But this only happens, it's more pronounced if you're not absorbing most of the oral testosterone through your lymphatics. Watch our channel for more interesting information like this. But if you do want a more breakdown of real science versus media fear-mongering, subscribe, drop me a like, and share this with someone. And check us out on Instagram, TikTok, and now on Spotify, you can listen to content like this. and get started with food. and get started with food. and get started with food, and get started with food, and get started with food, and get started with food, and get started with food, and get started with food, and get started with food, and get started with food, and get started with food,