 n generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist generalist Hi, welcome to Balance My Hormones, where we help men and women on their journey to optimal hormone balance. If you're new to the channel, please press like and subscribe so you get future content. And today we're here with Dr. George Tuliatos, an expert in TRT, who's going to discuss with us his thoughts on this concept of a testosterone gel with progesterone as a male contraceptive. Hi, Dr. George, how are you doing today? Hi, Michael, I'm fine. So, George, I read this article a couple of weeks ago and it's about male contraceptive. And so the premise is some women have to use a Mirena coil, which can get infected and they've got to go through all sorts of trouble. Why can't men also carry the load? And as a result, researchers are working on developing a pharmaceutical that contains testosterone gel, which is already available on the market, along with some form of progesterone. And so they're recruiting volunteers for the study. It's going to be an 18-month trial. They're going to try to get approval from the medical agencies like the FDA, or in the UK, it's the MHRA. In Europe, it's the European Medicines Agency. But what's really interesting is the thought that, well, why are they even bothering trying to seek approval when there's already, you know, testosterone on the market and certainly progesterone-like molecules like nandrin on the market? Why not simply have these on offer for men who want to have a contraceptive? So, I thought I'd ask you what your thoughts were on that. And is this just going to change the way men will look at testosterone as something that they would hop on and hop off as a way to control their fertility? Or are we still going to go by the tried and true that we know that it's a real long slog coming off of testosterone and it's not very pleasant? So, George, what are your thoughts? Well, so far, we're aware that there's a homostatic mechanism when we supply androgens and testosterone in particular for replacement therapy. There is a shut off of our own production. The point is, when we know what can produce, we don't care about this minimal fracture that we don't produce anymore. So, when we administrate testosterone or an anabolic steroids, the derivatives of testosterone, there is a shut off in LH and FSH, the gonadotropins in the brain, okay? And we know that FSH regulates spermatogenesis and serotonin cells in the testicles. And actually, we know also from physiology that testosterone matures the sperm. So LH that increases testosterone also matures the sperms, the intra-desticular testosterone matures the sperm in the lactic cells and the serotonin, of course. So, we also are aware that bodybuilders lower fertility during the course of the cycles. And you also know that horses that run in the in the game, how you call this, in the races, these horses become sterilized when they're injected with stenozolol, for instance, you know, in order to run faster. Yeah. So, it was a classic side effect for some guys that were not able to conceive and let their girlfriends pregnant while on a cycle. With, of course, some few exceptions because we know that that fertilization is a matter also of chances. But we know that sperm counts and fertility goes down as we introduce testosterone or anabolic steroids to the male. Okay. Because the testicles shrink, basically. Okay. And ejaculation volume also lowers. And we try to restore this by the use of HG. Right. Of course, men used to undergo vasectomy, but few men are not willing to undergo this surgical process. Okay. So, we use the stopping, you know, stopping abruptly the intercourse or using a condom. And, of course, the birth control pills by females, by women, based on estrogens and progesterone as well. I suppose maybe the reason why, you know, doctors aren't just recommending exogenous testosterone as birth control pills, because as we've seen, not everyone goes down to zero fertility on TRT treatment. I mean, it's thought that it might, but we've always seen a few cases. And, of course, then, if you add HCG, that's another story, you're going to be bypassing. Use your spermatocytes when you start before using testosterone. If you have severe oligospermia, close to azospermia, then just by literally using testosterone, you know, you'll make it disappear, your sperm cells. So, if you had, on the other side, a good sperm volume and good production, then it will lower, but it will not get diminished eventually. So, I believe it matters how good was your sperm just before adding your testosterone, okay? Okay. So, if you've got a strong sperm count and you basically have got a higher level, it's going to take longer to bring it down. With the also, yes, the flagello, the head also matters a lot. Obviously, when I started TRT years ago, I don't know, I never did a semen analysis at the time. I can only assume that I was mostly infertile. I did notice changes in the color of the semen, volume a little bit, but I didn't notice the volume as much as I hear from some patients. And then when I, years later, when I tried to add an HCG, after six months, I was able to restore fertility, 156 million sperm and a 72% motility. So, there's a, so they look, you know, relatively healthy. But there are many other factors too that can affect fertility, like you said. I think I've got a varicose or something that many people have, about 15% of the population. The genes, you know, increased temperatures, steam baths, you know, because you have to know that testicles hang out of the body in order to have a lower temperature and they are covered by a film, an air sac, you know. So, the scrub has a film of air in order to cool down the testicle. It makes sense. You know, how practitioners would address this in future, you know, maybe it's, you know, two or three years down the road. But, you know, if any patient can come to the doctor and say, hey, doc, I, you know, my partner, my missus doesn't want to have children, and she doesn't want to use female birth control. But I'd like to, can I have some testosterone, please? Will it make it easier for men to, you know, to go on and off TRT in a sense? In a sense, you're doing TRT to suppress your fertility with the added part of a special progesterone blend. Yeah, yeah. So, it's a good combination, yes, progesterone with testosterone. But, I don't believe there's a good, it's a good reason to go for, to become infertile, or not to start testosterone for the sake of infertility. On the other side, on the other side, your sex drive, your libido improves dramatically as your fertility goes down with the use of testosterone. So, you have to add HEG in order to keep your balls in a good size, otherwise, it will shrink. And we know that HEG is more than fertility, as Virgil says, it's about overall steroidogenesis and steroid profile synthesis of secondary, yes. But I see what you're saying, if one were to go on as a contraceptive and try to regain maybe their fertility at a later point, so they felt better, you know, perhaps, yeah, HEG would be added in that scenario. So, you know, it's all speculation at the moment, there is no approved male birth control pill, though we do know, you know, like you said, Stenazolol and Nandrolone and TRT can all, or testosterone treatment can all, you know, lower your fertility. I suppose what we don't know is how long does it take, what are the signs, and when is it safe, you know, to try to have sex without protection and not get your partner pregnant. Yeah. So, that was the thought. So, I just thought it'd be an interesting topic because it may change the paradigm. I know we're very cautious, very careful of who gets TRT. Maybe we'll force some people stopping HEG, which is not cool, you know? Yeah, some people may stop the HEG whilst they're trying to have infertility, but I find HEG to be helpful overall in symptoms, and lots of men, you know, will like the feeling of the testes maintaining some size and some heaviness to them. So, there's a short little video discussing a recent article that had popped in regarding the use of basically a future male contraceptive. Let us know in the comments if that's something you would want to try, if it were available to lower your fertility. Would you, as a male, want to be the one in charge of managing fertility, if you will? Let us know in the comments below, and if you like the channel, please do like the video and subscribe, and we'll have more content out, usually one video a week. So, thanks again for watching. Thanks again, George, and we'll see you next time.