 Nuadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadadad for making PCSK9 as if you're one of those people that had this mutation. So men on testosterone placement usually are having certain symptoms. One of the big ones is I can't keep or maintain or have an erection. And many times it can be due to testosterone, but maybe not always. And we're going to talk to Dr. George, Dr. T, about why that might be the case and what you can do possibly to have a stronger erection. So, all right, we were talking about earlier about erections. I've gone to Dr. Morgenthaler lecture. You've also seen some of those lectures. You've also seen in practice what happens to patients. Many of the times they're excited. They're complaining about low libido, but also poor erections. But the two aren't always tied. So, the professor mentioned that in order to have the perfect sex, you need stimulation of three things. First of all, you need the urge and the feeling to have sex, which is something cerebral from the brain because testosterone is a cerebral hormone and gives you the instinct to have sex. So, we need hormonal levels. The dopamine drive as well, that's triggered by testosterone. Hormonal levels. About 50%, I would say. Then we need the blood flow, which is a matter of the nitric oxide that testosterone provides, but also the five phosphodiesterase inhibitors. Their job is to direct the blood to the penis, but avoid from draining back. Right. So, you don't get the venous leakage. Yes, exactly. So, you need the blood to remain to the penis. And then we have the nerves in the pelvic plexus that usually are messed up and destroyed right after radical prostatectomy. And usually, men after prostatectomy, because of metastatic prostate cancer, have problems with erection due to nerve damage. Okay? So, if one of these parameters in the chain is broken, then you cannot have the perfect intercourse, of course. But usually, young men do not have a problem with the blood flow. This is something you see to older men with insular resistance, cholesterol, plaques. Right. All right. And usually, young men have a good blood flow. It's rarely… It's psychosomatic. When they conquer an erection, they… It could be stressed out. It could be elevated prolactin also, which is inhibitory to the testosterone. Now, older men have both low testosterone and poor blood supply. Okay? So, it's very… I mean… How old do you think it starts? Which one? In men? I mean, I've seen as around 40, 35, you can have this… Yes. If you're a smoker also, you damage your endothelium. All right? So, yeah, I would say around 40, when the endopause also hits, you have a problem with the blood flow. And sadly, I've seen very young men in the 20s or 30s that are taking Viagra, Cialis, you know, Levitra, in order to have a good sex. But it doesn't work well if you have low testosterone levels. Yeah, that's… Below 500, let's say. You need at least 500, mid-range of 1,000, in order to have some decent erection. And what I call erection is… What I call a good sex drive is to have… to have a good response to the stimulus of your sexual partner. Yeah. All right? It doesn't mean how many organs you have a day. Right. But if you respond well to that particular stimulus, that moment… And if you're not, then… And if you're not, something goes wrong. Either your testosterone is low, prolactin is high perhaps, SHBG is high as well, free testosterone is low. Or you want to have sex, but something wrong going with the blood flow. Yeah. All right? Or… And that's… Now, they do not damage, I've seen… I've said before, that it comes after surgery, post-surgery trauma. Right. And that's… and that's really sometimes hard to fix. I mean, because a lot of men, they'll start TRT, they'll be on the treatment, and they'll say, I might have an issue with… the erections aren't as good. And they say, well, I thought the testosterone is going to fix it. And I tried the Viagra before when I had low testosterone, but… I don't want to try that again, because it didn't work. But… But… Like you said, you need to have… The combination is… you know, it works synergistically. Exactly. And that's what we have to tell the patient, because many times they've got in their head, it didn't work, but synergistically, you have that threshold of testosterone in which… And you know, so, well, Mark Gitala describes, if you smell, if you see, so the sensations drive the instinct of having sex. Because the testosterone works in the brain, apparently, you know. Well, let's talk about the other area. You mentioned prolactin. Okay, prolactin is a big killer of erections. And desire. And… Even higher than 20… And when prolactin goes up, dopamine goes down. This is what happens often in ejaculation, but men who have prolactinomas, or even moderate levels of prolactin, are still suffering from this. I see prolactin higher than 30. And then you need the steady level of kebergolone in order to throw once or twice a week. To keep… Yeah. To keep people in the mood and improve. And everything works synergistically. Then the… Then the… To dial the fill of Viagra and PD-5 inhibitor plus testosterone… I think AIs kill the erection. If you abuse AIs, your lack of estrogen… Yeah. Estrogen is very… It's something very… Aromatase inhibitors. Aromatase inhibitors, yeah. But also… It's something… I mean… It's something valuable for erection. There was a paper, and… Yeah. And… Some say… It's in a small context. You have to put it in context. That venous leakage was caused by the absolute amount of estradiol… I've heard that before also, yes. If estrogen is too high, non-proportional with the testosterone, then you don't have erection that lasts. Yeah, that's the venous leakage. And I think in the study it was the absolute, so that meaning the total amount of estradiol after it got over a certain threshold, that's when that was more likely to happen. But you have a testosterone of 1300. It's more likely to have estradiol of 90, for instance. Yeah. It's proportional, okay? Yeah, they're going to go up in tandem, yeah. So they freak out because of higher E2, but they don't freak out because of super high testosterone. This should be proportional eventually. Yeah, and sometimes, you know, maybe having the testosterone a bit lower, having… Then you have lower estradiol, you'll probably get better erection function. Some guys will report… We've seen for bodybuilding by killing estrogen to look drier… Yeah, no, that's not good. …and with lack of sex drive. No, that's absolutely true. And adding… So it's not a matter of androgens, totally the sex drive. No, and estradiol is very important. …come into play. Yeah, we saw that on previous videos how important the estradiol is in driving the libido. And when it gets low, you've never decided… As we need a little bit of androgens and testosterone to have a good sex drive, we also need a little bit of the female hormone. Yeah, absolutely. Actually, my latest blood test, my testosterone was… It's about 14 animals per liter. My brother's was 43 and he's on no testosterone at all. He's naturally produced. He has super high sex. He was about 70. So his total, his free was like 0.9 or 0.8. So it's a good amount. But his estradiol was like bang on 112 picomol per liter. Your brother's? Yeah, 112. Mine, I think my S-HPG was a little bit lower on 30-ish. And I think my estradiol came back around 222. And on the high sensitivity LC mass spec test, it came back around 190 picomol per liter. So there is a difference between LC mass spec and the normal assay. So a 14 animal, how much do you have? A 14 animal of testosterone, how much is the E2? E2 was 190. A little bit off. A little bit. It's kind of… Without AI. But that's… no AI. That's on the… that's on daily testosterone propionate. And that was… But it doesn't aromatize eventually. It does aromatize. It's like the cream. It does slightly build up over time. A little bit, yeah. A little bit. If you do it every other day, you will not. Yeah. I also… also though, I… there's a little of HCG. Have you noticed the cream if it does… if it doesn't spike like propionate? Creams… Creams are sometimes harder to manage as well. Creams can… can go up a bit, but as well on some patients. I've also seen when I've… when I first started the testosterone propionate, my total testosterone in… in the… in the 30s on… on the next morning when I tested. Just before the shot. Yeah. But when you add HCG, I forgot to mention… When you add HCG… Well, HCG increases the estrogen in directly. And… and also the… the… bumps up the total a little bit too. Yeah. But… and then I want to talk about HCG and libido and erections. Because some men report… It improves the sex drive. It improves the sex drive. And so, you know, there… there's some studies out there now. I don't know if I show this… share this with you. Uh… for Parkinson's. That… uh… HCG may actually protect the dopamine neurons. This is a Chinese study that… that they found that… by improving… Parkinson's they'll take L-dopa. Exactly. But… that still drives libido and… and… and you know… dopamine agonists when you have prolactin and you bring it down… You're raising the… the agonism of the dopamine… or dopamine receptors… Uh… people feel much better libido. So, the HCG is more than just the fertility like we talked about in the last video. The HCG… Makes you feel better. Makes you feel better. And I think that's because of the dopamine. That's where the Parkinson's… that's where the Parkinson's comes in. And I think some of those people who will talk about… they give HCG and they're full of anxiety… They can't handle… there's too much going on… Well, Jay Campbell said that. They give him acne and he breaks out with HCG. Well, okay. Because, you know, you're getting more testosterone, more release of dial… Everything's being ramped up. But there are other guys who will also report being… feeling a lot more anxious. Some of them, right? It's rare. There's a deal. Some guys will say… because it feels a bit weird, a bit different. And I think anytime you have this fluctuation in the neurotransmitters, you feel a bit… You can feel a bit off and you can feel a bit of anxiety. So, overall though, if you can get the dopamine protected, the dopamine neurons protected, you should have a better libido. Your mood should be better. I know you've felt that way. I've felt that way. Some of our doctors have prescribed for patients or have been prescribed it, feel that HCG can make a big difference for the mood, not just the libido. So, I think this is a new way to look at… Of course, HCG increases teretogenesis and kicks the cascade from cholesterol to pregnenolone to progesterone and then eventually to testosterone, DHT, DHEA. But do you think it does it enough? Or even Dr. Mark Gordon will talk about… he's a big fan of allopregnenolone, one of the other neurosteroids of being neuroprotective. Which is why I think as we get old… When you take testosterone, you cut off the cascade. That's true. The endogenous one. Yeah. And then you have to add in DHEA and pregnenolone. Yes. Do you take those… All year round. All year round, yeah. What… Yeah. I just… I had a milligrams of pregnenolone. Oh. 50 a.m., 50 p.m. for my memory. Okay. And DHT, 25 a.m., 25 p.m. I quit the Mestrelone for my liver… Yeah. …and for my HDL and for my hair. I was taking Mestrelone at least one decade straight. Okay. Well, my HDL even with Mestrelone was 45, but now I want to keep it even higher. I minimized my liver enzymes. Were they high? Well, about 50. Okay. I guess from the statin or the overtraining. Okay. Yeah, probably statin. Right. Yeah. I'm taking all five milligrams of the statin. Okay. That's another controversial… Not controversial. Well, I have a plaque over here that I want to keep it stable. Yeah. All right. I think it's from the steroid abusive because I never smoked in my life. I'm eating super clean. Yeah. So, I want to stabilize it and not detach. All right. Yeah. And you're lucky you said you have low normal LP, literally. LPA, it's borderline around 30. Well, I take my nice, you know, my cholesterol formula. Okay. But of course, you're taking Repatha that lowers it. Yeah, I do Repatha. I do Repatha. Okay. So, I said to my cardiologist, I'll never take a statin again because I had taken it in the past and I didn't do well with it. And… But I said, I will do Repatha. There's another drug, a Zetamid, a Zetia. Yeah. That lowers cholesterol absorption… Absorption. …in the intestine. Yeah. But it's not an inflammatory like statin. Statin can stabilize the plaque while Zetia lowers the absorption. How is the absorption? Something different. And Repatha inhibits the PSCK9. Repatha doesn't work in the liver? You don't have liver strain? No. Repatha increases the amount of LDL receptors in the liver so that… Yeah, but you don't have the liver strain as with statin and the muscle strain. Oh, no, no, no. I have no muscle strain. No, it works much more closely. And there are people who have low PCSK9 gene or low output of this. And there's another drug called Incrysalin, which you take it once or twice a year and it blocks the gene from making PCSK9 as if you're one of those people that had this mutation. So I think… But there are a group of people that say, no, LDL, let it go as high as possible. But, you know, if you have… People that get a heart attack, they always have a three-digital LPA. I'm talking about 150 or more. This is something that lies to the cardiologists say. Oh, LPA. When they have a heart attack, LDL is high. LDL is high. Yeah. Okay? This is standard. And low LDL is much more protective than a super high HDL. We prefer 99 LDL rather than 51 HDL. It's more protective. Because the LDL clogs. Yeah, we found that out. The studies about HDL in the early noughties. Super high HDL is not that good. No, there's a whole cohort of Danish patients that had high, super high HDL and they have blocked arteries. And, you know, super high HDL usually comes with higher cholesterol and higher LDL as well. But what about those people who say… And I know that it's a U-shaped curve, isn't it? Where… But people say, oh, as you get older, having low LDL is not good for the brain. Yeah, because they have… They develop dementia. Yeah. Or Alzheimer's. Well, my grandma used to have around 200 total cholesterol. The one that lived 107. Yeah. She never had statins, of course. She would eat steak every single week. Yolks. Yeah. Of course, a Mediterranean diet, but no, she was not a freak about the cholesterol. She just got along with it, yeah. But you're right. If you're going to stabilize something… And I used to laugh. I used to say, oh… The cholesterol is valuable. The point is the oxidation of cholesterol that comes out of simple carbs and refined sugars, all right? And insulin resistance is the bad scenario. Yeah, well… So, you shouldn't mix white bread with steak or bacon, okay? Or salad and steak. Or sugars. Yeah. So, if you want to have saturated fats, of course, skip the trans fat, but saturated fat comes with low-carb diet. Yeah. So, it's more than just… I mean, right now, we focus… We drill down… Low A1c. Yeah, we drill down… Right, that's my point. We drill down on the cholesterol, but really what we're saying is that's what we're doing. That's one part of it. And, of course, lack of cholesterol lowers the testosterone. Statins lower the testosterone, okay? Yeah. That's why I'm telling them when you take the protocol, don't use the statins. Keep your cholesterol high. Because you're depending on your own testosterone if you're using a boosting protocol. Yes. So, that makes sense. But for everyone else who's, you know, full-on TRT, you want to do the things that are more, I guess, cardio-protective for your health. So, lowering inflammation, lowering HB1c… Well, apparently, testosterone lowers LDL throughout the oxidation of the cholesterol fat. Well, you have less belly fat than lower the… Less visceral fat, yes. Less visceral fat, yes. And the A1c also. That's why testosterone eventually is protected to the heart through improving the labs, the lipids and the A1c. And if you can improve your metabolic condition, then you should hopefully improve your erections. And it's, you know, and then that makes everyone happy. Lower A1c improves the blood flow. Improves blood flow. And it makes you happy. Speaking of making you happy, why not consider subscribing to our channel? It's one of the things we work really hard and make us really happy and we'd really appreciate if you could subscribe to Balance My Hormones, our channel. There's no commitment. You just subscribe. We put a lot of time and effort into the videos to give you some of the latest information, different podcasts, and different small shorts. So, again, I really appreciate you for watching and why don't you consider subscribing. Anyway, back to improving the erections, making everyone happy. What else can you do? Some people have a claim of taking citrulline with arginine together. Arginine eventually is broken down in the stomach. Citrulline is a precursor. So, they use, let's say, several grams per day in order to improve the vasodilation of the nitric oxide, which is the basis of the blood flow. And actually, some speculate that if you create a plaque, it's lack of nitric oxide. So, the more oxygenation you have, the tini supports this. So, that's why older men develop plaques, and not just plaques, but also erythrocytosis, because there's less oxygen supply to the blood vessels. Oh, and the blood vessels feel a bit stalled out. And the young people that have used steroids do not develop that much erythrocytosis as older men, or even people that are using just 100 milligrams in TRT in their forests. What do you think about, and we did a recent video, just me talking head video, about things to do to improve libido and erections. But one of the other areas, I think Dr. Spettini mentioned it, is SAMe. Right? What about it? Did you know, it's actually quite effective at improving mood. Dopamine. I think SAMe was used in order to take off the mercury in the brain. Yeah. Well, it detoxifies the liver. Well, I've read that it also may help your neurotransmitters, like dopamine. What do you find as a supplement? Yeah. Well, yeah. In fact, after the video we did with Dr. Spettini, I was taking some SAMe for a while. I think it does give you a little bit of an uplifted mood. And I had read in, I think the Carl App report, one of the psychiatry reports, that SAMe might actually be a good mood booster that boosts all three neurotransmitters, dopamine, serotonin, and norepinephrine. So my thought is, you know, perhaps this might be one that can also boost libido indirectly and improve your erections. I don't know if you've come across that other than using it to... No, there's also GABA. If you take GABA before night... But that kind of anti-anxiety, the GABA. GABA? Yeah. So I want to talk about it. I took L-glycine. Have you ever taken L-glycine to help you sleep? Yes. Do you take it all the time? No. Okay. Just before it's in the formula that I'm taking. Okay. I took it for a while through the month of May and I just abruptly stopped. Well, maybe I lowered the dose by like a thousand milligrams. Did it work to sleep? It made me feel very calm, but then eventually I started feeling almost this depersonalized syndrome where I felt like I was outside of my body. Everything felt a bit numb because that's what it does. It kind of numbs things down, stops the anxiety. But I actually ended up having almost a rebound effect, almost a mini withdrawal when I stopped it. So I could sleep, but there was a few nights of just feeling a little bit anxious, a little bit on edge. So I don't know if people have had that experience of L-glycine. I didn't find it helped or hurt my erections. And it may have dulled. I think it decreased my, it increased my time. It took longer to ejaculate than normal. Yeah. With that. Like prolactin, yeah? Yeah. It was the kind of effect where it took longer. So I don't know if it raised prolactin, but. Well, elevated prolactin cause the inhibition of the. Yeah. One of this also caused it because it lowered sympathetic tone so much by increasing that, like the GABA. So, but what it does do L-glycine, it works on something called NMDA receptor, which is one of these other neurotransmitters that there's some new antidepressants that work on that. So I think in the next video, we'll talk about antidepressants versus TRT. But, but anyway, for now, just get back to the erections and then we'll wrap up. So I suppose the, the, the takeaway from what we're talking about is you need to have, you know, improved insulin sensitivity, right? You want to improve the, the health of your blood vessels, TRT. Homocystine also. Elevated homocystine predicts a bit of an ethylium and leads to clog and thrombosis, deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. So keep homocystine low, below 10, single digit. Um, yeah. You know, the cholesterol and the blood vessels and keeping that all healthy. Low A1c, below 5%. I mean, that's, that's why I did Repathe because I wanted to, you know, improve the health of my blood vessels so I could get, you know, better erections. Um, also be aware that the, uh, the testosterone is, there's a threshold for how much testosterone you need for the other PD-5 inhibitors like Viagra and Cialis to work. Yeah. I mean, what you've done is says over 250 milligrams, you don't assimilate more because you saturate the receptors. Yeah, perfect. So that comes contradicting with what bodybuilders are using up to one gram or two grams. Yeah, I mean, I know you've been... But he speaks about the sex, right? Or the muscle growth. Right, well, for muscle growth, the receptors upregulate, don't they? So the more testosterone that you have in the muscles, that they don't downregulate, they don't downgrade. Um, but, but there is a saturation, but I think same thing for head loss. There's a saturation point in which, you know, once that process is started. Uh, the receptors are upregulated when you cut off testosterone. They're searching the space for more testosterone. You saturate them and then you deprive them of testosterone. So they are upregulated when you cut off the testosterone. Because if you feed all the time with testosterone, then they cannot get more because they're filled up. So, uh, they give a higher dose of testosterone to saturate the receptors in testosterone cancer. But then they deprive of testosterone. Oh, you're talking about, um, what's it called, bi-something, um, bimodal therapy, uh, what's it, not BiPAP. Yeah, I know what you're talking about, for, for, for prostate cancer. Yes, during the prostate cancer. Yeah. They give a super high dose of testosterone to fill it up. And then you deprive of testosterone. And then they are upregulated afterwards, the receptors. Because they, they want more of the samples and the compound, you know. But, uh, Mokitala said that, uh, after 250, you cannot get more. Right, that's a saturation point. Yes. So, you're not gonna make, you're not gonna drive the prostate cancer off to 250. Because once the prostate cancer androgen receptors have been, you've been filled. Beyond that, you're not gonna get doubling or tripling of the, of the prostate cancer. Yeah. And I think that's becoming more and more recognized. Uh, like I said, when I went to his lecture. Takeaways for erectile dysfunction is quite multifaceted. You've got everything from, you need a minimum threshold of testosterone. You need to have a good plumbing. You, basically the blood vessels need to be, uh, relatively clean and clear. And, and, uh, you have to have low inflammation in the body. Uh, there are other factors that may come into play with, uh, whether or not you can maintain erection. And, uh, C-reactive protein also. C-reactive protein for inflammation. I mean, there are, are tools. Oh, that's a wrap up. But there are tools that you can use. We talked about PD-5 inhibitors. Uh, I think in the U.S. it's quite common to use injections, intercavenosal injections of L-prostadil, which many men aren't really keen on injecting. And there, and there's, there's a book, uh, written by a UK doctor, Jeffrey Hackett, who, who talks about, um, I think it's called, uh, just, just a little prick. The stories of, uh, of a, a dick clinic doctor or erectile dysfunction doctor. Um, but that's something that can work, you know, when you want to have it, but that's a bit inconvenient. But so what you can do to prevent it is good lifestyle, good diet. And, uh, you know, having optimal testosterone levels and lowering your overall inflammation so that you don't have to, uh, depend on these, these other modalities. If you're having issues with your erections, let us know in the comments below. Um, let us know what's worked for you, what hasn't worked for you. Hopefully you found this video informational and helpful. Uh, please don't forget to subscribe and, and like, and we'll see you next time to your health, to your wellness and to your happy erections. Happy erections.