 pyl organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic organic hormones and I thought it would be best to get it from the horse's mouth. So you've already met Mike, you've met Sam earlier on who works here with Balance My Hormones and maybe we'll hear back from him a little bit later but for now we want to get through a couple of questions that you've asked. I've got one that I want to ask too if you don't mind Mike. Of course. And so let's get right to it. So my first question right and I've written it down here it says what is the story with AIs now, aromatase inhibitors right? I see many guys in the TRT community saying that AIs should be avoided unless absolutely necessary due to estrogen being required and low estrogen being potentially just as bad as low testosterone. So what exactly is the deal here? What is the story? We hear different stories from everyone out there. You know what's the right approach with AIs? Well first thanks for coming on our podcast, Paolo. But AIs is a very hot topic these days and I have always been one with the TRT to think that you know the patient should decide, the client should decide what type of treatment they'd like to have. But with AIs, lots of times in the past people were just put on AIs and they don't always help and sometimes they do help. And what they don't help with is the fear that if you get too much of a lowering of the estradiol you may get bone loss, you may have issues with dried out joints. What about things like mood swings and low confidence and that? Is that related or is that more testosterone? The idea is the late Dr. Krisler would talk about the effects of testosterone itself. So when you do TRT the testosterone itself will ablate some of the effects of estradiol. But there are different factors. Some people will have high amounts of body fat and they aromatase further. There are some people that will come in and have a very high estradiol and have low testosterone levels. And so the ratio is off. So let me interject quickly. You say well aromatize, right? Explain that to people what that means. Is that when testosterone gets converted into estrogen or what exactly? So there are enzymes called aromatase and they're present in different tissues in the body, particularly in the abdominal fat in men. So as we get older, we get the spread, you're going to get more estradiol conversion. But also it's been found that some types of insulin resistance might lead you to having more of these side effects related to high estrogen. So you're going to be more susceptible to that. The aromatase enzyme, for any given amount of testosterone that you have, some people have more of this aromatase enzyme or more active enzyme and convert more of their natural testosterone into estradiol. Okay. Yeah. And then they end up getting some side effects. And it's usually the sudden change in estrogen where they get the side effects. Even certain babies, newborn babies, might get early stages of gyno for the first few days in the womb because they also receive some estrogen, estrogen, estradiol from their mothers. Yeah. And then that tends to go away. Or during adolescence, some young boys or teenagers get some gynecomastia, which then eventually goes away as the hormones adjust. But it's the sudden influx of testosterone converting to estradiol that causes these issues. And it's the same with men that start TRT. They'll initially get some of these lumps or gyno-type issues within their breasts. And no man wants to see the feminization of their breasts. And so there's a big fear. And you would reach for an aromatase inhibitor to usually stop that. And I think this is why people are so quick to jump on the AIs. You always see, oh, you've got to have an AI because they're overly worried about the estrogen conversion. They think if they don't take one, they're going to get man boobs or sensitive nipples and that type of stuff. But from what I've seen, at least in the literature, is that you should prescribe these things based on the need for them. Start with a basic treatment. I don't know, correct me if I'm wrong yet. And if you see really elevated levels of estrogen after you've started TRT or something like that, then maybe there's a case there for an AI. I think the doctors tend to say if there's side effects. If there are issues, estrogen-related issues first. Because we've seen some men with a relatively high amount of estradiol and they have no side effects or issues of estrogen whatsoever. No bloatiness, no kind of... That's me, for example. I have fairly high levels of estrogen, but I don't have any of the side effects related to it. So we've seen no need to have an AI in my case. No. And I actually recently have stopped using an AI. With all the talk about don't use an AI, I'm going to go and stop. And there's a combination of reasons for that. One, I just wanted to see. And I've gone without an AI in the past. Now, for the most of my, let's call it my TRT career, the time I've been on TRT, I had used an AI from the very beginning. Because when I first started treatment, I was on no AI. I was on testosterone, an anthracipionate, and with a little bit of B12. No AI. Did it for 20 weeks. The doctor was injecting every two weeks, the old-fashioned way. And no AI was used. And then when I started on creams, high-concentration creams to the scrotum, at first there was no AI used. And then on the blood test, I was getting very weak erections. And I had a really elevated estradiol level, and then a very much elevated prolactin level. And so when they sent me to an endocrinologist, they said, well, actually, the estradiol is having an effect in raising your prolactin level. So the endocrinologist had me on a milligram, I think a day to every other day, of anastrozole, which is quite a high dose compared to what we use now. I was younger, it didn't bother me. When I started... That's an AI? Yeah, anastrozole was the AI. Okay, yeah, yeah. And the acne had gone away, I had a bit of acne on my back. Again, I was younger, I was 22, yeah, 23 at the time. The acne had gone away. But I just stayed on it for years and years. And then there was one time, I'd say probably about seven years ago, I stopped. But then the dose had changed. So there's a whole... I'd always use my AI, and like many people did. But the more I've looked into it, if you don't need to have an AI, then you don't need to have an AI. Do you not think this sort of paranoia about absolutely requiring an AI comes from the bodybuilding scene? Because they inject so much more testosterone than you normally would on TRT, that naturally they're going to have much higher elevated or aromatization into estrogen. And maybe they... that's why when people are looking online, do you need an AI? They're getting all the advice from bodybuilders rather than TRT. I think partially, but there's also been some papers put out in Life Extension that talk about how keeping estrogen levels lower is better. I know that Dr. Rousier would say, well, you know, observation doesn't mean causation necessarily. But we have seen that some people, you know, including myself, a short course ideally of an AI until things get stable, for some people in rare cases may help. Also, it's a matter of the dose being the right optimal dose for someone, either small, more frequent doses or, you know, once a week with a smaller amount. Yeah. And Sucinon works just fine for that. Any testosterone, more or less, is going to aromatize. Yeah. I'm not too good off track, but I mean, part of the equation is how much substrate, how much testosterone do you have in the mix, will also determine, along with the enzymes activity, how much ESO that you'll have. Yeah. So, they're all very important factors, but if you can go without it, that's better. But if you can't, you know, the door shouldn't be closed on you. Yeah. There should always be options on the table, preferably short-term courses of AI until things kind of stabilize. But it's not my call. It's a doctor's call. And that's just my personal opinion. I think, personally, being off in AI for two months, I didn't notice any negative effects really being on it, other than a bit of drier joints and some shoulder pain. But, you know, off it, I feel quite good. That's good. Yeah. Yeah. I'm a firm believer in the keep things simple. You know, just, I like to set and forget. And if you experience any, and this is just anecdotal, but if you experience any side effects, or, you know, you're not feeling great, then maybe investigate, and rather than, you know, all this tweaking constantly. But the question I had for you, I wanted to ask you was, let's say a new client comes to the clinic, right? And they're interested in TRT and that, you know, on average, what is the likelihood that they get prescribed an AI? Because I think everyone out there expects to get an AI with a TRT. And I know it obviously depends on what the doctor says, but just based, you know, from experience and anecdotally, all the patients you've worked with, what's sort of the percentage of guys that usually get an AI? If you could say, can you say off the top, or is it hard? I can't say off the top of my head because every patient's different, but it depends on what the patient's starting each style levels are, which is a good predictor. And usually, if they're even given an AI these days, it's going to be a very short course until things stabilize, until it brings it down. You know, there are some treatments that require an AI as a monotherapy. Yeah, I've seen that. And they do show effective. And the thing is, you're not crashing anyone's estrogen then, because the testes on their own, when they're functioning, make about 15% of your estradiol level. And the peer-reviewed studies show that it doesn't even affect your bone density statistically, you know, when it's used as a monotherapy. But not everyone stays on that monotherapy long-term. And that monotherapy is used to kind of lower the SHGV, raise the total testosterone level, raise the free testosterone level. And the estradiol, whilst it goes down a little bit, it actually, because you get extra testosterone, it's kind of hard for it to catch up. So it'll keep increasing the estradiol level, especially when the testes are active. You take someone that's taking exogenous testosterone, the testes might not be active, unless you're using HCG. And then you can actually get the estrogen too low. So, I mean, what percentage, it just depends on the patient. I don't, you know, we've got different doctors, we just met one doctor now. And the different doctors all have the different treatment regimen. And that is, listen to the patient, look at their needs. And then if they can avoid using an AI, by starting with a low dose, start low, go slow, of testosterone, then they might not need it at all. And if they're on a complaint, you know, maybe a very, very short term to get them under control. But what are the complaints? It's usually my nipples are sensitive, or my nipples look a bit pointy, or my aerial looks a bit large, or I've got a lump, and that could be something else. Slightly unrelated, but how quick do those effects take place, these estrogenic effects, like you say, the larger nipples and things like that? How soon do people see these things? Because I've never experienced this, I don't know how to relate to it. There are some, again, it's that fear of men having a feminized breast. Yeah. We had a younger client, the doctor's patient that came to us, and he was so worried that he had had got gyno from just starting, you know, three weeks into treatment. He said, my nipples feel a bit funny, they don't feel right. I said, well, you know, we can move your six-week, four-five-week blood test a bit earlier to about week four. And he went to get his blood test done. He was so convinced that he had this gyno. And we looked at his levels of estradiol, and it's 80. Yeah. So really, you want to be under 100, 120, 130, even 150 is fine, because the tests that we use while sensitive, they're not the high-sensitive LC mass spec ones. So normally, they overestimate the estradiol. So if he came in at 80, it's probably a lot lower. I don't know exactly how much lower, but it was probably less than 80, which is fine. So what I think I've seen in literature is testosterone itself can interact with the nipples and the breast a bit, or it can be prolactin. And another factor is that prolactin is fine as well. So there's this feeling of something when you've got this change in the hormones. Testosterone, the androgen itself may cause that effect. What about overweight men? Let's say you've got a bit of extra body fat, and maybe your breasts, your tits start to hang a little bit, and they look like maybe it's gyna. I do not find that maybe people, it's in their heads, they're getting paranoid. Maybe it's just a bit of extra weight. Yeah, it could be just fat. Now, some of the fat that goes on could be due to that aromatase enzyme, holding more of the aromatase enzyme. And the idea there is for them, if you can shift the body fat, lower the body fat, you'll have less aromatase. Now, I mean, personally, for me, the reason why I don't think I need an aromatase inhibitor now is my body fat's not quite low. And I was also started on thyroid treatment. Actually, I lost a lot of body weight and body fat. I was 111 kilos, now I'm about 104 kilos. And so with less body fat is less means I'm going to probably have less aromatization. So for me, you need less. So if they can shift their weight, they get less estrogen, they might have less effect of gyna. And I've also made it up in my mind that if I were to get gyna, then sod it, I'm getting surgery. You know, let's see how far I can take this. And if I need to have surgery, then I'll have it. And you don't have to worry about it. Because so often, these are your gauge for, is estrogen too high? Is estrogen too low? I mean, this is what men are using to judge. And in reality, it might not be that. It might not be the oestradiol at all. Yeah. Is this something that guys should worry about in general? Do you think there's just a bit too much paranoid about it? And they should rather just have peace of mind. And if it happens, it happens. That type of approach? Or is it common? I think it's individual. I think it depends on the individual. Some, you know, men that are coming into TRT have lots of anxiety anyway. And then sometimes, I mean, I can say subjectively, we would joke, you know, oh, you're a little bit off today, or you're a bit hot headed today. It must be your oestradiol levels up. And I do find a bit of a numbing effect from the AI as far as the mood. So if I get really hot tempered and get some road rage behind the wheel, you know, it may be possibly due to the interaction between the elevated and the oestradiol and the oestradiol at the same time, possibly. But coming off the AI, I did notice a little bit of that initially, but I felt a little bit freer to speak my mind. I don't know why, but a few times I was just kind of out there, then it just kind of leveled off and calmed down. Now, that being said, I'm also prescribed Tadalafil. And Tadalafil can act as a block of aromatase in a different way. What is it? Tadalafil is Cialis. Oh, okay. So if you're using other substances, PDE5 inhibitors, they can actually lower the amount of oestradiol in the blood, or at least the production or the output of the aromatase enzyme. Okay. So it's interesting. That's been proven in the paper. How much does it do it in comparison to aromatase inhibitor? I'm not sure. But there's other men that will take over-the-counter supplements like DIM to help lower the metabolism of the oestrogen out to the body. And some people report feeling better sexual improvements with DIM as well as the testosterone. So, you know, does one go completely without any sort of oestrogen management? I think, again, it's individual depending on the patient, the doctor. We don't advocate for one thing over the other. I think everything should be on the table for everyone. And we don't want to be dogmatic and say, no, you only do it this way. And that's the only way. Because I think that's wrong. I think, you know, from a scientific point of view, you should look at everything. And, you know, the way I like to approach things is you work with the best, you work the best you can with the information that you have. And if new research comes out or new studies come out that contradict that, then you just adapt. You know, you say, okay, maybe we were wrong on this and we're changing. Or, look, we were right. You know, this confirms that. I think you just have to be open-minded. Like you said, not strict and regimented. And, you know, it's our way or the highway type thing. It's a very personal thing if they want to decide. And, you know, the evidence is hard to know. But if a patient is adamant and they want to be on their AI, then it's not up to balance for all ones to tell them yes or no. It's their discussion with the doctor provider within a group. And they'll make that decision together. Okay. Well, I'm sure I'm going to have more questions on AI's in the future, because I know when I first started the TRT journey and investigating that, it was one of the hardest things for me to understand. I don't know why it's fairly simple now, but I think it's just, you know, when you're bombarded with all these different medications that you can take on top of the testosterone, it kind of all blurs together. So I like to try to just clarify everything. Yeah. Well, look, the body is meant to take a certain amount of testosterone in, convert a certain amount of estradiol, which it has its benefit, a certain amount of dihydrotesosterone, which is also an active metabolite. And they all have functions in the body. If you lower the eutodol too much, you're not going to have sexual improvements. You're not going to feel good. So it does have an effect on mood and energy and metabolism and the endothelium of your vessels to protect you from heart disease. So there are benefits to having that. So typically I prefer the simplest solutions, but when it comes to hormones and your health and that we know it's not that simple. You know, everybody's body is unique and different and works differently. And you have to judge it and work with it on an individual basis. Yeah. So I don't think it's a one size fits it. Yeah. It fits that at all. And people need to realize there are many options. And I think people options on the table. Good. Right. I think that's it for the AIC. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's an important one. We open it with a question. Now, if you don't mind, I think I'm going to go on to the user questions. For those of you, I think I explained at the beginning of this video, I did open up a video on YouTube, getting your questions for Mike and Sam here at Balance My Hormones. So we're going to go through a couple of the now some of them are quite long. So hopefully, you know, we can get through them and we can try and stick to one point. And some of them are quite quick too. So I'll start with one or two long ones and then we'll get to a couple of short ones. So should we just get stuck into it? Let's get stuck into it. Okay. So this one is from a Carol Carol. He says, Hi, Paolo. I've been on TRT for five years and don't really feel benefit from it. I started my TRT on Sustanon 250 every two weeks and I felt like a young God. My libido was great. Erection's great. Strength mentally, I felt great. But unfortunately, that state didn't last long. Four weeks. After a few weeks, they put me on libido every eight weeks, but I don't really feel benefit from it. I have no libido, weak erections, feel depressed, and it's going on for years. I've noticed that my prolactin level is usually high, not hyper high. He says, mine is 560 and I think he gave a range of 70 to 410. Maybe you can discuss that. But he says, do you think, but doctors always disregard that. He says, do you think that could be a reason, the elevated prolactin? And why I felt great when I started therapy five years ago, but now I feel no benefits now. And he says, I live in the UK, by the way, thanks in advance for your help. So it's quite a bit going on there, but I think the, the, just there's the innovative prolactin he's worried about that. I mean, as medical case managers, you know, Sam and I, we, we, we've seen lots of different blood tests, you know, under the supervision of the doctor. And we, we can see lots of them for many people, for different reasons, when they first start TRT, you do feel really good during this honeymoon stage. And then after a while, um, sometimes things plateau and they don't always feel as good because that initial surge of testosterone, they get an initial surge of dopamine. Uh, what you tend to see happen is some men, the testosterone itself will make the lactotrophs in the brain, though the parts that release prolactin elevate other men, they might have hypothyroidism, which makes them more susceptible to the release of higher prolactin levels. Other men may have been treated or are currently on SSRI medications that, that make prolactin release more often than not. And the same thing with those who are proton pump inhibitors. And there's so many other drugs that may also increase prolactin. And what is the, what are the negative effects? Well, prolactin is what women have to lactate. Okay. When men have it, or when they have a tumor on the brain, a benign tumor, um, hyperprolactinemia, it, it basically lowers the sex drive completely. They usually have very, very low testosterone levels. Like we're talking, um, like three or four animal per liter, nearly that type of women's. Um, so it's just not a good, good picture. And there are some men, a lot, you know, not a lot, but some men who are on TRT that will get these elevations and prolactin. Now, the important thing is if it's consistently above like three or close to the threes, even on the morning fasting tests that you do, um, that could be an issue of maybe a micropituitary adenoma, adenoma. And, um, it could also be a sign of just, they tend to have more prolactin, which is then making them not feel as, as, as good. So does that sort of negate the effect of the TRT, the positive effect? Absolutely. Yeah. And so in cases like that, do you think there's some other type of medication that the, the patient should take? Yeah. So one thing they got to look at the dosage and it may help if you can alter the dosage. If you're doing a full CC every week, that's a lot of Tessolstrum blast at you. Like within Nibido? Yeah. Well, Nibido is kind of consistently, can be high for a while and then drops down. Yeah. Uh, Sustanon, same thing. If you do the full ampule for most people all in one go and then wait, you know, two weeks and you're going to have this, that, that's when you have the peaks and the troughs. Yeah. You don't have it when you use half of the ampule more frequently. Yeah. And there'll be four or five days or even once a week. You don't usually see those, any drug you'll see a peak and a trough. I mean, that's just pharmacodynamics, whether it's oral, whether it's oral thyroid medication, whether it's a cream, whether it's, it's an injection of, of any medication that's in the amount of ups and downs is called the area under the curve. And that shows the amount of medication one's getting over this period of time. But what I think, and I just sort of get another tangent, but when the peaks and troughs people are worried about, they're going to go too low. I think that's the fear when they talk about the instability. So with testosterone, with any of the testosterone, they're actually quite stable at every, you know, four or five days, especially when you lower the dosha of getting as high of a peak. And then the trough, as long as you're catching it before it gets to that threshold where you never felt good, you're fine. But you mix in this high peak and you may get a high amount of prolactin as well. And some men just tend to get that. And having, there is a treatment, it's called cobergoline or any dopamine agonist can help bring that down. The problem with other dopamine agonists outside of cobergoline is you take them every day, you feel very tired, very sluggish. They're used for Parkinson's patients. I think the indication for a drug called cobergoline is for people that have prolactinomas, but those two people aren't at 500. Those people are at a thousand or greater, not at 500, but there can still be some benefit for those who have levels at 500 for bringing it down. Dr. And are doctors in the TRT community using prolactin lowering drugs as a form of therapy or is it sort of a supplement with TRT they go to? Dr. It's a supplement with TRT. I think using it on its own never quite fixes the problem on its own. I mean, I think endocrinologists would tend to use cobergoline on its own initially for someone that has an intact pituitary. But, you know, once you're on TRT, there'll be no reason to pull them off the TRT and just use this particular drug. It's a drug that you would take a very small amount, a quarter to half of a tablet once or twice a week. Dr. Yeah. So why is this guy who asked the question, why is his doctor not addressing his concerns? I think a lot of doctors aren't even looking at prolactin. Dr. No, they don't. I mean, especially the NHS, they won't look at it normally unless they suspect a tumour and they'll only look at it if the initial testosterone results came in very low, under three, four. And then they'll test prolactin and then they may do something about it. Because I think prolactin levels can be transient. If you're under a lot of stress and then you do the blood test, it might shoot up and then it might come back down. If after you ejaculate, the level's up. Dr. Yeah. Dr. It can go up quite a bit and then it should come back down. And the level, the amount of time between when it's up and then it goes back down, especially after ejaculation, is called your refractory period. So that makes a big difference. And some men have a longer refractory period than others. Others can go like bunnies between sessions and others after they wait a long time between that. So it's very individual. But if it does create a problem, you know, this particular drug has been studied in healthy young men, 23, 24. They found that the average wait time and refractory period between times that they would go would be about half an hour to an hour. Then they give them this medication, a slightly higher dose than you would normally treat, and they're going like every 15 minutes. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, it's not something that would be used often. Yeah. But it can be used. So, I mean, I understand the frustration of this guy because, you know, he's got a doctor who's not aware of all these different areas that affect his TRT treatment. But again, you know, it might be difficult for him to come to someone like you or a private, you know, clinic where they do more personalized or customized solutions, but it's more, you know, maybe more expensive. So it's frustrating. What do guys like this do? Should they talk to their doctor? You know, you know, they're also endocrinologists, but they're very strict guidelines and what they're going to do with the NHS. And most likely they, I mean, unless it continues to climb, they probably won't consider it. Sometimes you have the postcode lottery and your doctor at the NHS may be understanding and prescribe you with that drug. Yeah. I mean, he must have had the prolactin test done because he's got a result. So at least he could try to talk to his doctor about it. So hopefully you can get help for it and it comes down or you lower the dose and potentially that can bring it down as well. The TRT dose. Yeah. Oh, sometimes you have to look at the little Easter dial you've got because that can also have an Ocon effect. Yeah. He said initially he was on Sustanon and then he went to Nubito. So if he felt good on Sustanon, maybe he should try going back to that. Or change the dosage. Yeah. So I hope that helps. That'll make a difference. I hope that helps. Who was this? This was Carol Carol. Okay. Time for the next question. And this one comes from Mr. Z or MZ. And he says, Hi, Paulo. Do they still use testosterone propionate for TRT? And I think testosterone propionate, if I remember correctly, is the really quick acting one. Yeah. So what is the story with testosterone propionate? Some of our clients, doctors, patients, do like testosterone propionate. They have that in the UK? Yeah. Yeah. Well, it was originally licensed here. I think Nordic had licensed it and then they stopped making it. So it comes in from other European countries into the UK. It's still available. Our pharmacies can get it. And some of our clients like testosterone propionate. Some don't mind injecting three, four times a week, a small amount. So that is available. It's a bit cumbersome though. It can be a bit costly because they come in larger ampoules. And you can't, you have to discard the remains for health reasons. Yeah. But we are working on getting... Multi-dose? No. Ampules are more suitable for the dose. Okay. Like 25 milligram dose ampoules is a possibility. But I'm not sure by the time we put this out, we'll have it available. But that is something that's an option. So that, as it currently stands, it's harder to do that because it's not safe to split the ampoules of any kind. Yeah. It does feel like a bloody waste to have to throw out a whole milliliter of solution because they come in 100 milligrams per two milliliter ampoule. And the reason why they come in ampoules here, and the Americans don't have them, is the MHRA, the governing body for drugs in Europe and the UK in particular, they think single use is the best, which theoretically, in a healthcare setting, it is. But it's not very user-friendly to getting the right doses because the manufacturers don't remake them in the appropriate dose. Yeah. Except for one manufacturer that we're looking into that will have it in the appropriate dose of about 25 milligrams. And do you find that the propionate is a bit more effective in keeping levels more stable because you're doing sort of more frequent injections at low amounts? Or is it like you get to compare it with sustenance? What's stable? If you take it, or if you inject it one day, and then you don't do it for another five days, it's in and out. Is that stable? No. Is it? I mean, what is stable? Lots of people ask that question. And it's all it gets, and this is an assumption. Well, I guess when I say, when I ask the question, I mean, the levels of the ups and the peaks and the troughs aren't as severe, you know, they're more sort of like that rather than like that. Well, again, it depends on the duration of how often you dose. If you're dosing more frequently, it goes in quickly, it comes out quickly. It's a very steep area under the curve. Yeah. Depending on how long you let it before it drops, it should last about two days. Or you would go, you would inject every other day with the lower doses, dosage of propionate, and you wouldn't get as high of a peak. And the trough, you have to time the trough so that it's not going to go too low. Yeah. It's like with the creams, the scrotal application of creams. It's going like this every day, but then so is your own body. True. Your body's giving it a higher bit in the morning, it's coming down a little bit in the afternoon. You don't want it to be too great. Yeah. And people sometimes never feel good. We've seen people with high levels, well, not high, but like around 20 in the morning, but they might only be 10 in the afternoon or eight in the afternoon. Yeah. They feel rubbish. So we don't, we discount the morning test and at least by 20%. But the ideal, like with a case like test propionate, would be to try and get those ups and downs as close to natural as possible rather than these large spikes up and down. Yeah. So by having a small amount to the beginning, you will get a peak even with that. Yeah. You will get a peak even with the creams. And then before it comes down, you're ready for your next injection the day off, like every other day. Okay. And that for some people, that's absolutely fine. And then some people feel subjectively better on it. And so for someone like this is asking about propionate, you know, is it just something that they ask for if they're starting treatment? Yeah. If they like to try propionate, that's something that we can get. But they just have to be aware of injections. They have to be aware of one, it's more frequent injections. Yeah. Two, it's not from a UK supplier. Okay. Okay. It comes in through a different type of wholesale route. It's all coming in through the MHRA approved way, but it can, if there is ever a shortage or an issue bringing these in, then the medicine might not be there for them. I see. And that's, there have been disruptions in the supply chain. Yeah. That being said, there's this for all different medications throughout the UK because the UK supply chain is so poor. Didn't they have that for Sustanon at one time? In 2012, there was a shortage before the current owners of Sustanon had launched it. There was a shortage for about six weeks. So, I mean, I've never seen this in, to this degree in other countries, but in the UK, for some reason, I think there are cartels that run the supply chain and they, they block the access to the drugs. So, I mean, I could be wrong. So, but I think that's what we've seen a lot of, even blood pressure medications, important medications. They're very difficult to get. We don't want to get into the politics of, you know, how the pharmaceutical industries and the government bodies all work together. That's a, we'll skip that for another time. Okay. So, MZ, I hope that answers your question. Right. And now we'll move on to the next question. Right. Our next question comes from Sonny Shaz, and he says, the best approach for a low SHBG guy, or sex hormone binding globulin guy. Now, I would have, in my opinion, I would think this is good, but what do you think? Low SHBG, that means less testosterone is being bound, right? Yeah. But some people, if they have, so some people who get first diagnosed with low testosterone, they also tend to have low SHBG. I've been doing this backwards all week. Because they might have a metabolic syndrome issue. What is that? So, the, maybe insulin resistance, the body is, and the metabolism isn't quite where it should be. They call it metabolic syndrome. And that's linked into low testosterone. So, these men are very sensitive, hypersensitive almost to big fluctuations in testosterone. And in particular, the conversion into estradiol. They can be more sensitive to it. So, traditionally for them, a lower dose more frequently is better. But also, a lower dose of testosterone, more frequently is better. But I've also seen people do just fine with the lower SHBG at once a week with like 125 milligrams of testosterone. It's incredible. It's, so the rule of the short frequent dosings, it doesn't always match up. But SHGB is one of these things where they have a lower SHGB. In general, you can do better with something like a scrotal cream. Because now you've got frequent applications, you get really good levels. And, you know, it kind of helps not get too much estradiol if it's done like once a day with a scrotal cream. And so, what are the negative things of both a lower, the negative consequences of both a low SHBG or alternatively a high SHBG? So, a higher SHGB as we age or exposure to environmental oestrogens or toxins, your SHGB can climb. Sometimes if you have hyperthyroidism or if you have too much of your liothyroidine T3 medication, it will elevate your SHGB. And I suppose that's a good thing. In some cases, if you've got a very low SHGB, if you're on like liothyroidine T3 medication, you can increase it by about 10 points. So, now you're going to be more normal average. Too much SHGB, it's a real shame for some people because they can come to us and have levels of 40 or 27 or 28, but their SHGB might be 65 or 68. And if you have a high SHBG, then you get a low free testosterone level. So, you get less free out of the system. Sorry to interrupt. So, basically, you may have high total testosterone, but if you have high SHBG, that will sort of bind to that testosterone. So, your free testosterone is lower than it should be. It's very low and you're going to have all the symptoms. So, there have been a lot of men that have come through in the past that have higher levels in the 20s, some even just under 30. Total. Total. Yeah. But the SHGB was 100. Okay. And when the calculated free testosterone is done, it's like less than 0.25 or 0.225 or anything less than 0.3 isn't ideal. Considering a healthy 23-year-old in the median range is like 0.45, 0.46. And the more gifted ones in the 95th percentile, more like 0.8, 0.9 in the free testosterone. And so, the more free testosterone to a point you've got, the more active your testosterone is going to be. If it's all bound up, it's not reaching your tissues and not doing what it's supposed to be, you might as well have a low number of total. Yeah. Do you think this is why a lot of guys will have tests done on only total testosterone and will be fairly high and they don't understand why they still have symptoms? It's because they're not testing SHBG and the free testosterone. Yes. And that's why we have a test on our website, just it's a little screening test that you can go and you look at it and it's only 35.95 and you just order it and you get the total SHBG and the calculated free. Yeah. That's what I tell guys on the channel also. They come and they say, oh, my total is this, I'm having this. I say, please just first go and get your SHBG and your free testosterone tested because that's the more important one. That's the one that your body's actually using. Yeah. And that's the one we recommend. This is why we don't, people in the past, some doctors say, oh, just put a very low cost total testosterone test out there. We're like, no, it doesn't tell us the whole picture. We'll miss people if we just do that. So we've always put all three on the test. And that's like I said, one of the tests that we've got that you have easy access to through our website and you can order it whenever you want. Okay. Now for this guy who says he's a best approach for a low SHBG guy, what is the best approach? What should he do or what should people do if they have low SHBG? Here's the problem with SHBG guys, because... Should they be trying to elevate it or...? Well, you want to use smaller doses of testosterone more frequently. Okay. Okay. And you want to also have a healthy lifestyle to kind of bring it up. Of course. You could also investigate if he's got any issues with low thyroid condition. And if he does, or it might be beneficial if he's on levothyroxine and levothyroxine. It would bring up that number because it's kind of like regulating the metabolism and that can help. There are other things that might help. But some people are just stuck in a low, suppressed. So testosterone itself will bring down the SHBG further, but lower SHBG on testosterone might just be an artifact of being on the testosterone. It might not be metabolic syndrome. So one way to kind of match and feel better, and even Dr. Criswell used to recommend this with low SHBG, is a smaller, more frequent injections. The problem we've got here, compared to America's, they've got multi-dose vials. We don't. So how low do you go? The easiest way to do it is maybe a topical scrotal cream. It works really well for a lot of men. And I've heard good things about the new creams that are coming out. They've been getting pretty positive reviews in the community in general. Yeah. It's nothing new. I've used it 20 years ago. So there's not new formulas? Well, there's different formulations. So I use the PLO-based cream. There's some Versapro-based creams. There's some plant-based, really good plant-based creams. They're very highly absorbable that we're using. So we use all these. Everything's on the table. Everything we can have for the patient based on what they need. But we've seen some really good levels in the patients that have used creams. Like really good. More than you'd sometimes see on the I heard on the injections. Yeah. And you're getting a little bit every day. And then feel really good from it. So if it suits their lifestyle, creams are absolutely fine. Okay. Use it once or twice a day. Yeah. And you get nice levels. And it satisfies that problem with the low SHGB. Cool. Well, that is Sonny Shah's question. So I hope you found that helpful.