 Midoxidoido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido,ίζido It's probably minimized. Possibly why, and maybe you've seen this in young men, they seem like they're stronger than compared to when we get older. You'd be thinking something else, or if you're thinking, oh, yeah, but I'm not good enough to do that. Well, that is also your reality. That would be your reality. If you think, then it's going to be like that, right? From conquering the bodybuilding world with unparalleled intensity to unlocking the deeper secrets of mind, body, and spirit, today we're getting real with six-time Mr. Olympia. The legendary Dorian Yates. Ready to discover what lies beyond the trophies and fame? Let's dive deep right here on Balance My Hormones. So we were talking a little bit before about cholesterol, speaking of biomarkers and things, and you have a certain philosophy. I know that it's very controversial. There's like this camp or that camp. I'm not a fan of statins at all. But I think there are better ways. The higher your cholesterol is, the healthier and better. High cholesterol, low blood sugar, that's the formula for health. Yeah, so the fact that there's a whole industry out there trying to lower your cholesterol is ridiculous. I would never take a statin. Years ago, they tried to put me on statins, and I got muscle pain, and I didn't feel good mentally. And it can lead to... Balance My Hormones, so... It didn't drop it radically low. But, you know, if you're used to being at a certain level and you drop it. But I do think there might be a place for the PSCK9 inhibitors. These are... The people genetically have a low-level PCSK9, and it doesn't work so high up the food chain. It works very closely to the cholesterol, allowing more, I think, LDL receptors to be available. And I've noticed that when I take it, one small injection subcutaneously every two weeks, it does lower my APOB. It does slightly lower LP, little A. And it brings the cholesterol down to, I guess, what is considered more of a healthy range, but not anywhere near where it's so low that I'm going to have potential side effects. And it's only because, for me, I had a test, like a tax score, a little bit of an area where it's some stenosis, you know, just a little bit of a narrowing. Yeah, it's calcium, a bit of narrowing. But then calcium score only looks like calcium. Statins increase the calcium. And then they'll say in the industry that's a good thing because it stabilizes the plaque versus an atheroma or plaque. That's just a fatty plaque that can rupture more easily. So the fact that it's calcified, why not be the worst? Interesting, you can find this online somewhere, but it doesn't name the participants. It's online on PubMed or wherever. It's a published study online on belly builders who use steroids and growth hormone in California. And their calcium score was part of the study. And it doesn't name because probably they can't, but I was one of the participants in that. Milos was in it, Sean Ray, some other people anyway, but they're not named in the studies. And it varied as far as the calcium score from zero up to, I think somebody had 400 or something like that. My mom, 76, and she has what's considered high cholesterol. The doctors wanted to put on a statin and said, no way. And then she had looked for the calcium score. She had zero calcium at 76. But I have inherited from her a high LP little a, which is a genetic. And all the dieting, exercise won't change it. There are five different drug candidates coming out in the next two years that will genetically, very precisely lower just that without side effects. So rather than use small molecules, can have off-target effects. These are very strict genetic tools that essentially block the gene from producing the LP little a. So to me, there's two injections a year. If it brings it down, to me, that's reducing the risk factor that I can't control a lifestyle of a diet. Would it affect the cholesterol absorption in your brain? Because a lot of the statins people, it seems that the dementia is going out. It's not total. It's a particular, it says like sandpaper through your arteries, it can cause valvular issues. As well by having this floating around. And so there's some people, I think that might be the missing link where they shut the cholesterol down, lower the cholesterol so low, but they still have heart attacks. And they go, well, what happened? The guy was on the statin, the guy was on, you know, Repatha and he still had a heart attack. Because it's got damaged endothelium and the body's been trying to repair it. Yeah, from the LP little a, and it's not repairing it. So that could be the future. So that's a test that somebody just needs to do once, right? You just do it once. It's not going to change. Yeah, it's not going to change much. Yeah, I mean, I don't believe I have any genetic tendency. I think it's just lifestyle choices. I agree. I think it's a complex picture as well. Yeah. Very complex picture. It's hard to say no, and every time cholesterol is as high as possible, you know, but you're right, you know, less is more. If you look over meta studies, like statistics, people that live the longest have high cholesterol and lower, no, long-term blood sugar. Hb1c. Yeah. Hb1c. How do we have the highest Hb1c? The combination of high cholesterol and low long-term blood sugar is the formula that seems to be common between people that live longer. Last time we talked, we talked about insulin and we were kind of, I'll show you right if you show me yours. No, no, no. My last one was four, and I found one that was sub two. Okay. So I've had some good ones as well. Okay, good. About 3.74. I think the last one was seven, and I think I told you I'm on the growth hormone because it helps the heart as well, small dose, but it kind of stabilizes, so I was really happy with the fasting insulin. Yeah. What's a small dose of growth hormone? Just under 0.6 milligrams, under two IU. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, because I think you need a little bit as we get older, and there are some benefits. Two IUs, and I tested my IGS, before. It was like 100, so it was on the low side, I guess, and two IUs put me 200, so it's in a good range. Have you noticed more fat burning and more? Yeah, I got leaner, and sleep a little bit better, which has always been a bit of an issue for me on and off over the years, you know, like stress-related. Probably goes way back to bodybuilding where I got obsessed with like, no, like you get enough sleep, and I lived on a council estate surrounded by noisy neighbors, which I had. Well, you were one of those guys that would get up at five in the morning to refeed, and then... No, no, no, no. I think if you're sleeping... Yeah, sleepy. Sleep, yeah. Don't wake up. Don't disrupt that whole process just to have a protein shake, and you know, the body has to have downtime, like, you know? So, no, I was... But I always ate late at night. I never was in this don't eat carbs past this reaching hour of 6 o'clock or something, you know? Brian Johnson stops eating at 11 in the morning and sleeps by 7. I don't know if you follow that. That's a living thing, Brian Johnson. I mean, I can just demonstrate what kind of low body fat I achieved, and so on. You're still eating. And I was still eating... Like, I was eating oats with egg whites. Not a lot. And I would taper it. Like, I'd have more carbs in the start of the day and after training, and less, but not, like, zero. So, I was having, like, 50 grams of oat for a judge, you know, mixed with egg whites and stuff. Like, half an hour before I went to bed or 40 minutes, because if I was to not eat for 3 or 4 hours before I go to bed, it's like, I'm not sleeping. I'm not sleeping. In the same way. Like, the metabolism is just going to be... I'm going to be awake. I need some carbs just to help with it, probably with serotonin production or something, you know. So, that's how I eat. Now I eat carbs in the evening with my dinner in the evening. Sweet potatoes, rice, that kind of stuff. I even have a tiny little bit of pasta, pesto on it. Sometimes I have a litre of ice cream from Ben and Jerry's, but I shouldn't talk about that. Some of the guys over here. That's when a gal buys it, man. I tell them not to buy it, because I'm not... Gal can have a tub of ice cream, yeah, and have one scoop, and it's still there next week. I'm going to eat it, because it's gone. Minutes out of the way. What do you think now, the big trend now is cottage cheese amongst Gen Z and younger. Cottage cheese was a thing when I first started training, man. And then it's gone out of vogue, right? It's got the Cassian protein. It's a good protein, not a bad protein. Cottage cheese and tuna. Those were the, you know, available and cheap protein when we were young, right? Except for you didn't mix them together like cottage cheese and tuna. You did? Almost the same. I had some sick guys in my gym, man, that used to make tuna shake, you know, orange juice and tuna, blended together. I'm like, why don't you just have a strawberry protein? Tastes much better, but apparently it was a bit cheap or something. So yeah, cottage cheese is a good protein, but you know, it's not a magical protein. If you want to like go on a scale, probably going to find eggs at the top. If you want to, you know, well, split hairs, like, you know, but they're all good, all good plus dairy, meat proteins, eggs. There's some, I think, warnings coming out about whey protein or, you know, that's essentially it's the waste production of the dairy industry and that it might not be the best, maybe even spike your blood sugar. Are you, do you have much faith in whey anymore? Oh, whey's a great protein. Yeah, it's, yes, they used to throw it away before, but it doesn't mean it doesn't have some value, you know. Whey protein is a first class protein. Yeah, if you're concerned about blood sugar, you can always mix it with the fat. You know, put some coconut oil in the shake or something like that. If it was after training, I would just have it with water. Well, let's say you're going to have a protein late at night. I'd put some, maybe some coconut oil in or something or half an avocado or something, slow down the digestion a little bit. When you're training or even now, are you one of the guys that you basically refuel with the shake after training to replenish the glycogen or? No, I mean, sometimes I'm not like, I'm not religious with my, I take creatine, you know, it's got other benefits other than the muscle building, obviously with the memory and stuff like that and even with mood, they're finding good, so. And you don't get any water retention from the creatine? No, I don't notice it. I mean, to be honest, when I took creatine when I was using steroids, I didn't notice it as much, probably because my ATP levels and everything was already stacked up. If I don't use it for a few weeks and then I start using it again, I can just feel a little bit more fullness in the muscle, a little bit more push when I'm exercising, a little bit more, so that's something I always take and whey protein, I take a shake most days just to keep the protein level up because I'm only eating twice, so to get like 200 grams of protein a day, I need to... HMB, whatever happened to HMB? HMB, no, I don't use that. That's another one that's coming around that was like available in... The 90s. The 90s. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's a Bill Phillips and the whole... I take a lot of supplements, it's more like, it's more like health related. Vitamin D3. I take D3, K2, you know, for general health immunity and the arteries. Are you doing anything for NAD? Are you doing NMM? NMM, I've just got because DY's got our own facility now, we've got our own labs and formulators, so I just call them up and say, have you got this in stock? Because we're bringing out a whole new range, DY life, later in the year, which is more health, wellness, longevity, so it's more interesting for me because the other stuff has been, you know, been doing it a long time, right? So I just call them up and get my own stuff made, so I got this week delivered NMM, K2, D3, 20 milligram melatonin because you can only get two milligrams here in the store. You'd normally take that? 20 milligrams, man, yeah. I took 40 the other night. There's a guy out there, expert on melatonin, he takes hundreds and he's saying it's like a very powerful antioxidant because melatonin is all the cells now, not just in the brain they've discovered. Anyway, so multiple reasons. I take high dose melatonin. And 0.75 milligrams, that's enough. You can get two milligrams in the stores, yeah, so, you know. But no, we can't get that in the UK. No, UK, you can't get it at all, but most European countries you can get it in limited dosage unless you go to the pharmacy compound, they make it up to you. But yeah, I make mine and what else? NAD, something I take all the time. Rejectable? No, NAD, NAD, NAC, sorry, NAC, sorry. NAC, yes. NAC-216 for glutathione levels. And also boost dopamine. Yeah, great, so. Did you ever notice an increase in hemoglobin from NAC? Because I tend to be prone to that every time I take NAC because it's higher than it should. The only time my hemoglobin was a bit high was when I was using testosterone like, but in one shot. I was also. I'll split it up into two and three and now it's like, it's not even at the top now, it's like 15, 16, like, you know. On the trough, on the lowest point. So that's the TRT protocol then, that's why any particular ester, whatever, whatever's. And then fate or sippinate, I don't think there's much difference. Here, they have, it's like testosterone propionate here. It's, it's supposed to be equivalent to sippinate, I think. Testx. Yeah, that's sippinate. It's a prong, prong, or something it's called there. Yeah, yeah, it's 200 milligrams. 230 milligrams in 2 mls and they have 100 milligrams in 2 mls. We have that at the whole minister pharmacy. As well as testosterone propionate, 25 milligrams per 1 ml. And that's what I have been prescribed and I've been doing daily testosterone propionate for well over a year now. And it keeps mine quite... Yeah, daily I just got like, just got fed up with little lumps and I was doing subcutaneous so I said, wait a minute, I didn't even know you could do that. I was doing that and now I switched back to intramuscular but you could do shallow intramuscular. Yeah. I do it in the inside or something. Yeah, I can even do it in the side like the ventral. But you can do it subcutaneous as well. You know what, it creates those lumps and one time I've said this and I think it slows its release and one, I know there's some doctors that will promote that but I've seen patients report with lumps. This big, I actually, I reposted the lump how bad it was on his abs and Facebook gave me a warning because they thought it was pornography. They thought it was someone's boob that appeared because of the swelling from the subcutaneous injection which can happen and they take weeks to go away. I get mine down to like every four days I do an intramuscular one and that keeps, it doesn't seem to spike their hemoglobin. It's never been even like near to the top since I've been doing that. And do you do HCG as well? No, no, we talked about that, yeah. If I do HCG it sends my estrogen like through the roof and I feel very, I used it when I was competing like at end of cycles and I got the same feeling then and instinctively I just avoided it. I said I just like, whatever, I just let it go without it and then somebody recommended I try it a couple of years ago and I did the blood test and I saw my estrogen went up like 300 or something crazy and yeah, I just felt like I had a thrombosis after this that could have been related and Yeah, because you said you did an aromatase inhibitor off I was an old man like, you know, I just instinctively knew it was estrogen and then when I got the report back I was like, right, it's not for me. Yeah, you've got to find balance and then there's some, like I said, in the TRT world there are at least two camps one is like absolutely higher estrogen the better as long as the ratio to sorcery estrogen is good and the other camp is like, no, just keep it somewhat. Who's the guy from the States that's a very famous, I can't remember his name now but he did a very good podcast on it. Dr. Rand McLean or is it Dr. Keith Nichols? It'll come to me anyway, but he was saying like all the negatives that's given to men with high estrogen is not the high estrogen it's the fact that they've got metabolic syndrome and high estrogen is just coming along with it. it's not if you've got high estrogen without those on its own it's a positive but with it's not that it's that that's causing the problem. Estrogen is the innocent bystander it comes to the rescue and it's trying to help heal to a degree but everyone's a little bit sensitive and if you can reduce the body fat you're not going to have the rheumatase enzyme and then you're going to start maybe not producing as much estrogen in relation to your testosterone but yeah there's a lot of that going out there. So it sounds like you've tried the different testosterone treatments and you're quite happy with it. Yeah where I am now like on the high end and I feel good which is also you know important feedback right? All my markers are in good places nothing out of play blood sugar's good all inflammatory markers are good I may have had an issue with folate because I did the test the methyl test and I was deficient from one parent so now I take methylfolate which may be a reason that I was susceptible to insomnia and anxiety depression Do you use L-theanine as well? L-theanine to help calm sleep? No I haven't tried that but I do I do smoke a lot of weeds CBD and TAC that's mine also you know part of my protocol and I'm being serious like it's antioxidant anti-inflammatory if you search for a patent on cannabis there's one out there from some department of US government for all these reasons saying that it's an antioxidant anti-aging blah blah blah in their own words trying to get a patent on it but on the other hand it's supposed to be you know well it's changing now in the state most of the states now is legal but federally it's still controlled substance with no medical benefits so we're a bit confused I think I know they kind of push over the edge and who knows where they'll go in the states speaking of the states I was in I went to Gold's gym you know and I was also at the Mr. Olympia we took a picture with your cutout next to it oh yeah I'm on the wall I should be out there this year I missed last year because I was getting ready for the hip surgery and everything but I'll be there I'll probably go I heard you go to the firehouse engine house firehouse has been there forever I first went to Gold's gym in 1990 and everyone used to go to the firehouse it's an old firehouse it's still a firehouse and they do all the bodybuilding food and egg whites and everything and it's just down the block from the gym so you see everyone going there you know Dr. George he's a friend of mine he's been on the channel before we went together he said yeah Dorian comes here we came after they're going to Gold's gym I actually saw Arnold's son Joseph yeah I spoke to him a couple of times and I was a nice friendly kid I said George I think that's Arnold's son I said oh really and I nipped to the loo I come back and George was doing a selfie with him I even get a picture with him yeah Gold's gym I mean it's not what it used to be yeah well it's still it's still got the vibe you know and all the the pictures there and everything yeah it is an interesting culture what you know what started around your era really over there well when I went it was very much like a family feel yeah you know first of all you had the Weider magazines yeah that was everything that was bodybuilding Weider yeah in Woodland Hills then you had Gold's gym in Venice Beach and then you even had like a hotel that's still there it's under another name now but they had a hotel there on the beach that would like Weider had some association with this hotel so drostanolone was all bodybuilding food any bodybuilders that came out to like train at Gold's gym used to stay there all the if everyone came to a photo shoot for the magazines they used to put them there so it was the bodybuilding hotel so you had this and everybody knew each other and you had this feeling like at Gold's gym it was the guys that opened it years ago or took over it Pete Grimkowski and Ed Connors and people like that and so it was very much a family feel now it's changed a lot because somebody else bought Gold's gym somebody bought the Weiders out and you know we got the internet now so it's a whole different thing but that was literally you know people from all around the world would make a pilgrimage that's why they call it Mecca bodybuilding right make a pilgrimage there to train there and try to you know see the top bodybuilders and all that stuff so it's not quite the same but I still like to go out I swear I think the the minimum weight is set at a lot heavier amount compared to other gyms they're just the starting weight on some of the machines and some of the machines look like these contraptions that are going to hurt you because I've never seen some of them I mean they've got machines from every company that you want to get because if you've got a machine it's good to have your stuff in Gold's gym so I think I don't know but I don't think they even pay for any of their equipment it's just all on their permanent loan really from all the companies because it's like a showroom for people around the world right I find that the gym in Marbella the paddle gym is a little bit reminiscent of Gold's gym yeah it's a little bit LA like you know I mean Marbella is a little bit LA like if you like it's a little bit like Santa Monica or something with the promenades and the beaches and all that stuff and the lifestyle so I think California is as close as you would get to this if you wanted to you know somebody from the States like how is it it's a bit like Santa Monica or something like that that was my first time in LA and it was really good we got to meet I don't know if you know Dr. Rand McLean his practice is out in Santa Monica and he's treated some bodybuilders and other people looking to health and wellness and he does lots of the IV drips that's great you've got all these guys now I mean we had nothing yeah yeah yeah so it's whatever a couple of books that you could read about it most guys didn't want to even go for a blood test to the doctors because they were afraid of this reaction like oh no you shouldn't be doing you're going to kill this I'm like they don't want to help you know so everyone was just shooting in the dark but now the paradigm is if you have low testosterone you're at a greater risk of mortality so there Peter Atiyah forget the VO2 max low testosterone yeah and what would happen if you like over exercising all the time testosterone goes goes down and yeah it's short hard intense workouts with bodybuilding I mean I proved that because I did it oh yeah other guys trained other ways but I think my way was more efficient I think I got before I got injured anyway I think I got probably more out of my potential than other you know squeezed more out of my orange than other people did maybe had a bigger orange but they didn't squeeze all the juice out you know so not just myself other people have proven that you can do with short workouts and for your cardiovascular fitness I don't think you need to do long workouts either you can if you want to if you enjoy it and everything but like for a health point of view I don't think you need to too much is less than ideal I agree have you been following any of the new potential breakthroughs and this is going back early noughties myostatin inhibitors I'm not talking about the supplements but real medical I wasn't even aware of them I mean I only learned about myostatin in the last decade I suppose you know apparently Flex really has a deficiency which would explain I'm like how does he do that but you know a few times I was at Gold's Gym watching Flex some of the other guys train I'm thinking they're just piss arcing about they may have been but another time I saw him and he was training really heavy so he could if he wanted to you know I saw Flex Wheeler with his little joints and all that don't look strong but I saw him incline pressing 160 pound dumbbells got them up on his own did turn wraps and put them down it didn't look very difficult and I was like fuck that I'd find that quite hard you know and I'm bigger so you know he'd put the work in but probably not always you know I was always well that's interesting on the studies they did for people who had like muscular dystrophies they would find they increased the muscle mass by giving a myostat like an inhibit myostat you know either through antibodies or like siRNAs which is different mRNA other techniques to say hey Gene don't make this or hey we're going to block the myostat there's many different techniques of blocking myostat and what they found was they all did increase lean muscle mass decreased body fat but they didn't weren't able to walk out of that chair and so it makes you wonder if it has to be with the muscle neuron connection so the muscles were bigger but they were not functional they weren't functional enough to fix that dystrophy so I guess I'm wondering is this possibly why and maybe you've seen this in young men they seem like they're stronger than compared to when we get older they seem like they've got more lifting capacity or do I have this really dodgy joints I can't work it out because I've seen this before some kid 19 he's lifting you know and I think I'm well trained but he's just easily lifting half the stack and I'm doing it but it's making more difficult to keep up and I'm thinking that's really going to be stronger in between 20 and 30 because of the neurons as well firing like the higher levels of dopamine potentially your guess is as good as mine mate but I think my observation is peak like strength and stuff and recovery as a younger person is your peak for me that's like when I was 30 31 that was my peak of like I had no injuries I had no problems peak of strength and like if you observe I think that's about for a strength athlete that's probably around your peak years early 30s because it takes time to get there right so if you started training in late teens or something like that it's probably take you 10 years to like get somewhere near your maximum potential which actually is like I started training properly in 83 and I won my second Mr. Olympia which is arguably could have been my peak at 90 so that was exactly 10 years from when I started to like I feel like that was near my maximum you know there was not much more room to move there so the thing is with the myostatin blockers is like there might be some medical conditions where it's useful but for a bodybuilder like haven't we reached the reasonable limits of it looking even like attractive like at some point will they will they abuse it and I think that's what they'll be out in a couple years and I'll tell you why because when they failed the muscular dystrophy trials they said well how can we repurpose that and with the rise of Lagovia Monjaro the weight loss medications they're finding some atrophy well some loss of muscle and that might just go hand in hand I've spoken to other doctors they might go hand in hand with just losing weight you lose a bit of muscle so if they can add this to the Wagovia or the Monjaro then you can maintain muscle mass which we say is important as we age without being muscle mass monsters I think we tend to think of the Belgian blueberry cattle or those whippet dogs that have double the muscles or flex wheeler without quite being that way to help us I think as we age it might be worth it I mean if it was shown to be people are inherently lazy if there's a pill they can take this I think I think going back to exercising and doing much here's my question about the was it ozempic ozempic ozempic you're losing weight you're losing fat they're losing some muscle mass as well what if what if that person that's taking the medication is also training are they not losing muscle mass is that is that preventing them from losing muscle mass while they're using the ozempic so some of the doctors I've spoken to that prescribe we also prescribe a clinic recommend adding protein and if you exercise and I've heard of some bodybuilders now using the ozempic the Wagovi those are the same things or Manjaro slightly different and they're not losing muscle mass they're actually getting good fat gain so I think that it's misguided for the media to just blame and say it's muscle loss I think it would be if you're in a negative calorie diet you're potentially going to lose some muscle anyway so if you're in a negative calorie balance and you had enough protein and you lifted weight you probably minimized you're on testosterone as well so some of our patients are on testosterone and they're on the GLP-1 and you know the Wagovis etc you can minimize it so it'll be an interesting space you know watch the space the next couple years there'll be some new developments and the reason why I think so because if you've got three or four or five companies working towards this you know this has been the holy grail since the early noughties when it was discovered a woman a few years ago when these type of drugs first came out and she was asking my advice and I'm like I don't I can't advise you because I don't really know about it but I advised on what I could and she definitely put on muscle mass and got stronger while she was losing body fat I think especially the British media you know all the poppies grow at the same height and they love to catch people out right and say see these people are just trying to get an edge because they're using these Wagovi drugs and you're using those epics and in reality what they're forgetting is some latest new studies show it actually has anti-inflammatory and cardioprotective effects beyond just the weight loss so those effects start before you start losing weight I think that's something we should look at in a different way Metformin has also seen the positives Metformin there's Dapoglifosin the glyphosins as well these guys are all doing keto I think I've got built in keto because Dapoglifosin allows me to piss out the sugar so I don't think I'm absorbing many carbs even if I eat I think you need some carbs if you're doing muscle building but that's interesting let me ask you what would today's Dorian say to your younger version of yourself I mean I think I would say enjoy it more but I don't know if I would you know you would have listened to you know I don't know if that was a slippery I always felt that's a slippery slope you know I do things to extreme and yeah maybe enjoy it a bit more but you know I look back on it now and it's like it was a magical thing man a magical time and an experience and everything and I appreciate it but whenever you're like in it I think you don't you know yeah when you're in it you don't appreciate it often but it was a bit surreal like I mean there I am right and this is what I dreamt about and I was just a kid in Birmingham with the Joe Reader magazine and all these people in there and all this this whole lifestyle and this different world that I got absorbed into and nobody around me knew what the fuck that was all about right you know it's very un-Birmingham like and there I am and I'm doing it and it was weird it was like it's almost like I was in a movie and I knew this was going to happen you know you created your own future yeah well that's what we do we're all in our movie actually you know we're all creating or co-creating our existence yeah and I made this I had this dream and I was focused on it so intensely plus I had some degree of physical potential I'm sure there's another kid out somewhere in the world that was also dreaming very intensely and going to the gym and train and maybe he didn't quite have what it taught or the encouragement or there were obstacles that they couldn't overcome yeah I had obstacles and lack of encouragement but I turned that into a positive which is always the choice because you talk about blood and guts right and that's kind of your philosophy whether it's in business or how you got through the body building extreme focus you know somebody else just came up with the blood and guts because they saw what I was doing it looked it looked raw you know it looked retro it wasn't the normal weeder sunglasses and girls on a beach type of stuff it was something raw in a basement and blood and guts yeah that's that's what it looked like so that's that's where it comes from but it's it's just focus you know you get what you focus on so that's why you gotta try to be aware of what you're focusing on before things went away and you're in a mess because we don't normally aware of what we're thinking actually sometimes you're in autopilot mode a lot of times you know how many times you know I've gone past the turn because I'm going towards the gym right because I normally go towards the gym in the morning but today I'm doing something different but I forgot because I'm shifting into autopilot and you go past the turn oh shit gotta go back that way so we're gonna do it you know you're gonna do it but it's it's coming out of it and knowing that you're in it and getting some control on it and that's what I'll be talking about so the guys did all about the mind man because that's like we can talk about everything but without that kind of master controlling computer being online it's not gonna happen it's like a glue that holds all the other things together that really resonates with me I mean you know before I started balancing my hormones I was in this place where I wasn't really doing what I wanted to do and it just felt surreal like you said when you got into built yourself up and bodybuilding me taking this idea from nothing into a reality now I'm doing it and it's exactly what I've always wanted without that thought of you thinking to yourself I'd like to do that I can do that without that thought then you wouldn't be sitting here would you you'd be thinking something else or if you're thinking oh yeah but I'm not good enough to do that well that is also your reality that would be your reality if you think then it's gonna be like that right well better to look at people if somebody is doing something and you think that's great use them like wow if he can do it just another man you know at some point I had to come to that conclusion in my own career because I looked on all these guys in the magazines these champions it's like role models and heroes and hey now I'm gonna now I'm up against these guys right so I had to realize that these are guys that are very good at what they do but they're human beings they've got two arms two legs and whatever they have been able to do then surely I can do it I've already done a lot you know I've already jumped over things so why not another one this was in particular in like with Lee Haney the first one because he was Mr. Olympia in 1984 I started training in 1983 so he's always been Mr. Olympia all that time I've been training and coming up and coming up and then I had to see him as like oh well I'm gonna try and beat him and why not because he comes from America so what he's got a better gym so what it doesn't matter all the little it might be other people saying it or it might be me I'm hearing them but I just back them away and like no and just push through why not why not and then the next year Lee Haney I didn't beat him I got second but it was my first try and the next year he's not competing which was threw me right off because I was always the underdog I was the kid from Birmingham and I was not the you know the social guy and even people within the British Federation some people didn't really want me to succeed because I wasn't that guy but it didn't matter I did it anyway you know and always your underdog and then 92 I'm logically the favourite Lee Haney stepped down I was second last year so now everyone like is putting me as a favourite which was like baffling was a bit confused about for a while I remember seeing the magazines 92 I was senior in high school and I started uni yeah yeah it's great man everywhere I go all around the world I was in Argentina and the guys there they grew up when I was Mr. Olympia and somehow been an inspiration to them not just in the gym just generally and that's great all the people around the world if you can touch people in a positive way if it's one it's great if it's a lot of people around the world it's even better so I look at it like that now you know I just wanted to do this for me in the beginning and it is quite a selfish pursuit right it's all about you and what you're eating and your sleep and your training and your body but I see now a bigger picture that gave me a platform where I got people listening to me and so on so it's great if you can inspire somebody in a positive way whatever that is well you're doing some great things I really appreciate you joining us here great man thanks for having me on maybe I'll see you in another 12 months cool thanks Nick it's been an honour to have Dorian Yates on our programme today and delve into the extraordinary story and invaluable insights to our viewers take these lessons to heart and remember to subscribe like and comment on your favourite takeaways and stay strong stay balanced and we'll catch you next time on Balance My Hormones on His His! His! His Thank you.