 computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation computation four to five months. Yes, literally half. With the whole year. So he's not even aging one chronological year for one biological year. They're like, well, I can't live like that. So I'm going to go back to eating my Kentucky fried chicken or whatever. It might be deep fried food three times a week. I can't. And so they can't see there's a happy medium. Well, I think it's best just to start simple, you know, focus on the lifestyle first of all, and then look at your supplements and what you're taking and then where that can be optimized. So I'm here again with Tony Pemberton. He is a founder of Epic Genetics. And one of the tests that he uses is also a test that Brian Johnson has used to help measure his pace of aging. And it's really interesting in that he created this aging Olympics, this competition, almost a cult following, if you would say, of people who partake in this. And they use these tests. I think there's this true age test that looks at epigenetic markers to see if you're aging faster than you should or less than you should. Or if you're aging. Like, I think for instance, Brian Johnson, you said, what's his number? His latest score is like 0.48, which is like the lowest ever seen. Okay. So 0.48, that means in about four to five, he's only aging four to five months. Yes, literally half a year. With the whole year. So he's not even aging one chronological year for one biological year. So his biological age is less than half a year, at least on the latest measure. But then we know, I mean, if you've seen his documentary on Netflix, there's some quite, what some would consider extreme interventionist types of treatment, some potentially dangerous. I think the latest one has been his use of rapamycin. And for people who don't know, rapamycin, I think is the name. It's a drug they found. It was on Easter Island. It comes from some fungus that they've isolated that initially was used and approved. This is an approved drug for people who have organ transpons. It lowers the immune system, but it also lowers mTOR, similar to how metformin does, but on a larger scale. And he was experimenting with all different degrees of five, six, seven milligrams per week. I think even doing up to 13 and then doing it every other week. And he was supervised by doctors doing this. We know other doctors who actually themselves have tried the rapamycin. And Tony here has also, you've... Yeah, I've been running it and I was on six milligrams. I've dropped down to five and just seeing my response on that. And interesting with Brian, he said he's, I think over five years, he's been using it and stopped it. And he was saying that his resting heart rate, that's dropped by being off it. And his lipids, they normalize by stopping it. Even his fasting glucose as well, that improved. So it's just, I think it's a very interesting idea because I think people have a very... When you look at animal models, it's across the board, it increases lifespan. So I think there's obviously an individual response. And I think with his diet, we talked about it before, but he's very strict on calories. And... I mean, hardly eats. He stops eating after 11 in the morning. Yes, crazy. And then he's vegan as well. So he's probably very low in amino acids. Well, what is seeing him die? No, he eats his nutty pudding. That's it, yeah. And I mean, I don't know. I personally, not to knock vegans, but I find the food very bland and very processed. And I'd rather have a more balanced Mediterranean diet, including grass-fed meat, potentially red meat or lamb and fish. And kind of a balanced approach. So with fish, you can have too much mercury, depending on the fish, et cetera. But, you know, good. I like plants as well. You know, I eat a salad and greens, right? But it's hard. But anyway, this is what he does and wants to do. And he said that rapamycin actually was harmful to him, at least to his goal of reversing aging. But despite that, I guess he got back on track and he's winning this aging Olympics. I mean, this is insane, right? Aging Olympics. Yeah, it's a rejuvenation. A rejuvenation Olympics, yeah. I mean, I guess I'm on there as well. I looked up on the website to see where I fall. I want them like 131 out of I don't know how many people. I think I looked up my number. You're well below where I am. But my average was about, because you have to do at least two. Three. Was it two? Two. I think it was three. Maybe they'll change it. So my average is 0.84. So, like I said in a previous video, I'm only aging eight months out of a whole year, which I'm okay with that. But you're doing quite well. You're aging up to about, you know, July. 0.76. And I'm hoping to get that down lower still. I think it's just because I've worked so many hours and I've seen that's a big correlation in my aging data. When I, the more hours I work, then. You enjoy life? Are you happy? Yeah, I'm trying to find that balance, a bit of, you know, work-life balance. Because, you know, I find, because with that pace of aging, it is, tracks 19 different bar markers. It even comes down even to your oral health. So if you're cutting corners, even with seeing the hygienist and glistening. Emotivism, yeah. Yeah, even that can make a difference. If you're, like, maybe working too hard, not getting enough time to exercise. Your cardiovascular fitness has a big impact on it. I mean, most people. I mean, obviously people that tune in and watch, you know, our kind of podcasts and our videos, they're health conscious. Many of them are looking for information on testosterone therapy. And I know this because when we've done videos on peptides and things that go outside of that realm, we don't seem to get as many views. Because the people that like to watch the channel. And what I'm saying is that we want to present this information because many people that start down the road of testosterone therapy, they see the age rejuvenation benefits from the testosterone therapy. And then they think, well, what else? And that has happened. Like, what else can I do? Because I feel this good. How can I go any further? Others say, okay, I'm on testosterone. That's fine. Other guys are like, okay, well, maybe I need to improve my fertility. Or, okay, the testosterone I'm on now, I want to see the increase in the size of my testes. Because for me, cosmetically, I want to have the benefits of testosterone therapy. And also, you know, I guess the scrotum to match. Yeah, you want it to kind of match up with this youthful feeling and maintain your fertility. If not the fertility, at least the size or the appearance of your scrotum. So these are things that some people are interested in. And I'm interested in it because, you know, I'm turning 51 this year. And I want to live healthily longer. But it's almost become an industry in and of itself. And let's not kill ourselves that what Brian Johnson's putting together, some would argue, is just another version of his brain tree or other businesses that he started. He's got a following and a movement. Not saying that that's a bad thing. It's just one of the benefits that we have of living in this time, isn't it? Yeah. We have these things that are accessible. Yeah. And I think maybe he's pushing a bit too far because I think when people see the kind of content he's putting out and the things he does, they're like, well, I can't live like that. So I'm going to go back to eating my Kentucky fried chicken or whatever. It might be deep fried food three times a week. And so they can't see there's a happy medium somewhere in the middle where you can get, you know, the 80-20 rule of being healthy where you just cut out a few of those really bad offending things. And you can still lead a pretty normal life and get 80% of the benefit that Brian is. And people just think it's one, one or the other. And it's just, it's a narrow limit. I mean, I do find it fascinating because I think we all have a little bit of that Brian Johnson in us in the sense that you kind of appreciate looking beyond the horizon, looking at what's there today and wanting to try these things now. That's somewhat the frustration of the traditional medical community, right? Things that are acknowledged in medicine have been tried, true, studied for the most part, considered, generally considered as safe because they've been given the stamp of approval by a government agency because they've gone through numerous phase one, two, three trials. And then the other modalities that haven't necessarily reached those trials but are still available like PRP, for instance. So that's when they draw out your blood, they spin it in the centrifuge, they take out the platelet-rich plasma, they inject it into your face or into your hair or into your business. It's down below to improve the rectal function. Some, you know, I've tried that along with stem cells. Stem cells is another one that's very few, if any, FDA-approved studies. And then we can also argue of the relevance of the FDA or any regulatory body when it comes to that. But, you know, stem cells, and I've got a good friend who's a PhD in stem cells, and that if you are going to do these trials, you just have to register with this organization. And there are many clinics that have popped up in Rattan and Honduras, et cetera, that people like Brian Johnson have gone to to get the stem cells and to get these other injections of polystatin as well. Polystatin in what they call a DNA program. There's a whole doctor down there that's from, I think, Canada or the U.S. So let's set up a clinic there and essentially experimenting with these different treatments. And we really don't know, because the only data we have is the stuff that they were publishing, if this is reproducible, if this is going to be reversing aging. So imagine that for people that don't know that polystatin may reduce, well, they know it can reduce FSH. It's a type of polystatin that doesn't, and FSH is what you need for fertility. I think that's polystatin 3-4-4, which is a recombinant protein that comes from the gene. I can't remember what it is, but anyway, it's supposed to have a linkage between increasing lean muscle mass and reversing aging. And so they inject, I think, these circular plasmids, instruction of DNA, directly into people, hoping the cell's going to pick it up and switch on some cellular machinery and churn out your own unlimited supply of polystatin. Yeah, I think it lasts about two years or so, something like that. But I'm still questioning, as my PhD friend, is this actually showing a substantive amount of increase in polystatin? And even if it does, does it actually increase the muscle mass? Because since the early 2000s, there's been talks about myostatin inhibitors. I don't know, are you familiar with myostatin inhibitors besides polystatin? There's ACE-31 as well. So there were certain small molecules, or in this case, they were antibody treatments which would shut down the myostatin, would inhibit them. So for people watching, myostatin is a negative regulator of muscle growth. The more myostatin that you have that your body makes, the less muscle mass, it puts the brakes on your muscle mass and your muscle mass growth. And some people have mutations in that gene, and that's something I look at, and there's eight markers, eight SNP areas, and I don't have any of them, unfortunately. And you can see that through the true diagnostic testing, through normal genes. Yeah, normal DNA testing. I could look at mine, I get mine at Nebula Health, especially now that 23andMe is, I think, gone. But yeah, so myostatin from the early noughties, that's a very exciting area of research. That was also considered some of an anti-aging modality, and you can see that Brian Johnson has taken that on board. Again, none of this has been approved. Few of those drugs, like ACE-031 or something, they tried. They tried to get that approved, and then they found that people were getting some nosebleeds and some of these little spider veins, and they pulled it from the market. Interestingly, and watch this space, in the next few years or sooner, there are drugs that are coming to market very quickly off the back of the semiglutide GLP-1 agonists. I don't know if you're aware of this, but there are myostatin-inhibiting drugs, or one of them is called bimimugrumab from Eli Lilly, will very nicely complement the tizepatide because of the thought that when you decrease the motility of your digestive tract with GLP-1s, when you decrease your appetite, there may, if you don't eat enough protein, be a decrease in muscle mass. So if they can add on this medication to the other, then that's the way to go. Essentially, they repurposed the drug that they reached phase 3 trials. So people that don't know, phase 3 is the final stage that you've tested in people in phase 2, a small group of people in phase 1 for the safety. Phase 2, general efficacy. Phase 3 is a larger group of people, and the final bit of efficacy. And then they pulled back because they didn't reach their clinical endpoint. So even though the drug lowered myostatin, the drug increased lean muscle mass, it decreased body fat significantly. It was safe. There weren't any side effects. The FDA wanted them to reach an endpoint of walking distance or grip strength in patients who were very debilitated from the muscular dystrophy. Because they couldn't show that in the study, they decided to pull the drug before the FDA said no. I think that's a complete waste. But they said no. Now we can repurpose it and we'll use it for muscle wasting or fat loss. Which, again, is essentially what Brian Johnson is trying to do with the folistatin. But these will be approved drugs in the next few years. How they place them, if they place them at somewhat of an affordable price like the Ozempics and the Tizepatides, we don't know. Or are they going to be only for IV drip treatments where you have to go into a clinic? That could be the way, because that's the way it was tested for that other group of people. So anyway, I don't mean to go off track, but that's one of the areas that we can watch the space for. Because that could be a very important way to legally, safely, potentially increase muscle mass in people and improve longevity. Yeah. Especially, you know, people get into their 60s, 70s. And then where, you know, muscular dystrophy is a real big problem, isn't it? And they're not the only company working on this. Is it like three or four other companies that are finally will be able to bring out after, what, 25 years of study? I think it was Amy Wager's lab initially, way back in the day, and also I think a Dr. Lee that had discovered the bits about the importance of myostatin. So we'll see. We'll see if inhibiting myostatin or pathways that lead to myostatin will improve longevity, increase muscle mass, and most importantly, decrease body fat, which I think is really, really important. So yeah, maybe Brian Johnson will be doing that one as well as all of us potentially having that. But I mean, that's the area where I think it's exciting. At least in my mind, it lights up and say, well, these are all exciting things. But then as I've gotten older, I've also taken with a pinch of salt and realized that, you know, are any of these going to be that one-two punch that's going to be required? I think what Brian Johnson's doing, and to a certain degree what you're doing, I guess, and even what I do, we have to weigh up is how much of the effort and thought and routine that goes into this is worth the outcome. I think we still don't know, do we? No, no, no, 100%. And that's why I see some people where they spend a lot of money, they maybe even spend too much on all their supplements, and then they just overdo it. And then their pace of aging score, it turns out when you look into the numbers even more, that they're actually over-supplementing certain things. And then so people can go down a real rabbit hole. But I think it's best just to start simple, you know, focus on the lifestyle first of all, and then look at your supplements and what you're taking and then where that can be optimized. I think that's a fair point, you know, and it depends how, like anything, it can become a hobby. Do you think this has become a hobby for you? Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. And then you've also kind of turned it into your business about trying to, because you are very knowledgeable and well-read on this. And whilst you're not a doctor and you don't pretend to be a doctor, nor am I. Sometimes, and we're talking about this as well, you know, it's important to be able to share that information because doctors are taught a very narrow focus of what they know. And then even the ones that have interests outside of that, sometimes they're held back by their regulatory agencies, depending on the country that they're in, to how far they can go with that to help people. Medicine's a really weird one because on one hand, there's that old saying, you know, do no harm, first do no harm, the Hippocratic Oath. But on the other hand, in the process of being able to help people, how do you kind of circle the square when it comes to how do you kind of push the boundary without being that steak oil salesman? It's a really fine line. What we have now, I think, with tech and diagnostics and these tools are new tools that haven't been fully brought into the traditional way of doing things. But then we live in a disruptive age, don't we? And I guess the hope is why you do this. And while we talk about it is these might eventually be brought into the fold or as part of what you need to be healthy, right? Yeah, yeah, 100%. And it's just working out. There's so many things you can track. As bar markers and associations with longevity, whatever it might be, but it's just we're knowing what to focus on and how deep do you want to go with it, I think. So I guess it's still early days in this field, in this industry. But I think what you do in helping and trying to coach people into that direction to kind of match up with what you're doing, I'm sure you've got some good stories about how it's improving the quality of people's lives. I mean, I think I've seen some of the good reviews on your page. For those who are interested and want to focus on this, both as a hobby and improving their lifestyle, having the tools to measure that, working with you. You work with us on the hormone side and the medical side of things. I think all around that's a good thing for most people, if they're interested in that. Other people, they don't want to know. We're talking about like the full-body MRIs, right? Some people, why would you want to know? Because you might not be able to do something about it. And then sometimes there are things you can do about it. So I think it depends on the disposition of the post. Yeah, I know. I think when you look at epigenetic biomarker proxies, if they're not diagnosis of diseases, what they are is disease precursors, which tend to be more reversible. So once you can see a direction you're going, rather than being, oh, I don't want to know what's wrong with me, you know, you're just giving you more of an open picture so you can be kind of proactive about your health rather than being reactive. That's the difference. So honestly, that's probably exciting to them, being able to do that and help people. Yeah, when you see people and they come in with a very average pace of aging score and then you, these lifestyle factors do make a difference. And you generally, you do see it. And with that Dunundin pace, it's correlated with about 60% of health outcomes. So yeah, it does. That's why it's no coincidence that Brian Johnson, the amount of money he's spending, that's why he's got the best ever score ever, because these things, they do work. Obviously, there is some, you know, when you're talking about precision of that croc, it was 60%. You know, if you're getting really deep into the numbers, then, you know, there's some tolerance. And now I believe it's 96% accurate if you're just say tests on the same day. So pretty, pretty accurate. But yeah, over time, these things do make a difference, that croc. And then when you look at people's facial aging, that this is probably the most well-trained croc out there. It was done over like a 45-year study, longitudinal study with 1,000 participants. And when you compare 45-year-olds, they were aging fastest versus the slowest. And the average, the average looked 45. What youngest, the slowest aging looked 35. And then the fastest look, about 55. So it does very much tally up with how society is in general, that someone of the same age can look two decades. Yeah, that's true. And then sometimes we'll say, or you look at pictures of people in the past. I mean, the one that I've seen kind of go in all the memes is in the States, there used to be an advert for diabetes. Diabetes. And the guy was quite a round-faced mustache. He was in some programs in the U.S. He always pronounced it diabetes. Diabetes. Right. And then people, I think, from the States will know what I'm talking about. And then they'll say, well, he was 35 in that picture or 43 in the picture. Then here's what a 45-year-old or 43-year-old looks like today. Obviously, they're different people. But the thought is that the people in the 80s and 90s who were of the age that we are now, well, I'm going to be 51 instead of 39 now, look a lot older. So that's a whole other phenomenon. But is it because of the way they're dressed? Or is it literally because they were aging at a faster pace compared to where some of us are aging now? It's been a bit of a bit, isn't it? I think even more people smoked back then, less nutritional information out there. So probably more deficiencies as well. I think it's just a mixture of that. And then, yeah, just lifestyle factors, I think. But then there's negative consequences now for some of the, you know, maybe there's more microplastics around. Yeah, heavy metals, pollution. It's a complicated thing, isn't it? And that's why you mentioned that about maybe Brian Johnson was able to remove some of these things because he had his blood filtered. Yeah. And then he's monitoring all his food intake, what actual amount of heavy metals and the measuring his microplastics in his body. So he's been very conscientious with removing that stuff. And so that's probably all coming together now to allow that pace of aging score. Well, that's interesting because a couple of years ago there was a study out of Australia that showed that those who had a lot of forever chemicals, they're very difficult to get rid of in the environment as well as within us. One way to remove some of those was through blood donations or just therapeutic phobotomy. And I know people that watch the channel who are on testosterone therapy, some will have higher levels of, you know, hematocryl hemoglobin. Some people just remove the blood anyway because every so often, I mean, as just normal blood donors, like every three months, four months. Yeah. Yeah. We have to be careful. Hemochromatosis. We talked about that. Yeah. Dr. Rudy. Many people who have hemochromatosis are also candidates for TRT treatment because one drives the other or usually the high hemochromatosis drives down the testosterone level. So, yeah, I mean, donating blood isn't that bad. There is a segment of the TRT community that will argue against blood donations, interestingly enough. And I've never thought them to be that bad or, you know, if you were a normal person that was a nice person that wanted to donate blood for the blood supply, what's the problem? And if you happen to be on testosterone therapy and you want to be the nice person and donate blood, that's fine. The difficulty becomes is, and I kind of understand where they're coming from, is you don't want to put the fear of gold in people because we know that elevated hemoglobin, i.e. hematocrit, red blood cells to a certain point is not a death sentence. And it might not even be that harmful, especially in light of people that live in high altitudes. And that erythrocytosis is not the same thing as polycythemia. It's not. Polycythemia includes high red blood cells and high white blood cells and high amount of platelets. So that's not the same. And a lot of times the medical community gets it wrong and conflates the two. So for those people who are saying, no, no, therapeutic phobotomy, that's fine because of one testosterone treatment, the body adapts. I think they're just tired of the nagging and the lack of understanding from the mainstream medical community about the slight elevation of red blood cells that can occur from TRT. But at the same time, what I'm saying and why we're talking about it now is that to remove maybe your forever chemicals or just to be a nice person, if you can donate, and they will hold onto your blood despite being on TRT. It's probably not a bad thing if you do want to give blood, right? No, not at all. And even this True Health even monitors the forever chemicals as well as even lead exposure. So, yeah, it's quite interesting. So, yeah, I mean, again, if it works with you, obviously you have certain medical conditions that will preclude you from having to donate blood. And obviously you talk to your doctor about that. But some of us are doing our bit to try to stay younger, healthier, and to avoid diseases of aging. Obviously, the basis of that, you know, we think is testosterone therapy if you need it, if you're deficient, if your body's not making enough. And also for those who might be watching that they don't have a testosterone deficiency necessarily and have sussed it out through, you know, blood testing or having an examination and they're doing a blood test. And then perhaps you are still looking to improve the quality of your health span. Maybe give it a go and have a look and see, you know, both they can do your biomarker blood tests that we do at Balanced Hormones. And perhaps you can look at making changes with this true age health test. Yeah. And like I said, I've seen people who've gone on TRT and that's actually their pace of aging has come down. Obviously, other lifestyle factors involved, I'm sure, because no one's doing just one thing normally. Right. But, yeah, it certainly does. It's not a bad thing for sure. So, I guess that's finally, we'll finish up. That's one of the arguments against what Brian Johnson does is that there are all these different things that you're doing. You're an N of one. How do you know which modality is doing what? And if you remove, you try to simplify your life after lowering that aging score, what do you start stopping? You know, is if you take this whole group of vitamins, supplements, lifestyle, everything and just carry on with it. Or are you able to stop doing some of these things and still maintain that low pace of aging? And I guess. Yeah, it's the complexity. And that's why I'm really big on this new True Health test because that tracks like 100 different bar markers from a range of different antioxidants, vitamins, many, many, a few supplements, even like spermidine, alpha-ketoglutarate, agrothionine, just all these different. But, yeah. But where does it stop? Right? There's so many. Oh, that does good. That does good. Oh, yeah, that's good. That's good. I'll throw that in. Throw that in. Throw that in. With supplements, we don't know how they interact with each other. And many of them, we have no idea how they interact with medications that someone's on, you know, from blood pressure or for the other things. And there's something else interesting. I saw a meme on social media about, and I think it came from a doctor, interestingly enough, that said, you know, if you have any of these risk factors, you know, high cholesterol or high blood pressure, if you're on medications for these heart conditions, then you're at this much greater risk of dying. And hang on a minute. Let's put this into context. If someone's on medications, the right medications for heart disease, you know, maybe PCSK9 inhibitors to lower lipids and LP little A, if you're on certain ARBs for blood pressure to keep that, because, you know, blood pressure is a silent killer. If you're controlling for those factors, in fact, you know, metformin or epigliflozin or epigliflozin for managing your blood sugar and your insulin sensitivity. In fact, many of these have shown to actually improve your quality of life and your lifespan. Right? Obviously, some blood pressure medications aren't great for quality of life. They can affect erections, et cetera. But the ARBs, angio-receptor blockers, are much, much better. And some of them are actually very, very helpful. Like telomisartan can increase. Oh, yeah. Or the PPAR agonist, which is almost a mild exercise mimetic. Right? So there are benefits for having some of these medical modalities to improve your quality of life. But fixing the core, which is, you know, heart, kidney, lungs, brain, right? That's what we want to fix. And then everything else. But we want to make sure that if you're taking those, that these other supplements aren't interacting with the medications that you're taking. I guess that's where we have to be careful. Yeah. I appreciate what you're doing. And, you know, thanks for coming. And for those who are watching, you know, do you agree? Is it a worthwhile, is it worthwhile to move towards this anti-aging longevity lifespan interventions? Where do you draw the line? Let us know in the comments what your thoughts are about this whole topic. If you're doing this, what you think. And if you like content like this, please do subscribe. Hit the notification bell. If you want to get information, we'll leave links below to Tony's company and doing his epigenetic links, as well as where you can order blood tests and certain biomarkers that you can look at, either for your testosterone level or general wellness that we do at Balance My Hormones. So, again, thanks for watching. And see you next time. And to your health.