 Hi, I'm Mike, the founder of Balance my hormones, I want to thank you for coming to our website and visiting us. We're always happy to have new people visiting us and learning all about HRT and TRT. On our website, you'll find some interesting tools to help discover whether your testosterone might be deficient or if you have other hormone issues. One of the areas I want to point out is our testosterone converter, which converts units from either American units to UK units or European units. You can also calculate your free testosterone levels if you have total testosterone, SHBG or your albumin levels. If you don't have albumin, you can just use a fudge factor or plug it in to find out what your free testosterone levels are. We also have a syringe guide. Actually, no one else has this where you can see what your dose is of various different testosterone esters and how that would be represented on your syringe. You can pick the size of the syringe. You can pick out what your dose is, either in milligrams or milliliters, and it will calculate out and show you on this picture of the syringe what it's going to look like. And finally, if you're not sure you need testosterone or you may have questions, we have this online hormone quizzes that will take you through different symptoms. And then at the end, you'll be given information, letting you know whether or not you may or may not need the treatment. Obviously, this is just for informational purposes only, and the true diagnostic will be getting a blood test. We can also encourage you to get blood tests through our site. We've got many different blood tests that are available. There is a particular procedure where you would get two blood tests if you're starting TRT, but we have many other health and wellness tests that can be very useful. If you don't know where to start, just contact a member of our staff, and we can help organize bespoke tests for you or point you in the right direction for which test that you might need. But I would definitely check out our online hormone test or online hormone quiz where you might be able to find out if you have any of the symptoms that are related to low T. So thanks again for visiting our website. We hope we'll be able to service you in the future as part of the HRT TRT community at Balance My Hormones. Oh, and by the way, if you haven't seen, you can come and visit our YouTube channel. We have loads of information about all things HRT TRT interesting podcasts and different topics that might help allay any fears that you might have when starting your hormone treatments. So if you like information like that, feel free to subscribe to those channels where you can learn a bit more. And finally, we also have that's new on the website is our online GP service through a branding called Balance My Health. So this takes us outside of the hormone arena and looks at general online GP services, which you can order. You simply fill out an online form on our website. If you go to the online doctor, online GP service, it will take you through a series of questions. And then at the end, you can actually book in directly and live with a doctor. So we hope you find that tool useful and helpful in you getting an online GP service.