 What to expect two weeks into your TRT therapy? Watch next. But don't forget to subscribe and like whilst you watch this video. And keep watching. Okay, so you're two weeks in after your first injection or first cream application, you know, you know, what to expect, you know, you know, what to expect. And we're basically speaking from our own personal journeys. I mean, you know, Mike started, you know, TRT, you know, TRT, 23 years ago. During World War II. No, not that at all. Not that. So he probably doesn't remember it. But basically, it's our personal journeys and also the men that we support through and we hear their experiences and I think it's important information to know. I think this would have helped me a little bit. Um, when I first started when I first started TRT. So, I mean, for you, do you remember what it was like when you were going through? I do. I had hair when I started, but that's... Really? Yeah. I actually had hair. I was 22. I, I had low levels and it was before I started, it was, you know, finding a doctor at the time that could, could treat me. So once I found that and we had a blood test and I went to a consultation, he said, right, I, I think you're going to be a candidate for TRT. We're anything called TRT then for testosterone treatment and, um, you know, you're ready to do your first injection and I remember that moment because it was kind of a life-changing decision to consent to go forward with that treatment. So I had the first injection. I remember going home and I'd say in a couple of days I actually felt something. Yeah. You felt excited? Yeah. I'd, um... Anxious? Not really anxious. No. I had, I had more, more energy. Yeah. Uh, the gym, was a bit better and I felt, I felt a much better pump and it just kept getting better, uh, better each week. Yeah. But, uh, my, my treatment plan was an injection initially every two weeks. So once a fortnight. Yeah. So it was a bit of ups and downs for me. And that's not the kind of modern treatments that we have today and not the kind of modern treatments that our doctors use for, for clients. So, I mean, with me, I, I suppose I, I had a fair amount of anxiety about starting, you know, a lifelong treatment and injections as well. Um, so had the anxiety, had a bit of excitement about starting, obviously realizing what potentially could be, you know, causing the symptoms that you've been having for a long time. And I suppose, I think maybe I had a bit of placebo, you know, I was like, well now I'm finally getting back on track. I'm going to get in the gym. I'm going to do some more. I'm going to start eating healthily. But realistically, like my, my symptoms, I didn't really notice much in the first couple of weeks, you know, by week two, which is what we're talking about. Really, I, you know, it was not much of a difference to be honest. I remember I was on that journey with you. Yes. I remember. And you called and I can share my own experiences. But again, as I said, my experiences in the first few weeks were all right. It was still the honeymoon phase. And I think part of it was because my HPTA axis hadn't shut down then. Yeah. And so you've got your own endogenous production of testosterone plus the exogenous that was given. And so that you feel really good. It's almost the honeymoon phase. You also, you started before the internet. Yeah. Right? And I... Yeah. Yeah. Well, no, there was some internet there. We're only talking... It's like dial-up. 1996. So you just started, really. There wasn't Facebook forums and there weren't... You can still download porn, you know, just line by line by line. You can get it there. Remember that. And if someone gets on the phone and it would interrupt what you're doing. Yeah. But I think there's a real sort of thing about, you know, there's an expectation created from social media. You get lots of people going on there with the symptom that has really bothered them for such a long period of time. And then they really... Maybe it's caused them a lot of anxiety, a lot of pain. And then they get that improved. They get an improvement in erections or anxiety or mood or fatigue. And they want to go and shout about it on a platform that is social media. And then, you know, somebody who actually may not be on the same level of fatigue or anxiety or things like that may then expect more. Yeah. You know, so there's expectations, I think, around the two. I think you're right. I think over the years, expectations have grown even higher. You know, there are some success stories. Other people take a bit longer. Yeah. You know, just like we spoke about on previous videos, there's not one testosterone that's right for everyone. So everything's very individualized. But if you expect to have the same outcome as everyone else that you've read about on the internet, it's going to be different for you. Now, the vast majority of people, you know, we have seen get better over time. But the time by two weeks, it could be anywhere. Yeah. So I think the majority of people that I've spoken to and supported through therapy is that two weeks, really, you might have, you know, done a few injections, basically. And you might, that's really the only thing to sort of discuss and feedback on. Really, the majority of people at that point, they're not really noticing anything. There might be some placebo. And that's the majority. Remember, there are always some outliers, absolutely people out there that have said they've had, you know, an injection of Sustanon or cream and they've, you know, they've had, they felt dramatic differences, right, immediately. But the general, in my experience, the people that I've talked to, it doesn't seem to be the case. Yeah. I mean, I, you know, I don't know if it's placebo, but the second time when I had been off treatment, then put on patches, that's quite old, and then transferred, converted from patches over to the scrocial cream. I do remember within a day or two, it felt noticeably better than the patches. And I didn't have to wear four patches, like around the midsection, which was very uncomfortable. You're trying to give up smoking. You can give me walking. Yeah. And it would be crinkling sounds as I walked. And it was quite embarrassing because you're in the office. Yeah. You kind of bend over, hunch over, and you can hear crackle. So you got rid of that pretty quickly. Yeah. So the scrotal cream was brilliant from that point of view. You were using scrotal cream 20-something years ago, weren't you? Yeah. Yeah. So, but, you know, each time, you know, you might experience something different when you, well, in my case, there was a short stopping and then starting again. Yeah. But each product requires new titration. Each, I should say product, each testosterone treatment may require some retitrate. You have to retitrate. You have to have blood tests done to make sure that you're on target because there can be variability with the treatments. Heading in the right direction sort of thing. Okay. So this is two weeks. It's another two weeks then before a blood test. So there'd be another two to four weeks, actually, before you would need to get a blood test to see how you're doing. And it's always a good idea to monitor your own symptoms when you're going through it, maybe keeping a journal or log. Yeah, some people do that, don't they? And that can be very helpful because then you know where you are, where you were. And then when you look back, it's like, oh, okay, well, that was the transition period. Yeah. So there's people that like to keep a journal of symptoms, mental, physical, sexual, everything, and sleep quality. And that may help some people. And there are some other guys that I've just found, if they, as they put it, just crack on, just carry on with things that improve their life. Instead of focusing on the testosterone itself, work on your training, make a plan for eating, sleeping, trying to improve sleep hygiene. Or just crack on with what you do in your daily life. You might be busy. That's a really good point. And just cracking on. That's a good point. I actually had the discussion with someone today. And I think it just depends on where your comfort level is and what kind of brings you peace. So what I have noticed as well is when people start in the first two weeks, it does reorganize their lives in a way where they start doing things they may not have done before. And then this can be a double-edged sword. I don't know. You might not agree. Or actually might agree. Because when you think I've got this new testosterone, I'm going to go back to the gym. I'm going to start exercising. There is a tendency you may overdo it and then wonder why your energy levels aren't quite there. Because you've done more than you've ever done in ages. And now you expect the testosterone to compensate. So that's something to be careful of. The doctors have said that if you are a regular gym goer or used to be or you know how to exercise or you're keen to start, that if you start something like thyroid medication or testosterone or you're just restoring any of those hormones, that it's worth really sort of acting like training under the radar, just trying to not push yourself too far, just getting your body acclimatized to it. And a good analogy that I heard was imagine if you were starved of a key nutrient or just food, good food for two years. That you may be with testosterone, estrogen, thyroid, whatever. You'd probably be dead. Yeah, you'd be dead. You'd be dead. Well, if you had just enough, let's just say you were malnourished, right? You're alive. It's probably what it feels like if you've got low testosterone in lots of cases. But then you introduce, you know, your food back in. And let's say you eat well for a month or so, a short period of time. You know, it doesn't mean that all of the damage or lack of healing or repair throughout the body or all those processes that require food, you know, have been suddenly restored by eating as, you know, food for a small amount of time. And it can be similar. I like that analogy that I heard that, you know, you have testosterone for a while, but it doesn't mean the body's suddenly used to squatting what you used to squat or running, how you used to run or those sorts of things. And that can be key in terms of just long-term, you know, looking after yourself, I suppose, and having a goal of making TRT and other hormone therapy sort of work. So I think that was good information I heard about that. But, I mean, two weeks, there's not much more to say, really. Do you want to talk about the penis? The penis? Oh, erections. Erections, sorry. That's a good idea. Let's talk about the penis. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah, thank you. Yeah, so erectile function. So this is obviously a massive thing that, not in some people, not in me, that bothers people. So erections are obviously usually, you know, people use that as a meter of how things are going. And I just have to say that, again, by two weeks, the majority of people that I've spoken to, they don't notice a change. But there are those outliers. There are those guys where suddenly things start happening. And then they start, you know, getting more... Morning erections. Morning erections. You know, nocturnal erections. You know, semis during the day, things like that. You just start noticing things waking up down there. But really, at this point, not massively dramatic change. What would you say? Is that sort of what you've sort of heard? I think there's outliers some people experience earlier than others. Yeah. I think it depends on how long you've been experiencing testosterone deficiency, because that can also affect the health of your erections over time. So, yeah, I think it's, you know, wait and see. Don't worry if it's not there. Yeah. And, you know, it takes time. And sometimes the doctor may need to kind of offer some further assistance down the road, like Tadalafil, because it works better with testosterone than it does when you have low testosterone. And that will help kind of rehabilitate your morning erections. So, things like mental health symptoms as well. I suppose if we go through a few of the symptoms, things like anxiety, mood, you know, things like that. They, I have noticed that a lot of people will notice improvements in those quite quickly, but not by the two-week mark. I mean, generally, there's more anxiety still around, am I on the right dose? I want to get this started. You know, is this the right thing to be doing? You know, all those sorts of things. Second guessing. Yeah. And that can create some anxiety. So, usually by this point, it's usually just about, you know, just focusing on, I suppose, the journey rather than, you know, focusing on what actually is happening. But lots of people feel more anxiety initially sometimes because they've gone on to this adventure, you know, of changing their life, basically. So, you know, two weeks at that point, really anxiety levels. Sometimes mood can change pretty quickly, you know, like I say, in certain people. But the general majority of people I've spoken to, you know, it's not a massive change at this point. And they crack on. And then we speak to them and they're ready for the next blood test to kind of see how they feel will match with the blood levels. Yeah. Yeah. So, now it's on to six weeks. So, this has been two weeks. So, hopefully you found this helpful. This is just sort of an insight into what to expect from TRT at two weeks. Keep watching. We'll have other videos looking at what's the next time. So, next one is going to be what to expect at six weeks. So, you know, over a month into therapy and what you sort of expect to feel and experience from TRT in that way. So, if you like these videos, you know, want to see more content like this, please like, subscribe, ring that notification bell. And leave some messages and comments below. Yes, please. That'd be great. All right. Well, until next time. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks.