 T3, Have you ever wondered whether you need to be on TRT for life? If you want to find out about that, keep watching. Hello and welcome to Balance My Hormones. Today, myself and Mike are going to talk about whether you need to be on TRT for life. A common question is, how long do I need to be on TRT for? Is it something that I can take for a while and then stop? So, Mike, is TRT for life? I think TRT is for as long as you want to continue having benefits for. So, you can't say anything is really for life. If you stop the TRT, if you stop testosterone treatment, then your symptoms will return to baseline. But this is a question we get asked a lot. And it can be very daunting for the person looking to start TRT, wondering, can I do this for life? This is a lot of time to think about. So, if we break it down into small little bits, one of the first things to consider is, can you maintain what you're dealing with now for life? And will these symptoms shift on their own? And they may not. And so then, is this something that you want to maintain? Your current status, your current way of feeling for life? And that's sometimes when you ask it like that, I think people will say, no, I'm going to venture for being on TRT. Yeah, I think the one worry is that if I try this and it doesn't work for me, am I then stuck on something that isn't really giving me any benefit that I have to commit to for the rest of my life? And the answer to that is no, you can give TRT a certain amount of time. We talk about the own body's testosterone system being suppressed when you take exogenous testosterone and outside supply. But if you stop TRT, inevitably, the body will generally switch back on quite quickly. The testicles will switch back online. They can take a little bit longer. But with enough time, the body does come back online and your body's going to make whatever it can make at that point. If you're two years down the line of TRT, you're two years older. And generally, you started off with a low level of testosterone before you started TRT. So it's going to be two years lower than, you know, older than that amount you would have been producing. And it's hard to know where you would have been anyway. And there are some cases where certain lifestyle changes that had occurred whilst on TRT, maybe less stresses in the life. Maybe you're not exposed to opiates or other toxic chemicals. And when you do regain, should you regain, which most people would if they had a starting point of HPTA axis function, when that comes back, you may actually find that you're producing the same, if not a little bit more, in some cases. But every case is individual. Would you say that you've seen that as well? Yeah. So I think that's the quick summary of it is like insulin, giving insulin to a diabetic. When they're taking it, they get the influence of that hormone in the body. If they stop taking it, you can stop taking it. But there may be repercussions of not having enough of that hormone in the body if you weren't producing enough in the first place. I have a real world example, I think, before we wrap up. And we have patients that have come to us. And one that I had been working with had previously been using anabolic steroids and decided he didn't want to continue down that route and thought, well, maybe TRT is the right thing. And in the process went through a washout period because obviously the doctor will need to see if you have low levels. Of the anabolic steroids. So he washed out the anabolic steroids and went off of everything for, I believe, six to eight weeks. And surprisingly for this particular patient, as his level started coming back online, the patient actually did not want to go on TRT. But was actually quite happy with the levels where they were. So not everyone stays low just because you suppressed it either with anabolic steroids or testosterone treatment. There are other treatments which we can talk about in another video about how to improve your natural production through the use of CIRMs. But also doing nothing, they can also come back. And you may also start feeling better. So, yeah, hopefully that summarizes that. You basically, when you're taking TRT, you get the benefits of the testosterone. If it's something that you're thinking about trying and you're worried that because it shuts down your natural system when you're on it and that it may not come back online afterwards and you might be stuck, that's not the case. You know, you can trial TRT, see how it benefits you or not. And then you can be back to square one essentially afterwards. And the doctors, it can help you navigate and actually help you get your system back online with some medications or just monitoring and blood work and guidance anyway. So it's not like you'd just be left alone afterwards if you did do a trial. Is that a good summary? No, that's a really good summary. And that's part of the support that we do. Cheers, mate. So, yeah, no, that's all right. Hopefully people like it. Yep. And subscribe and keep watching because we'll have many more like this coming up. So you said that, haven't you? The like and subscribe. I already said it. So that's it. Please like, subscribe, ring the notification bell if you want to be notified of more content like this. And keep watching because we're going to have a few more videos coming out on similar topics like this. So thanks. Thanks.