 beck papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel papel self-education. All of this is covered by insurance where you have to actually have the money and the interest to go out and get these other things yourselves. High dose of the pharmaceutical industry, not to defend it by any chains, but usually clinical trials are hard to show a difference between placebo and so they dose them up so that you can get your vested back and see. Yes, and they're also using comorbid patient authorization groups. Exactly. And that makes it more difficult in patients who are trying to optimize their health and wellness. And there almost ought to be a scenario or a framework of regulation that allows the other doctors to take hold of it or there'd be some other kinds of trials so that we can actually get some clinical data or people out there using it so that we can see a benefit rather than say, oh, a little bit of this magic does, a little bit of that, a little bit. I feel great. So we're trying to come up with what is the best for patients. And that's why we started talking about, hey, what is that special peptide? And I think it's very individualized. And that's what personalized medicine is supposed to be about is finding treatments or protocols that can work best for you. I think that's a brilliant thought about another microdose on the GLP-1. And it could be the set for other medications. On that note, I don't know if anyone's come across the alleged muscle loss from the GLP-1 agonists. And one of them was by Mimigrumab is one that was used by Eli Lilly. And that will be coming up probably in the next couple of years. It will inhibit myostatin. We'll see. Watch the space. That'd be a really interesting option. So I don't think that falls in necessarily the realm of peptides, but it will be an adjunct as it goes off. Anyway, getting back to different peptides, wouldn't you guys? Any thoughts on your favorite peptides? I mean, I agree with what I was saying. The GLP-1 had a lot of cross-the-forening anti-aging. That's how we recently were studied for Alzheimer's and they found out they had way lost properties. Those doctors said there's a lot of other benefit on the heart. Tractile function of the heart, antihilipids, inflammation, kidney benefits, just the bone, muscle, a lot done as a cross-the-board. I was using a ton of also the growth form and secure God's PPC in combination because, again, about muscle and mitochondria and those are the things that we boost. And earlier I was talking about humane or senescence or like even with tablets on our immune system and our gut and the thymus peptides that got to your infection really are crucial for so many people, especially with the onslaught of infections and toxins we're experiencing and also lorositides also. Again, we talked about the gut, PBC, lorositide, thymuses, there are a lot of the issues starting in the gut. So fix your immune system, reduce the inflammation due with gut, the body should take care of itself. But the big picture is that it kind of depends. If there's no one peptide, it kind of depends what that patient is looking for, what's their main issue, and then let's systematically address those things. I think the reason why now we've spoken about the most is because it probably has the most application for people who are looking for peptides. So I think that's why it tends to get the most attention. I'm very interested in cerebrolysin as someone who had a brain injury and utilized it as part of recovery. Cerebrolysin is a fascinating bioregulated peptide. And to my knowledge, it has the most formalized research as a bioregulated peptide. Just a lot of it's in Russian and hasn't been translated very well. So originally it's an Austrian medication. And one of the blessings of living in a Baltic country is that we have a lot of leftover Soviet medication. So in the country where I live, if you have a good doctor in your amulets, we send doctors in amulets. You might even get, if you have a stroke or a spinal injury, they'll actually IV you cerebrolysin in the amulets in the way to the osteo, because they know how important and effective it is to treat the inflammation in the brain early. So cerebrolysin is an extremely potent, powerful bioregulated peptide to the brain. So what it's essentially doing is it's telling the brain to work properly. And the potential for cerebrolysin in the treatment of any kind of brain injury, as well as mural degeneration, is massive. I think that that would be a huge frontier if this medication be recovers, because not only is it extremely effective, but it's also got a huge amount of safety guard behind it. So the thing that I found this most important when it comes to peptides, when I had my brain injury, when I was using BBC primarily to heal it, I didn't know about cerebral acid, you know, 10 years ago. The thing that was most important for that protocol to be effective wasn't just the peptide protocol that I took, it was the signaling to the body of the issue that was wrong. So it was combining it with proper rehabilitation, as well as nutritional protocols, giving the body the specific nutrients it needs. Because when you use these peptides as signal as healing, as was said before, the body needs a lot of nutrients or cofactors to do that, and then further signaling molecules to allow this to take place. So hormone optimization, diet, supplements, but as well as doing the right rehabilitation. You've got an injury and you want your, you know, your need to heal with something like PBC 157, you have to make sure that you're doing the proper exercises, you're not pushing it too hard, that you're not being too stagnant, so that you can actually send that signal to the body to go, this is the area that needs to recover, and the body will actually allow that peptide to work properly. That's important to remember with cerebral acid as well, right? So we do IB cerebral acid, it could be with post-stroke, post-traumatic brain injury, or just cognitive decline, or lots of things, actually. It's actually kind of amazing, compared to compression as well, and they're interested. But what we tell people is you have to exercise your brain after you do this. So we actually tie it in with sort of a program where we have a neuroscientist who takes people through sort of a program, gives them exercise. If you don't exercise your brain after cerebral acid, you can't make any connections, it's just like the body. And we forget that the brain needs to be exercised the same way. I was going to just mention to everyone that ceremolysin is not just one, it actually comes from the porcine model, the pig brain, and it has things like what Sonic Hedgehog, which is an old name where it's supposed to stimulate no growth. It has, I think, BDNF, it's a brain-drawn neurotrophic factor, GDNF, a whole load of them. Now, some will wonder, this is getting into the other side of things, is it's a pharmaceutical, it's a licensed extracted medication that's purified by Eva Pharma out of Austria. And actually, just if anyone knows, Eva Pharma is actually the manufacturer, a drug called Sustamon, which is the hormone testosterone replacement. They actually make it for other people who hold a license for it, but they're actually the ones that manufacture as contract manufacturer. What I'm saying is, though, how concerned is anyone with the potential, you've heard of Mabcow's disease, everyone heard, and pre-alm disease, misfolded protein disease. Anyone concerned about this coming from an outfit extracted of... Cakes don't get pre-alm disease, right? What about only animal species that does not get pre-alm disease? So you're completely... I think this should be... Now, if you, for one, know about the growth of our treating, you really see that we're going to get to that point. Now, my passage of goal in life is to stop people from needing to replacements, and that's treating from the key injury onward, or as soon as somebody has to drink pain, as opposed to just sticking steroids over and over again. So that's the way my full-lengths stop our pharitis, so we don't need joint courses. But you guys are not going to hear this way. My ex-partner made a heck of a lot of money requesting joints, right? He has no motivation for not... And in fact, they basically pulled it aside saying, you're spending too long with patients, you're going to need surgeries, you need to treat the thing. Yeah. So it's incumbent on you guys as health consumers to learn this. We actually put together a whole thing called Human Authorization Academy. So you go to bli.academy. It's an academy where you can actually learn to be a doctor, in a sense. We actually teach through... We teach you how to read your own labs. We teach you all these old things that are out there, so you can actually learn them. And then find somebody who can help you do the correct... It's sweet. You cannot... Even in so long time, you cannot get doctors to change in the years. It's not going to happen. So it's going to be coming on you guys to learn. It's really why, what we realized in our practice, we kept trying to teach doctors, to realize we were getting nowhere. So we start going to you guys who care and tell you guys to sign up to learn this. And then, and you can... We're going as far as just creating a whole big, creating an army of people who then go out on TPC. Gary. Hold on. I've actually got a personal story around this topic. I'll protect names for purchases of water and stuff like that. Someone I know was a junior in high school and he taught his labor on playing football. I'm the visual one called football player, so I know some people to do the same thing. He was told by his doctors like week three of the season, he was told by his doctor that he was going to have to get surgery leads report, repair the torn labrum. So I was like, well, let's try DPC, TB-500. It was a non-adult pain so that he could continue playing for the rest of the season. Got an MRI at the end of the season and labrum was nowhere for the torrent. He was able to finish the season. Ultimately get recruited to play college football, got a division one college scholarship. So the decision to use a peptide there instead of listening to the ortho tell him that he needed to get his labrum operated on was the difference for his life, you know, in an athletic career and ultimately hundreds of thousands of dollars of the scholarship. So that's the color of peptides. What we can do, you know, obviously for normal people, for athletes and obviously, you know, like with water and stuff, it's kind of like, you know, you're dodging around and, you know, like whack them all. But that's just a personal story in my life that I've seen that literally could have cost an athlete his career versus now he's in the division one college. So as someone with the perspective from the pharmaceutical industry and just know that I think my MBA in 2003 never published it because I thought it would paint a tarot on my back. And I realized that the drug industry in general would lose patent on 18 out of the top 20 selling drugs of all time by 2010. And the drug industry was going to lose billions of profit. And my theory was, well, they'll have to replace those profits with other drugs because we don't need the next proton pump and labor. We don't need the next HMG-CoA redeptation. We don't need that. Right. They switched to immune response modifiers. So you see the commercials, you know, Kulu, Embraer, Humira, Cosetix, right? And what they're missing is this fact, which has emerged now. And I think in many ways it's been brought on by the COVID situation. The rejection of the typical allopathic pharma model is here. And I challenge everyone to educate themselves on health and wellness because the state of typical primary care today. So we have, I call them dock in the box. It's corporate medical centers. A lot of them in Vegas, very few independent-minded practitioners. And those ones are extremely valuable. And, you know, I have some guys in my jujitsu class that are physicians. So, oh, well, you know, some of that alternative medicine stuff might be okay. As I've got a 34-year-old guy who just put himself on a proton pump and labor because he's got, you know, GERD. Are you still eating like a resident? And to me, that just blows me away because that, what I wanted to tune in on was the importance of self-education because often what I've seen happen is I refer friends to around, where do I go? They listen to me and say, I can't prescribe anything. Go to the start, go to the sky. I'll give you a couple of choices. Say, you know, you're on three different medications. You're 50 years old. You're insulin resistant. You're starting to gain a little bit of weight. And do you want to stay on these things? Because look at the long-term negative effects of being on a cholesterol drug, which you don't need. Yeah, your muscles ache. You're not as strong. Your CoQ10 is depleted here. Read this book. CoQ10 depletion, most dense concentration of coenzyme Q10, which those cholesterol results deplete, is in your myocardium, your heart muscle. When you deplete that CoQ10 in the heart muscle to zero, it's incompatible with life. So a good book by Dr. Stephen Sinatra, cardiologist, wrote all about this, kicked him off in the coronary carion because he was putting CoQ10 in people's IVs. So the point is this spectrum of medicine is going to require the forward-thinking practitioners that are so few and so precious. If you found this video helpful, hit the like button and subscribe for more content on hormones and men and women's health. And until next time, take control of your body and your health.