 Tredrerererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererererere So we're here today with Dr. Rudy Eberwine. He's a doctor in the United States, in Miami, who specializes in TRT and HRT. And this is a particular interest to Dr. Eberwine regarding 20-year-olds and their need to be on TRT. And we're going to discuss it, why maybe a 20-year-old would need to be on TRT. So welcome, Dr. Eberwine. Thank you so much. And what a pleasure being here with you. You remember we met at AMMV, that conference a few years ago. So great to have you here. Thanks for inviting me over to home to film this. It's a lovely day in Miami. Lovely day in Miami. Right, look at the weather. So this is a subject that I have a lot of passion for because we're seeing it more and more. So when I started doing testosterone replacement about 13 years ago, and even before when I spoke to most of the pioneers who were doing this, most patients who needed testosterone in their 40s, 45, middle age, 50 and up, you see that also most of the testosterone low-T clinics advertisement, you'll see it's an older guy with white hair. And that's the image that we have of low-T. Actually, traditional medicine does recognize late-onset hypogonadism, which is low-T that happens in older men. It's kind of expected. What do we do with those younger men who present with true low-T symptoms and have low testosterone? And we're finding ourselves, when we're in that world, I know you see it, younger and younger men are coming and looking for help. And they don't know what to do. So, you know, the symptoms of low-T are varied, but they are very nonspecific. So there's a lot of lack of energy, depression, lack of motivation, decreased libido, decreased sex drive, decreased erection strength. So if a 25, 33-year-old goes to his doctor and says all of these things, usually the doctor is not going to think testosterone. He's going to say, you're stressed. This is a primary care doctor. A primary care doctor. The GP is really, we're not trained. Again, I'm a GP myself. I'm a primary care. When I went to med school, this was a no-no. Testosterone was only for older males. And even then, be very careful with it. Now, when we see those patients come to us, and this, before I got my training for testosterone replacement, that's how I used to those patients. I'm like, it can't be your testosterone. We won't even check a testosterone level on a 20-year-old. Yeah, we find this in the NHS. They usually will just fall off the patients. They're sitting in their head, have some antidepressants, and go home. And then there starts the vicious cycle. Start anti-depressing. All the symptoms the patient had get worse. Worse belly fat. Worse decreased libido and erectile dysfunction. And then now the young guy who is experiencing those symptoms, not getting help from their GP, and getting put into the wrong treatment. Now, imagine the shame and internalization of guilt that this patient has. So the patient's not feeling well, has all those symptoms that we talked about, or just a combination of them. It's already hard for young men to go see a doctor. But he feels so bad. He made an effort. Goes to see his GP. They run basic tests. And they're telling him, no, it's in your head. He's an antidepressant. Take a vacation. Nothing's wrong with you. Go exercise more. Eat better. So we're almost blaming the victim. So this poor young man now finds himself not being at its best and not finding help. Unfortunately, unfortunately, we have the low-T clinics, which, you know, like, and there's a derogative term to the low-T clinics. Traditional medicine will laugh at this and say, oh, yeah, they all go to the low-T clinics. But what we have to realize, that poor patient that went to his GP did not get help, is still going to look. He'll go online and he'll be like, oh, my God, my symptoms match low-T. I need help. And that's when they come to a clinic like ours. And what I say all the time, because I don't take insurance anymore, I'm able to spend a lot more time in talking to my patients. So when a patient comes, no matter what their age, I take a very detailed history and we go over symptoms. And they fill out the form to see if they meet criteria by the ADAM questionnaire, whether they have low-T or where we can start pointing. This is the differential diagnosis that us physicians were losing. Which symptoms on the ADAMS questionnaire do you see more of? Are they more of the sexual symptoms like loss of libido or lack of erections? So that's really interesting because they did an amazing study. So there's a group in Miami, urologists, and I'm good friends with him. His name is Dr. Ramassan. He's a urologist, head of urology and reproductive health at University of Miami. And he did two great studies that I love. First, he published it in a prestigious urological journal where he talks about adolescents and young adult males, AYA. So those are guys from 18 up to 35. And he was able to show, his studies do show, that there is about 20% to 25% incidence of low testosterone in those younger males. In adolescents. In adolescents. 18, 25, 30. So about 20%. My practice, what we notice, where we take it 35 and less, it's about 30% of our patients who are in that age range. So it matches. Second, he did another study that showed that younger men tend to have low T symptoms with a total testosterone less than 400. So you don't need to wait for the 300. So the studies are showing that, especially for younger men, they may have those symptoms. They don't need to have a low testosterone level. Yeah, because that's what the new guidance or the new ranges have been shuffled down to. Because I remember, I was 22 when I started on TRT. And the ranges were about 450, 400 to 1,080. And if you were kind of in the middle, you fell through the cracks. So I guess those are good guidelines that they're allowing close to 400. Well, they haven't changed the guidelines yet. So unfortunately, the AUA, the American Neurological Association, is still saying the 300. Although now the most recent guidelines do say that you have to watch for signs and symptoms of low T. So now they finally put, again, it gives physicians the power to use your clinical decision. To me, clinical acumen is the most important thing. So when a patient like this comes to me, I have more time to speak to them. I can go in deep. You know, it's not just like, how are you doing? You're good? Okay, good. Your cholesterol is a little high. See you next year. That's a typical GP visit if you're not sick. But wellness, we're not good at this. When I sit down with my patient, I'll tell him, how are you doing? No, really, how are you doing? How are you performing at work, at home, in the bedroom, with your kids? Socially, mentally, spiritually, testosterone can affect all of those factors. So a lot of those guys will come to me. They're like, yeah, I'm good. And when I say, no, how are you doing? They're like, well, Doc, you know, I feel like I'm getting old. Maybe it's stress. You know, I don't perform the same. I don't find pleasure in the things that I used to. I have less energy. My sex drive is not the same. And then we're like, oh, so okay, you're not sick, but you're not your optimal self. Let's dig deeper and ask more questions. Then we go into the lab test where we do an extensive blood test, not only the total testosterone. We look at free testosterone, SHBG, FSH, LH, to really have a good picture of what's going on with this patient. Are you finding higher LH and FSH in younger patients? Not necessarily. So still what we're noticing, so secondary hypogonadism where you have the low T with an abnormally low FSH or LH. LH, yeah. An abnormally low LH or low normal LH is still the most common form. We do see some patients with primary hypogonadism where the LH is high and the testosterone is low. But the majority of forms, even in the younger patient, it's still secondary hypogonadism that we see with a low normal LH in the face of a low normal total testosterone. So again, to answer your question is, Dr. Ramasamy again had in his paper that he saw that younger patients in their 20s or early 30s will have low T symptoms when their levels dip below 400. And most of the symptoms, the three top symptoms were low energy, low motivation, and low sex drive. It wasn't always erectile problems or erectile dysfunction. Low energy and low motivation were one of the first two. And we hear that so much from a lot of younger kids in that generation. 25, 30, they tell them, I have no energy. I have to push through. I have no motivation. I could just stay home. And there are studies that are even showing that young men are not achieving the same success academically or at work than our young females. Females are surpassing men in a lot of areas that men used to dominate. Again, I'm a girl dad. I have twin girls. So I'm all into girl power. But we need our boys to do better. But the big problem is if we want our boys to do better and they do suffer from low T, you can't just tell them, man up, get better. We need to treat the biology first before their psychology can improve and for them to do better. So do you think patients are being missed in adolescence? Should there not be maybe a screening for as one enters puberty to know where the testosterone falls? Definitely. So, you know, like the big push, should we screen patients for testosterone? I don't think so. Because if a patient doesn't have symptoms and they're in their 25, 30s, there's no reason to check. I have patients who will come to me, 30 years old, 22, 25. They're like, my body's on testosterone. I want to check my numbers. I'm like, why do you want to check? Just to see. And I'll have some guys who are coming at a 350, 400, but they are completely fine. So it's not just the number. I want to see a low normal or low plus signs and symptoms. When we put this together, then we're like, okay, should we do and replace your testosterone? So I think that's it for today as far as, you know, can or should 20-year-olds be put on TRT? And I think we hit the key points, the reasons why, the particular symptoms that may cause, also what to do about it. Thanks again for being with us, Dr. Eberwine. And thanks for watching. And please press like and subscribe. And we'll see you next time. Thanks again.