 The, I mean, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's really what it comes, we can probably get the blood pressure down with diet and exercise, no, I would have to treat the high blood pressure, no, I would have to treat the high blood pressure, wow, I had them on the other things to start working, there is no prostate cancer cause, that is in any way linked to testosterone, so the main criteria is to be physically, mentally healthy, not just be having a six box, the terrible thing about the AI is then you're always kind of chasing your tail, I think estradiol, you think estradiol, you think estradiol, you think estradiol has been demonized, where it's causing this, where it's causing this and causing that, where a lot of benefits of testosterone actually come from estradiol. Some of the physique sports, you're seeing a lot of young athletes passing, and it's very, very troubling. People living in Colorado, in Nairobi, in Tibet, or even in mountain Olympus in Greece, they would have to be flavotomized and would die from strokes. I definitely agree that sleep apnea is a huge player here, and it's really common. It's interesting that we're talking about the weight loss, because the European Society of Endocrinology, in part of their guidelines, say if you have an obese patient, that perhaps they ought to do lifestyle changes, lose the weight, and then consider testosterone. The UK doesn't go straight to testosterone treatment, because again, I think they're recognized hand in hand. But there's been some recent data around GLP-1 agonists, possibly, if you can decrease your weight, you may be able to increase the testosterone levels. So I want to know what the panel thought. Do GLP-1s have a role in improving testosterone levels, or maybe they're best used in combination, in conjunction with testosterone treatment? What would you do for a patient if they came in and they're a bit obese? What would be your approach, and what do you think about that study? So I think, as with everything, it depends on their situation, their lifestyle, their goals. I think they can be helpful to obviously lose weight, which, yes, if you drop weight, especially the visceral fat, you can improve your testosterone, improve a lot of your other hormones. But it's a case-by-case, because the biggest thing I would want to put in place is number one, they're not using it as a crutch or as a cheat if they're not going to do the lifestyle. We see that a lot, where people just want the testosterone or they want the GLP, but they're not willing to give up the McDonald's or go to the gym. Well, you've got to do everything, or it's not going to work. But it can work, but at the same time, I think the hormones are foundational. Oftentimes, I think if you're going to add something, that should be added first before you go to the GLPs. But as George said, I think there's a time and a place for both of them, for sure. But the other reason I said it depends is also on the situation. If someone is, can they go to the gym and eat healthy and lose some fat builders? Yes, but a lot of people are so far gone, or they're so far, they just, they, I've seen guys and women where they're just so, their motivation is in the floor. They have no energy, no, they're not sleeping. They feel like absolute dog crap, and there's no way they're going to go to the gym. So sometimes it will do a full court press and optimize their hormones, maybe do a GLP and hit them everything, because otherwise they're a metabolic nightmare. They're a heart attack waiting to happen. If you look at their labs and their lifestyle, and they're miserable and their inflammatory markers are through the roof, they need everything to get them on track. And then maybe we can peel some things off later, especially if they're younger or there's something causing that. So again, it just depends on the situation. I think to look at it, like I'm going to wait and see if you lose this fat and then put you on testosterone would be a lot like if a patient came to me with horrible high blood pressure. And I said, well, we can probably get the blood pressure down with diet and exercise. And I just waited for the diet and exercise to start working. No, I would have to treat the high blood pressure while I had them on the other things to start working. So I would say that I'm not going to do the same thing. If somebody's coming in and they've got visceral fat and they're eating crappy, I'm not going to say your testosterone will go up just by doing that. I'm going to encourage that while I give them testosterone, which is going to help all those other things, help them do all those other things. Right. So I think we do that a lot in medicine where we say, oh, you can control us with your diet and your exercise and ignore the fact that we have to treat the problem at the same time. You have to bring it all in at the same time. What about blood pressure? I think recently, the Traverse study came out, which is a very large study that looked at the safety of testosterone in men, because that was still a question, unbelievably, since testosterone has been around for 100 years. But they probably did this large study. And off the back of that, I think the FDA took off the black box warning around with a small caveat about potentially just monitoring blood pressure when first starting. On that note, I mean, what do you think is the ideal treatment modality? Because some have argued that the Traverse study was using testosterone gel. And we in modern TRT use micro dosing, usually of injections, possibly topical scrotal creams. And then is it appropriate to have other adjuncts for managing blood pressure, particularly in maybe male patients, middle aged male patients who already get a breakdown of their angiotensin receptor system? I mean, is that a proactive approach as well? Because obviously testosterone can improve blood pressure overall, you know, yeah, but but is that enough? And all the other adjuncts that that should be used, you know, from the both longevity and the generalized health? Yeah. So Dr. Hurtog says that optimization of testosterone normal dose, not abuse in testosterone will cause vessel relaxation through the natric oxide. And this will this vitalization drops the blood pressure. But if you have use obviously as any other steroid, you kick aldosterone, there it is in sodium water as a result. And then you have the elevation of the blood pressure. So more is no better, of course. And you need to find the optimal dose in order to avoid the polypharmacy. What about some of those maybe maybe young men that do start on TRT? You see it sometimes. They may have some initially a bit of water retention. And because you know, all androgens can cause the, you know, fluid retention or mineral, you hold on to certain minerals. So, I mean, is there something that you just watch and wait? What's what's kind of the approach of some of the doctors on the panel? Yeah, I think that if you're getting side effects, probably you should back out down on dosing and then dose adjust from that. Certainly watching diet, sodium intake, things like that to regulate aldosterone levels. But I would say that when I see a side effect, if somebody is getting a whole lot of edema, something like that, then probably I need to dose a little bit more appropriately or change my dosing regimen a little bit on them. I think sometimes you can, you know, use dosing a different micro dosing a little bit differently to get them better when you do it, when you see that. Because to me that treating, you're treating a side effect now with something else. I think that side effect is indicative of the body's not doing as well with that dose and you probably need to adjust the dosing on that. Just even outside the medical context, as the layperson here, the difference between a medicine and a poison is typically the dose. I mean, that's really what it comes down to. And so I have clients who are on testosterone and cornucopia of other performance enhancing drugs outside the medical context. And the difference between 100 milligrams or 200 milligrams a week of testosterone, cipionate, and two grams a week of testosterone or in some people I know, five or eight grams of testosterone per week. You're going to get, you know, yeah, if you're using it purely for physical enhancement, you're going to get more bang for your buck out of those sorts of doses. But that's where you really see the side effects start to mount. And you may have seen if you follow some of the physique sports, you're seeing a lot of young athletes passing both male and female. And it's very, very troubling. So, yeah, it is it is dose dependent. But, you know, we've we've sort of dumbed down historically in our sort of anti testosterone messaging and agenda, as George says, kind of claiming that testosterone causes roid rage or testosterone causes prostate cancer. Or testosterone causes heart attacks. Yes, there was as far as I saw, there was never a shred of evidence that would have supported that black box warning. And I wrote I used to write a column for Muscular Development magazine for many years, and I did a few columns on why that should never have been on there. And it's nice, at least to see now that it was taken off. It's also nice to see now that there's a concession that there is no prostate cancer cause that is in any way linked to testosterone in certainly in replacement doses. One of the things that I wanted to kick around with you guys and that I was chatting with with Mike and George about yesterday was the use of aromatase inhibitors in the context of testosterone replacement. And is that is that a good thing? Is that being overly used or is titrating dose and avoiding the use of a drug to treat the side effect of some other drug a better way to go? Yes, unfortunately, there there's a misconception between bodybuilding and TRT. And unfortunately, many people want to get into TRT just because of physical enhancement. And this is when doctors freak out and say you're just a bunch of bodybuilders that want to get jacked for lifetime. So the main criteria is to be physically mentally healthy, not just be having a six pack or 20 inch arm or bench to 400 pounds on the gym. So speaking about AI's, I was using AI's until five years ago. Later, I dropped about 20 pounds within a year. And I realized that my nipples didn't hurt that much presumably because I had less body fat that converted to estrogen. Now, I find it more healthy occasionally to use a serum in order to occupy the receptors and don't kill the production of estrogen because it's fundamental for joint health, for bone health, for endothelium health, for brain health, for libido. And testosterone is a fundamental hormone because it breaks down into metabolites, DHT and E2. That's why you cannot replace testosterone with any other hormone. We need E2 as much as we need DHT. And I think by using AI's is wrong eventually. Now, you may occasionally use a fragment of AI's just to treat the symptom but not on a regular basis because you end up having deficiency of two, cracky bones, low HDL, moodiness. They kill your sex drive. And we've seen this through bodybuilders that want to look dry just by killing E2. I would say the benefits of not having to use an aromatase inhibitor are manyfold. And there's all, you know, there are some dysregulation in mood when you drop the E2 too low. There's dysregulation in sensitivity, you know, in your penis. But you could also have some men, and this is where I think there's a couple of papers written that are outliers. And obviously dropping the doses as ideal. But I was just wondering what the doctors thought about some of the outlying cases of men who, even when you drop the dose to optimal, who may still have things like venous leakage. And there have been a couple of papers that linked the absolute level of estradiol to the venous leakage. And when that was corrected, it improved the erectile function for the man. And, you know, is that a worthwhile endeavor provided that the estradiol doesn't drop too low? Obviously, the terrible thing about the AI is then you're always kind of chasing your tail. But could a small amount of relief have any efficacy? I know I've seen endocrinologists have it prescribed for me in the past and way too much in the past, where it would defeat all the benefits of testosterone converging to estradiol, where you get the boost in HDL, you get the boost in mood. So, I don't know. I mean, everyone's different, I think we talked about. But is there ever a role in the least amount of time or the least amount that you could use that you may fix the symptom, maybe midterm before you can get the dose adjusted? Yeah, there's always exceptions. But for the most part, I rarely use estrogen blockers or AIs. I feel if you look at the data and studies, it's very clear that if you do that, especially chronic or long term or high dose, it's detrimental. It causes osteoporosis, erectile dysfunction, accumulation of visceral fat. I think estradiol has been demonized for it's causing this and causing that, where a lot of benefits of testosterone actually come from estradiol. Estradial, the fat loss, the sexual function and so on and so forth, especially in men. So, I would love to say never use it, but there's always exceptions. I have one patient in particular who occasionally gets some nipple issues and actually I've treated them with Clomid and with AIs just for like literally like a week and it's better. But across the board, most of the time, you could just adjust the dose or there's something else going on that has to be addressed. But I think in general, I rarely if ever block it because it's just detrimental. Estradial has many, many beneficial effects on men and women. We can get into more of that later. But again, there's always exceptions. There's people that just respond to certain things better. But if you are going to do it, it would be very low dose, very short term, and then that's it. But typically, managing lifestyle, other nutritional deficiencies, lifestyle factors, dose adjustments, you can get exactly the same thing without the detrimental effects. I just want to add to what you were saying, Mike, is that so typically even a very high estrogen dose, people will not become symptomatic or high estrogen levels, don't have nipple sensitivity, don't have venous leakage. But caveat is how you are metabolizing that estrogen because a lot of times it will be metabolizing into what's called 4-hydroxyestrone. This is a very strong metabolite, also much more linked to things like prostate cancer, oxidative stress. So you do have to sometimes in those people who are symptomatic and aren't doing what you think they should be doing. If I run testosterone high, I run estrogen high. So if the person is having symptoms from that, I need to look at how they're metabolizing it and then work on optimizing the metabolization. So using things like maybe diendomethane to stop some of the production of 4-hydroxyestrone or calcium deglucarate to eliminate the 4-hydroxyestrone. Because typically it's not the estradiol itself. It's one of its more toxic metabolites that's creating the problem. So that's when I see somebody who is having symptoms from a higher estrogen, I look down a little farther down the chain. Calcium deglucarate because there are some studies that are very promising against basically animal studies. We don't really know. Or cellular studies against maybe prostate cancer or growth, maybe due to that estrone. But what about if someone's on thyroid medication or will you not then absorb or will it not kind of block the absorption of the other medications? Because it almost works as a binder, does it not? The calcium deglucarate. It's actually to increase glucuronidation, which is your way of gaining 4-hydroxyestrone. Will you metabolize thyroid a little bit faster? Possibly. Which if that's the case, you may have to adjust your thyroid dose. So you have to watch those things. It's still glucuronidation is critically important to our detoxification pathways. So if somebody is showing that metabolism, you're going to do benefits by improving that with a simple supplement. I'm going to tee another one up for you guys. Hematocrit, polycythemia, and erythrocytosis. Go. So I would be dead now because 10 years since I'm on TRT, the last decade, my hematocrit range is, I mean, it's steady to 55%. Now, there are two reasons, there are two cases of elevated hematocrit. Actually, we should see hymoglobin, which is more reliable because hematocrit obviously elevates from dehydration that leads to pseudo elevation by concentration of the plasma. So either we have polycythemia vera, which is a genetic mutation in the JAK2 gene that elevates both red blood cells and thrombocytes known as platelets. And this is the risky factor. I had two cases of polycythemia in my career and it was around 500,000 to 1 million of platelets. And of course, hemoglobin of 17 or 18. And this guy, of course, had to be flavotomized. But as the late John Chris has said, the low platelets is the key number. In my case, I have hemoglobin ranging from 17 to 19. And what I noticed is that when I go for a blood donation, my platelets elevate. And when vice versa, when I don't blood donate until three months, for instance, my hemoglobin elevates, my platelets go down. This is a compensation from the red bone marrow that lowers and tries to give a balance, lowers the platelets when the hemoglobin elevates. Now, secondary threcytosis, which is either by testosterone, by sleep apnea, by high altitude and by smoking, does not increase the platelets number. If that was a problem, then people living in Colorado, in Nairobi, in Tibet, or even in Mount Olympus in Greece, they would have to be flavotomized and would die from strokes. So I believe there's a compensation. But definitely, when you're a threcytotic through testosterone, you need to check out your sleep apnea. As Ramaklay says, most of the patients, because they heavy lift, they develop a thick neck that perhaps leads to obstructive sleep apnea. Absolutely, no, do not smoke. I don't let my patients that need to go on testosterone to smoke. I tell them to choose between smoking and testosterone. And of course, you can use an aspirin that will deactivate the platelets, all right, and improve the blood flow by decreasing the clotting. Like with pentoxifiline? Pentoxifiline also improves the blood flow and fish oil also, because some people have the GCPD intolerance, and they cannot tolerate aspirin, so they use the fish oil instead. Now, I think I don't want to talk about, not every time, and maybe you guys have seen this as well, on the blood test, will, if you look at just hematocrit, hematocrit, I think in most labs is a calculation of the mean cell volume times the red blood cell. And depending on how those labs process or how long it takes to get them to the analyzer, then you can have almost a swelling of the mean cell volume. So that means the cells get a lot faster, but they just get bigger, they get measured. And that goes into the calculation, which then skews the HCT. When we see hemoglobin on our labs, that's usually, the question is, the elevation of hemoglobin is due to the sleep apnea. But how do you guys, do you discount or look at maybe the red blood cell in combination with maybe the dehydration issues before you jump on to trying to remedy it? Dr. I definitely agree that sleep apnea is a huge player here, and it's really common. Much more common than you guys think. So if somebody's running with a high hemoglobin hematocrit, typically I will run a test for sleep apnea, and 90% of the time that will explain the problem. I think that, completely agree with George, that hemoglobin hematocrit increase due to testosterone, just like living at high altitude where I do, is not detrimental to health. But when you see it in conjunction with other factors, when platelets get very high, things like that, but then there is almost always something going on. Testosterone in and of itself is not the cause of this. So you always have to look deeper down the chain when you see these people who are having pathologies instead of just blaming testosterone. There's really very, there's no evidence at this point that testosterone causes blood clots. I just had a conversation with somebody about that. There's, it's, it's, it's, it's fibrillitic, exactly. It actually reduces. Fibrinolysis, that means, unlike the anabolic steroids that they create, there's also fibrinogen from the liver. Testosterone is a different class. So it's fibrillitic that makes breaking the thrombus. So I agree with everyone, what they said. And a lot of the newer studies are showing that like the people who phlebotomize too much are more too frequently can actually backfire, make things worse, and which is not, not what you want. So, um, there's no need. And as George said, people living in altitude, people with smoke, they're not dropping of clots. The main confusion is this, like you said, the, the, a lot of physicians and people confuse the erythrocytosis, the elevation of red blood cells with polycythene, which is an autoimmune condition, two completely different things. Um, and like Betsy said, I agree. Uh, sleep apnea is huge. It's very common. I mean, I have mild sleep apnea. I never, you know, I never would have thought that years ago I did it. But, um, but if someone it's, it's elevated, if you rule out sleep apnea, if anything, yeah, you can lower the testosterone dose if you have to. But most of the times you don't need to do that. And you definitely don't need to phlebotomize. I think that's overdone. Um, but I agree with Betsy that, um, screening for sleep apnea, screening for chronic venous insufficiency, these are some things that can easily be done. And fortunately nowadays it's a lot easier. You don't have to go to the sleep lab where all these clunky things, they have some new things that you just put a ring on a thing on your forehead, different things. It's what is, what is the, the screening for sleep apnea now? It's a sleep, uh, sleep study, but they have the newer devices that can measure so many different things now. Yeah. There's two companies we use, one called Vivos, one called Empower, that actually it's just a little ring you put on at night that actually, and they have more detailed sensors too where you can put a little sensor on your legs and, um, and they give you a really detailed analysis. But just a little ring analysis is huge. Even your aura ring by telling you how many sleep disturbances you had. If your aura rings recording a fair number of sleep disturbances, likely there is a problem. The aura rings not all that sensitive. If it's picking things up, your aura ring says, we detected 15 sleep disturbances last night. Probably you should be tested for sleep apnea with a more detailed study. I'll ask now then, when you are looking to, to diagnose a patient, how important do you weigh some of the sexual, uh, function issues versus other metabolic issues? I mean, you know, we have the Adams questionnaire and some of the big hitters are, you know, loss of morning erections, uh, loss of desire of libido, but then other parts of the questionnaire ask about, you know, loss in your performance at work and deterioration in your performance in your sport, falling asleep after dinner. So where do you, do you put more emphasis on the sexual? And I think the same thing for women, because I know some of the guidance talks about, um, you know, if female have females have libido issues, then that's warranted to prescribe testosterone. But what about the other benefits in the urinary tract for women as well, other just health and metabolic benefits of testosterone across the board? How, how do you rank those? And, um, you know, how do you make a decision to, to treating? I think sexual wellness is huge, right? So it's going to, it's going to break awfully high in my decision-making. With women, you, men are, men, testosterone plays a huge influence in libido. In women, it's a much smaller player. So women always who have low libido think I'm going to fix them with testosterone. It will help. But women's libido is much more complex because there's a lot more brain involvement in women. And so women's libido is much, much more complex than why we're looking at drugs like Vileci and things like that, that actually are working on more dopaminergic centers in the brain because women are much more complex. And I would say only about 20% of my women can I fix their libido, uh, and orgasms and things like that with simply testosterone. It's women are, stress plays a huge role. Uh, there's, there's so when women's brains are much bigger players here. Men are pretty simple and, and in general, right? Men are just easier than women, much less complex. But if I, most guys, you can do pretty well with improving libido and erection quality by optimizing testosterone. Women, it's a little more difficult. I'm glad Betsy said that women are more complex than men. Cause if I said it, we all know that, right? Canceled. So much more to it. So women are tough, but I agree with Betsy a hundred percent. Uh, with women, yes, it's very multifactor, but with men, it's also important. Not so much because of that, because it's the heart, it's the canary in the coal mine. A lot of guys are like, they'll have this issue, this issue. They won't say anything, right? Oh, I'm fine. I'm fine. But as soon as they have a problem down there, they're, they're coming to their doctor. So sometimes that's the only way we can get to them. Um, but it's also, again, a harbinger. It's like the, the, the, about vascular health. People have probably heard that they're having rectal dysfunction or any issues. It's, that's affecting their blood vessels. Well, it's probably affecting the blood vessels in the heart, their eye, the brain, everywhere else. So it's a vascular condition. We need to look at their overall metabolic health and fix it. Not just the, the, the erections, but everything. So sometimes it's a very important thing. It's a telltale sign. Um, but on the flip side, um, a lot of people go the other way. If they think, well, I have my sex drive is down. It must be my testosterone. Well, it's sometimes, but it's also usually other things. Cause I see a lot of guys and women, their testosterone is a great. Um, but their sex drive is down because of other, cause it's other issues. It's like Mike's talks about dopamine, uh, stress, psychological factors. Libido is affected by so many things other than testosterone. So that's where the whole evaluation comes in the, the more of a comprehensive approach. It is very important, but it's not the only thing for sure. Uh, I believe things to watch out in the, under low sex drive, we need to check out prolactin, the antagonized testosterone. We need to check out also a CHBG in the relation to the free testosterone. So by low, by optimizing prolactin, we increase the, the, the amount of testosterone and high prolactin gives you an orgasm, meaning you cannot, uh, come into, uh, an end. And of course too high as a CHBG does not let the bioactive, the stuff for testosterone to work. So by managing SHBG, the use of the each derivative, even synthetic DHC or even increase the dose of testosterone, you can liberate more for testosterone. Do not kill the estrogen because low estrogen kill you to sex drive. Uh, and also HGG is a libid enhancer. I believe because it can increase also your estrogen, but increase also your intratesticular testosterone. And, uh, this will increase your libido. Okay. So many people on anti, anti psychotic drugs or SSRIs, they have a prolactinemia. And, uh, some of them are destined to go for an MRI, but most of the cases it's not, um, is not, uh, prolactinoma. And also insomnia and stress elevate prolactin as well. I mean, I, maybe we should talk about some of the dangers of, uh, even mildly elevated, um, prolactin, because it, it can, um, almost be a harbinger of, of, of, of negative vascular health, or, or even, uh, leading to higher lipids. And, and, uh, it's just not, not ideal. If you sometimes give a dopamine agonist, you improve the vascular tone, which is very interesting, uh, not to mention some of the desire. Um, I wish we had better tools, but what, one of the things that we would see in the clinic from time to time is that you'll have, uh, especially men will start the, the testosterone in the first early days as the, um, the pituitary switches off, the LHFSH switches off, uh, you do see a, a, a mild rise in prolactin, um, decently high though. And sometimes it affects the libido. Sometimes it doesn't. Have you seen this in practice? We found it more with those who were on the SSRIs, uh, either in the past or concurrently. I just want to see what you guys have found. So we do measure prolactin in everybody. Uh, I think it's an underutilized tool because it does play a big role in erectile function and sexual desire in a lot of things. Not to mention a lot of other problems. So we do measure prolactin in everybody. You will sometimes see a transient elevation in it. Usually should stabilize. There is a lot of supplements along with your, your, everybody's done SSRIs, but there's also a lot of supplements that now are, people are taking that have a big effect on prolactin. So you have to be careful. Some of those supplements you're taking, even ashwagandha can actually raise prolactin levels a little bit in some people. So you have to watch it and be a little cautious. And I think prolactin level is something that's underutilized and under measured. Most people, it's not on your standard protocols. Right. And I think it's, it's useful to watch and keep an eye on because it's, it's changes can be, you want to keep it not too low, not too high, but somewhere in the lower mid range. What do you do when, at least on the libido side, when testosterone isn't enough? I think some of you guys have addressed it. I know there are other tools. And, and what other hormones do we sometimes add in? I mean, I'm just getting back to the prolactin. One of the signs of high prolactin might also be low thyroid issue, high TSH, et cetera. But we can talk about that and some other tools or other, other thoughts, DHEA that might, might help. And DHT. Yeah, it can be very complex. So some things that are forgotten, I think the biggest ones, of course, like we talked about are like psychological, uh, stress is probably one of the biggest ones. Everybody's stressed today. Cortisol is high or staying up all night in blue light. And I talked about circadian rhythms earlier today. This is a huge, huge factor. Um, in terms of other hormones, yes, DHT is very important for this. Estrodial is important for this. DHEA and pregnenolone, all the precursors. Sometimes if someone's put on testosterone, but you don't replace some of those prehormones that can have an effect. Oxytocin is often forgotten about sometimes, and that can be improved and can improve sleep, inflammation, mood, sex drive, orgasmic function. And you can do that just with simple things naturally with touch, intimate touch, you know, cuddling, eye contact. You can actually give oxytocin as a prescription as a nasal spray or injectable. Um, sometimes that's forgotten about, um, you know, melanopsin, melanin, uh, melanin, melanin stimulate MSH, you know, things can, this can affect mood and energy and drive and libido. And just again, talk, talk about getting out in the sun, uh, optimizing your circadian rhythms. Um, people have prescribed things like, you know, the PT 41 and melanin, all these other peptides, but you can do it naturally as well. Um, and of course thyroid, as you mentioned, is very important. Thyroid affects everything in the body. And oftentimes that's the missing piece. If that's not optimized, that can affect sex drive. It can affect brain function, stress, depression, and so many more things. So it's not just testosterone, it's all these things. It's why it takes sometimes a little bit of digging, uh, to figure that out. Thank you, what are we seeing on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on what's on