 Operation McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG McG gets blamed for it. So you can't rely on labs because they actually are looking at what is normal in the population now. They need to be tweaked and modified and it could be because of it's not getting into the cell. There's inflammation or diet. There's just not enough hormone. There's a million things that could be going on, but we have to get them optimal. Doctors are now taking on testosterone. Testosterone poisoning. This is a session on testosterone therapy. Now, if you had select a biomarker that was going to give you the best answer for your health and well-being, I mean, we tend to go to the doctors and they're looking at what cholesterol levels are, lipids, maybe your full blood count. I mean, which would you think is going to be your best biomarker for male or female to determine your general health and well-being? Would you believe it's actually testosterone or would you agree that it's testosterone being the biomarker of choice for both men or women to determine one's overall health? Because would it not be that if you have low levels of testosterone, there may be something else going on with you to get you to that point. So what we hope to discuss today are various topics, around testosterone and other hormone therapies. In particular, testosterone seems to lead the way, but we want to start today talking about testosterone in females in particular, and then we're going to talk about other areas, namely, how does one determine if they have low levels of testosterone and other hormones, thyroid could be included, growth hormone, and then where do you go from there, and why is there the stigma around using hormones, and in particular testosterone and other hormones are kind of left alone? So we're going to open it up to the roundtable discussions. And firstly, would you agree that if there were a single biomarker that you could measure that would show general health and wellness that testosterone in males or females could be the one? Eric Fait, health and performance optimization. So that's a great question. I don't know if there is one biomarker. It's definitely one of the more important ones for sure, because it can reflect so many other things, right? And it always comes down to if a testosterone level is deficient, why is it deficient? It obviously goes down with age, but it could be from an acute event, an illness, a trauma, a head injury, some other metabolic dysfunction. So I think it's a good initial marker, but it's always kind of the first door to open to see where you go. In regards to women, I feel like it's very underutilized. A lot of women are still hesitant. There's still a lot of myths about testosterone in women, and it's just as important in women as it is in men. I think one of the things we're all trying to do is try to break down that myth that it's just a male-only hormone. Women make a lot of testosterone too. It's a different level, of course. But when women go through perimenopause and into menopause, it's one of the first hormones to drop. Progesterone and testosterone are the first two to drop. And it's vitally important. I'm sure we'll get into the, I'm not going to go into detail right now. I'm sure we'll talk about it, but very important, not just for overall health, but for metabolic. Number one killer of women is heart disease. And testosterone is crucial for improving cardiac function, improving your lipids, reducing inflammation in the body. And like we talked earlier about muscle, the importance of it, maintaining muscle mass and bone health. Osteoporosis is a big issue. And testosterone is one of the key anabolic hormones that can maintain bone and muscle health. And the enzymes and the hormones that come around with from bone turnover actually help with insulin sensitivity and reducing inflammation in the body, prevention of cancer, so many other things other than just body composition. So I have almost all my women are on testosterone and they're doing great and they feel great. And no, they're not going to grow mustaches and third heads and all these different things. There's a lot of myths I'm sure we'll get into, but it's crucially important that this gets optimized in women. So Elizabeth, you're right from Motor Longevity Institute. So I take care of probably equal number of men and women at my practice. And I totally agree with what Dr. Fate said is that testosterone women gets very underutilized. I actually have a fair number of sort of high profile clients in my practice who come to me from other physicians and almost all of them now, whether they needed it or not, are proud of estrogen. I could tell you that all women who come in who are put on estrogen and they did not need estrogen and testosterone was never even looked at in them. And so lots of times testosterone way before a woman needs estrogen, they need testosterone. Someone will have ample estrogen levels. In fact, the estrogen dominant well into their 60s even. So people just get naturally put on estrogen and the testosterone gets forgotten. When we talked about muscle mass, it's almost impossible without adequate testosterone to make muscle. As far as a biomarker, it's hard because I think it's an important biomarker. But what is the right level is a very hard thing to say because I think it becomes very different for different people. I was, you know, there are people who feel great, who are doing well, who have great libido, who have great muscle mass, who have a mid-range testosterone. And there's people who you have to push them up to the upper limits to get them there. So it becomes a little bit of a hard of what, where is that optimal range. And that's where I think we have to make sure we're listening to people, not just looking at numbers. Because you can have somebody all the time who comes in and says, you know, I'm a guy or a female who has normal testosterone levels. And yet every symptom they describe to you is low. And so you have to explain the numbers are one thing. This becomes, when you're a medical doctor, an issue, right? Because if I put somebody on testosterone and their levels are, quote, normal, then there's a liability associated with that. But if you document all these things that are going on, patient is depressed, the person isn't sleeping well, they can't put on muscle, they have no libido, all those things should fall into play. This is by default an androgen deficiency. So I think that has to be really remembered when we're treating patients, both women and men. And women, that gets really neglected. With, for instance, depression in women. Depression oftentimes is due to androgen deficiencies in women. And that doesn't ever get looked at. They can put on antidepressant. You don't put on progesterone, they just don't put on testosterone. Some of you guys were here for the first round. I run a clinic called Boto Longevity Institute. We've had a longevity institute for now 20 years. We do a lot of education as well. We have an academy called bli.academy. Welcome you guys to join it. We try and do a lot of Q&As on that and a lot of teaching and learning. We have a practice. I treat patients all over the world. Our clinic is in Boulder, Colorado. On that note, before I pass it on, there are different ways to look at, you said, how do we know who's low, right? So when we say testosterone, and I think maybe you'd agree, it's looking at the total testosterone, the free testosterone. We like to use the SHBG level, and maybe someday down the road, it'll be further down in your genetics. How sensitive is your androgen receptor? Because there are people, like you said, that have maybe moderate levels, even borderline low, that have no symptoms at all, male or female, of low testosterone, and others who are at the higher end of normal, or not higher end, but higher end of the middle, maybe have all these symptoms of low testosterone, and it's his low testosterone. I spoke to endocrinologists, believe it or not, my best friends, well, only because in the past, I found them to be what I called mediocre diabetes specialists, because they tend to ignore folks on thyroid, or maybe not even that that well. They'll be focusing on diabetes, but if they were good diabetes specialists, they may consider testosterone for those patients, and many times they won't, or they'll demonize it, or they'll demonize other clinicians who are moving into their space, I always say, you go, urologist. You know, you might have a path there, but beyond urology, there are other specialties that will start learning more about testosterone. We have in the UK, the sexual, British Society of Sexual Medicine. So the sexual medicine doctors are now taking on testosterone, as well as doctors who get an additional diploma in endocrinology. But one of the endocrinologists, who I spoke to at Imperial College, he was talking about, you know, it's unfortunate because a biomarker on the blood test is just one, one point in time. And he's seen when they've done these studies where they've done a cannulated over a period of a day, or they put a cannula in and they take different measures every every 10 minutes, that that first test or second test, when they pulled the labs, would have fallen in the normal level, and that patient wouldn't have been given testosterone treatment. But if they looked at the aggregate over time, almost like a continuous glucose monitor, that actually those patients were really low, but they were being they're being forgotten about or ignored by endocrinology, because they're just going by one data point. And so I think it's very nuanced testosterone, men and women, to who who would qualify. By the way, my name is Mike Coasters. I'm the founder of Balance My Hormones. Some of you have been here in the earlier session, I founded the UK's one of the first TRT clinics that offers American style TRT, but with British sensibilities. That's why I'm talking about this as a as a founder of the clinic, and I know a lot about it. Well, obviously, Endos won't support one favor the use of testosterone diabetes too, because it will ruin the sales of GLP-1. Okay. So, yes, testosterone, as Dr. Abraham Ogetal, the urologist of Harvard University, says that it's a general indicator of men's health, and low testosterone is linked to mortality. Now, testosterone is anti-inflammatory because it lowers C-reactive protein, and it lowers also LDL by oxidizing the visceral fat, and we know more visceral fat gives more inflammatory cytokines. Yeah, you lower the A1c, so more insulin sensitivity. So, we can assume that low testosterone and hypergonosis is linked to heart inflammation and mortality. I guess people have demonized testosterone in the past, and I think, you know, our friends, Dr. Morgan Taller, who I had the privilege of meeting this earlier in January, actually dug up data into why especially men were being denied treatment of testosterone because of Dr. Huggins, who came up with this linkage. Dr. Yeah, linkage based on two patients. They didn't use PSAs back then, but concluded that because you get testosterone and one of the patients got that the cancer progressed faster. Dr. Morgan Taller concluded that that was full state, and it's something called the androgen saturation model, where, of course, even we see right in patients that first start TRT, sometimes the prostate will normalize to where it should have been, and you might get someone who has an extra low PSA level on the male side that will just normalize to where it would have been if you actually had optimal testosterone. And that low PSA level, he was saying, doesn't necessarily, is protective in those cases because it's masking something that was there. But anyway, that was his view on testosterone. It's really, really fascinating conference, but we usually refer to him because he kind of opened up the field to say, well, actually, these men have been suffering all these years and not being treated with testosterone, and they were in really dire states. And that happened for nearly about half a century. Rick Collins So again, I'm Rick Collins. Most of my legal practice is kind of where testosterone and the law intersect in one way or another. I've probably represented tons of doctors, tons of athletes who are accused of doping in doping cases, probably more underground steroids SARMs, peptide labs than anybody around. And Dr. Tulliatos and I have often talked about sort of why is there this anti-testosterone stigma? What is, you know, yeah, an agenda. Dr. Tulliatos Certainly part of it is that testosterone is a schedule three controlled substance because it was used mostly by a Canadian sprinter by the name of Ben Johnson in the 1988 Seoul Olympics, which caused a huge furor in the sports world of sports journalism. And Congress held a bunch of hearings and decided that to get steroids, including testosterone out of sports, we'd make it a controlled substance. So that's, that's part of the stigma. I also think that there's sort of an anti-testosterone, anti-muscularity, anti-masculinity vein that kind of runs through it a little bit. I mentioned in the panel this morning in the main stage that it was Alan Alda from the television show MASH, who apparently first coined the phrase testosterone poisoning to describe basically what's wrong with men, that, you know, why they cause wars, why they cheat on their wives, why they do all the bad things that supposedly men do. And testosterone gets blamed for that. When we talk about low testosterone though, obviously one of the things that I think all the doctors will tell you is that as you age, it goes down, you know, after the age of about 30 or so, maybe 1% a year or something along those lines. Clearly when you're older, your levels are lower, but there's also this generational decline, right? So our grandfathers had on average higher testosterone levels than our dads did. And our dads on average have higher levels than we have. So there's this downward, this decline moving further and further downward. And when we talk about what's normal for testosterone levels, we're basing it on the population averages. So what are normal levels today? How do we know, and we really don't have the data unfortunately, that 100 years ago, the normal range was significantly higher? How do we not know that it wasn't much higher than it is today? And that hypogonadism is more prevalent than we would even think? Have any thoughts from the practitioners on that possibility? I think even in my short, I've been in practice 20 years doing this kind of medicine. And I've seen Quest and LabCorp both change their normal values down. So what we saw as normal, we're actually seeing this with inflammatory markers because nobody has normal inflammatory markers. We actually saw what was normal even a year ago, they've actually changed the norm. So you can't rely on labs because they actually are looking at what is normal in the population now. For instance, myeloperoxase, which is a really big inflammatory marker, they actually made the normal a thousand times difference because nobody's normal anymore. The same thing, out with testosterone, that we actually just shifted the curve. So obviously not right, we shouldn't be having lower testosterone, but we do. So now we had to shift the curves. So exactly right. And that's just in my 20 years of practice. If you think back 50 years, it's even worse. Yeah, I agree. It's shifting back. And the one point I do want to make is normal is not optimal, right? That's another key difference. There's normal people out there. There's the quote unquote normal ranges. But like we said earlier, everyone is different. A lot of it is genetics, different things. So one guy based on their genetics or women can feel great at a testosterone level 400, others not till higher. But the biggest thing is, again, normal is not optimal. Normal may be quote unquote normal in the traditional medical world, but I see it all the time. So all of us here, we see people come in with all the symptoms of like a low thyroid or low testosterone, but their levels are quote unquote normal. Well, that's great. But again, that's not optimal. They need to be tweaked and modified. And it could be because of it's not getting into the cell. There's inflammation, poor diet, there's just not enough hormone, there's a million things that could be going on, but we have to get them optimal and not and treat the patient, not just the lab. And when we do it, they feel better. And I agree with what Rick was saying. I think we've definitely seen decline in all hormones. And, you know, if you're hermary, you know, I'm big on natural medicine and getting our bodies back to our ancient rhythms. And we, you know, I say this all the time, we live in a very toxic world, unfortunately, and it's just getting worse. And look at the explosion of all these diseases that didn't exist over a hundred years ago, huge bump in obesity, insulin resistance, Alzheimer's, autism, all these different things. Again, all the stuff that won't go down a lot of rabbit holes, but we get into like, again, our diet or artificial foods, dyes, glyphosate, we're bombarded with EMF, non-native EMF exposure, bioweapons and vaccines, all these different things we can get into all the crap on our food or depleted soil. I mean, it's a very tough world that we live in. And in order to be healthier, it takes so much more work. You know, you have to, you know, get organic foods and find them and spend more money. You have to spend more time outside is all these different things. So all these factors are definitely affecting our hormones and they're affecting other things to inflammation. Like Dr. Earth was talking about affecting our circadian rhythms, affecting our sleep. But absolutely. I think things are trending. And like Rick said, they're just shifting the curve, kind of like making bigger seats on the airplane for people that are bigger, right? We're just, the labs are just being accommodated. You know, they're all, they're all going down and we need to be cognizant of that. And remember where we used to be, you know, many, many years ago. So we're, we're seeing that shift and we have to take that into consideration. And again, when we look at that patient, don't worry about what the labs say. We, we look at it, but how do they feel? What are their symptoms? Look at everything else? Because again, normal isn't optimal. I remember on some old lab quests in the nineties, it was, I think it was around 400, 480 to 1080 was a high end of the range. And that's all changed. And I do remember there being a pay puff looking at just in the past few decades or generations where they did have the measures of testosterone levels and can see a big decline from, especially the 1990s even. So, and you're right to your point about the unnatural world and the toxins of our mental toxins. So on that note, would, would it make sense to have early screening? I mean, how many teenagers are deficient in testosterone? That might be some of the causes of some psychiatric issues. And should we all start screening a bit earlier, males and females, especially for females who start on birth control, getting that elevation in SHBG, maybe giving them a lot less free testosterone. And even though it's such a minute amount, that amount is important to the female as well. So what do you guys think? I've seen several, uh, 20 year old guys, between 20 and 30 that are using Cesarize in benzens and they're around 200, 250, 300. They're using a lot of Cialis, but obviously this doesn't treat the sex drive. The sex drive is purely dependent on antigen testosterone in particular. And, uh, they go to endocrinologists and tell them you're not low enough in order to start testosterone. Plus the fact they have this fear because they're going to become infertile and they're not aware of the HG protocols. Most of the youth doesn't sleep well. Taking narcotics also, ethanol, that lowers. And actually I had a dad at 50 who came with his son in order to draw blood. And dad had 550 and the son had 350. So this is what Rick says that, and actually there was a 65 year old guy, perfectly well physically. He had 900 testosterone. And this is a living example that the old generation is far healthier than the, the kind of one. And the youth actually is going downhill. Mike, to that point, my, my father, uh, I hope he doesn't mind me saying this. His testosterone levels were around 900 nanograms per deciliter, any 76. Um, though the caveat is he has higher SHBG as you do, as you get older. Um, but yeah, even my younger brother who's 43 has levels over a thousand, um, naturally. Uh, so, you know, it's genetic. I didn't get that part of the genes, uh, fortunately, because I'm on, I'm on TRT, but, um, but you do wonder, you know, uh, and I, we see a lot of older patients in that generation, the boomer generation having higher testosterone levels. In the U S what are we now? 70% overweight and obese, which is unprecedented in, in history. So what role does, I mean, we know that there's a correlation. Um, what, how big is the role that obesity is playing in this generational decline in testosterone? I mean, that's huge. So is the just change in lifestyle. I mean, what are boys doing now? They're in front of their computers playing video games, right? They're not out playing and doing the things that they're also just not around the opposite sex as much. There's been some limitations there as well. And, and a push to just males shouldn't be as aggressive, shouldn't be as assertive. And so that all, that actually lowers testosterone when you're not encouraged to be a little more assertive, a little more protective, a little bit more aggressive that actually in and of itself lowers testosterone. So we're doing all these things that are lowering testosterone in our young males and, and not then even checking it. And then we have an epidemic of young males with, with early diabetes, with depression, with anxiety. I will just say, I think we need to start screening everybody at young ages for most things. I just, there's an article just came out yesterday in general American medical association, looking at cardiovascular disease. And that at 25 was a predictor of what your cardiovascular disease was going to look like 40 years later. So we actually, I think our screening, nobody starts thinking about these things until you start getting older. And I think we need to start looking at our 20 year olds in their, all their profiles, their cardiometic ball profiles, whether it's their hemoglobin A1Cs, what is their testosterone levels. And it's, women on birth control pills are screwed and it's, people are putting in being put on at 12, 13 for acne. If you're on birth control pills, your hormones are so disrupted and they can stay disrupted long after you stop birth control pills with very low testosterone, progesterone that's non-existent. So we've created a lot of problems in the way we're treating our patients as well. Dr. As Rick said, yeah, obesity lowers testosterone through the visceral fat that increases estrogen of the brain for testosterone production, but also low testosterone makes you unable to burn fat and retain the muscle. So when other chronologists give you the GLPD one, they tell you just lose weight. You're not unable to lose weight with low testosterone just by restriction the calories, which is another factor of how you feel tired. So doctors are not aware of the fitness, how it works. Dr. As Rick said, there are several factors that are low testosterone apart from obesity. So the end of say, just lose fat and you're going to increase your testosterone, but it's not the only reason that obesity lowers it. So there are several other reasons that lower testosterone and you cannot increase your testosterone when it's low and you're fatigued, when you're obese. I'm sorry. So how it, when it works, if you're about the mid range, if you want to increase your testosterone by losing fat by diet, it works. If you have 500 testosterone, you want to go to 700. If you're at 150, you're not able to lose fat. You're going to kill all the muscle. Plus you don't have energy. If you're at 150, chances are you've got a very low estradiol level, which does make it really hard to burn fat. it's true for kids. I'm not sure it's true for kids because it's true for kids because it's Thank you.