 d and that has a better outlook on life, 10 out of 10 times, that's going to be the healthier person. The pure form glycine you can take before bed and it can help you lower your body temperature. At the time, it wasn't there because bodybuilders were simply looking for what was going to get them the biggest, the strongest, and the most jacked. Because it might be too stimulating or put you more in a sympathetic state. So the studies do show NR does also raise your NAD levels. If you interview me and I give you the same old thing that I give 30 other people, nobody's going to listen. Nobody cares. And it's not going to help you and it's not going to help me and it's not going to help them. So what are some of the big hot topics that you're talking about now on your channel, on your podcast? What do you find that people gravitate towards and watch? Because this is always the, you've got a magic touch with this, the Midas touch when it comes to podcasts and in this space. And, you know, we love to learn from the best. I'm humbled by that. And I am a brilliant person because I hang out with brilliant people and learn from them. That's the only way I have brilliance. So, you know what, Mike? When I was growing up and all through my life, you know what my least favorite subject in school was that I struggled and that I hated and despised. Most people would say math. Most people would say English. Mine was science. Like, I literally hated science. I couldn't keep my mind on it. I never wanted to be in class. And you know what? Everything I love and I study and I do now is all science. Now, I will tell you, I started the beginning of last year taking a real deep focus into cellular health, studying cells, understanding the full aspect of the cell. It started with the mitochondria, but then I started to really do bigger dives into cell membranes and other key aspects of how our structure worked, understanding the intricacy of our body internally and how beautiful it was and how detailed and how many moving parts there are to take care of. And one thing feeds off another, off another, off another. And then once I began that journey, then I started to piece together the neuroscience side. So everything I talk about now is really a mind and body connection. Now, my mind-body connection and many others is like a little tree. And it starts with spirituality and it goes to health and fitness, like your training and your nutrition, and then it goes to your neuroscience and your nervous system. And that's when I'm piecing together how to get total health alignment. Because I can sit here and give you the best diet in the world. We can get your hormones in line to the best of our ability, test you for parasites, test you for heavy metals. But if you have problems up here, upstairs, if you're off, if your vagus nerve is off, if you're stuck in a sympathetic nervous system in fight or flight mode all the time, it doesn't matter. We can fix all that other stuff and you're going to still be a mess. And vice versa. If you have the good mindset, but your training is off, you're eating like crap, you're just not in the right balance of hormones, once again, we're never going to have alignment. But I believe wholeheartedly that that starts with the spirituality. And then you're able, once you have that, you're able to handle both of these on each side. And it's, dude, you know, I don't know that one can ever get that in total balance, but you can, if you start working on all three together and let them flow together, you can certainly have a much better chance and opportunity to get that full balance. But it takes a lot. And it's, it's, it's like a, it's a daily routine. And consistency is the key to all of this, the consistency. And the thing is, I just did a video called biohacking on a budget. And I explained to everybody how many things you can do for free every day. If you just do it, if you just consistently do it. I walk in nature, you know, right. You can do the grounding or earthing, walking barefoot. If it's not too cold, I like to do that in the spring. And what is it? Mindfulness or you can do the vagus nerve simulator, simulator that helps calm and boost your parasympathetic. There's, there's a key component here and it's called good old vitamin G and it's gratitude. You can't eat it. You can't train it. You develop it. And once you have that, that's where it really starts. Because I will tell you this, you can bet your ass that if you take blood panels of all the people that are negative, that have hate in their hearts, that don't appreciate anything. And you compare it to somebody that's more positive and that has a better outlook on life. They're 10 out of 10 times. That's going to be the healthier person. It's always going to be that way. Do you think that drives the, I guess, your mental state or does a mental state drive your, I guess, your spirituality? I mean, because one can always play on the other. So you're right. It has to stem from within you, within your, I guess, within your soul. Yeah. And that it can affect your, but sometimes if your, you know, neurochemicals are off, your neurotransmitters are off, that can also have a negative effect. So you've got to find yourself through, through that. And it can be hard because for many reasons, like, right, people who are suffering from low testosterone, that affects their neurotransmitters, that affects their mood, that affects how they behave potentially. And as much meditation or focus or gratitude, sometimes people can't see through this, this jungle of negative feelings. It's really hard for some people. So there's, it's hard. It does. And that's why it takes us a set of balance in between everything and the ability to get the right testing, be accepting of the problems that we all, all have. Because every single human, no matter how glamorous they make their Instagram look or how they come off in person, we all have interpersonal struggles. We all have something wrong, something bothering us. We all wake up in the morning, go to the bathroom, drink water, brush our teeth. Hopefully we all do the same things, right? And so don't ever compare or worry about somebody else. You look at yourself and worry about what you need to fix and how you need to fix yourself and be healthy. You don't worry about what other people are thinking and saying online or whatever. That is meaningless. Because I used to get mad and I used to get some really rough things sent to me many years ago, especially. I'm not going to get into it all. And I used to handle it far differently. And let me tell you something. One, the people that do that, here's my concern. Because I feel extremely bad for these people. And I ask you, when you have free time, because I have very little free time. And I mean very, very little. Yeah. Yeah. You know, and if you're in your free time, if you're taking the time to sit and write negative things to people, hateful things, and say that in your free time. Why are you not spending your free time with your family, with loved ones, doing something productive, figuring out something to improve your life, getting outside and doing something that's beneficial to your health. If your free time is spent doing that, and you have to understand, I've been to prison. You cannot get time back. When you lose time, you can't recreate it. You can't make it, like, create more of it. It's gone. You cannot get it back. Once it's gone, it's gone. That's one of those things that all the money in the world can't buy. And if you don't have a value of time, and that's how you spend your free time, then all I can do is feel extremely horrible for you. I don't, listen, if I woke up in the morning and thought about what somebody said about me or thought about me, I'd have my own issues and probably need to go speak to somebody. That stuff is, all that does is two things. It either makes me feel really bad or I wish the person doing that knew that if I happen to read it, the comedy that I get out of it with my wife, you know, and us like, this guy. Like, and that we actually make fun of you and laugh. It's one or the other. Depends on my mood that day. But, you know, these people that do that, more often than not, I feel extremely bad for them. And they're lacking in probably love or health. And that's – they're actually feeding their misery by doing that. It's like letting it out on somebody else. And it's bothersome for them. You know, for me, I literally – it means absolutely nothing to me. It tells me that people are watching. Yeah, that's fine. I mean, it's just the anonymity of all of it that people don't always behave the way they would in person when they're online. And it just – yeah. No. No, no, no, no. I just want to pivot back because, you know, we started talking about kind of neurohealth. And I think at the roundtable discussion that we were on, I brought up a topic that doesn't get as much talk about in. And that was to do with some of the neurotransmitters and particularly dopamine and the MAOB enzyme, which I've been doing a little looking into and find that it's quite fascinating that as we age, you know, into middle age, that this enzyme that was always quite low called MAOB, monoamine oxidase B, it goes up. And as it goes up, it basically gobbles up most of your dopamine. And I don't know what you – if you've come across that much besides what, you know, we talked about the roundtable, what your thoughts are on that because there were people in the late 90s and using drugs like selagulene as an anti-aging option because that was lowering the MAOB for a long time. And I just – I think it's an interesting one because you get more dopamine as a result. It's slightly lowered closer to more youthful levels. And just let me know what your thoughts are, if you've come across that, if you had much thought about that option for some people as part of the longevity strategy. Yeah, I mean, here, I'm going to correlate this a little bit to NAD so that we can kind of – I like to use similar things, especially when I – because I know of MAOB. I know some inhibitors and things, and I know the contributing factors that it could have to Alzheimer's and degradation. So when we're talking about NAD, for example, and people take straight NAD supplements and they don't realize it's not doing anything, and then there's something called CD38 as well. Even if you're taking a precursor, it's eating it up, right? So you have to prevent and block the CD38. So when things like this, like you're talking about, they pull and they take away, and a lot of people don't understand that if you can't inhibit these things, they're just going to take and feed and eat away whatever you're trying to do. It's kind of like when I was talking to you off camera. My body, for some reason, is not absorbing the potassium for so many years like it's supposed to. So something's obviously pulling from that or taking from it. Now we know medications I'm using aren't helping, but these things that people don't understand, we're learning more about that we see that, okay, why do some diseases get caused? What's causing them to even occur? And it starts with inflammation, and it starts in cellular health, but there's things like MAOB or CD38. They're taking, they're pulling, they're eating, they're like locusts, right? We have to find these things and figure out how we can prevent or at least mitigate, because then what that does is it delays aging. You can't, look, we're never going to win the battle with time. We weren't intended to live forever, but we certainly don't have to settle for some of the things that people settle for. We have to learn. We have to learn about the science. Then we have to figure out how do we stop some of this? Because there's MAOA and MAOB, right? So, and then it's learning about the differences in these. What are the differences? What do we have to do to address? I'm not super versed on it enough. Yeah. The reason why I mentioned it, because last year, beginning of last year, big noise about the methylene blue. And if you looked at what methylene blue does, it's more of an MAOA inhibitor, which means it stops the breakdown of serotonin and norepinephrine. And so, obviously, there are certain things that may, it might be irreversible until the enzyme, more of it gets made up. But MAOB is more focused on dopamine, you know, and keeping dopamine from getting gobbled up or broken down too quickly. So, you know, there are medications in psychiatry that used to do both. We've had some psychiatrists on the channel. We talked about this. We've had some other doctors talking about this. But it's something that right now you're right, the NAD pathway and the cellular health. And I've been to one of the meetings by, you know, Dr. William Seeds, and he does this whole redox discussions. It's really quite fascinating because it does make sense. You know, how do we get back to the cellular level? And one of the CD38 options they talk about is apigenin, right? The apigenin may help preserve the CD or prevent it from being gobbled up. Do you personally, do you take any NR or NMN or apigenin? Yeah, okay. I do NMN. The company is called Wonderfeel. And they, this is, okay, so this is how I learned so much intricate detail about all of this. So I met them last year and we got into the NMN discussion and the precursors versus taking straight NAD. Right. And the doctor there is called, is Dr. Andrew Saltzman. And he is like the most sought after NAD expert. I mean, he's been, he was studying NAD, I mean, before the 2000s. So I had this, these deep, intricate conversations with them and understood the different precursors, the reasons why straight NAD doesn't work. It's too big to absorb into the cell. Right. And while we have precursors NMN and NR, NR actually has to convert to NMN to then even be used. So why not just take NMN, which can penetrate the cell and get inside the cell. And then we can release NAD production. But once again, if you don't fight off the CD38, you're just spinning your wheel. So their product had added ingredients in it to help fight off the CD38, like Resveratrol is one of them. Okay. I'd have to pull up the list of the full breakdown. But dude, they, they taught me damn near everything I know about NAD, them and Dr. Yerth. They're the ones that educated me on NAD, NMN and precursors. Because they have differentiating opinions as well and different things. But I, you know, I've got my wife on NMN. She takes it. And, you know, NAD is very important. Our NAD levels as we age. That's one of the reasons we age faster. You got like NMN or I'm sorry, NAD levels, telomeres, cellular health, mitochondrial health. These are the factors that, that cause the aging. We talked about this at the round table. Yeah. Yeah. What about glycine? Have you had any experience with glycine? And there's been some papers that have come out about Glynac or glycine and NAC. It's quite interesting that those who have the highest glycine levels, glycine drops over time. They think we don't eat enough tendons and bone, you know, in the meats that we would be getting the glycine. Unless you're doing a bit of magnesium glycinate. But that's a very slow release where the, the pure form glycine you can take before bed. And it can help you lower your body temperature and, and sleep better. I, I've tried it for me. It doesn't agree with me in those two to three gram doses. It, it, it almost gives me like a depersonalization syndrome. It's really bizarre where I feel a bit numb to things, almost a bit tired or groggy during the next day. So I, I, I had, and actually when I weaned myself off of it, I didn't, I weaned it long enough. And I almost had a rebound effect where I was getting a touch of bizarre anxiety and almost as if I was coming off of something. And it turns out it hits this NMDA receptor, similar to that new version of bupropion that's mixed with the cough suppressant, dextrotrofren or what, you know how pharmaceutical companies are clever and they've repurposed things. And they repurposed this, what was used to be, and I think the robotussin cough syrup, they, that active ingredient, they added that to bupropion. And that hits the NMDA receptor. So the glycine and higher doses also agonizes that receptor. So, you know, you start getting involved in your neurotransmitters and it's like, you know, if you stop something, even within a short three day window of tapering, you might have a rebound effect. So for me, that doesn't agree, but it's interesting. Some people will swear by it improves the sleep. It gives you a deeper sleep. It doesn't work. And just like NMN for me, I know some other people, you take NMN, I get a bit of these weird heart palpitations as well as when I do NAC. Because it might be too stimulating or puts you more in a sympathetic state. So the studies do show NR does also raise your NAD levels. So if it does it more gently, and I think people like the NMN because it gives you more of a stimulant type of feel, then that's fine with several works for the individual. I mean, but these are tricky, these things. And you can't measure how much you're getting and how much overflow you have of one over the other. But to your point about the resveratrol, I guess I was going to say David Sinclair was right all those years ago, I suppose, if he was recommending resveratrol. I don't know. I mean, it's just because he was been talking about the situant pathway, the NAD pathway for years. You know, peptides. Everyone's asking us about peptides. They're all the rage. Have you used peptides yourself? Do you recommend them? I mean, we did talk about the tesmorellin, which is a peptide, or tesmorellin is how you pronounce it. I've lumped them in at the meeting to those that have been approved for human use and those that are a bit more experimental, like the BPC, your glow-up stack, or your Wolverine stack, whatever you guys, you know, however they're being promoted. It's such a bizarre world, the peptide world. It's almost as if, imagine a world where steroids, illegal, underground, anyone can make them, sell them, and there's no repercussions. And as long as you put for research purposes only. And then there's the other tier, like I said, the licensed ones by the FDA. And then there's obviously then the compounding pharmacies may also have options. But the whole thing is a bit strange, don't you think? So, I discovered peptides in 2011. That was when the research chemical market was kind of coming to fruition. So, I discovered SARMs and peptides at the same time. Now, I didn't take a big loving or liking to peptides at the time because we found, because of the world that I was in, they just weren't doing that much. Because there was only seven or eight to pick from. And the appreciation for what they did at the time wasn't there because bodybuilders were simply looking for what was going to get them the biggest, the strongest, and the most jacked. And SARMs were still not as strong as steroids, but they were definitely stronger than peptides. Now, at the time, you could only get melanotan 2 and then a few GHRs. So, GHRP, GHRP, ipamorelin, hexerelin, sermorelin, that was about it. And CJC. That was it. And then there were only three or four SARMs that you could get way back then, and that was it. So, I watched the whole evolution over all this time. And when the peptides finally started to become more mainstream, I'm like, huh, okay, where the hell were all of you back then? Well, why weren't these around more back then, and what happened? So, then you look at that. Then you see now how many options there are for every single condition that there is. And it gives me so much hope and encouragement because I see how well these work and the different options. Like, you were just bringing up several. You know what one of my favorite peptides is? Well, I'll give you a couple. KPV. Okay. SS31. Oh, yeah. MOTC. And then Solankin C-Max. Now, none of these are super, like, bodybuilding type of things. These all have different benefits that are more, for what I'm looking at, for long-term types of health. See, I think KPV may be one of the most underrated and underappreciated and not talked about peptide. And that's to quell inflammation. So, people know KPV is very good at – in what ways? Can you measure it in the CRP level? I mean, where – Yeah. Okay. Yep. And it has gut health benefits, too. That's why – I am a synergy guy because with these, what I find is they – like, BPC-157, everybody and their mother knows about it, and it works so well on its own. But it's a five – I don't even touch it without TV-500. The 500, yeah. I don't. And what have you noticed? Improved joint health, better gum health. You know, some might argue that it might be good for the brain. Others say, well, it might dampen down, give you a little bit of anhedonia. But I think that's quite rare. I mean, they say that about the GLP-1 agonist as well. I guess it depends on the individual. It comes down to use. And people use things too much and too long. And they don't realize that there is an endgame here in cycling most all of these aside from a few things like TRT, for example. You need to come off and come on. Your body acclimates. It may not be as efficient. It may have side effects without taking a break. People are greedy. We've all been there. We all want it all right now. And more is always better and all these things that are not true. This is a marathon, not a sprint. And using things properly. And sometimes it's not going to be at the speed we want. And that's okay. You've got to give things time to work. And you've got to let them work efficiently in the manner they were intended to use. That's like the GLP-1s. You see this all the time. If they were used properly, there's like 5 million benefits. But once you start misusing these things, it is flipped upside down into this demonized evil drug. Yeah. But I understand when you use it like you use it in an abusive manner. Yeah. I agree. It's not intended for that, though. You know? And here's one of the problems, I think, too. Well, there's two problems. Lack of education. And then bad practice. So when I say bad practice, I think lack of education speaks for itself. Or bad information being given out by influencers that don't know what they're talking about. But here's the bad practice part of it. And this goes the same for TRT. You walk into a clinic. You've got a 500 testosterone level or 600. You don't really need TRT, but they're going to give it to you anyway. Same with the GLP-1s. You go in. You say, oh, I want to lose some weight. Fine. Okay. Here you go. And here, while you're at it, take this much dose. No education on how much you need to eat protein-wise. No education on the fact that you need to train. No education on what's going to happen when you come off of these. None. It's just, here you go. Take it. You know? And that's a problem, man. Do you think that's happening at some of the clinics? Because there's also patients can kind of pick and choose as if they're in a sweet shop when they go to some of the research-only locations to find the gray market peptides. And no one really knows if there's a certificate of analysis or what's on there. It hasn't been just duplicated, you know, hundreds of times for other substances. It's really, it's difficult. The SS-31 you mentioned, now that one has been approved by the FDA for use. Have you ever used or tried the SS-31? I haven't used it personally, but I've coached and seen a lot of people use it. And I've talked to people, like Dr. Yurath, for example. Yeah. One of the first things she told me when I talked to her about the low ejection fraction was maybe you should look at SS-31. Interesting. Okay. Yeah. And like Jay Campbell loves SS-31. We've had intricate discussions about it. He's my, I mean, you friends with Jay, he's my high. I talked to him a lot about all of these. So we have good discussions. Right. It is quite fun to talk about. And, you know, there's, because they seem almost magical. I mean, even though we were talking about science, it seems like, I think people are frustrated with the mainstream medical community and science community. I think partly it's due to the way the regulations are set up and makes it very difficult and expensive to get anything approved. And one, we can hold you on all the show on how maybe over-regulated things are. You want to keep people safe. You want to have some efficacy, but everything is so typecast for a particular use when they may have multiple uses. And then it's just this game of paying more and more for the regulator to approve you for multiple uses so you can legally market it and get your insurance company to pay for it. This stuff is, I don't know. Is it a scam? Is it a racket? It's probably both. But then at the heart and the core of it is really to keep people safe. But is keeping people safe also keeping them away from potentially life-changing medications is what they are, really. And we're losing something. I think we're losing time. And there should be foster ways to get some of these things approved if they could be maybe generally considered safe. Like they used to call it the grass. I don't know if you know, like in certain pharmacies would be allowed to carry these. And then it'd be up to the doctor to prescribe them. So I know in the US it's a bit more restrictive in some ways. In some ways. In the UK, there is a certain mechanism that allows doctors to prescribe things off-license, off-label. But again, it's quite strict in how you have to go about it. But it's a shame there's not one uniform, easy regulatory pathway that people know if I take this, what's inside of it is what's on the tin. It's the same thing. And I don't have to worry. And when I take this, a doctor has prescribed it to me. And we know that there might be these side effects or it's going to interact with these other medications that I'm on. Because a lot of people are on other medications. Or, you know, but we're not at that place. And I've had discussions with Jay about this as well. And he's kind of paving the way to more of the biohacking space, the self-reliance space that, you know, I am my own and, you know, don't tread on me kind of space, which is fine. And I think there's a place for that. But for the mass of people, and I've said, you know, what about, I hate using this word, but vulnerable people, people that don't know better, people that could be easily manipulated, people that have no clue can end up in a lot of trouble. And I think that's where sometimes there'll be blowback. Like people will be able to do these peptides, grey market or not, until they can't, because some horror story will reach the mainstream media and they'll, you know, have you all in fear and calling on your, you know, MP or Congress person to, you know, crack down on it because that's how it always happens. Right. And they'll say, well, it's for the children. We got, we got to protect the children. Yeah. Yeah. Right. That's so funny. That's such a fact, Mike, dude. That's so funny. And that's how they get around convincing the rest of us that, you know, well, I don't want to be bad to my children. So let's, let's, let's outlaw this. And then I no longer have the help that I wanted or need. So yeah, I don't know where it's, it's all going to end up. But yeah, it's, it's, it's crazy. I mean, we can, we can talk all day. I know you have limited time, so I think we'll wrap it up. Is there anything else that you wanted to discuss? Any, any kind of things that you'd like to talk about what you're doing in your life? I mean, you, like I said, you've become a real mainstream, everyone podcaster in this space. And I thought, you know, you have talked to a lot of interesting people and you've been really, you know, really grateful that you've, you've been able to come on our, our little channel, which we're trying to grow it here on, on YouTube. But yeah, thank you for that. But anyway, let me know what, what, if it's any of the topics or things you want to talk about? No, I'll always come on your channel, man. You know that, um, schedule permitting, I always have time for you, but, uh, so I have really had the huge blessing to be able to talk to so many different types of not just doctors, functional health people. I mean, I'm traveling all over and getting so many different types of people, whether it's Ayurvedic medicine that I get to talk about. I talked to a lot of cardiologists. I talked to a lot of people that are rewiring the brain, talking about traumas that we've suffered, how to overcome them. Um, one of the, the, the key things that I am so blessed is that I get to learn so many different types of areas of health that I didn't even take the time to understand that were so important. And, and, you know, you, you start to get into the depths of these and you start to realize things that you were missing and things that need to be taught and told. When I do my podcast, it has nothing to do with me. My podcast is to spotlight people, their strengths, get their knowledge to people, ask them questions that they don't normally get. See, I don't take scripts from any of these PR people that send me and excuse my language, but every time they send me one, I look at it and I go, I don't know what the fuck this is for. Goodbye. Cause it's not going to do anything for anything. Give me a couple of talking points. Okay. I make everybody sit with me and talk beforehand so I can learn them. And I don't mean what their little spiel is. I mean, so I can learn what they're passionate about, what kind of person they are and what kind of strengths they may have that they never talk about. If you interview me and I give you the same old thing that I give 30 other people, nobody's going to listen. Nobody cares. And it's not going to help you and it's not going to help me and it's not going to help them. You cannot be selfish with all this and you need to take pride in your work. And that's what I try to do is take pride in being different and being authentic. Some people don't like how straightforward I am. I don't care because I don't believe in telling anybody what they want to hear. It sucks when you get told what you need to hear. I don't like it any more than the next person, but I appreciate it. And I appreciate somebody that's willing to take the time to tell me what I need to do to improve and fix myself because they actually care. They actually care. When I do that, it's because I care. And no, it's not always easy for people, but people are far too sensitive. And they're more sensitive. They are the more excuses they come up with and the less like they are to fix anything. I'm not saying don't have emotions and don't be a human, but I'm also saying. Understand that life is not easy. Hard truths help. They don't hinder. And if people are hateful or people say things that are truly out of line, just ignore it and move on with your day and be around people that are positive, that have good thoughts, that are providing to the good of everybody else. That's all I'm trying to do. And you can't be healthy if you focus and worry about what everybody else is saying or doing. That is insignificant. What's significant is working together, being positive and helping each other and eliminating the noise because it doesn't matter. None of that stuff matters. It really doesn't because at the end of the day, there's always going to be jerks and assholes and there's going to be great people. And so try to resonate with the jerks, but be there for the great people and work together. That's what it's all about. Thanks again, Dylan, for being on the channel. We've had a wealth of information on various topics around health and wellness and longevity and TRT. Speaking of TRT, for those who are in the UK or Europe and are looking for provider for TRT, why not consider Balance My Hormones? We're one of the first clinics in the UK to offer an all-inclusive service. Contact us at balancemyhormones.co.uk. For those who are watching elsewhere and like the information we provide on the channel, why not subscribe to the channel if you haven't subscribed already. Until next time, to your health and your wellness. This is Mike from BMH. Thanks for bringing us up. Thanks for bringing us up. Thanks for bringing us up. Thanks for bringing us up. Thanks for bringing us up. Thanks for bringing us up. Thanks for bringing us up. Thanks for bringing us up. Thanks for bringing us up. Thanks for bringing us up. Thanks for bringing us up. Thanks for bringing us up.