 N-mingmingming, yeteratorrile, yeterrile, yeterrile, yeterrile, N-acongrile, of 2022 of any form of alcohol. How's that been? You know, I've kind of been different, I guess, because it kind of worked out that soon after, you know, Cynthia was pregnant, right? So it's not like we were drinking. And I just, I didn't do it as frequently as people think. Like the hardcore partiers, partakers, like I think I've drank in the morning once in my life, you know? That was a baby shower that I had no idea that's what they were going to do. So no, it's been kind of whatever. And the inspiration for that was because both my father and my brother, they struggle with hardcore alcoholism. So just got to the point where I'm like, man, I'm just kind of here sleeping with the enemy. I've always been really good at, you know, monitoring that. I think in large because of bodybuilding. But when I would have alcohol, I could totally understand, like, why they love it so much because it just, it hits me different. You know, I think compared to other folks, it's like the relationship that some people have with food compared to myself. Like I'm very easily like overwhelmed. I'm like, yeah, yeah, fries are good, but you know, whatever. But with alcohol, I can see how, okay, like, yeah, why my bloodline has struggled with it so much. And I think now it's just like, I don't know if it's worth bringing back in. I just don't want to chance it, especially being a father and all. So, yeah, it's been three very passive years, I guess, without alcohol. I think it's one of those things where, I don't know, social media is like, this is a highlight reel, right? Bodybuilders will post their cheat meal or whatever, their meal out. A lot of the listeners, it won't be a cheat meal. It will be like a factored in meal that they've taken into consideration where, yeah, it's a bit high in calories. Maybe it's a pizza burger or whatever. We don't share our, like, oats and fruit and veg and kind of the stuff that we eat the majority of the time. So it's probably like that where people see it and they're like, oh, Alberto drinks. It's like, oh, that sort of thing. But great that you've been able to kind of, in a sense, just kind of leave it and it hasn't kind of been a hangover for you. And it's a great way to frame it in terms of we're getting a better understanding that some people get like a stronger dopamine reward from tastier foods or they have higher levels of food noise, as people are calling it now. And I always laughed when people said they're foodies. I'm like, everyone's a foodie. But it's actually some people are more of a foodie than others. And I would hear of some people just being like, they're just not that bothered by food and they can kind of leave it by the wayside. And typically they would be your leaner or skinnier individuals. So it makes sense that like you get a stronger reward response from alcohol. And because you've seen that down your kind of bloodline, like someone would, they have kind of relatives that are obese or overweight. And it's just like, hey, kind of, you see it throughout. Yeah. Yeah. The food noise, I think is the, I guess the, there's one word that I think really encapsulates a lot of things about 2025 is, is, is that phrase, like food noise. And I think it was the last three weeks of this prep where now that we kind of solidified that term, it really started to make sense to me. I'm like, oh my God, this is what some people must feel like to just maintain a healthy weight. Right. Nevermind how they got there. You know, it's, it's complicated. It's partially genetics, personal decisions, a lot of things. Right. But they're there. And boy, was that frightening. Cause I'm like, man, so I couldn't imagine like, I guess me feeling this way at 200 pounds, but for some people that is the reality. So it just, if anything, it made me super thankful for a lot of the drugs that we have out there to help people out with, with that, because that's just not a way to like, I couldn't wait that that part of prep. I'm like, I wish, you know, like McDonald's commercial billboard, whatever, like you turn your head, like it just, you, you, you wouldn't, you wouldn't have noticed it in the offseason. Right. And again, this is how some people just feel most of their lives, especially in the modern day food environment. So it gave me a lot of empathy for what a lot of folks go through when it comes to that. It was a nice reminder. Prep sometimes reminds you, because it's challenging to anybody, no matter what level you're at and to be humbled in that way, uh, just, just makes you a better coach. So I do find it important to dip back in there every few years. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. It's, I think every competitor listening and even actually, like you said, people that maybe haven't, I've actually had discussions with clients. You probably had it the same way where they're like, I shouldn't have this degree of food focus or diet fatigue. If we kind of encompass it in that, because I'm not as lean as a competitive bodybuilder. This is what I hear competitive bodybuilders talking about. And I'm nowhere near that. And it's so great that we have empathy and understanding now that, Hey, you can actually experience those things at much higher levels of body fat for a variety of reasons. And whether or not that's like, Hey, your lower body fat intervention point is just that much skewed higher versus someone else's, or obviously there's lots of stuff you can do with your environment and lifestyle to kind of help mitigate it. But, uh, it's interesting nonetheless. Uh, are you partial to a non-alcoholic like beverage instead, like a beer that's non-alcoholic basically to kind of get the taste still there? Are you just like, you're not even bothered by that stuff? Oh no, I'll have that stuff. Cause I have more of a, uh, appreciation for stuff that is bitter and kind of complex, like things that kind of like, that's why I don't like artificial sweeteners cause they're kind of like just zippy and done. Um, whereas, uh, beers three or four different things. And as you go lower and lower into the bottle, it, it, it, it changes, right? Uh, the, the temp changes. So I have a very sensitive palate and actually that is something that I used to think it was the other way around, but some people have thrown hints that sometimes maybe behavioral ectomorphs just can really taste everything. So it's very easy for them to be like, okay, cool. Got it. I don't have to rewatch that movie. Like I get so much, uh, experience like per unit of, uh, whatever they're consuming. Uh, cause I taste everything. I have a great taste buds. Like, like sometimes like I'll be whipping up dinner and like Cynthia is always very impressed with like how I'm able to just season and instinctively make things like work out. Uh, and it's cause I taste things. Well, I just, it's just not my favorite hobby, I guess. That's funny. That's WIHE. My Charlotte, my partner, she loves watching cooking shows. She loves cooking and everything. And I don't really watch them heavily, but when I do, sometimes you'll hear them being like, some people just have that skill of being able to season things. Well, and they, again, it's just like, I guess an inherent skillset that you have yourself. I don't know if I'm there, but I'm definitely someone like you hear people talk about. I can take like a bite of something and I can leave the rest. It just doesn't take anything from me. It doesn't take crazy willpower or anything. Whereas I hear of people who are just like, there's no way I could do that. I just have the whole thing. And part of me does wonder if that's like, they just haven't built up the kind of willpower, uh, kind of skillset there. And they just haven't tried very hard, but I guess there's probably something to like, I don't know, maybe they do need more to kind of get, get the taste and the flavor and like feel like they've had something. Yeah. It's such a mis, a mixed bag. These, these, these things, these issues, and then people overly try to simplify them. But, um, but yeah, no, with the GOP ones and all that, like, I'm all like, I'm all like, I'm all for it in that regard. Of course, when used responsibly, because you know how humans and their drugs are, right? That's not always the case. Yeah. It's, uh, definitely a tricky one. I've had, I don't know if you, have you had any clients use them? Cause I've had a few clients kind of go onto them. I think all of them are us based though. It doesn't seem to be such a widely available thing here in the UK. Although I do know again, uh, from talking to Charlotte, she has like colleagues at work that, uh, she's like, have you been on the, the GPL one? Uh, it's like, yes. So, uh, there's people definitely being able to access it, but it seems more widely available at least in the U S but I think that's a bit that's often the case for like medications and things like TRT clinics that I don't think they're really like a thing here in the UK so much. No, no. Yeah. Drugs here in the U S it's just, it's, it's embedded in the culture, like our, you know, cereal aisle, basically. Yeah. I wonder if that's the difference is like we have the NHS, so we have our public healthcare and you have private. So I don't know if that's, that's probably a big kind of play into it. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. But, but yeah, I like my, uh, I like my beers, my, uh, non-alcoholic beers. I still, I still have them. Um, but, but yeah, I think at this point I might be done with drinking. Well, we'll see. We'll see. Um, I just haven't really, hasn't taken away from my life. So that was, that was kind of a big epiphany there. How are you about, cause you mentioned you're like sours. Do you like your coffee then? Are you kind of a coffee guy or, not so much? Uh, when I do drink coffee, it's just black. Yeah. Um, and I, I can get into coffee and really, really like appreciate it and understand what's going on. But, uh, but no, I mean like, I'm again, like on another, like no caffeine hiatus. And that might be the thing I leave going forward is, is probably just caffeine. Um, I didn't start consuming coffee until I was like 22, 23, I think. And I remember how well it worked. Like that was, that's pretty scary in hindsight. It was just one cup of coffee. And that's all it took. Like I felt like just doodling, drawing and whatnot. Um, but I think these days it does more to disrupt my sleep than, than anything else. So that's probably next on my like things that do not serve me list and kind of trying to like over time, just like minimalize things and really just focus on the things that make me happy. Even if it does seem a little weird to people. I think caffeine is definitely one of those. I think it's for me, at least there's a few foods or items I would put in this category of there's no obvious cost. So as a bodybuilder, we're all very aware of like, Hey, the calorie cost, but when it's black coffee, when it's like a zero calorie energy drink or like diet sodas, sweeteners in general, uh, those sort of items, chewing gum as another example, like the cost is not obvious. So it's very easy for us to overindulge in those. So I kind of removed, I think it was a chewing gum a few years ago. I think there was just one contest prep where I'd have like, I think it was a packet a day was what I'd end up having. So it was like 10 of the extra kind of tablets. And I just plug it into like my, my fitness part at the start of the day and just start chewing on them. And almost always I'd regret it. I'd put one in them. It's gone a bit. I need more two. And then I put three and sometimes four. And it's just like, what is going on? This is just such a kind of annoying thing. So then I got rid of it. And I recently got a bit, uh, I guess the word might be black pilled by like the, um, biohacker sphere. Cause there's loads of potential, uh, microplastics within your chewing gum. And I was like, Oh shit, you're chewing on like a, I didn't know the middle was just like a piece of plastic. The number of times I've actually swallowed that by accident, uh, is, is not fun. But I removed that just cause I was annoyed by that cycle of chewing, it's being out my mouth, feeling a bit there, all of that sort of thing, which is great. but caffeine is one where I think catches a lot of, especially once you've competed and your caffeine, I anecdotally here of people having thousands of milligrams of caffeine a day, which is wild. I reckon the average like competitive bodybuilders caffeine intake is probably higher than your average person's just cause it's, it feels like it's free, but there's definite costs. So it's interesting. You're considering just like wiping it completely free from your system. Cause that's something I would struggle with. Yeah. You know, um, there's, there's some half-life calculators online where it's quite scary. It's quite scary. Like you see how long it takes to completely clear it. And again, people metabolize things at very different rates. Right. And there's some people who are kind of outside the norm. I think I'm either a slow metabolizer or maybe even outside of the norm, because it doesn't take a whole lot for it to disrupt my sleep. And after being off for about three days, very quickly, it's like, Oh, okay. Like now I'm waking up and I feel like I don't need it. And usually what ends up happening is I'll use it when, you know, you're in a pinch. It's, it's borrowed energy in a way. If alcohol is borrowed happiness, like that's what caffeine is. It's, it's borrowed energy. Uh, so yeah, I'd encourage most people go look at what they're consuming when they're consuming, like put it in those half-life calculators, uh, because like how much it takes to disrupt sleep, like isn't nearly as much as what people think. And that stuff does metabolize a little bit slower than, than folks think. So sometimes look, if you get through that one week where it kind of sucks, like I'm on the flip side. And I think a good time to do this is maybe when you're starting a new block with all new movements, right? Cause you don't have as much expectations. You're just trying to set up baselines. Um, very quickly you realize that I'm doing quite well on this. And the hard part is next time, you know, something happens and sleep is disrupted. It's like, no, no, just, just don't, don't just, just, just stick to your guns. Um, so yeah, I'm trying to do that this offseason and see how that, how that works for me. Just cause most of my training career, I mean, I tell people this all the time. I, by the time I got my pro card, I think this is including protein powders. I had spent like $200 in supplements, like not much at all, you know? Um, so you, you, you really don't need them, you know? And anything I do take now is like, honestly, primarily for health. Like I'm doing the 10 grams of creatine just so there's a little bit leftover for the brain, top of my fish oils. And that's about it. Yeah. I think that's, it's funny just thinking back to it. I struggle to sometimes relate with clients. I get it, but struggle to relate to clients who, if they have a certain food in the house, they struggle to not consume it. But I'm that way with these like diet drinks with like, uh, especially I like my white monsters, uh, with coffee. Like if it's in the house, like I'm probably like it's, it, the, the temptations there. And like you said, half-life is what? Eight, 10 hours. And it depends person to person. So if you're having that past much past midday, there's copable amounts in your system. And you're right. I remember one, cause it, this one research paper just kind of. Just shocked me in some ways where I think there have had something along the lines of like a single double espresso first thing in the morning, still disrupted people's sleep in the evening. I found my, if I go much above 200 milligrams, I start noticing my sleep not being as good. If I keep it below 200, I'm pretty good. I feel pretty well rested. Uh, actually on that topic, just cause it's at the top of my head, people should, if they're interested in like rating their sleep and how good their sleep is, right. Cause obviously lots of people have their Apple watches and things, but there's a S A T E D sated, uh, score you can do, which is like a sleep questionnaire that you can score yourself out of 10. And it kind of gives you like a good idea of how quality your sleep is. Uh, I've used that a few times just cause the, the sleep trackers, uh, they're kind of like, you know, they're mixed in terms of the data they can provide you. So I was like to rely upon kind of, okay, how you actually see me, how do you feel? Cause I think it was like David, uh, Dave, uh, wait, Andrew, Andrew Huberman talked about the fact he has, I don't know what his, he has, I remember hearing how much caffeine he has a day and it was like high, but he's like, I metabolize it super quickly. It's wet out of my system super quickly. So there's like everything, big individual difference. So, uh, yeah, it's interesting though that you're looking to remove it. Maybe you'll help encourage me. I just need to not stock up on, white monsters. That's my problem. And on the days, like you said, the days where I probably shouldn't do it. Cause I'm a bit under rested. And I feel like I've got a lot on. I then have two of them and then it hurts my sleep. And it's like this negative. The good news is I don't do back to back days, or at least I try not to get into a habit of like, Hey, I've had two and then the next day two. And then I've never, I don't think I've ever done three. That would be pretty bad. People freak out too. When you tell them like, and I don't really drink coffee. Like, they legit. They're like, you're superhuman serial killer or something. Right. It's a, such a weird, unintentional flex for sure. And creating, sorry, creating, uh, pre-workouts and like high caffeine pre-workouts for bodybuilders, like creating a lot of the time, they're just like part of the stack. Like you must take it. But I always come back to the thought of most bodybuilders would do better to sack off the pre-workout and just get better sleep. But yeah, yeah. You know, again, it's all borrowed energy, borrowed recovery, I guess you could say. Um, so yeah, I just found my training to be a lot more consistent and fluid. And I am more in touch with like where I'm at from a recovery standpoint. Cause you know how it goes. Some training sessions, you just have to fold the hand, right? Like this is what you were given. And you're like, I can try to force things, but that's just going to dig a deeper hole. Right. So I kind of just have to cruise through this one. It's going to be nothing special, but it's going to make it so that I'm out of this hole a little bit sooner as opposed to, you know, turning it into a, you know, whole week affair or something like that. Yeah. You can easily get into a big hole with that. This is another, even more random than my first question, uh, Alberto, cause I just thought you'd be a great person to ask this. And this is something I've, have thought about a few times myself, uh, just like in random discussions with people. Do you believe in fate? Like whatever will happen is meant to happen. Or do you believe the universe is more governed by like chaos and unknown? So I would encourage people to keep, uh, Robert Sapolsky's perspective on this, on how there is essentially no, no free will. Um, so I guess the best explanation I can come up with myself was that things happen and you just try to give them a reason, you know, so kind of working from that end, uh, right. You know, sometimes bad things happen and it's like, okay, well that happened. Uh, let me flip this into something positive at some point, right. Learn from it, so to speak. So that's about as much thinking as I've done on, on that topic. You know, I think radical acceptance is a superpower for sure. You know, as opposed to, uh, I don't know, people will analyze things way too much. And then eventually like life just, you know, passes them by and they missed out on a bunch of good things. But yeah, yeah. Um, yeah. Robert Sapolsky totally sold me on the whole, like, no, no free will, but I won't explain that. I'll let him explain it because he's much better at doing that. But it's, uh, just really synced in with like my experience with myself and not just working with others, but like living with other human beings, it just makes sense. Did he also author why zebras have ulcers? Is he the same guy? Have I got that right? Yeah. Why they don't have ulcers. Yeah. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yeah. That was a great read. So yeah, he does some really good work and I have actually taught, I've heard him, I've heard this discussion before, uh, but I can't remember his exact words on it. So yeah, maybe people can look into that, but yeah, I guess, uh, my initial without hearing that, although I think I'm arguing against Robert, so I don't like the idea that of like fate, what will happen will happen. I like accepting like what's in front of me, but I like to think I can help, like I can work my way into a better position potentially. But, uh, and I don't like the idea of just letting go. Like it, it makes it feel like giving up almost. Yeah. Yeah. No, but no, he ties it in really well. He's like, exactly. You just proved my point by saying that. And it's like, all right, dude, you, you win, you win. Okay. So my next question for you, Alberto is I know from seeing some of your training blogs and everything there. And I mean, if any pro bodybuilder takes care of their training big time, I think you think some are a little less open-minded than others. And you're very open-minded with your training and your approach there. Obviously there's ways of, I guess you could say quote unquote, optimizing things further, uh, in terms of, I don't know, setting it up lines of pool and you can get quite potentially convoluted with that. How do you find like deciding the balance between like something being good enough versus like generally optimizing things further? I use the biomechanics kind of training, uh, execution example, but you could kind of put that to other ideas too. So, you know, if, if you go to the N1 headquarters here and you, you just hop on any of the machines there, think very quickly, you realize that this is where those two worlds meet in that like their fly, their, their pull down, their hack squat, their leg press, they all feel like you can perform unlimited volume. Right. Like we've all been on certain machines where you're like, like, like a T-bar row for me. That was my experience. Like the old classic T-bar row. Like, I'm like, I just, just feel like I'm fighting too many things and not just like the tasks that I'm here to perform, the tissue I'm here to train. Um, so I think you, you get there and you start at different ends almost and they kind of end up meeting up. It's like, you start with the stuff that just feels really good to you naturally. Right. So the guy that's six foot six short torso doesn't feel comfortable with squatting and he's like, okay, you know, you guys say squats are a must, but it doesn't sit well with me. Uh, I think that that's a great way to start. It's just like what fits you, what feels natural and then is, and pick a lot of that stuff. And then while you're doing this, it's like, it do make an effort to learn about why that might possibly be the case. Because sometimes what ends up happening is, you know, as you're doing the work and you're learning outside the gym, it's like these two worlds kind of meet and you're better able to explain your own experience. I might seem like cherry picking, but, but no, it's not because you're not necessarily researching or studying, uh, to form any, to, to, you know, double down on any sort of conclusion. It just kind of happens organically. Um, so, like, for example, I used to feel a terrible about the fact that for my pulling movements, certain pulling movements, I really enjoyed, um, like more narrow handles, right? I'm like, I feel like there should be something in my mind telling me, or maybe I've heard it somewhere. They should be about shoulder width, right? But this always like sat so much better with me. Um, and then, you know, you learn a little something and it kind of makes sense as to why that might be, uh, the case. So, so yeah, I think if you don't know any better, start with the stuff that feels good, but make an effort to keep learning. And then eventually those two worlds kind of meet and they fall in love and they kind of, well, you know, it's happily ever after from there. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's really well said. And it's a case of, I think I often describe it like this as a newer lifter intermediate, and you don't know your body that well. You do abs and you're just like, I feel it all in my arms. It's like, you kind of just need to focus on maybe the textbook, move this A to B. If it externally looks right, you're probably doing the right thing, but then you get to a point where later intermediate advanced, if you ignore completely for what you're feeling, you just go by what someone's saying, you should do it like this. You end up fitting the, it will be the wrong tool for the job essentially, because biomechanics and anatomy, like you go through, if you learn about it, you kind of get to this Dunning-Kruger, right? Where you think, oh, it's like, oh, it's just A to B. And yeah, you just take origin away from insertion or it's super simple, stabilize this, so on and so forth. Then you get past that and you're like, oh, wow, it's really quite complex, the human body. And I can't kind of just distill it down to this kind of skeleton. I know, Kasim and N1U skeletons sometimes demonstrate things. It's not really, I'm not trying to take a punt at them, but it's not as simple as like what I just described there. Unfortunately, there's reasons why people have PhDs in it. Yeah. Yeah. No, but yeah, no good place to start is just, you know, do the things that feel like you can perform unlimited volume, right? If that's not a bench press for you, but there's this chest press machine at your gym that you're like, give my program call for 10 sets for some reason. I feel like I could do this for, you know, long periods of time as opposed to the bench press where, you know, a few weeks in my elbows, my shoulders, it's like, you know, go with that. I think that's an excellent place to start. I have that exact experience with bubble back squats. Like I have a love hate relationship with them is and I love them because they're bubble back squats. They're cool. Yeah. And like, there's a reason they're so popular with many people. And I just think, I don't know, there's just something about them that I'm just like, ah, that like quote unquote functional, just, I don't know, being strong on there is it meant always meant something to me. But every time I go back to them, even though I try and modify them to make them more quad dominant, to get that kind of solid stimulus to fatigue trade off every time. I'm like, Steve, you're trying to use the wrong tool for the job. Go to the hack squat, something like this. Have you found that with anything? Do you regular, semi-regularly experiment, like trying exercises out and kind of deciding if they're one you're going to keep or lose anything that comes to mind of late? Yeah. So I tried the stiff leg deadlift off the floor, you know, and I think, yeah, you know, first of all, there's, you know, you want to be competitive with your peers, right? Cause you see someone doing something and you're like, man, you know, they're hitting five plates on that, you know? But then like at the end, I look at the people who actually do it and name the strongest bodybuilder you can think of outside of maybe Sam Watt. I think Keefe would be a world class. Like you give him five years, you know, and he'd be a world class at his weight class. Um, but the rest of us, it's like, we're actually weaker than like junior drug tested, 180 pound, 165, 63 pound, uh, power lifters. Like, like, right. It's like, uh, I, you know, there's say soccer player fast and there's track fast. There's just different things, you know? So I'm like, I'm like, I'm done. That game's not for me. But a lot of those stiff legs, they just kind of end up turning into conventional poles. Yeah. Like that's all they really are is conventional poles. So I wanted to try it because I do love RDOing to the point where my back is a little bendy. Um, just cause like you said, it just makes me feel strong and capable. Like sometimes I'll pick up things like incorrectly here at home just to flex the fact that like, dude, my body is like resilient and my spine can tolerate this. Um, like my Peloton, that's, if you ever tried moving one of those bikes, like I carry that thing up a flight of stairs, uh, like banana backed, you know? And I'm like, that was pretty cool. You know, like, thank you, Hinging. So, um, so yeah, I tried that, but I think the only real thing I'm going to change is, uh, I ended up going to just the RDL that I like and with, uh, just going beyond what is mostly hip flexion to the point where my lower back to anyone who's had issues with their lower back, like personally, they'll look at it and they'll want to look away. I, it's funny you say that. I had that with knees. Like I would get people commenting on my knees being like, Oh, if I did that, my knees would just like explode or whatever. And it's only recently I've really appreciated it because I've started to get knee tendonitis, which I'd never suffered in my training career until I think last year was the first time I got it. And that's when I went big on trying to get knee extension and like focus on quads, nothing else. And I just pounded kind of squat patterns. So now I'm having to kind of work around that. And that's like the notorious thing bodybuilders get into, right? The muscles can take more of a beating, but sometimes the joints connective tissue just, just can't. Yeah. And, and with injuries, I, you know, to me, like that's new. It's like, if you keep it to a one time thing, usually you're good, but when it keeps becoming a thing in my experience with athletes, it's like, guess what? Now we're, you've made it to the point where at least for a while, we're going to have to be kind of looking over this thing, you know? So that's the, the story with, with my elbows. And then, you know, from there I've, I've learned when it comes to other things that, Hey, don't make everything else like your elbows. But, but I'm not saying you're doomed because, you know, again, big, big part of the reason that, I'm trying to do things with a more rounded back is because I did suffer a terrible back injury in 2008. And it's kind of like a big F you to that injury. It's like, like, yeah, we've come back full circle. So, but yeah, yeah. Big thing is, I mean, you get it, but a lot of, you know, lifters down, especially when it's their first time, it's like your body's so adaptive. Like it, it, if you just guided your patient with it, you, you tell it what you need to do, it will get that done for you, but you have to be patient and precise about what it is you're asking it to do. Yeah, no, absolutely. And again, any bodybuilder who's been lifting a long enough time, like injuries are part of the ride and you just have to make sure to keep riding. You have to modify and not just hit your head against a brick wall. And you probably do hit your head against a brick wall and stubborn and you stick to the thing and then it takes you out of the gym, but you can often modify and just find another route to stimulus. And it's not a big deal. Am I right in saying, uh, but are you still doing Jefferson, uh, deadlifts? Is that still part of your program? I'll do them every once in a while. Right now. I don't, just cause that, that, that new way of performing the RDL is new enough. Um, so I'll kind of wait to, first of all, see if I can sustain it, what sort of progressions I can sustain. And then I think eventually we might add a little bit there cause yeah, that is a little bit. I'm so good at keeping a rigid or so, um, that it kind of works against me. I'm really good at keeping shape, which is good if, you know, you want to be strong, but at the same time, it's like, Hey, you kind of end up working your erectors in the, through the same lengths, you know, your whole, your whole career. So, but, uh, but yeah, I like Jefferson's too. It's just one, the one thing I like about it, it just freaks everyone out at the gym. Like what, what is he doing? What is he doing? Like, like get the ambulance ready. Um, but you know, again, like we're bodybuilders, but it's, it's cool to do things that just make you feel just tough, rugged, capable, you know, like you're, you're the juggernaut basically. Yeah. And that leads nicely into, well, somewhat nicely into, I wanted to talk about your season just gone. I was talking to you off air. I watched your vlog and one of the first, first take homes I had from that vlog was that you felt like you got a little too relaxed in your offseason and you felt like you maybe sacrificed a little bit of muscle there. And I'd love to hear you kind of just kind of dive into that a little bit deeper. People might be like, Hey, how would you have lost muscle? Like what, what could have led you to think that? How did you identify that? Did you see performance drop offs or was it more of a visual thing? Yeah. I think the areas where I got things right, those things might've improved subtly. So I think my arms a little bit better, my delts a little bit better. Uh, but my arms, I finally nailed things. Like big thing is like, don't hurt your elbows. And if you're able to perform and arm work throughout and offseason, you know, without having to work around too many things, like it's going to show, um, the shoulders, they're, they're always going to grow. Like I, I had crazy delts before I even started lifting just from turning 14. Um, but there's other areas where like I got a little lax, you could say, also a few injuries and I can see it show up there. But the main thing was a lot of my training in the offseason was like, and I always do this anyway. It's like, there's times where, cause you can do everything you can over the course of a whole calendar year, but usually you can walk it back and pinpoint, made a lot of progress here. Stale, stale, came back, hot streak, stay, right? Like you're trying the whole time. And I think sometimes it's in your best interest to kind of just pulse along with what your body's trying to tell you potentially. Um, but I think this last offseason was a combination of that. And then also just really trying to be incredibly just there, uh, because that's, that's, that's my first child, you know, and you don't get that time back. Like people don't get it. Like the first five years are just like magical, you know, it's like, to them, it's like a big mushroom trip. You know, they open this door and they're like, Oh my God, you know, it's, it's a wizard of Oz almost. Right. It's a, you just want to be there for all that. Um, so it was a combination of cruising because of that's just what I usually do. That's what has allowed me to do it for this long. I feel. And also choosing a little extra because I just, I really just want to be there. Um, but I, I think I've gotten into the point now where I think these ropes can coexist and we'll do a better job this offseason. But I say in short, um, yeah, arms got a little better. Um, upper chest, slightly better. Shoulders. Um, I'd say mid back, not to the point that I wanted it to. Um, lats stayed about the same. Um, gluten hamstrings grew just because I love my hinging. Uh, but my quads took a big step back. I feel. Hi guys. Steve here. Just wanted to take a moment of your time to remind you of our online coaching service at revive stronger. We pride ourselves on providing personalized service that will take your physique and knowledge to the next level. If you're interested, check the description and sign up. I was working around a TFL injury, like a good chunk of, uh, it was just kind of off and on, off and on. Uh, but also like, it used to be really good quads. And eventually I'm gonna dig up some old pictures. And I just, I got so lax on them, you know, for the sake of specialization. And I think when you do specialize, like things will maintain up until a point, but it's probably more like a very slow backsliding. Right? So you can do it. We just can't read this visually or with any sort of instrument. You can do this for six months and, you know, seems like maintenance, but it's probably not true, true maintenance. It, your body's efficient. You know, we know that anyone who's prep would tell you that, yeah, your body's sneaky. It finds out ways to only do what it needs to do. And I feel that the last, maybe 15 years with my quads, it's kind of been that where it's like, I'll train them, you know, cause it's fun, but just not with the same ambition and volume that I have other areas. So, uh, we're, we're really going to get on. Cause I was really, I didn't like my thoughts. I'm like, no, no, no. I refuse to have old man quads when I'm not fully an old man yet. that's yeah. That's really interesting to hear about. And I think just your point of the, obviously being a new father, I think you will definitely look back at this time and be like, I'm so glad I prioritized being a father versus my bodybuilding. Like you've had plenty of years to be a bit more selfish and double down on your bodybuilding. Um, so now was the time to do it as a father, maybe just didn't set you up for the best then contest prep, but you, you live and learn. And if it is muscle lost, it's easily, well, hopefully in theory, easily going to come back. And, uh, if your quads have grown kind of a bit like a weed in the past, you can probably take them to places. They therefore haven't been interesting on your TFL, by the way, I think I had heard that somewhere. I don't know where through your content or what have you, but I also suffered a TFL, I think like strain or something. Uh, it was probably, I don't know, quite different. I ended up doing mine because I was just, I basically was taking a stance on my quad squat patterns. That was, I was trying to really emphasize the L. So too narrow for me basically, and was only coming down as deep until I got maximum knee flexion. But that now it was the narrow stance, the feet forward and narrower stance. It wasn't so much, even the narrow stance, literally the feet forward. I just put slightly angled out. And suddenly the pain is basically pretty much gone. It's just kind of crazy how that flared up. But the TFL is a bit of a, it's involved with so many like hinging, like every squat pattern. So yeah, that's, I can see how that could have set you back. Is that fully recovered for you now? It is, but I'm still watching it, you know? So I think first it's like, I'm not going to be too aggressive with my progressions. I think that's what got me. It was just basically that, right? I think sometimes, you know, there's something to just staying on a sequence, maybe making it better. Right. Cause the assumption quite often is that, you know, if you don't go up, it's like, it's not going to be nearly the same in regards to stimulus, but it's like, no, you could probably perform the same sequence, like reps, load sets, right? Uh, four weeks at a time, months maybe. And the stimulus will probably go from, I don't know, like maybe on the one to 100 scale, I use this with athletes a lot. Like maybe it's a, was a 93 and two months later, it's like, okay, it's an 89. You're still getting most of it, you know? And you can do other things with tempo or, you know, just another super helpful way of, uh, of kind of judging this in between, um, a, uh, account of whether or not progress took place is just like, what was my general attitude going into that set? You know, the first time I did that, I was nervous in my mind, maybe clustered a little bit longer than I wanted in between the reps. And this time I just went in there with confidence and, you know, every rep looked the same, right? Um, so yeah, I think going forward, at least the next few months, just to make sure I'm completely out of the woods, I'm going to kind of just play that patient game with, with my squad patterns. Yeah. That's one of the ones where sometimes you have to get punished to learn that lesson. I've definitely, I think that also happened to me with my knees. Like I'm so eager for the quad growth, same with the TFL kind of was a similar path. And I kind of go between those two of, I think you can be too laid back. And like, I've said it to myself before, just let the PRs come to me. I think you can be too far that way where like, it's so hard to get a PR now and to progress, especially as an advanced trainee. And the body's so unwilling to want it to adapt. You almost have to not force it because you can't, but you need to be a bit progressive and growth mindset, like wise in your training where you are trying to beat the log book over time. Just realizing sometimes you, you can't force it, even though you do try to. Sometimes I just find myself like a technique reset is almost what I end up doing. But I'm like, as long as that technique reset is now better technique with more load than where it was when I started with it, I'm fairly happy with that. But you're right that there is sometimes progressions during certain levels of the game. It is a very deliberate decision on your part. You're like, I'm going to know we're charging this one. We're breaking through it today, you know? And it's just understanding when it is the right day to do that, you know, when it isn't because they can seem kind of similar in some ways, but you do it long enough. Eventually you're able to catch that. You're like, no, no, I'm just giving myself a bunch of good reasons as to why I shouldn't add that weight today. Like, no, we're, we're, we're going for it. And the worst that can happen usually is like, you're wrong. Like that happens more often than, than, than you, you do get hurt. And I say that because I don't want to discourage people from, from trying either and, you know, pushing themselves. But, but yeah, yeah. At a certain point there is, your body tells you, it's like, you know what? I think you've had enough muscle for a lifetime. Like you're, you're good. Right. And, and you have to learn to shut that thing off. Yeah. Yeah. I think your warmups can be very telling a lot of the time. Oh yeah. Because whether you feel good or bad often doesn't correlate to how you then perform, but that the warmups can be quite telling. So for your quads, Alberto, is there anything specifically you're doing to kind of bring them back? Is it just a little bit more volume, training them with a bit more kind of intent? I think it's a little bit more, more volume primarily. Cause you know, when I decided that I wanted to compete in natural bodybuilding, that was the one, I didn't want to be the guy with no legs, you know? Yeah. I didn't want to be that guy. And that freaked me out. It's like, as long as I go up there with legs, cause the assumption quite often was, is it, Hey, if you don't have legs, you're not a very hardworking bodybuilder. Right. Like you show me a guy who has legs and he's hardworking. And now we know better, right. There's a large genetic component to that. Right. Among other things. but yeah, I think just, just doing more volume and doing more volume across the board. I think that is something that, I really, I saw with Eric and I, I've seen with you, uh, like your last, uh, you know, the end result of your last prep, I saw that in your physique, but even, but now I think even more strongly, like that's becoming, uh, quite, quite clear. And I mean, shoot, I don't see why not. I think sometimes people, people don't understand how easy bodybuilding technically is. Like I need, this is one thing I'm like very pro trying. I think if you can, and if you see value in it, just like in other sports, it's like, you know, you got to explore before you exploit the one, uh, your, your main sport. So with kids, they're always like, Hey, no, don't just specialize early, do a bunch of sports. Right. And I think especially, I think a lot of people who make into lifting don't off, don't as often as people think come from like a, a jock sporting background. Um, but the closest thing you can do is like, try some other things, you know, they do some, do some strong man, do a strong man class, do some powerlifting. I think powerlifting is a great one. Uh, maybe a little weightlifting, just dabble enough in it to become frustrated. Uh, but don't get hooked cause that's a dangerous one. Um, yet no one hates lifting more than weightlifters I've, I've learned. Right. And, uh, and with like bodybuilding, it's just, if you do, if you've done real sports, maybe you've done powerlifting, you're like, it's actually pretty freaking easy. I think first of all, like Kaz is called this sport of, uh, over recovery, which I think holds true. It's a great way to explain what you're trying to do here, but it's also the sport of self care, like realistically. Right. Uh, like you're just kind of pampering yourself like all the time, essentially. Um, so we can take a whole lot more, I think, than sometimes we give ourselves credit for. But if you're fed this idea that of this, of that, of this, of that fatigue, it's, you're going to start believing it, you know? And I remember, man, like when I first got into this, I was such a dog. Like I remember people doing the intervals and complaining about them. I'm like, you never catch me complaining about like any work that I feel at the time I felt was necessary to accomplish. And even the same thing, like in the weight room, like I try not to be dramatic. Like I, I, it's, it's stupid, it's dumb, but I'm like, I'm not going to show the weights that they got to me. You know, like, no, I'm staying on my feet. I'm not kneeling down. No, you will not see me on my back. You know? Um, and you know, I think that's something that I was really good at coming from a, um, the sporting background and somewhere along the way, but those attitudes just kind of get contagious. But like what you can recover, especially if it's worth it to you, like how much you can recover from, I think it's quite insane, especially when it comes to bodybuilding. Yeah, I, I agree. I've, I, I have pushed, I've always found I've responded well to higher than the average person in terms of volume. I just always feel like I just from an inherent, I don't feel like I trained, like someone will do two sets of a hack squat or something. Well, actually I can feel like two sets is hard, but yeah, I, I do, especially for upper body, feel like it just needs a whole lot more than others. And obviously it's very individual in that regard, but the more I've lent into like just making bodybuilder bodybuilding harder for myself in regards to pushing myself harder. So more regularly taking it to the house in terms of relative intensity and integrating partials into lifts, like, Hey, I haven't failed yet. I can still squeeze out some length and partials here. And then again, push the volume up, but making sure I'm maintaining that intensity. So it's not just junk volume as it were, uh, or lower quality volume. It's yeah, just, I've seen the results carry themselves through. Uh, but I've definitely fallen for some of those more kind of fatigue goblin type of commentary. And even to the point I recently did a vlog on this kind of my change in philosophy to deloading. Like I just, I thought in my head, I'd heard the narrative. If you don't need to deload, like every couple of months, you're not training hard enough. So I think I, by default was just like, Oh, I'm going to force myself either to deload in regards to like making sure I train so myself into the ground. So I have to, or I thought I was really fatigued, but it was more of a mental, just like, Oh yeah, you should take a deload. Cause it, you've probably trained hard enough to kind of go take one. It's like, eh. And I look back at myself. I'm like, I think it was more mental, mentally giving up versus physically. In fact, Menno talked about it. If you listen to the round table with Eric, Menno and Mike, Menno kind of talks about it where he thinks a lot of people tap out mentally before the actual body. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Easily, easily. Yeah. But I think for me, a big part of me kind of trimming, cause I've saw the same thing as you at the volume, trimming things down a little bit is, you know, when people are watching, like you want to be a good example to them. Right. So it's like, I'm going to be good. I'm going to be a boy scout. I'm going to take my little deloads when, when I need to, you know, uh, I wanted to just, I'm going to start incorporating those soon again is, is remember the looser I got with my rowing technique, like the better my back off. And then once I had all eyes on me, I'm like, I can't be doing that. Cause these kids are going to try to emulate that. Uh, but I think it's going to be better about explicitly stating that. I think I'm six pounds over contest weight. I'm fine. And I haven't really publicly addressed that, but it's like, I'm, I'm fixed. Like I'm, I'm good. Like, like there is no food noise. Like my body feels literally exactly the same as the day I started prep. You know, I'm not saying people should do that. No. You know? So with, with the volume, I think that's, that's my next thing. Cause I just remember having quite the engine, like this anaerobic engine, like the intervals couldn't get me. I was performing leg days. It were, I am not kidding, like 40 sets in total. I mean, it was a whole leg, right? But I felt fine. Like I was having a good time and, you know, I was recovering and not hurting myself. Um, so yeah, we're going to give it a try, see what happens. And at the very least people can then learn from my mistakes. I think that, I think it's probably a lot of people who are on social media now do feel that way, potentially where they have to kind of act in a way that they feel like they should, according to what their audience expects of them. Like you are trying to be a role model, but actually you're being a better role model by doing what's best for you. But it's just making sure that the audience is aware of it. But I was definitely that way. There's a period of time. I know I can't do. I don't know if you remember this, Alberta, there was this Instagram account called like the form police and they were like taken down or not taken down. They were like criticizing basically anyone who had like marginally pretty sloppy form. And I remember for a time, like I didn't want to post my technique up and also that combined with then the biomechanics when that was exploding and you'd have all these kind of armchair biomechanics who would be like, Oh no, you shouldn't be doing that because of X, Y, Z. I was just like, man, I can't post my training because I'm just going to get obliterated out here. So at least I did that and didn't just try and like kind of form it a certain way. But definitely it's, I think especially I would say as a more advanced lifter, the more you have to just like stay in your own lane and respect what your body is doing, treat your own body as its own experiment. Because if you get trapped in what X, Y, and Z is doing and what they're telling you should do, it can easily go down the wrong path. So it sounds like that's at least you're going to get back to some of the things that you know, actually were working really nicely for you, which I think is going to be great. One of the other things you said in your vlog was maybe dieting a little bit too hard. Something I thought was really interesting. You spoke about was how you kind of dug, ate up and then tried to dig again, but it didn't quite work how you would like it to. Is that something you've also seen with competitors? If you've ever done that kind of double dig before? No, no, but I'm, I'm, I think I'm just incredibly susceptible to muscle loss compared to like people don't get it, but, but, but I am. And that's part of the, and my body's very willing to just, you know, throw cargo off the ship. It just, it just is whatever it might be. So I think it's, it's, it's, and this is where I think my body's ability to recover and heal very well worked. Against me. Cause what, what ends up taking place is there's like the pseudo maintenance that takes place after, once you're eating up, where if you average it for, say the physical activity that you're undergoing then in your body weight, it just acutely, it doesn't make sense. Like maybe this should be, uh, for you. I don't know. 14 calories per pound should be what you should be maintaining there at, but it's, it's like pushing 16. It's like, well, hold up. And I think a lot of that is just this pseudo maintenance period where your body's really trying to rev things up to heal, right? Whether it's regenerating organ tissue, immune system, all, all these other things that, you know, have been compromised over the last few months. So I think my body just gets on it like super quick. So as I ate up, what ended up taking place is, exposing it to a deficit again, just kind of made it so that I overspent acutely. Uh, and I lost some other things. So, um, what I should have done, I mean, don't, don't do that again. Basically there was, I did make this one mistake where in my mind, I'm like, I should have, I'm like, I think I should, I need to push for one more week before, before I start eating up. And I, I'm like, no, I think we're eating up now. We're going to, because one thing I do get from that boomerang effect where I bring calories up is I will start losing fat by default, just because things kind of supercharge up very quick. So quite often my last move is just that. It's like, let me taper calories up a little bit and it worked better. And it works better than the lower calories that were taking place prior. So should have just had that extra week. It would have sucked. Absolutely. Would have made peaking for the first show a little bit harder, uh, or less predictable. But, uh, but yeah, dig. So you don't have to dig later because I don't want to do that again. Cause I'm like, you know what? I think I need one more week, one more week. And that was that week that I ended up skipping on. So yeah, at the end I had three consecutive shows in the season. So there wasn't a whole lot of room to correct. And I think my first show was probably overall my best look. And by the time I did the local NPC show, I was like, I don't know if this is just flatness. I feel like there's a dusting of something missing. Um, and then by the time I got to worlds, it was, it was absolutely confirmed that, uh, yeah, yeah, that's, that's, that's enough at that level to, you know, cost you significant like placings. Like I knew I was totally screwed because like in the sprint world, like I'm a huge track and field fleet. Like there's guys that are great starters and there's guys that are more top end speed, speed endurance. I am a starter. Like to me, I am going to build that buffer through the symmetry round. Like I'm going to get ahead and that's how I work. And then eventually just try to hold the distance as we get into the muscularity poses. And I just remember being up there at worlds and I'm like, my little trick's not working. I'm not where I'm supposed to be. Uh, and, uh, and I was like, yeah, you know, it's like, just, just, just hold your poses at this point. And hopefully these guys fade and you can make a living off that. But, but yeah, no, at that point, I was, I was too far gone. Super interesting. I think this is where we're just never going to, this is the kind of art of bodybuilding in some ways, although it is a distinctly a science in that later stage is what you're describing. It's, we're never going to have research that looks at, yeah, it's just going to be commentary surrounding anecdote there. And, uh, I have heard similar in terms of, I don't know if people try like aggressive peaks and then they're not working the same. The next time the physiology just isn't happy to give you the same result. And obviously every peak's different, but, uh, sometimes it's just for whatever reason, yeah, it's, it's not happy. And it's interesting to hear. You also say that you're kind of prone to muscle loss. Uh, I haven't really ever thought that about you, but I guess it in some ways makes sense. And I do think everyone kind of hits a point in that prep. If they keep digging, it's like, yeah, you might lose a little bit more body fat for exponential, more muscle. And I certainly felt like I ended up doing that my last prep and you kind of live and learn and you, you course correct, uh, moving forward. But I did want to say massive congratulations on the muscle mayhem placing. I, is that the one you were happiest about in terms of the look and the result, I guess, actually knowing you, you don't really care too much about the placing, but the, the, the look at least. The look and, you know, placings, they do, they do matter because, and the way I, I've, I view placings is, I don't know if I discussed this before, but I don't care about the, I care more about who I beat. Cause that gives you in, in your, and it's out of respect to these guys. Like I want to be people whose physique I respect or admire, admire, right? Because that means, okay, I'm kind of like at that level. Cause sometimes it's really hard to gauge that. So to me, placings, like I hate when people bring up the, you know, like he's won this, he's won. I'm like, I don't care. Like, I don't care. Like what I care about. It's like, who was there, who was there. I, when I won my WMBF pro card, I'm like, man, this was satisfying, but I wish I could have done a New York show. Cause like densely populated, the whole amateur lineups that they, the top five look like pros to begin with. Um, so to me, that one was, was cool because, um, yeah, Sergio was the guy I was after, you know, Sergio and Eddie. And, and, uh, you know, like that's, that's who was on my radar. Respect to everyone else. There was a bunch of amazing bodybuilders, but Sergio and Eddie, I was like, all right, let's go boys. And I ended up getting the edge on Sergio, not on Eddie. And I'm like, okay, well that's, I have Sergio's head on my, you know, uh, on my mantle here. Right. And that's what I remember. I remember the guys that I've beat. And then, uh, and then yeah, Sergio ended up getting second at worlds. And I think I got nine. I was going to say, cool. Yeah. I thought you did really well. Yeah. So, um, so yeah, to me, like at the end of the season, it's like, what heads have I collected? What heads have I collected? That's what matters the most to me. And it's out of respect because again, sometimes we have a hard time assessing what we are. And I don't think placings give you the whole picture. It's like, who have you beat? You know, who have you beat? Um, so yeah, at the end, like, dude, I remember every good bodybuilder I beat because I, I, I take those, when super seriously, because I have great admiration for, for their physiques, like more than maybe I have for mine at times. Jaws, I imagine you also take into consideration, were they at their, like near their best at least? Cause you were like, I beat him, but he was, he was on an off day. Yeah. Yeah. No, absolutely. Absolutely. But you're just building layers and then you'll never be satisfied. You know, part of it is like showing up proper. Right. You know, uh, that band itself is a, is a skill, especially when peak week, right. It's like, all right, I got to hold it together and make these objective calls. Right. Cause they will matter more and more as, as you climb up the level of, of competition. Uh, but, um, but yeah, yeah. So next, next prep, I got to get my revenge so that we're talking about this off there. I, I, I disappeared for a minute there, but like my plan was to like, win my weight class. That's what I wanted. I wanted to win my weight class. And then just disappears. Like what happened to Bert? What happened to Bert? Yeah. He collected his metal and his horse and just kept on riding and heard from him in a minute. Yeah. Yeah. That was, uh, I mean, by the way, your example there and why placings matter less than who you've beaten. The example you gave of Sergio is perfect. Like, Hey, he came second in his weight class at worlds, but you actually beat him, but you didn't come in the top five in your weight class. It's kind of like, well, what people who don't know bodybuilding will be like, what's going on there? It's like, well, this is kind of some of the quote unquote luck. If you want to call it that or bodybuilding and how it goes is also why for those in the UK who know, like the supernaturals, the top five there, if they all went to often amateur worlds, they'd all be like doing very, very well because like sometimes the caliber here is just of such a level. It's actually better than what you get at amateur worlds. I think professional worlds is unbelievable every single time, but the amateur for some reason, I think it just doesn't quite draw the competitors all the time, but that makes a ton of sense. And yeah, you should be super proud with that second place. And then it's just unfortunate probably where you wanted to bring the best overall look at, worlds. Things didn't quite fall how they, how you wanted them to. But at the end of the day, I guess your look at it is, Hey, this is opportunity now where I can be better. And something interesting you mentioned is you, I guess, have self-coached typically through your kind of offseason contest prep, but obviously you have your team around you, but I think you said you're going to actually just completely offset it to Jeff. So to allow him to make the calls. Yeah, I'm very good at following directions. So if I have, I've seen this with myself, like whenever we, like whenever he's posed with me, I'm like, I'm like, you just gave up your Saturday morning to pose me. So I'm going to do all the homework that you told me to do. And next time we pose, it's going to be, it's going to exceed expectations. So, and it's not, it doesn't come from an eager to please perspective. I just want it to be reflective of my work, you know? So I think next time, just probably do it, do it that way so that I can just, just focus on being an athlete. Yeah. That's, I, you may have heard me talk about it, but obviously I brought Cliff in and I self-coached my first season. I had a coach next to self-coached, but had people in my corner. And I definitely consulted with, but then just having someone to report to, I couldn't have competed that year if I didn't have Cliff in my corner, because there's just so much going on. So I definitely like, especially, I think when you're at that high level and you know what's going on with yourself and you can communicate well with that coach and you can kind of follow orders as it were, but not blindly, I think that will be a huge positive for you, even just for the stress management, like just not have to worry about it. So I'm very excited. Do you have eyes on a season already, or is that something that's a bit up in the air for you or a year rather? I think it depends on the baby making schedule, but I understand the gaps now, I think, and where it's easier, where it's harder. Not all kids are the same, but I, you know, there's a general pattern. So I will probably just, it could even be next year, possibly. Like I'm a train, like it can be next year, you know, like that can be a possibility. But, but who knows, you know, I think I just feel like I have so many perhaps left in me. I feel like I'm at the midway point of the career and I've been competing since 2007. Eventually they'll come to an end. Right. But, but yeah, no. And I've seen some athletes do some crazy things in their, their late forties, even like my athlete, Craig Toth, who passed away. His story, just insane. Kenny from muscle longevity, had him on the podcast. Worth, worth hearing it. Cause the stuff this guy had been through, just insane. Like, you know, he died for a few minutes and came back and woke up with, you know, whole leg missing. And just insane. We prior to that car accidents, disrupted our prep and just a bunch of things. And then even after all that, you know, he managed to get better. And a lot of it was just his general attitude towards that possibility. You know? Yeah. He felt he could, he truly did. And it was insane. Like your guy had 20 inch arms naturally. And I'm like, I don't know if his arms can get any bigger. Oh, they got bigger, you know? So, uh, yeah. Yeah. It's, it's, it's insane what I've seen athletes do. And I think bodybuilding is very conducive to that. Cause a lot of it is the big part of the sport is like the practicing self control. And as you get older, you get a lot better at, uh, yeah. Understanding how to make, you know, your, your pet ape do the things you want it to do. You know, pet ape being yourself. Right. So, um, so yeah, yeah. Maybe next year we'll see. We'll see. But as of right now, I'm training hard as I can to make that lease a possibility. Love that. Yeah. It's makes me think of obviously Eric, Eric had a huge, uh, amount of progress made in a short period of time after turning pro. And he had that believe it mentality. And, uh, that's how I kind of come through with my anime. Uh, and people listening to the podcast get bored of me saying this, but Naruto's like data boy. Oh, he says, believe it. And it's super annoying in the anime actually, but I, I ended up just taking it and being like, Hey, that's, that's gotta be the mentality. That's the only way I know. And I think you've said it before where it's a case of like, you have to put your time and energy into something. So, Hey, it can be bodybuilding. And I kind of take it the same way. I'm like, I could fail, but I could fail at anything. Let, let it be bodybuilding. And I want to give my all to something. So, uh, that's the route I'm going to go down. And with you being six pounds above stage weight, I mean, next year is, I know you're not going to be gaining a pound a week. It's going to be like a pound a month or something easily. Next year could be on the card. So that's exciting. Uh, Alberto, thank you so much for your time today. It's, it's always a great chat with you. Um, if you, anything coming out, uh, any more vlogs, are you keeping up with that in your offseason? Yeah. So I've been playing with the Instagram thing, you know, it goes, it's like, which platform, which platform. They've been great. Um, so I think right now that's just easy because it's short form, but, um, but I think YouTube is probably where you want to be. Like longterm, uh, for a bunch of reasons. So I, I do want to get back on that because one thing about not, you know, keeping memoirs of this last prep is that I haven't seen, I don't go back and look at things immediately. I kept her, but eventually I will, you know, I haven't even seen none of my pictures from any of my shows, you know? Um, but I will need something to remember all this by, you know? And, uh, and, you know, for the kids and, you know, my grandkids, they can look back and like, Oh, she like, I thought it's some pretty bad-ass things. you know, now we got drugs. It just make us jacked and lean and smart and handsome. But yeah, he did it. He did it with, uh, six and rocks, right? So, uh, so yeah. Yeah. I think YouTube, uh, I've told myself when we'll start, uh, filming this, this week and just got to get rolling with it and hopefully put out some things, not just for myself, but also because I do understand it. It helps people just, just folks, please don't try to emulate every little thing I do. It's not advisable. Yeah. Yeah. Very well said. And I actually agree with you just as a slight tangent. Instagram. I find is not a very kind of like my relationship with Instagram is not great. I feel like I give, I give, I give, and I get like very little of that. Whereas YouTube is always pretty consistent. And I feel like you put something on YouTube generally, it does reasonably. And I've never really tried giving YouTube a proper go. I'm like, why am I drawn to this? I don't know, this, uh, partner and not this other one. This one's obviously good for me. And this one's not. Yes. Yes. It's the toxic relationship, right? Yeah, yeah, exactly. Uh, but make sure that your YouTube and, uh, Instagram are linked in the description so people can follow along. And yeah, thank you again, Alberto and guys. We'll talk to you soon. Take care.