 nightlingling, nightling, nightling, nightling, nightling night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night night But generally, you know, katsu in Japanese means added pressure. And basically, their philosophy is slightly different than the philosophy of Western-based blood flow restriction. I think that's an important philosophical, you know, stratification there or like guide because in Eastern-based applications like katsu, they are aiming for venous restriction and arterial inflow that is not meaningfully perturbed. Versus Western-based applications are more about venous occlusion. So preventing blood flow from coming back to the heart from the periphery and about arterial restriction. And as such, the pressure application guidelines for each of those tend to differ. And I got into blood flow restriction or at the time occlusion training back – I first found out about it when I was in Washington, D.C. doing my master's. And I saw a bodybuilder who had these straps around his arms and his arms were basically purple. And I, in that time, was actively competing as an amateur bodybuilder. And so, of course, in the bodybuilding community, there's the idea that you do anything for gains. I think that's manifesting right now in our area, right, where we're talking about length and partials and full range, you know, things like that. So, for me, of course, I was genuinely curious. And so, I approached him. And much like the average bodybuilder, he was like, this is occlusion training, bro. And he was like, yeah, you get a max pump. And you can, you know, get muscle. And I was like, okay, sign me up. I'm in. But at that time, there really weren't any sort of good alternatives to the straps. And so, I picked it up for a little bit and then put it down because while it did feel good and I think, you know, if you are a bodybuilder looking to maximize your physique, you really want to chase that feeling of burn. And that's kind of where some of the BFR has, you know, gained popularity in the bodybuilding community. Not to mention the fact that you can use it in a deload period or even to treat some issues, which is really cool from a physical therapist perspective. But, yeah, so I picked it up, put it down, didn't, you know, didn't really think anything of it until about my first or second year in PT school. I saw in short succession, I saw this video about on Dwight Howard, which is an NBA player. And he was profiled on ESPN and they were looking at his blood flow restriction training routine and how it helped deload his body so it preserved his knee function. And I thought, wow, that's really cool. And then in some point in that near area, I picked up an article by Jeremy Lenecke out in Ole Miss and read it. And I was like, wow, there actually could be some legs to these things because now I had, you know, much more experience in strength and conditioning. I interned as a strength coach as part of my master's. And I felt that this had a lot more legs. And so I type A personality and still enthusiast for building muscle. I think that's one of the pleasures in life is going after something. And I will say this to anyone listening. They probably understand that there are a few things, and this is a diatribe tangent, but there are a few things in life where if you put effort in, you're guaranteed to get results out. And lifting is one of them. If you train really hard, your body will respond. It's literally biology. Anyways, I dove right in. And I tried to voraciously read as many articles as I possibly could. And I used social media to keep me accountable. I would – in the early stages of social media, this is probably back now over nine years ago, I would read a research paper. I'd make a short infographic about it. And then I'd post it up to the ether. And it's funny because I would get so trolled. Why would you use BFR? It was stupid. You need heavy weights in order to grow muscle. And this was in the time where, you know, where rep ranges were really, you know, a thing. And then you had this strength endurance continuum. And so BFR kind of didn't really fit into that model. And it's funny now, you know, basically, you know, I don't really ever get trolled on BFR anymore because I think it's firmly solidified in, you know, its application. But, yeah, I used social media to kind of, you know, keep myself accountable, grow, and then opportunities presented itself. And then here we are, you know, nine years later. And, yeah, it's been a journey. Really cool to hear about, yeah, how you first discovered it. I know – I don't know. I imagine you discovered it before. I mean, I'm not even sure when I discovered it. But it must be close to a decade ago that I first came across it. And I think it was like Lane Norton was using it potentially, maybe even wrote an article on it. And I was using knee wraps for, like, wrapping my thighs. And I was using medical tourniquets for my arms. They really didn't really work super well. And that kind of side of things has really improved in terms of the application of tools that we have available. Now there's several companies that have, like, ones that cost several hundred dollars to use. So that's kind of really interesting. Also, I didn't know – actually, on my research on you, Nick, I did notice – I think I saw a stage shot. But you don't have too many. Was it – what category were you competing in? Men's physique. I ended up retiring on top. This small muscle mania show that I won. I think there were eight competitors. But, yeah, I mean, I kind of stopped competing for a number of reasons. But for the sole thing of when I was competing, I was competing in MPC. And I was – what I thought was in pretty good shape conditioning-wise and even size-wise. I mean, I'm six feet. I was 195 walking on stage and natural. And the guys that I was on stage with, some of them were bigger and leaner than me. And I was just like – and this is two different shows. And I was still like amazed because – and that was really the first foray into like the true impact that anabolics can have on your physique. Because, you know, you look at the natural bodybuilders like Eric Helms. You have seen your physique. And really when you diet down, you know, you get leaner. Like it just is what it is. And you see some of these IFBB pros and they're lean and huge. And so it's just like – it was just an awakening for me of like, listen, like I've worked with individuals that are on anabolics. I have no qualms with what they're doing. They're going after what they want to go after. It just wasn't for me. And so that's really, you know, where I kind of stopped competing because I just – there was just going through the prep, going through, you know, the whole thing of like you're always sore. You're sore. You're tired. You're fatigued. You're irritable. You know, the whole contest prep. It's – to just do that and then show up and then basically get blown out was not encouraging for me. But I'm happy I did it and I kind of, you know, understand the demands of the sport. And then since then, you know, that's kind of given me some cred to be able to be involved in bodybuilding and just more than a, you know, bystander. I've been able to contribute to the NASM's bodybuilding and physique coaching certification. Did a rehab and warming up chapter on that. But, yeah, it's been fun. And I do love bodybuilding, especially now taking it for granted all these years. I've been slowly getting back to it because I've unfortunately had long COVID for almost two years. And now I'm finally getting back into the gym and, you know, that itch. You know that itch where it's just fun moving. And I'm pretty – I was strong. And it's nice to know that I still got it at 37. That muscle memory definitely kicks back in, which is great. It's a real thing. I mean, you don't lose those satellite cells. And that's the whole thing about the anabolics, right, is you can go on a cycle and those satellite cells are still with you. So even if you go off cycle, your growth potential has now increased, you know, and that's that whole thing about, you know, natural shows. I mean, you could still go on a cycle and come out and still test clean but have that machinery that increases your, you know, your potential for success. Yeah, I don't know how much you keep up with it. Not that I won't make it into that sort of show, but the IFBB introduced their, like, natural league. And I forget – I just forget what their drug-free policy is, but I think it's something along the lines of four years. It's vastly shorter compared to, say, the WMBF, which you could argue is the biggest, most popular natural bodybuilding federation, who has a 10-year drug-free policy. And it's just like – I mean, after 10 years, I don't know what things are looking like, but most people who have blasted gear probably aren't looking to compete in natural bodybuilding. But maybe four years, I don't know. That's a substantially lower time period. But it's – I think when you accept doing it naturally, I think you accept a lot of things of just like, hey, there's so many things out of my control. I just do this for myself, even if I go – You do it for the love of the grind. Exactly. I mean, and that's really where I have a ton of appreciation for, you know, weight-type sports because they – you know, it requires significant determination constantly. It's not like a – it's not like a, oh, you know, I'm going to, like, kind of dabble here and dabble there. It's a lifestyle choice. And it's something that you do not for a day, not for a week, not for a month. You're talking years. If you want to be successful – I mean, again, people – recreationally, that's great. I'm usually falling to the camp of if I'm going to pick something up, I'm not going to be, you know, a schlup about it, which is why, you know, it still kind of stings with the bodybuilding, right? Like, it is what it is. I think if I had entered a untested show the first time I competed back in 2014, looking the way I did, I think I probably would have completely thrown in the towel as well because I didn't even look competitive, particularly on a natural stage as a novice, let alone kind of against the big boys. I can't imagine. But back then, I don't know how – when I competed, Matt Ogus was like – and 3DMJ were getting popular on YouTube. So I guess maybe you competed a bit earlier than 2014. What year was it that you competed? It was in 20 – because it was in D.C. in that period. So 2012 to 2014. Okay. So maybe natural bodybuilding, I think it just hadn't quite picked up momentum. It really started to pick up steam a little bit after I stopped. Yeah. To bring it back to blood flow restriction training, so it's clearly hypertrophic, and like you said, it's very much accepted now. Do we know the mechanisms that is leading to it? Is it different to just your general resistance training? Is there anything special going on? In terms of muscle growth, I don't think so. I think when we look at the existing body of research, there's a number of ways that I kind of contextualize where BFR fits. When we think about hypertrophy, we know or we think we know that mechanical tension is the primary driver of muscle growth. And I think there was a lot of confusion in the initial parts of when BFR was kicking up because people were confused that you can have this tool that promotes metabolic stress. Metabolic stress. Then we can expect similar muscle growth as if we were lifting heavy. Now, my bias is such that mechanical tension is probably the only driver of muscle growth. And my thought has framed a number of reasons, you know, a number of different things. Number one, you know, we've had studies that, well, first and foremost, number one, when you look at the molecular milieu associated with an end stage resistance exercise with BFR compared to high load exercise, it's identical. And there have been a number of reasons. And they basically walked away saying it's identical. So we have the molecular milieu that are identical at task failure. We have the longitudinal. Data that show similar muscle growth, at least again, and this is the caveat here in the short to moderate term. Right. Research is done in a snapshot of a long term training program. Do I believe that? And this is another this is a caveat. If I do, I believe that using blood flow restriction in the long run is going to out is going to not outperform or promote equivocal muscle growth as high load exercise. Probably not. And we can talk about that if if that's possible. I think that we're we're getting a lot of benefit of BFR, but nothing is going to beat high load exercise in, you know, pound for pound. It's just not going to happen. But we have that. Right. So mechanical tension. OK. When we think about metabolic stress there, you look and you can see that in most studies, metabolic stress at task failure is similar or greater in blood flow restriction than other exercises. Yet we see we still see identical growth. Dr. Leneke's group has trapped metabolites after exercise, after high load exercise and showed no additive benefit to trapping metabolites. Because remember, if metabolites which compose the metabolic stress aspect are anabolic, then trapping those metabolites should theoretically increase. The benefit of muscle growth long term. We don't see that. Cell swelling, the pump, you know, I love the pump. I think it's amazing. I teach actually, you know, our I have an education company, the BFR pros. We do online and in-person education and our, you know, our slogan is hashtag chase the pump. And it's it's not that the pump itself is anabolic. We have evidence that shows that just giving your muscle cell a pump actually may be at best anti catabolic, but is certainly not anabolic. And we see that through BFR. Again, when you look at longitudinal evidence and you kind of see that they're the similar, you know, they're similar, but BFR might have a greater pump, greater metabolic stress. It kind of discounts the importance of of the those as mechanisms for for muscle growth. So, yeah, I mean, it's it's one of those things. I kind of think that if you frame it in the in that way and and if you look at mechanical tension, it's mechanical tension at at the single fiber level. Right. And so abstractly, if we're moving slow with high muscle activation, those muscle fibers are going to be experiencing a lot of tension and thus grow. So when we go to volitional failure, we tend to see that the slowing down, whether it's at the end, like with low load exercise and blood flow restriction or throughout the exercise, like in high load exercise, we tend to see similar velocities at task failure. Right. So, again, it goes back to what are the things that we can link to that might be unique to blood flow restriction compared to high load exercise. And when we think about it in regards to hypertrophy. You know, the the proof is in the pudding. And right now, you know, it the research at large just says that BFR probably operates at whatever the mechanism is probably similar to high load exercise, given the longitudinal outcomes are identical. And that's this is like the thought experiment that I usually have that I had in my head. It's like, OK, we have all these different mechanisms that are supposedly working. Yet when we look at different conditions and we see identical muscle growth, how likely is it that all these different mechanisms somehow add up to the to the same, you know, percentage growth in a training program? And that's kind of where my bias comes in of like maybe it's a little bit simpler than that. Obviously, there's complexity associated with human anatomy and biology. But that's just, you know, kind of how I think about it in in that context of muscle growth, at least. Yeah, I think that makes sense. And from everything I've read and seen, it does seem like mechanical tension is the kind of key driver for growth. Or I think actually maybe Brad Schoenfeld recently phrased it as mechanical stress as opposed to tension, because tension makes people think of just like, hey, load has to be heavy. And it's like, well, actually, you can go pretty high in reps. Although to your point, like you said, BFR has only been studied so long and seen growth for those periods. We don't know what happens after that. I think you could say the same for like higher reps, though. Bodybuilders worldwide have probably been doing it themselves on their own experimenting and growing well. But I often forget that with people talk about that five to 30 rep range. And I'm like, but those high reps actually haven't been studied for extensive long time. I actually don't know if it's true for the low reps, but I'm kind of going down a different route there. But I think the metabolites and like you said, that metabolic stress, that cell swelling in terms of mechanisms, they sound really kind of like almost intuitive when you get it spoken out to you. Like, hey, this like lactate builds up and it causes this like hypertrophic cascade or the volume sensors in the muscle and it senses the swelling. And I really enjoyed it when Brad first released his paper and he talked about it. I was like, oh, I need to do more like muscle swelling work within my training. But it's nice that it's kind of come back to being maybe a little bit more simple. And it's like there's many roads to essentially you could quote unquote say like hard sets in effect. So that seems to be what that occlusion is doing. It's just allowing you to use lower loads and get to those make it hard sooner versus later. There was something you mentioned satellite cells earlier. I think there was a little bit of research looking at potentially an avenue where satellite cell response to the BFR could like augment longer term hypertrophic adaptations. I don't know if you've got any opinions or thoughts on that further. Yeah, I don't think it's relevant. Why? Because the studies that have looked at that have used and this is again. I listen to a lot of podcasts on blood flow restriction. Why? Because I want to I want to know what other people who are considered experts are saying about BFR. And a lot of the time I want to bring my head out. So in regards to the satellite cell phenomena, if you look at the Nielsen paper, which is really where the the the the notion that BFR can can create this satellite cell response. If you look at the fine details of the study, they they work matched the exercise. So they had the the BFR group exercise to volitional failure. And then they took the that scene, the other leg, and then they had that person do to work match. So if you went to failure of 50 reps, then you they had the 50 reps done on the other leg. Now, we all know then that BFR accelerates volitional, you know, accelerates fatigue, muscular fatigue. So that, of course, the proximity to failure is going to be vastly different, not only from, you know, a group level, but an individual level. Right. So, you know, there needs to be more. And this is kind of where when you look at some of these studies that have actually, you know, analyzed BFR to volitional failure, which is what I think is the most important thing to do when we think about understanding the mechanisms of BFR. Because, you know, at least you're standardizing the effort level. Right. And then you can get into, you know, ways that we can potentially lessen the overall, you know, demand. Like, and that's a cuff thing, potentially. But overall, we tend to see similar responses to high load exercise and low load exercise BFR from a capilar, potentially a capilarization. You know, especially if it's taken to volitional failure from a, you know, type two response. You know, there are some evidence. There is some evidence that says that maybe there might be a preferential type one, you know, fiber hypertrophy. I have high, I mean, I was involved in that paper with Brad. But again, it's, I have doubts. Like, for example, some of the studies, when you have a high frequency type program, meaning that when you're training one to two times a day, multiple times per week, you know, typically it's classified, at least in one of the papers that we publish, we classified high frequency as anything greater than four sessions per week. What ends up happening is, and this is kind of gets into, you know, some of the fatigue, you know, literature and what that does to muscle fiber recruitment. But if you're consistently exercising to volitional failure, you're going to accumulate muscle damage. Muscle damage is going to inhibit top end motor unit recruitment. So my idea with how I model that kind of response is that when you include a lot of studies that have this high frequency component, and it could be more than five, more than four sessions a week, or it even could be in unaccustomed people, right? Like, no, not really trained. Even three times a week might even be too much, right? It might not even give them the recovery period that they need in order to actually, you know, continue to stimulate those high threshold motor units. And so what happens is, is that they reach fatigue, but they reach fatigue without stimulating those high threshold motor units. And now, instead of looking at it like if this is the, if this is the whole continuum of motor units, and we get this exponential curve where we have the top end of the motor unit pool on this side, well, now you can't access that. So now the motor, the muscle fibers that are recruited are here. Guess what? Guess who, guess what type of muscle fibers are predominantly, you know, there type one fibers. So now the type one fibers are more recruited and more stimulated and thus could potentially, you know, grow to a greater capacity in that regard. Like, and again, then I know the bodybuilders then that were watching this would be like, all right, well, that's, that's good, right? We can hypertrophy more our type one fibers. But I don't know. I think that, you know, there's that inverse relationship between the amount of capillarization and growth potential of these fibers. So at some point, it might not even matter, it might not matter. And so that's where, you know, kind of can get into the fun stuff with BFR. But I always try to take a step back and try to use common sense instead of trying to throw a mechanism or something crazy out in the wind. Even though I guess I just did throw something out in the wind. But, but yeah, I try to like make sense of it as much as possible to kind of give common sense recommendations on how you're actually going to be implementing it. Because I do think BFR is extremely good at what it does. But I don't think that it, you know, it is something that is like, I don't think that if you can do higher, if you can do even moderate load exercise, I would do moderate load exercise over blood flow restriction. But that's just based on my understanding of, you know, electro, exercise science and physiology and, you know, understanding that BFR is not comfortable. Right. And I publish on that and I, it's, it's really not, it's something that can limit adherence. Same thing like what you, what you said before about high rep ranges. Sure. The rep ranges might be in a short, short to medium term provide, you know, equivocal growth, but how, how demotivating is it when you know you're going to have to do like a 30 rep set? Like it's the, you know, at some point the adherence goes like this and you're like, eh, I'm good. And then move on. Yeah. I think if no one's tried occlusion or BFR training, they've probably done leg extensions and relatively high rep leg extensions. You get kind of a bit of an occlusion effect and you get that buildup of the burn, the cell swelling and the number of clients where I've watched their leg extension. I'm like, man, you probably had five more left. They're like, seriously, I have to push through like that burn discomfort. I'm like, that's BFR every set. I dealt with a few. And the set really starts there. I mean, I don't, I, it's, I can't remember where, where I heard it from, but really like if you're not creating a significant anaerobic demand on your muscle tissue, you are not going to grow optimally. You might grow a little. Why? Because it's, you're still stimulating some of those, you know, low to moderate threshold, you know, motor units, but you're, you're really not going to get that exponential recruitment because that's really what you're going to need to get that growth. Yeah. Yeah. It's like a normal traditional weight training. You get like a bit of burn and discomfort and especially you, as you go higher in reps, but really it's just, Hey, it takes more effort to continue to get reps and they, your rep speed slows down. You get exactly that would be a far, but with all that pain and discomfort. But, uh, cause I, it's a serious, it's a serious consideration and you know, that's, that is as a physical therapist, something that I always consider is patient comfort and how we can maximize patient comfort while also maximizing, you know, potential therapeutic outcomes. And I don't, BFR is just one of those things that I, the way that I teach it is like, you got three different types of people. You got, you got the, the masochists, which is the, or the people that are probably listening to this or watching this, uh, podcast, which are, or people that love the burn. They, they are chasing it. They are the people that, you know, you probably, you know, like the bodybuilder that I gave the example of earlier. Limb is purple. That's not, that's, that's not how it should, it should be. Um, that more pressure is necessarily better. That's, that's, that's not something that I would agree with. Um, and if you even think about it, it'll probably inhibit your overall growth too, because it's more, it's more and more uncomfortable. Then you got the quitters on the other side. These are the people that are like any sort of metabolic stress, kind of like the example you gave are like, Oh, you can know, should we really start? You got to really handle those with kid, handle them with kid gloves. And you have to say, all right, here's, here's why. And then you've got the battlers. Those are like the 75% of the people that, you know, we'll go through it. We'll do it. But again, considering application, considering prescription, things like that to maximize long-term adherence is going to be critical. And that's where, you know, my interest in my academic interest in, in understanding the ways in which BFR is applied, both in terms of like, you mentioned continuous BFR earlier of like the cuff is on throughout the exercise. But also what about, you know, the ways in which we can potentially manipulate the pressure, whether it's during exercise, whether it's actually taking, you know, the cuff pressure off during the rest period, right? There is rationale that that still will have a benefit, but also maximize the comfort to the device features, right? You know, we talk about, you mentioned that there's a tourniquet, right? But not all cuffs are actually tourniquets, right? They're designed a different way. And so my interests are deconstructing the marketing from the actual science so we can come up with common sense, practical recommendations for implementation. Hi guys, Steve here. Just wanted to take a moment of your time to remind you of our online coaching service. At Revive Stronger, we pride ourselves on providing personalized service that will take your physique and knowledge to the next level. If you're interested, check the description and sign up. Yeah, I love that. And I, like I said, I've had a bit of foray with BFR and last year had a pretty nagging leg injury, which ended up being the best I could do was BFR for a number of weeks. So all my quad training was basically BFR and it was just horrendous. The quads might be the worst place to use it. And there was actually this, I read up on one of the papers that you were on. There was this interesting case report of a 22-year-old bodybuilder in their contest prep two weeks out. They needed knee surgery or were told they needed knee surgery and they wanted to delay it to compete. They competed, finished top five, used BFR, didn't see any kind of loss of muscle. And they also found that after that, they ended up not needing surgery. They could go for non-surgical interventions. So I'd love to know kind of similar to that. And you talked about it, like there may be therapeutic benefits to using BFR as well. What kind of, for bodybuilders listening, what are ways that you would consider like, hey, this is a good time to consider using BFR? You also mentioned deloads. Yeah, well, first of all, I wasn't on that paper, but that was Dr. Leneke back, practical BFR. And basically this guy was staring at surgery and did not want that. And so he used practical BFR to help. And they saw some healing and basically just didn't have surgery. Which, to be honest, that case report is a perfect illustration of how to use blood flow restriction. He was in contest prep. He was load compromised and pain compromised. So the way that I think about BFR is through this, you know, overall like screening process of which to be able to use BFR for at least patients, it's they have to be load compromised or pain compromised or both. And that kind of gets them into the funnel. With bodybuilders, they're not necessarily load compromised, but they certainly could have some pain, right? And pain is an accepted part of bodybuilding culture. And, you know, competitive bodybuilders do have, you know, musculoskeletal issues. We published in Strength and Conditioning Journal looking at some of the incidents of injury reports and then how to train around injury. I did that with Nick Licamelli, also another physical therapist, and Jeremy Leneke, actually. But, yeah, deloads, easy. What you're trying to do is you're trying to continue to stimulate the, you know, muscle protein synthesis, anabolic processes in order to continue to grow even in periods where you might want to give your joints a rest. That is such an easy application for it. Other applications that are really cool. Say you have an achy elbow. Say you have an achy knee. What we understand about BFR is it can upregulate endogenous opioids and downregulate our sensations of pain. I use this very, very frequently, not only with myself when I had issues, but also with clients and patients. And we do have evidence to support that functional task performance after use of blood flow restriction improves in individuals with anterior knee pain. That was Dr. Korakakis' research. And so it really does, like, have a meaningful impact. So how would you do that practically? Well, we understand that there is this relationship between the amount of applied pressure, the discomfort, and thus the overall kind of feelings of hypologesia. And so if you're going to use this prior to, say, you have an achy knee, like you said, part of what I would do for someone like you that would be transitioning back to moderate to high intensity exercise would be I would continue with your programming with whatever you're doing with BFR, right? And then after that, give yourself a five to seven minute break. And then I want you to try to load moderate to high, you know, high intensities. And so what we're trying to do here is we're trying to give a little temporary window to then be able to get you back to what I feel is optimal, which is high load exercise, both from a neuromusculoskeletal perspective, but also from just a cognitive, you know, like it's a lot more tolerable to be able to be like, all right, I'm going to give myself a hard six to eight reps versus a hard 30 reps, right? It's, it's, it's, it's just, it's a, it's night and day. So that would be one of the really cool applications of BFR for bodybuilders that have any aches and pains. Now, what would you do in terms of prescription? Well, number one, I, these are things that you would play around with if you don't want it to really impact your, your high intensity exercise prescription, then you really need to get close to volitional failure, but not reach it. Cause as soon as you reach it, then you're basically, those motor units are going to be done for, for, for the short term. Right. So you really want to do higher pressure, but keep it in such that you have some RIR, whatever that prescription is. Me personally, I am trying to simplify the complexity and simplify the noise. We did publish on muscle growth and different repetition ranges. And the traditional repetition ranges are 30, 15, 15, 15. So four sets, 30 repetitions followed by three sets of 15. There was also three to four sets of 15 and volitional failure. And we understand that the more volume you do, the more exercise induced discomfort, et cetera. And what we did was we just compared, um, the different rep ranges to whatever they were comparing, you know, the comparator was with high load exercise. And what we found was it doesn't really matter what repetition range you're using, like three to four sets of 15 or multiple sets of failure or the 30, 15, 15, 15 repetition, uh, range. The, the muscle growth that was, that was at least detected was similar. Now, remember caveats, right? Like just because something in a short-term study says that they're equal doesn't necessarily mean that over time that the divergence is going to go like this. But what that tells us as, as practitioners and those that are enthusiastic about use of BFR is we can probably use slightly less reps and get the same benefit as long as loads are within 20 to 30% of the one rep max. Um, that's important. You know, a lot of times practical, you know, practically people come on, uh, come into my, you know, practice and we don't actually do. A 10 RM test. We just start out with a light load that they can complete. And then we gradually, we progress load over time. In the example that I was talking about with the pain, I actually want them to be very high pressure. You know, 80% of the limb occlusion pressure. If you're using a Western based device, which just means that if, for example, and a lot of the technology that that's out there now allows you to do this without thinking about it. Like it's already built in, um, to the device. Uh, but what, what they do is they basically take your blood pressure with that particular cuff. Uh, and, and whatever, you know, that value is 80% of that is what I would use for your, um, your exercise. Uh, if you're using lower body, if you're using upper body, anywhere from 40 to 50, sometimes 60%, um, if tolerated, uh, could be really good. And then four to five sets of four to five sets of 15 reps, 30, 30 seconds of rest in between, and just making sure you're not hitting volitional failure. And then we can get that, that increase in endogenous opioids and that down regulation of, of, uh, pain. And then go hit your high intensity exercise, right? So we don't want, if our pursuit is maximal muscle growth, we do not want to use any sort of, um, pre intervention or however you want to think about it. That might blunt motor unit recruitment for the, you know, for, for the rest of your session, right? So if you're using BFR, then it doesn't matter. Like using BFR only like you were doing, then yeah, I want to chase. I want to be able to get the stimulation and, and move on. Do I think we need a ton of sets to be able to do that? I don't know, because if you're doing two to three sets to failure, right? That's two to three actual like muscle muscle building sets. Um, but if you're using it in a, in prep to lift heavier, then I would stay away from failure and, and have that, um, high pressure be something that, Hey, if you're, if you're like, I can only do a three RIR, um, with 12 instead of 15 reps, it's 12 reps. Okay, cool. You're staying away from those last couple of reps that are really going to, you know, not do the damage or, you know, however, you know, blunting that, that top end motor unit recruitment. You really well explained. And, uh, I was lucky enough to get, uh, Saga Fitness. If you've heard of them, uh, they gifted me some cuffs. So I was able to use that. And, uh, so kind of taking the thought out of the pressure needed was really great. If someone doesn't have access to those, maybe they just go on an Amazon for like some cheap ones where they're pulling it. And maybe they've got a scale of whatever's on there. Or I know when I first did BFR, they talked about like a seven out of 10 of like tightness. Is that something that you can like, do you recommend that? Do you think that's useful? Is that something that you would recommend at all? It's funny you're talking about this because I'm, I'm going to be on a panel next, uh, next month at, uh, combined sections meeting, which is, uh, the biggest physical therapy, uh, meeting. And that's actually part of our panel's discussion. Like the question one, which is like, what does like risk assessment look like in blood flow restriction? And I think you need to separate clinical use from practical bodybuilder type use, right? Where in the clinic, we're dealing with individuals that have multiple, you know, potentially multiple comorbidities following surgery, things like that. So in terms of the application of the pressure, I would, I, I am a fan of more rather than less precision. So in, in that case, I really want pneumatic devices that are able to determine the amount of pressure applied, or I want pneumatic devices that do not occlude. Right. Right. And that might, that might sacrifice a little bit of the efficacy, but it, it's something that will allow for safe administration of BFR. When we're thinking about the bodybuilding community, you know, people are going to do whatever they're going to do anyways. Right. So, so like BFR in and of itself is a relatively safe, um, you know, modality of, of exercise that you can use. Now, if I will say that just doing a six or seven out of 10 tightness, listen, it's not my favorite because it's not really objective. We do have evidence that shows again, from Dr. Leneke's lab, he's the goat, um, that, that if you take a pneumatic device and you have them, you have individuals over the course of a couple of days, inflate to what they perceive as a six or seven out of 10 tightness that over or underestimates the applied pressure by 20 to 25% in the upper and lower body. So there's a lot of variability in the, um, in that pressure scale system. So typically what I recommend is very, very simple. It's, it's, I would just make sure that you're not super occlusive. So all that means is you might need to invest in a $25 pulse ox, right? Where you're just putting it on your limb, you're tightening up that sleeve and you're just making sure that blood flow is still going to the limb. Right. How do you know if the, if that, that's the case? Well, if the pulse ox registers your O2 saturation and your heart rate, you know, you're still getting blood flow. If it's not, then I would loosen it up. Right. That's typically what I would begrudgingly recommend because the cost, the cost of all these cuffs are coming down. Even, even like relative to two years ago, um, we're getting more and more as BFR is growing, more and more companies are entering the marketplace. And the, the cost to the consumer is going down. And for me, it's like, okay, if I'm going to be using something that is going to manipulate my blood flow, I personally would be more rather than less precise. That's not the same risk tolerance as other people. So at least having the, having some, some common sense guidelines to be able to do that is, is important. There should be no numbness and tingling associated with the application, either in the, the, the arms or the legs. And certainly if your arm is turning purple, you're probably supra occlusive. Um, and, and again, do I think that that's an absolute danger? Like being supra occlusive. Do I think that that's a danger? Not really, but we can't. Can't underestimate the potential for a large scale population use to then discover problems that we might not see in a, you know, control trial, which is why we should always err on the side of caution rather than aggressiveness. Plus the fact that we understand that as long as you're operating close to volitional failure, regardless of the amount of applied pressure that you're using, the results are going to be the same. So why would you go more rather than less pressure? You know, if you operate under that paradigm, which is what, which is what I do. You, you teach a paradigm and then everything else kind of fits in as long as you adopt that, you know, that mindset. So well explained. I was going to say, it sounds like if you haven't got one of the pneumatic devices, which sound like the way to go much safer, um, more efficacious, more standardized for all those reasons. Sorry, go for it. No, no, no. Oh, sorry. I thought you had a point. Uh, so, okay. Quote unquote, rabbit is a safer and then, uh, go that route. But if you, I don't know, can't afford it, don't want the budget to go that way. If you are using just one of the cheaper bands, you can get on live online or knee, uh, reps or something go a bit less tight. And then you can be sure that as long as you take those reps close or to failure, like, Hey, you're getting an effective workout. So long as you go heavy enough, which if you're below, like certainly below 20 reps, you're doing all right with that. Uh, and that's kind of what I ended up applying to some of mine where I didn't follow the traditional 30, 15, 15, 15. I kind of just took every set prox. Like I did the first set, it was a bit higher reps and it wasn't as high as 30. I went like 15 and then I just let the reps drop off and auto-regulated based off, uh, my basically proximity to failure. And yeah, they were pretty horrendous. Um, the rest like between sets is like some of the most uncomfortable, uh, between them. And it's actually a question I had for you. Would you say in that scenario where I say your proximity to failure is like for like, like four traditional straight sets without the occlusion versus four kind of with it in the short rest periods? Would you say that's like four matched hard sets? Or would you say maybe those, uh, ones that are under fatigue kind of similar to like drop sets or things like this? They don't quite get you equivalent hypertrophy set for set, if that makes sense. If the proximity to muscle failure is identical, they're identical in my opinion. Now, remember what we said in the beginning, which is there, there's probably going to be a point in time where if you're consistently using BFR versus consistently using high load exercise, that there's going to be a, a divergence. Whether that matters practically or is just mental masturbation is, is another thing. But for me, we know that there's simultaneous motor unit recruitment and high load exercise. And there's, there's, there's cycling of the motor units in low load with or without blood flow restriction. And so we know that there's, there's a slut, there's going to be differences in terms of the absolute level of recruitment because as fatigue sets in, maybe some of those motor units actually, you know, don't really get as much of a stimulus as they would if they were, you know, you were lifting under another condition. And so I think that honestly, it goes back to the same paradigm. Just because you're adding blood flow restriction doesn't change the fundamentals of exercise science and how you respond to a hard set. It's just going to be whether or not you're going to have more discomfort, relatively speaking, or less discomfort. As long as your proximity to failure is similar, you're there. And, and I think that that's kind of where some of the, the, the skill comes into play because as you, you know, you mentioned earlier, it's like that metabolic stress, you know, you're using a really light load, relatively speaking. Right. So, you know, it's different in being able to prognosticate, uh, your proximity to failure when you're using 80% of your one rep max. Right. Cause you're like, I got this. And, you know, you always reach that point where you're just like, you're lowering it down. You're lowering the weight down and you're like, do I have it? Do I have another rep? Do I have another rep? Okay. And then you make that decision with BFR, because there's such a cognitive, you know, there's, there's this afferent feedback that's coming in from the, the, the sensors, the group three, group four afferents that are creating this increased cognitive demand. You may have more reps in the tank than you actually, you know, might not otherwise think because the, the, the noise is greater basically. So that's where, you know, again, it comes down to like BFR is a great tool, but you have to understand its limitations when you're, you know, you're, you're, you're thinking about implementing it for a long period of time. And by long, I mean more than, you know, four to eight weeks. Yeah. Yeah. Very well said. Yeah. I don't think anyone would want to use it for longer than that if they can help it. And it doesn't sound like that's the appropriate use for, which is what it is essentially a tool. And a lot of the benefits and downsides sound like high reps, but to the extreme really, in that allows you to use like those really light loads, less joint and connective tissue pain. But similarly with high reps, they're a bit more uncomfortable shown in the research than lower reps and proximity to failure is harder to judge. And it's even more like to the extreme with BFR in a sense. And the kind of practical uses you mentioned, I think were great in regards to, Hey, maybe when you're like an injury crops up, you go a bit tighter, you take those sets as like they're your sets and that's all you're doing. And then you can back it off, use it as that kind of therapeutic kind of warmup as a sense, then get into your heavy loading. And then hopefully at some point you remove it completely. The only other comment, I think probably the way you intend it to be used in a deload is similar to like that warmup effect. Only reason I comment on that is I think it was 2017. You'll laugh at this as a competitor in my peak week for bodybuilding. I was like, I read some research where BFR didn't cause as much muscle damage or doesn't cause muscle damage. And so I was like, oh, that seems like a really smart move for like getting blood flow and nutrients partition during my peak week. And I did blood flow restriction training. I can't tell you how sore I was being unaccustomed to it. And yeah, being on stage with sore, I don't know, sore quads basically wasn't much fun. That, by the way, is my biggest concern on blood flow restriction paradoxically is that, you know, the whole crowd of exercise science, you know, when you go on Instagram, they're like, oh, like now actually it's a little bit different. But even like three or four years ago going on and you're saying muscle tears, you know, for muscle damage. And what we're understanding about muscle damage is it's really, you know, calcium ion related and the cell's ability to buffer calcium, to sequester it and bring it back to the sarcoplasmic reticulum, you know, getting it into the mitochondria, things like that. And when you're novel to BFR, even if you have high intensity, you know, training history, there's still a small risk that you're going to create, especially if you're training really, really hard. You're going to create a situation where you could have high levels of muscle damage just because the sodium potassium ATPase pumps, the circa, all of those other, you know, small nerdy things inside of the muscle that help mitigate the impact of fatigue or at least trying to mitigate the onset of fatigue. Those are not really upregulated to the same capacity. So the biggest thing that I always recommend is one to two, maybe three sessions of a modified BFR program and then go ham. You can go to failure every time. Sure, you might have a little bit more, you know, the research does show that there is a stronger likelihood that you'll be able to recover really quickly. Um, but we do have evidence to show that, yeah, if you're going to failure very frequently, uh, in a high frequency program, it can delay the super compensation phase, like 23, 25, 27 days. Like, um, it, it, it, Thomas Bjornsson's, uh, research, they, they kind of done high frequency and they, they looked at that long delayed response. So when you're looking at trying to, to say, oh, I have, I want to use BFR and I want to use it very frequently. I think you could, um, but you need to use it in such a way that you're not really, you know, always going to volitional failure because I do think that the recovery period is, is much quicker. Why? Certainly compared to low load exercise, because the longer you do an activity, the more calcium ion is going to accumulate. Like with low load exercise, you're repeating, repeating, repeating. And that's a longer chance that you're going to, you know, basically activate all these calcium ion related mechanisms that are going to damage the cell. So you can avoid that by using BFR acclimating and then making sure that not every set that you're going to do is going to volitional failure. And then you possibly can train a little bit more frequently than you would with high load exercise. Although that is kind of one of my, I have many different, you know, ideas and studies that I think would be extremely helpful in understanding where BFR can fit in a programming perspective. And one of them, we really don't have a lot of evidence to look at and say, all right, I want somebody to do for two weeks. I want somebody to do BFR twice a day and I want to compare it to the same person doing high load exercise one to two times per day. Is there going to be a difference in muscle growth after that two weeks? We tend to see pretty unanimously, actually, it's not even tendency. It is that when the, with the high frequency research, that's greater than, you know, five sets of five exercise, five sessions per week that BFR outperforms low intensity exercise. But we really don't have an idea, a firm grasp of what happens with high load exercise. Brad actually was involved in one of the studies that looked at basically doing a more BFR for a higher frequency in the beginning of a program and then tracked the amount of muscle growth over time and basically compared to high load exercise. And basically what they found was that BFR outperforms high load exercise initially, but in a longer training program, high load exercise outperforms BFR. And that's really what I would expect if everything I just talked about was more true than not. And I never, I don't want to subscribe to a lot of things in an absolutist perspective, but that's kind of how I, how I kind of feel its place in, in a training program would be with BFR. Yeah. So well said, Nick, and this has been a, I think a masterclass for bodybuilders who have heard of BFR and maybe even used it, but now actually have the practical sense of how to use it, get the most from it. I think that mentioning that kind of gradual acclimation period, even a couple of sessions will go a long way for a lot of people. Like anything novel, this is particularly novel that help people get the most from it. So I want to say a massive thank you for you taking the time to kind of outline all of that for the listeners. If people want to keep up to date with yourself, the work you're doing, where should they be looking? This is going to be time for a shameless plug sport grips. This is other projects. Yes. This is the best form strengthening device on the market. Basically it gives a lot of resistance. You can do flexion and extension. So you don't skip the grip. I think a lot of people, maybe not bodybuilders, but a lot of people in general don't, don't train their grip. And this is just one of those tools that addresses a very, you know, important need. So I am the CEO of that company. That's sport grips. If anybody's listening and they want to snag the device, it's a premium device. It's not cheap, but it's American made everything. They can use the HPM, which is actually my Instagram account. If they want to follow me and if they want more BFR specific info, then they can follow the BFR pros on Instagram. And, you know, that's kind of where I dump a lot of the research that I come across. And so you can just scroll and you can get a ton of information there. And then I offer training classes, both online at BFR training or blood flow restriction. I own that domain, blood flow restriction dot com or in person if you're a clinician through our education wing. But, yeah, I really thank you for the opportunity to get on here and talk about building some muscle. And I really appreciate the invitation. Of course. Yeah, I think on your course, actually, because I was looking over as I was doing my research, I saw the House of Hypertrophy, who I've heard many videos of because he's getting quite prolific on YouTube and does a great job from everything I've seen. He really rated your course. So that was, I don't know, it was just cool to see. I had no idea what he even looked like. Yeah, no, for sure. He, we did a couple of partnership posts back like three years ago or whatever. And great guy. And, yeah, love his content. Is he from the UK? He sounded, I thought he sounded, I was like, I thought he was British. But he keeps himself to just like the graphics and things, which is cool. And with your grip device, what is the main population that end up going for that? Do you know? Who's it mostly marketed towards? Is there any specifics? I mean, we're in the stage of marketing more to fitness. We have actually four different products. We took this company over from a solopreneur and really are trying to scale it and make it even better. And so, yeah, I mean, listen, this is one of those products. You'll pick it up. You use it. You're like, wow, stuff it in your gym bag. Our protocol, because people skip the grip, literally. Like my wife, she does a brand strategy and she has these advanced listening tools. And so she scoured the interwebs as we were kind of launching. And basically the whole idea of grip training is people don't do it. They complain that their grip is a limiter, but then they don't train their grip. So that's where we came up with don't skip the grip. So anybody really that's interested in improving their grip, both flexion extension, but also pronation and supination could check this out. I really do. I mean, I stand behind it. Like it is, I mean, my forearms are, you know, are pretty sidebar. I was going to say, hypertrophy too. Yeah. Oh, big time. Yeah. I mean, again, the forearms are probably, you know, more endurance based in general, just based on what their functional demands are. But I refuse to believe that they can't grow. I just refuse. Just like, for example, we knew that the calves were a problem area. And now everyone is saying, oh, okay. It's actually because the calves are actually more engaged in the lengthened position. And so if we accommodate for the Achilles tendon, which is very elastic, then we can shift the demand to more active tension and thus grow the calves. Because the forearms are a lot more complex because there's a lot more muscles involved. But, you know, my clients have seen growth using it twice a week. And I have executives that basically just, they're on a call like this. And then underneath the table, they're working on their grip. You know, it's very portable and very fortunate that, you know, I'm involved in this. I really do think that it can help a lot of people in their training. And it's American made. So, you know, kind of today, that's important for people. Yeah, for sure. Yeah, it sounds like a really cool device. And I have a number of clients training their forearms. And I've trained them before. And it just ends up always being awkward. Whereas, actually, that device looks very kind of orthopedically friendly, if I can put it in those terms. Yeah. Yeah, we'll get you one. And then you can test it out. I have the biggest forearms. It's, you'll get the idea when you pick it up. But because people skip the grip, the protocol that I use is very simple. At the end of your workout, you're going to twist the resistance to whatever you're going to be at, right? That's your resistance. And then you're going to go 20 seconds as hard as you can. Flexion, extension, flexion, extension, whatever. Or pronation, supination. Rest 40 seconds. Repeat that two more times. The whole protocol is two minutes and 20 seconds. And you are absolutely smoked. Your whole forearm is smoked. So, easy. Sounds, it sounds really good, actually. I was just thinking that the best forearm pump I actually remember having was wall climbing. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. You'll, you'll, you know, I'm, I'm, I'm training right now just for, for extended hangs. And I'm using blood flow restriction as well to, to maximize the hypoxic environment. Um, so I can improve the vascularity in, in, in my finger flexors. Um, and let me tell you, it's the, the pump for using the revolution 2.0 is, is comparable. I think not as painful on the, the, the distal and a phalangeal joints, the, these guys, but, um, but definitely, you know, the forearm itself. It's, it's definitely comparable. Very cool. Yeah. Thank you, Nick. Oh, I'm glad we discussed that product a little bit. Cause I think actually there'd be a number of listeners interested in that. I'll make sure it's linked in the description along with, did you mention a code for people? Yeah. You can use your Instagram handle for 15 bucks off. Um, and yeah, it's, uh, definitely check it out and tag us sport grips, the HPM on, on Instagram. If you're using BFR, definitely do that. I would love to, to hear how people are implementing blood flow restriction. And their own training. Um, and yeah, again, thank you for, for, uh, for allowing me to be a guest. For sure. Yeah. I'll make sure that's all into the description for everyone to check out. Thank you guys for listening. Thank you, Nick. Again, and we'll talk to you soon. Take care.