 These ones using EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR EIR to our normal stuff. But Steve, what's on your mind? And give us an update with, well, in fact, actually, sorry, before I even dive into that, because we're about to get into a little bit of a conversation off air. But what people don't know is that before we start the podcast is Steve always sends me a link to Riverside before we record. And Steve messaged me to say link coming. And for whatever reason, for people out there, do you remember the computer game Worms? Yeah. And there was a response. And there was this, they used to have the saying, like when they like dropped a bomb or something in Worms, it would go incoming. And I don't know why, but I just, when you wrote that, that message, I just got the Worms in my head and I was like, incoming. So your memory, Mike, for these old like things are just is wild. Last time it was all the old movies and the quotes. This time it's Worms, which I definitely did play. I didn't, I didn't play it a ton, but I definitely played it a bunch. The thing I mostly remember from Worms is how frustrating it was to move them. Cause they're like, like moving so slowly. You're just like, come on, move. But that was quite good fun. Actually. It was an amazing game. It's not, it's quite iconic. Actually, I would say. Oh, it's definitely iconic. Yeah. Although I guess snake is like the old, most iconic old game. I would, I don't know. I'm just talking rubbish. I think, but Worms is definitely iconic. It's like me. I remember all the old Pokemon names. Like I remember when we were at the, uh, what's it called that the event? Uh, I was just like, Mike, do you know this Pokemon? You're like, no. I was like, it's this, do you know this Pokemon? No, it's this. I don't know why I remember them all. It felt, it felt like a quiz because you go, Mike, what's this one? And I, you'd be like, so disappointed. I know. I didn't know any of them. That's one thing where my memory fails me. Pokemon. I'm terrible. Apart from Pikachu and Bulbasaur and all of those people, all of those things. I, yeah, I'm a fan. People, they are definitely, they're pocket sized animals. Wait, what are they called? Pocket monsters. That's where it's meant to come from, right? They're real. They're real. Did you, you had the cards? Did you play the Game Boy? Did you do all the things? I didn't really get into the cards. I, I was a bit too late on that front. So I really missed that, um, that craze as such. I don't know how you missed it. Well, do you know what? Before, so around the same time Pokemon, or at least people were getting into Pokemon, I started watching Monster Rancher, which is kind of like, uh, it's not similar, but it, you know, it was kind of, you know, ish. And I kind of, I was reading. The main characters look similar, right? Like the little boy and then the little yellow thing. Yeah. Mochi. It was Mochi. Um, and I don't know why, but I was just really like committed to Monster Rancher and I was kind of resistant to getting into Pokemon, but then I eventually capitulated and I was like, no, let's get into Pokemon. But no, the card phase, the card had crazed, kind of died down by that point. So I kind of missed the boat. I've got a shiny Charizard somewhere, Mike, and it's worth a good amount of money. I just need to find it. It's in my, uh, kind of childhood home in the loft in some, I'm hoping it's in a good state and I need to send it off somewhere to get it like rated and then I can maybe become a millionaire. I'm not sure. That's the secret to your wealth. You're going to show up on like Antiques Roadshow or the anime version of that and they're going to be like, oh my God, this is a super secret special card. It's worth 5 million pounds. Pokemon's huge now, like massive. And like the cards are going for huge amounts of money. Like it's crazy. I guess everyone in their like thirties to forties who are into Pokemon now have money and they're like, oh, I want all these cards. And now it's like anything money only has wealth because we determine it. So, so now you can just use your Pokemon cards to buy things. I also have a bunch of Yu-Gi-Oh cards. Did you get any Yu-Gi-Oh cards? I didn't get Yu-Gi-Oh cards either. Again, I watched it, but I didn't get the cards. Did you do Warhammer? No, I didn't get into Warhammer. What did you collect as a child? You must have collected something. Don't tell me it was stamps, Mike. You now collect stamps. I collect dead beetles. So, no, I didn't really collect anything. I kind of half, at one point I thought, oh, maybe I'll start collecting like old coins and stuff like that. But, but it never really kind of, you know, manifested into anything. So I, to be honest, I don't think I collected anything, you know? Gosh, I know you just weren't like me. I collected everything you could think of. I can even remember, do you remember there was a time, I don't know when it was, but there was like football coins and you could basically get like a little booklet and you could put your coins in that. I don't even remember how I got them. Like, was it from a newspaper or something? I don't even know, but I just collected anything that I could basically that I thought was cool. I was just like, I'm going to collect that. I'm going to collect that. My parents must have hated me and I don't play them. Yeah, I, I so remember that, but again, I never got into it. I don't know why. I'm, I'm just not a collector person. What was your favorite console game? What was your console of choice? Console of choice. Ah, do you know what? I went through phases. So my first ever console, which will have a special place in my heart, PlayStation. But then after PlayStation one, I actually went to Xbox. And so I was really heavily invested in Halo and like, that was the thing. But then I kind of went back to PlayStation two, but I never quite got into it as much. So yeah, hard to say. I think PlayStation will always have a nostalgic place in my heart and probably like weirdly Tekken probably like, okay, weirdly. Um, yeah. Yeah. I mean, Tekken is again, one of those games that has like a huge following, like cult following, I think. So I never really got massively into racing games, sport games, or fighting games. Like I just, none of them really clicked for me. I much preferred like a crash bandicoot kind of adventure style game. Uh, that's what I remember enjoying and playing with other people was always like more fun than playing on my own generally, or have my little sister watch me was always quite fun. Don't know why having her there to watch it. It's kind of like you're doing it together, but I'm the one playing and she really just enjoyed watching and people streamers, right? That's streaming right now. Like the streamers who make their living just playing and people watch them. People love that stuff. I've never done it myself either. I don't get that. I don't get it at all. Cause I'm like, I'd gaming. It's like, I'd want to play. I just, I don't understand that. Yeah. Weird. I do because I think it becomes like a sport. You think you watch sport people, you watch people who are better at you do things and there are very good gamers. And I think some people have personalities where they're just hilarious to listen to playing it. Well, that's, you won't know this probably Mike, but I'm a celebrity. Get me out of here. The winner was a gamer, like a streamer. Ginge. Yeah. He won the whole thing. I didn't know who he was before it. And then, cause I'm not into that world, but I watch, I'm a celeb because me and Charlotte love our trash TV. Right. And he won the whole damn thing. I was like this guy who I didn't even know who he was. And he was super popular. Wow. That's crazy. What was he, what was he like? Can you describe him? Ginger. He's known as angry Ginge. So he was a little bit irritable, quite young, a little bit immature, but a nice person. Yeah. I don't really know how else to describe him. Yeah. It's scared of spiders. The scared of spiders. It's funny. Cause I would have said like when I was playing, I liked it and I could, I could spend all day gaming when I was younger, but I wasn't good at it. I knew that I wasn't good at it, you know, but I just liked playing. I don't know if you ever got the same thing. Hand eye coordination is quite key in gaming, right? And you weren't the best at hand eye coordination. That's a bit of a skillset deficit. That is a big skillset deficit. Halo must've been tough though, naturally, cause it needs quite a bit. People would say like, Oh, I've completed it. And I'm like, Oh, I'm still like, I'm not even halfway through like to myself. It was so, so annoying. And they'd be like, Oh, I've completed it. You know, here, this is how you do it. And I'm like, Oh God. Pokemon's your jam then. Cause all you need to do is it's just endurance, right? You just keep battling, level them up and you can't fail Pokemon, right? Well, you just get, just get stuck at, I don't know, a certain phase or whatever forever. I don't know. You can't work it out. Yeah. How did we even get onto this chat? I do not know. How are things on your end, Mike? Yes. Worms. Things, do you know what? Things are good. So, um, I'm feeling good about things. So, um, shoulders continuing to make steady progress, which I'm super happy about. I, um, so I've been mentioning to you kind of since the injury, put my strength with pulling has never been as significantly affected as pressing movements, but I've definitely noticed over the last two weeks or so that there's been a significant improvement in my ability to push on the left side, not pushing kind of like metaphorically, but my pressing strength. And to the point where now I'm on nearly everything bar maybe two movements, I think. Well, yeah, two pressing movements. I'm more or less using similar loads and similar reps. So, and the shoulder feels good. So I got back from the gym today and I did upper body first. And that's something else we've made a little change with is, and so I got back from the gym today and it feels, it feels loose. Like sometimes I'd finish a gym session and I would have stiffness. Like it wouldn't be, uh, you know, it wouldn't be sort of bad. It was just generally stiff, but it feels, it feels loose. It feels good. So I'm like, oh, interesting. Um, but one thing that I did, one thing that I did experience this past week was, um, I, on Monday when I went to train, I did have actually, um, uh, noticeable soreness in the shoulder and not, and I don't want to call it pain, but it wasn't DOMS if that makes sense. And it was very specific, specific soreness to the fracture site on the shoulder. And I, I was kind of just trying to warm up on a lateral raise movement and it just, it didn't feel right in any sort of way. And it was really interesting because in the moment I could feel like old Mike as such going like, ah, shall we try to push through? And then I was like, no, we're not going to push with this. And I, I treated it. And, and again, afterwards there was a part of me, which was starting to get a bit frustrated, but then I tried to really reframe it and say like, no, this is an absolute win because definitely old Mike would have pushed through that, but I've made a better choice in the moment. And, and it, I, I personally think it really paid off because the next day the shoulder felt recovered and it felt better. It was totally pain-free. And I was like, again, big, big, big lesson here. So, um, yeah. And again, it's feeling really good now. So, um, and it's, and that's just something else that I've, I've learned, which I'll, I'll stop yabbering, but yeah, so it's been, it's been a good week. No, I do want to double down on that point. Cause I think it's really important because, uh, we don't struggle so much with our diet. We struggle more with our training, but some of the relationships are the same there in terms of like that short term want for something like in the short term, you might want to eat a Mars bar and it's very tempting, but what you think about, what would future you wish you'd done? You think about your goals and what's likely the best decision here. I'm probably better off not having that. Maybe I'll eat an apple instead. And then the next day you're like, Oh, so glad I did that. Cause today I feel so much better. I kind of hit my goals. And if I ate that Mars bar yesterday, again, I would have overeaten. And then that sets up a bit of a downward spiral potentially for you similar with training, right? Like if you're injured and you kind of, I really just want to get that pump. I want to do that exercise. It's that short term, just feeling of a need to do something similar. Like you want to eat something, but you think, Hey, what tomorrow's Mike wish I'd done today. It's like, ah, probably resting it. So yeah, I think, yeah, again, it's just interesting to, to always see the parallels between training nutrition, but I definitely, like, I don't know if I said it to you in your checking, but I was like, I'm definitely proud of you for making that choice because it will only pay off, especially when you really rationally put your coaching hat on and you're like, what are the pros versus cons here? Seriously, there's not many pros there. And it's great to hear today that the shoulder is feeling loose and liberal and, uh, something I think that's really cool that we're doing that might be educational for listeners. Obviously they know about your injury, but that, like you said, we're starting to incorporate not specializing on the upper body really at all at the moment, but we're just reintegrating being less specialized on lower body by starting with upper body every other day, basically. And like I said, I wanted to give that another week and I wanted you to hopefully report next time, uh, next week. And you'll say, Hey, everything's feeling great. And then we can start prioritizing it even more, which is going to be great. Mm. And something which, um, has really helped me in that I always feel really reassured by is the last couple of check-ins you've always kind of gone back to the long-term plan and kind of in a way, knowing that we do have a plan and knowing like, Hey, you know, this is what we're going to be doing. This is kind of our strategy moving forwards. I can't describe what it is, but it's just so reassuring having that certainty that we've got a plan in place. And like when you referred back to that, I was like, ah, I feel, I feel safe. I feel like, yeah, I feel, I feel good now. I feel reassured. So yeah, it's, it's really helpful having that. Yeah. I think about it with comp preps, like we do like a bit, well, every client that comes to us, but particularly competition preps, you get a bit anxious because there is literally a deadline. Whereas most by body composition goals, this is no deadline or if it's a photo shoot, same, but man, not having a planned backwards from that is tough. Uh, only because of the, I can relate to it because I was working with Cliff who doesn't like doing those sort of like blueprint plans. Like when I worked with Cliff, he doesn't have any spreadsheets. It was just emails. And he specifically said he doesn't like kind of mapping things out. He just likes taking every week as it comes. Thankfully, I had full faith and trust in Cliff and in myself, of course, like I'd be able to call somebody if it was off. So that's okay. But I think it, for people who, I mean, some people need that plan and they would, I think on knowing there isn't going to be one there, they'd feel a sense of angst every single week, or they just would be like, Hey, I can't do this. I need someone to map something out. I wonder if Cliff has ever experienced that. I imagine he has. And I think it, it must've helped you as well, knowing everything that you do know in a sense. So you, again, you can kind of not reassure yourself, but you've got that fail safe to fall back on kind of thing. Um, be my fourth competition prep. So yeah, for sure. Especially when it's somewhere you've never traveled, which is what your injury is really. That's tough. Yeah. So, so I think it, it's, it's, it was only helpful for you, for yourself kind of coming out for that. Cause again, we were in New York, right? And if you didn't have your prior experience, your knowledge as a coach, that would have been really tough probably. Um, so again, it allowed you to just navigate that much better. And hopefully our guys over on the East coast have recovered a bit from, it sounds like it's still really bitterly cold, but a bit less snow. I'm glad that we didn't have that. I wouldn't have minded. I don't think it snowed when we were there. I wouldn't mind it a bit of snow, but not if it disrupted travel, which I mean, snow tends to. Yeah. Do you know what's really interesting? Cause, um, a couple, a couple of, uh, clients said like, Oh, you know, this is probably nothing to what you guys experienced. And I'm like, no, actually, you know, in England, the weather tends to be quite tame. And also England in particular isn't great because when it starts snowing more than light snow, everything just falls to pieces. We just, England's just not great with extreme weather, even though we, we probably should be. Yeah. Especially as global warming starts cooking us a little bit more and then we get more extreme weather. It's, we haven't really had any extreme cold or snow at all. It gets pretty hot at times, which in the gym, your gym is, is Whitney's air conditioned or no, I'm imagining not. No, but they've got big fans. So sometimes that helps, but, um, and they've got, they've got like a heater as well, which is okay when it gets going, but it can, if it's not been on or if the fans haven't been on for a decent amount of time, it can either get roasting or freezing. I'd much prefer to be freezing than roasting. I don't know about you, but when I'm boiling hot, man, it just sweating everywhere. I don't know. I hate it. Whereas I can wrap up and I can like do a bit of like, you know, warm up cardio, whatever, and get warm, but being boiling hot, I just, I don't know. I hate that stuff. So I'm not looking forward to that part of summer, man. Yeah. Oh, I'm already thinking about sleeping, but I've got the air conditioning unit. All right. So it's, it's not been too bad. Um, any, I, I, uh, checked in with my client, Doug, shout out to Doug. If you're listening, uh, he's a big anime fan. And I wanted to ask you, Mike, cause we haven't spoken about anime for a while. Are you watching anything at the moment? I have had a bit of a break from anime, not for any particular reason. So I finished Vinland Saga and yes, so that was great. I enjoyed it. Nowhere near on the level of like, for me, it was on, not on the level of Demon Slayer, Attack on Titan or Naruto, but it was a nice in between thing. And then, do you know what was really weird? So I thought, right, the next thing that I'm going to watch is full macro app, full metal alchemist brotherhood. But for whatever reason, that first episode, I wasn't vibing with it. And I was like, nah, this is kind of, it feels a bit lame. So I stopped watching and then I started watching Lord of the Rings again, um, rings of power. So, but now, cause also, um, previous client and also client that's joined up, our guy, Phil, he, he's sold me on full metal, full metal alchemist again. So I feel like I've got to go back to it and actually persevere a little bit more. I was saying that literally to Doug today, I was like the old animes, they are slow at the start. Um, so like Naruto was slow. I remember struggling a little bit with the first, uh, number of episodes there where it's like attack on Titan, literally the first episode was just, you're just like in the thick of shit. So that was great. But, uh, full medical alchemist brotherhood, I enjoyed it. It definitely got better as it went on. Uh, but yeah, I didn't, it wasn't some people it's like their favorite completely, but it's similar to me. I like tried bleach and I just didn't quite get into it the first few episodes. And then I tried, um, one piece and just didn't quite get sold on the initial episodes. And I'm just, I think I just have to invest into those old animes or just kick off a new one. Um, so yeah, you haven't, I was hoping maybe you'd found something that I was like, Oh yeah, I should jump on that. But I think I'm going to watch, I think it's the jujitsu kaizen. I think they've got some new stuff coming out. So I rewatched, I think I rewatched just, um, I watched a movie which kind of recapped a bunch of episodes. So, uh, in season two, so I think season three, you might be coming out or something, but anyway, I think that's what I'm going to move on to. Have you seen Dr. Stone? Yes. Uh, not all of it though. Okay. What are your thoughts on it? It's fine. It's like it cause it hasn't got like the action and like, I don't know, like hair standing up on end and that sort of thing. But it's, you learn stuff cause he's really smart and lots of chemistry and things like this, but it doesn't like, I'm not like, oh, sitting on the edge of my seat or full of emotion. I'm just like, yeah, it's fun. Good time. That sort of thing. But apparently as well, there's supposed, there's supposed to be, is it this year that they're redoing super, uh, sorry, Dragon Ball Z super? Oh, are they? Hmm. I feel like I saw an Instagram post that saying that this year there's going to be like three animes, you know, that are going to be making a comeback and a remake. So they're doing like a remake of Dragon Ball Z super, not Dragon, Dragon Ball super. I think also there might be a new, I don't know what you'd call it, not series, a new arc that they're going to do with, I've forgotten his name. He's like a big goat. I've, I watched some YouTube videos of someone reading the manga. I really actually enjoyed it. They just basically had the manga on their screen and then like just read through it as it was going. And I really, and actually it was when I didn't, I kind of didn't have access to other anime at the time. I wasn't that interested, but that should be fun because he was pretty cool and very powerful. So I'm looking forward to that. Yeah. The listeners, if you can cue us, like if there's anything you're currently watching and you're hooked by it, let us know. Definitely. Yeah, for sure. But Steve, tell us what's, cause it's been, it's kind of been two weeks cause we didn't really have an update last week. So what would you say are some highlights over the last two weeks? Oh, good question. I think a highlight will be my belt squat RDL, which I can't remember how many weeks it's been that I reincorporated those, but it was basically related to the fact that my TFL was getting pissed off by heavy hip hinging and the belt squat RDL has always felt a bit better on my joints and connective tissue. I never get this next day ache through like areas that I don't want it to be like stiffness through my lower back, for example, which I do get with the barbell RDL sometimes. So anyway, I went back to those and I just reviewed how much load and reps I was doing to last time I was doing it, which is actually like years ago now. I think it might've been a couple of years since I did it. It's funny how long you literally keep something in the rotation, some of these big compound lifts for like a year. So then when you come back to another one, it's like, well, you hope you're doing more. And I was comfortably like a solid 30 kilograms more load that I was shifting with it. So I've just been able, I was, it's meaningless really because different belt squats, different weights, and I don't know how it converts to anything, but it was 270 kilograms for 9.88. I actually got today. I added another five kilograms on last week. So it's just feeling dialed. And like I said, it's all the stimulus in the right place. So I can't complain. I think that's clear gains have been made across like that area. And then other highlights I think would just be, I'm loving using knee sleeves. They'll definitely give me a little bit of something in the hole, but I've never felt as comfortable and in controlled in that bottom position as using, as having the knee sleeves there. Everything like, I don't know. I just, I don't feel like I'm ramming up against joints. I feel like I'm just getting good muscle kind of tension and stimulus using them. But I think I'm going to be on all time PR hack squat numbers, but with the sleeves on. So it's a bit like, and they're probably, they're definitely giving me something. I don't think they give me like 10% load increase. I don't think that's likely, especially because I'm not bouncing out the bottom at all. I'm just controlling that bottom portion, but I'm just feeling really confident in those lower body compound quad bias movements, which is really just nice. I have to say though, Mike, tendonitis is such a bullache because it just hangs around like a mother, like just not like a mother, but you know, I was going to swear. Mother, you can hang around. It's fine. But so I'm just noticing it's creeping, but it's not getting worse within sessions. I just feel it and note it. And then the TFL I know is not gone. Like I can still feel it there and it's just making me it. So it's making myself, it's letting me know it's there. That's what I'm trying to say. Like I weirdly noticed on my rest day, like flared up a bit. I was like, Oh, I mean, I did train legs the day before, but there was nothing in the session that would have led me to think it, but it's just helping keep me on mind that not to be too aggressive with load and rep increases. So if I'm not taking every set to zero RAR and stuff like that, I'm okay with being in around a one RAR. If it's even at two, it's not the end of the world by any means. So yeah, I think those are probably some highlights. I can't think if there's anything else in particular. Oh, I managed, my bench has been stuck at, what is it? A hundred and 115 kilograms for five and then four reps. I kept bouncing around five, four. Then I get like four, four, and then I get five, four. It's been like that for like six weeks. And this week I managed five and five again. I was like, I got a rep. Nice. But yeah, it's just such a, you'll know this Mike when you're at this level and you are well adapted or you're very skilled at a certain exercise, it just takes so long to see that adaptation and therefore be able to hit that PR. But I'm very certain I haven't benched 115 for five before, let alone two sets of five. I'd have to look back. I hadn't benched. This was like a new movement for me for like years. I just, I don't think whilst I was at Yorkies, I ever benched like barbell benched consistently. So it's been a long time since I've used the barbell. What, um, back, if you go back to your powerlifting days, what was your bench one RM? It might've been 115. Well, there you go. Something like that. But that was 2015 that I competed. Uh, but I'm not too far off body weight wise. It was definitely, I'd be, um, actually am I 83? I'm around 83 kilos, 82, 83. Am I, I'd use pounds. So I never know off the top of my head, but I competed in the under 83s. So that was there. I know my, I'm almost certain my squat was one 90 and then my deadlift, I think was two 10, uh, which I would easily smash. Was that a belt and sleeves? Yeah. Yeah. Knee sleeves and a belt. Yeah. Hmm. What, what do you think your 2015 self would say if he, if he looked at you and he saw you now? Be like, did you hop on the juice? Like what happened? Literally. Absolutely. Uh, especially with my hair being gone too, it doesn't help that situation. Right. Although looking back now, I can see my hair loss. Like, cause I was, I was looking back. I think it was, I think it was 2016. Actually, there was that, uh, kind of comparison on Instagram. You probably didn't see it, but it was a trend compared 2016 to now. Uh, so I did that and I looked back at some of those photos. I was like, Oh, like at uni, when I shaved my head, I had like a, my hairline was like there straight across, but just over the years, it just kept going back. And in 2016, I competed and I shaved my head fully. I don't know if you remember, but, uh, yeah, it was not a good look. Like I was already receding a lot then. Uh, this bit just wasn't quite as thin. And I remember people asking me, but I don't know, it was like six months after I competed, they're like, Oh, what did you do for your hair? And I was like, it just grew. Like I'm just hiding it. Uh, but yeah, muscularity wise, I definitely back then never thought I could get to this size now. Like I would be like, like Steve, what the fuck? What did you do? Yeah. It's just kind of also really nice to think when we talk, again, we talked about like, what would your future self say? What would your future self think? But also maybe the reverse, if you think about, um, you know, again, no limits in terms of my future self could be amazing. You know, don't put limits on yourself. Um, yeah. On that note, Mike. Yeah. Sorry. I was going to say my hero academia. Yeah. Phil's, Phil's, uh, put me on that. So it's okay. Yeah. That's a good one. I'll, I'll try to persevere with full metal alchemist and then my hero academia will be after that, I think. And that one also needs a bit of perseverance, but not quite as much because at least the animation is very modern. Whereas a full metal alchemist is a bit old and yeah, I don't know. I can't really remember the first episodes, but it did feel a bit kiddie for a while, but Naruto did too. And so did, uh, what the other one you just mentioned that you just finished. I forgot. Literally it's popped out. Vinland Saga. Vinland Saga. Yeah. That was a bit hard for the first few episodes. I thought. Hmm. Yeah, I am. I feel like the animation in Vinland Saga was a tiny bit better than full metal alchemist though. Yes. Yeah. Cause it's new, right? Vinland Saga's within the last few years. Yeah. Uh, anything else to highlight? Hmm. I've got a highlight for you. Cause I don't think we've mentioned this yet or correct me if we have. I think I know what you're going to say. Bali? Yeah. Yeah. So you are, tell us about Bali, Steve. Yeah. So actually I want to bring up the post cause I, yes. So from the 15th to the 22nd of July, you can join me and Mike in Bali for a bodybuilding, uh, kind of holiday basically. And we would love to see you there. In fact, I know I have Jake coming as well. Jake Hellman. Uh, we have yourself, uh, Andrew is coming as well. And I know of a couple of people who I've spoken to in my DMS who are also considering coming. So there's already quite a good, like real revive, stronger crew going to be out there. Dirk Emmerich is going to be out there too. Obviously Brandon's invited me and there's just a great number of educators out there. So it's basically a week of being in Bali. So it's amazing. Super sunny. It's like the best time to go to Bali, I believe. And then, uh, we're training every day bar one and we're doing like a, it'll be something along the lines of like push, pull legs off, push, pull legs. And you'll be taken through sessions with each of the coaches who are going over there and presenting. So I'm one of those people. Brandon invited me over to coach and present. So I'm working kind of full time out there, but it will be like the best type of work I imagine. Cause we'll just be hanging out and every day you get breakfast, you get lunch, pump kitchens are supplying us with like, I think breakfast, maybe an lunch. And then we're going out for dinner in the evening. So I think it's something along the lines of like, I can't say specifics, but I think it is something along the lines of you kind of all kind of, they give you accommodation as well. The price is absurd. I think it was, what is it? 1.5 K in dollars, $1,500 basically, which I think considering it's all inclusive and you get education and coaching full time. Basically it's just, I was like, that's a steal of a price. I don't even know how they're able to make that financially viable. So let me come back to the start. So we'll have like breakfast at like pumpkin kitchens, which is Jackson Pios is like bodybuilding kind of cafe essentially where the food looks tremendous. It's all like macro friendly, all that sort of stuff. Then I think it's like, go and have a kind of educational talk by a presenter for a couple of hours where one of the kind of key speakers will be talking. So I'll have my topic and I'll be talking one of those days, which I'll need to start preparing my talk. And yeah, I'm excited and nervous for that. You know, I'm like, but a small audience, I like much more than like hundreds of people. It's just, that's a bit more intimidating. Anyway, then we'll, I think, get lunch, then train. And again, you'll be put like through the works. Jake was saying, should I deload before it or after? And I was like, you probably don't want to deload before because you'll be so sore after that first session because there'll be just all the volume, all the intensity, obviously taking you through things carefully, executing the lifts to get the best bang per buck stimulus SFR wise. And each kind of individual coach will take you through their philosophies and lessons and teachings. But we are there to put you through a test essentially, like to really make sure that you are on top of everything and getting the best from your training therefore. And so after training, I think then there's a bit of free time before then a dinner in the evening where everyone will go out for dinner at a Bali restaurant. And then I think we'll do that each day. And then there's a rest day bounce back in the middle, which I think we're going on like quad bikes through like the jungle and stuff like that across beaches. So that's going to be a ton of fun. And then it's back to kind of training and everything like that the rest of the week. So yeah, I'm just super excited. It's that undefeated gym as well, which is Jackson Pioces, Brandon's and Aaron. They are, I think the three kind of investors into that gym. And it just looks like a bodybuilding paradise, to be honest with you. They have like saunas, steam rooms, like ice baths. They have like a pump kitchen in the gym itself. Like, yeah. So a dream come true in many ways. If I wasn't presenting, I'd want to be going. The only thing that puts me off is the flight. But it's just because I don't like flying mostly. So yeah. It's all right. We'll be together. It'll be fine. We managed, we managed New York. It'll be fine. Yeah. I mean, that's why I was like, I don't want to overthink it. I was talking to Charlotte about it. I don't want to overthink it. As soon as Brandon told me, I was just like, absolutely. I am honored to be invited. So I was just like, I'll make it work. And that's why I think I maybe said at some point on here, anyway, the reason I bought a laptop, because I was just like, I'm going to need a new laptop because I'm going to have to work over there. I want to travel more. It's like one of my life goals to be a bit more flexible and able to do that. So I'm unbelievably excited for it. I think it's going to come sooner rather than later as well. I think it feels far out. I've actually, as a personal note to me, to you, Mike, because we're obviously going to arrange at least flights out there together because I think Charlotte's going to come meet me afterwards. At the moment, in my head, and we'll book soon, I think, is maybe fly out like on the Sunday. So then we're there to get acclimated sort of like late in the day, Monday, have the whole of Tuesday, and then things kick off on the Wednesday. Sunday, something along those lines. And then it's Wednesday to Wednesday. And so I'm thinking I'm going to stay for like a week and a half afterwards to like, and Charlotte's going to come out for a week and a half and do that. So that's kind of what we're thinking. Yeah, no, it's so cool. And I am, I wanted to say as well, because I saw the, yeah, I didn't, I haven't liked it yet, but I saw the poster of you because they were doing like the coaches height, like, you know, get to know the coaches kind of thing of the Bali trip. And yeah, I just want to say like, I'm really proud of you. Like I really appreciate that, man. I was just like, yeah, just everything that you're achieving so far. It's just so cool. It's like, oh, so it's so sick. So yeah, it's just awesome. And I think again, like one thing to highlight as well is like every coach at this Bali camp is, is a pro is got over 10 years experience and like numerous other qualifications. So these are like top, top tier, you know, all of you guys are top, top tier. So, cause I think another one of the coaches is going to be Nathan Wallace as well. And you know, so yeah, it would just be sick. And something that I always think about as well, which we talk about from our meetups, our revive meetups is it's just connecting with like-minded individuals who share the same passion with you. And you just can't put, you know, a price on that. Cause it just, in terms of the, how much it kind of fires you up and it energizes you is just unbelievable. So yeah, it will, it will be incredible. Thank you so much, Mike. Uh, yeah, it's going to be a core memory for all of us. Like I said, I'd want to be going, even if I wasn't like presenting, it's just like, dude, this sounds like the most fun thing ever to go there with you also is just like fantastic. Uh, like we had so much fun in New York and all our travels when I was competing. And was there another comment? Oh, I want to, I wonder if I should hold this for next week. I might tell you off air. Cause I feel like I'm, there's something going on next week, which is exciting. It's not on the level of excitement of this by any means, but it's still a proud of myself moment for getting this opportunity. So I'm going to be on a podcast and I'm very excited to be on this podcast. So once it's recorded and I feel good about that, I'll maybe talk about it next Thursday. And then hopefully it means it will still go out, but I'm assuming once it's recorded, it will go out. But you know, sometimes you get, I don't know, you're invited. I've actually had podcast invites from like quite a big podcast before. And I've been like, yeah, yeah. And then they just never come back to me and I'm like, Oh, what happened? So I don't want to, this is booked into my calendar. It's booked in their calendar. And I trust this person wholeheartedly, but I'm just like, I don't want to put it out there and then it not happen. Yeah. But I think, do you know what that reminded me of? It's like, so you've been, you've been podcasting for what, how many years now? Basically coming up to a decade. Yeah. And like probably at least for the first half of that, like probably minimal, you know, thanks or recognition for it, you know, so similar to training, it's like you, you didn't receive that feedback initially, but Hey, 10 years, like a decade into it now, like people might look at it now and they might go like, Oh, you know, how did Steve get super popular? How did Steve get massive and all of this stuff? And it's like, you're looking at someone who's put over a decade of, you know, diligence and work with, you know, no thanks, just doing it day in, day out, ridiculously consistent. Like people need, like people just need to follow your Instagram just to know this is like multiple posts daily. It's like, Hey, consistent. Look at your man over here. Yeah. I somehow it's embarrassing how many posts I've done on Instagram. And I actually meant to say, Mike, I'd been tagging you in my things I love about natural bodybuilding, but it hadn't been tagging you because I'd been releasing them as trial reels to see if they could capture a new audience. And then I, if they did okay, I kind of brought them over to my main page, but it doesn't tag you for some reason. So just so you know, cause I normally tag Mike in my posts and I was feeling bad and like, you might feel like, Oh, why isn't Steve tagging me? It's, I always tag you in ones that aren't like just a, I don't know why I sometimes tag you in my training ones. Sometimes don't. Um, but I think I going forward, I'd probably just tag you in them all. Anyway, it, the, what you said there is very true. Also in a physique sense, people often look at people with like crazy physiques and they don't understand the years behind that transformation. So yeah, it's one of those. And it's funny you saying how did Steve get like big and popular? And I'm like, man, I do not feel that way at all. Like I still feel like such a small individual within the space, but I'm happy with where we're at and where we're going and the direction that things are going. And it's just a case of continuing to turn up, do good work. And again, looking up to Eric Helms and team 3DMJ of how long they've been around sustainability, but also just like they've always stuck to their principles, which I really appreciate because I do think there are ways to grow quicker, but I think you often find people move away from their grounding principles of why they did what they do in the first place, which we are just not wanting to do. And that's fine. No, totally. It's kind of like this, this peace of mind and peace of self knowing that, Hey, we have always been ourselves and we've been authentic to who we are and what we stand for. And Hey, it doesn't matter what we achieve at the end of the day. It's like, Hey, we've done what we love to do. We do what we believe in one, what we value. And that's all that matters at the end of the day. Yeah, exactly that. I can't imagine trying to fake something or spin lies or do anything. It's if I make a mistake, I own it because it was authentically me. And if I've made a mistake, it's fine. Like, but I'll never purposely put out false information or false thoughts or this sort of thing. Um, we just are showcasing our growth and development generally, uh, any other news, Mike, or is that time for some Q and a, well, I feel it's time for some Q and a, cause I think we've got quite a lot of questions this, I feel like we've got more to catch up on maybe, but that might just be me. We've got the time chamber questions that we've got you. What's at me some questions from, Oh, so yeah, should we cover that first? Yeah, let's do it. Uh, let's get the WhatsApp one. I'll ask, uh, because then where is it? So this is from Mark. You must work. Oh, you must work with a lot of clients who push themselves too hard to a breaking point. What coaching techniques have you found most effective to rein them in and keep them safe, but still allow them to feel like they're pushing themselves hard. Hi guys, Steve here. Just wanted to take a moment of your time to remind you of our online coaching service at revive stronger. We pride ourselves on providing personalized service that will take your physique and knowledge to the next level. If you're interested, check the description and sign up. Yeah, this is, this is a really good question, Mark. Um, and to be honest, I, I, this trait is a little bit in myself as well, to be honest with you. I think it's always trying to, and an analogy I liken this to is that sometimes if you imagine a mouse, sometimes you might have a mouse that just smells the cheese, but they can't see the trap. And you might have other mice who only see the trap, but they can't see the cheese and you've got to try and find that middle ground. And so that was a terrible analogy by the way, but anyway, um, I was thinking it through. I was like, there was some kind of relevance in there, I'm sure. But, and, but I think what I was getting to was that I think with clients that pushed you hard, I think you've, you've got to make them aware of the trade-offs. So what is the ultimate goal? So if for example, the ultimate goal is to, you know, build muscle, then I think making them aware, aware of the trade of saying like, Hey, you could do this extra set or you could put, dig yourself into a hole. However, again, um, if you feel, if you can't train for the rest of the week, that is impairing our ability to move forwards with our goal. Um, likewise, I think also saying to them, right, what I'd like you to do is I'd like you to reflect on what you did in your last training session. Did that legitimately improve your stimulus? And you've said this to me a number of times. It's a reflection that you've kind of took me through. And I think if you can get clients to think about, huh, did that actually improve things or huh? Right. So I've trained twice this week, but then I've had to deload for another week because I just destroyed myself in the gym. Uh, I think if you can get people to reflect on that, to try to see the trade-offs, I think that's really helpful. So essentially it's always trying to balance out their view. Um, so that would be kind of the first thing that I'd think about with regards to this question. Yeah, I think you're kind of telling people about the trade-offs is perfect. It's cause I, it's funny when Mark asked this, I was like, actually, I think more often I am trying to encourage trainers to push harder, uh, versus pushing too hard. And I would always actually generally prefer someone who has the ability to push hard versus not the ability to push hard because pushing hard is a requirement for impressive results. So you have to have that gear. So first, I always frame it like that to a client, like it's great that you can push hard, but we need to control that appropriately to get the best results and outcomes. Like you said, there's, there's definitely trade-offs. It's like, it's too hard for a reason, right? Because it's too much of it. And it's just understanding that, yeah, you can do too much. You can push too hard and we need to find the right balance. And I think it's trade-offs and then reminding the person of the goal. The goal isn't just to run yourself into the ground. The goal is to get a quality stimulus and be able to do that again and again and again. And that might mean modifying what they're doing, but it's short term. And it's like you said, actually, sometimes you will push too hard and it's okay if you learn from it. You don't just go, Oh, I pushed too hard. And Oh, you do it again. You do it again. That's like insanity, right? You need to learn from your mistakes. So I think that's probably the easiest way to think about it. And when you know those things, um, I guess as a cute example of this, because you mentioned safe. Um, so you might suggest like, Hey, on a barbell back squat, it isn't safe to push to failure, but you can push to failure on basically any isolation work you want to. And I wouldn't be upset about that, particularly once we're already well adapted and deeper into the mesocycle, especially if it's on the last exercise, I'm not afraid of you to pushing it there. And so I think it's kind of framing where push isn't too hard in those circumstances, but this is quite broad generalized question. So I just wanted to give one acute example of where like, it would be really effective and safe to push like what might be too hard on a different, in a different area. Yeah, no, I think that was, yeah, I think that's so good. You reminded me of like the shit sandwich where you, in terms of, have you heard of the shit sandwich? Uh, I think I have, but explain it. So yes. Yeah. You put the shit in the middle and then, and then you give the shit and then you end with something positive. So I think what you said there, like you're highlighting the good thing, which I think you're spot on about. It's like, we fucking love that you train really hard and you can bring the intensity. It's like, however, actually the drawback here is that, Hey, we could be shooting ourselves in the foot if we're needing, if you're causing an injury or, you know, if we're too fatigued. However, it's great that we can learn from this now. And we've got this opportunity because now we can move forwards with that. And it's kind of like, yeah, yeah. Layers to the cake, shit cake, shit sandwich. You know, I think that's a great way to, you know, present, um, present that to, to the client. Yeah. Yeah. I love that. Should we get to your one from Benita? So, uh, really appreciate this Benita. So Benita asked, um, essentially one of her friends said that, um, one of her friends binged and purged a lot post-show, which scared her a lot. And it was, and the scary thing about it was that uncontrollable side, the fact of losing control. And we wonder whether if it's also common to men and women, or whether it's just common mainly to women, um, as you know, Benita's also experienced that monster come out as she likes to call it, uh, where kind of, you know, it's almost like you have this out of body experience where you kind of just binge, you don't even taste the food, um, you know, proper out of body experience. And so, yeah, just kind of getting our thoughts on that. Cause I think you touched on it previously, Steve somewhere. Um, and so, yeah, it would just be good to get your kind of take on this, whether it's common in one, in one male or female more than under. And yeah, just if you have any general thoughts. Yeah. It's really hard because we only know what we know, right? Sounds really obvious, but so I can only base this off my personal experience with people I've worked with and then stories I've heard. And so what I can absolutely say is it's incredibly common for men and women, not of people I've coached, uh, but I have had clients who have gone through such things. And that framing is actually really important because I was, as she was saying, it was like, it wasn't truly a binge, but it was because it was uncontrolled. And that's like one of the key characteristics of like true binge eating disordered behavior is it's uncontrolled. Cause I have clients who overeat, but they track it and they're in control and they know they're doing it. I'm like, don't call that binge. That's just you being human and overindulging, right? And being greedy essentially. And we, that's a bit easier to manage than just these out of body experiences where you binge. And actually, uh, I can't say that I can think of a time where I've had a true binging disorder experience with a client because it's also out of my scope of practice really to be able to help with. And it is concerning, especially if someone starts getting into that cycle of binging and purging. And the immediate thing I think that comes to mind, at least if I was trying to control it is not purging and owning that action. That'd be the first thing. Cause I think inevitably the purge leads to a binge and it's like this pendulum effect where you swing one end to the other end. And then it's recognizing what's leading to the binging. Is it a trigger food? Is it stress? Is it certain environmental trigger? Because then you can identify how to manage that trigger because typically there's something that leads to it. And it might be like, oh, I don't know, you restrict yourself all day. Like there's been all these opportunities to eat something like people at work are offering you a little treat. You walk past this bakery and there's a croissant. You're like, oh, that looks great. And you're like, no, I can't have it. Then you get home in the evening and then, I don't know, your partner presents you getting a Domino's takeaway. And then you order everything off the menu and you eat it all. It's like, well, maybe it was that lack of give yourself a bit of flexibility through the day. If you gave yourself a bit of freedom to maybe eat that croissant, which would be maybe like 300 calories, you wouldn't have eaten 3000, 4000, who knows? Cause you don't even know. And you didn't enjoy it. Cause you can't even remember how it tasted, which is like the worst thing ever. Right. I think about this, it's a bit of a tangent, but when I first masked, I was under the impression that any weight I gained, if I ate clean food, quote unquote, would all be muscle. And I was eating like 5,000 calories. It was all like, quote unquote, clean food, bodybuilding friendly food. And I got really fat and I'm like, man, I could have enjoyed those 5,000 calories. At least I just ate all this like boring stuff. Uh, so yeah, I would say the analogy there of a dog on the leash is with our clients, we use a flexible dieting approach. And part of that is encouraging some freedom and inclusivity within the diet. Nothing's off limits. But as you go through a contest prep, inevitably you get more and more restrictive and the dog leash becomes tighter and tighter and tighter. So it's important post-show not to suddenly let go of that leash. It's like this, like Ada, I imagine, you know, Ada, she's like mad dog pulling on a leash. She sees a fox and you're just like, huh, let go. And suddenly you've lost her forever. Like, I don't know what's going to happen. Similar with clients. Post-show is the time where you have to keep them on a leash, but you extend it a little bit. Because if the leash is a little bit longer, then now they can actually navigate situations. Whereas if you're really tight, you can't navigate anything. It's like you're either on the leash or you're off the leash. You can make it a little bit longer. Now they can, oh, there's a bit of a thing in the way so I can move right. Oh, there's this twig. I don't want to step on that. Whatever it is, you know, uh, kind of extending that analogy, but you give them a little bit more freedom. And as they become more and more in control and you can trust them a bit more, you let them slowly a longer lead until maybe you can let them off the leash. And when you call them back, you, they come back and it's brilliant because they're in control of their food and environment. Food isn't controlling them, but it's a slow process. And I think that's why, and I imagine you haven't had clients who have had these uncontrolled binges unless they've come to you with it, but hopefully not. Um, yeah, hopefully that made sense. Yeah, it does. I think the only question that I had there is, do you think there's anything we or coaches can do say leading up to a show or during a contest prep to kind of like almost in terms of setting expectations or kind of education to help prevent those sorts of things? Absolutely. And I'm so thankful that I've had chats with amazing people on the podcast on the post-show recovery period. Uh, one with Jeff Alberts comes to mind. So I'm always giving clients like these resources and links with presentations in our members area as well, which are full dedicated 20, 30 minute lectures on expectations post-show. And we also encourage most of our clients to utilize refeeds during their contest prep and peaking approaches where we increase food and their opportunities to practice having more food, but having control. And we also encourage our clients to stick around post-show for weekly check-ins, if not checking with them more frequently than that, especially at the start of that recovery period. And just having that accountability and support network is so, so important. So I think those are some things you can definitely do, but yeah, not having a plan, like you want to be talking about the post-show. I don't either like to belabor it because I'm like, Hey, I want to focus on what we're doing now, but around that like month out period, I'm like, Hey, we're going to be finishing at some point. I'd recommend looking over these resources so that you have some frame of awareness of what to experience post-show and always just understand it. It's different for everyone. There is no perfect post-show period. And, um, yeah, I think that can go a long way. Yeah. And it's funny because on that point, I was also thinking of, do you think it's also important that again, as coaches, we don't label something as, Oh, you failed. Cause I was just thinking like, maybe someone does overeat, maybe it's not a binge or anything, but they overeat. And then they start to feel guilty. Like, Oh, I shouldn't have done this. You know, why have I done this? And it's like, you know, Hey, don't again, we shouldn't label it as a failure or it's bad. It's like, Hey, no issues. Yeah. The biggest problem I see Mike is, and it's not just post-show, but that's a bit more extreme because the rebounds often harder because the body is really not happy. So your hormones and everything out of whack, the hunger signaling is huge, but even post diet, a lot of people struggle. I think the biggest win time and time again with my clients is they keep their structure. They basically eat their same diet just a little bit more and they just add foods on top of it. At some point they don't suddenly just lose all structure and just like, Oh, I'm finished the diet. I'm just going to eat wherever I want. And unfortunately what a lot of people do post-show is they go out for that meal or meals. And for some people totally fine. You and me, Mike, we can go out for a pizza post-show. We can leave it at one pizza and it's great. It puts us in a sizable surplus, but not excessive. Other people that pizza starts ice cream, brownies, cookies. Then the next day goes again and it's really hard to pull them back. So for some people they might be better off just being like, Hey, I'm just going to go out for a steak and potatoes. Then the next day I'm back to my normal foods, but I'm just going to have more oats, more whatever it is. And once I feel happy that I have like good energy and like I'm satiated and maybe even some point a little bored of some of my foods, I can incorporate some additional more palatable ones, then start eating out that sort of thing. But some people can go on holiday post-show and it's immediately fine. Others, they go to like a, I don't know, Mexico all you can eat resort, uh, like all inclusive. And that's a nightmare. They're going to come back having put on all the weight of prep and more and yeah, we'll feel good in the moment, but not in the future. Yeah. I, and what final thing on that is I think you've got, it's a combination of, you've got to know yourself because have you heard of moderators versus abstainers? I have heard of that time. Yeah. Yeah. So it's basically like some people, if we use the analogy of chocolate, someone who is a bit more of a moderator, they could have say one segment of chocolate and it satisfies that one or go on. No, I was going to say it's me. Sorry. Yeah. Um, but yeah, you have that one segment of chocolate and you're good. You know, it satisfies that need, that want, that craving, but you're good. No problems. However, an abstainer knows if they had that one segment, they would have the whole bar of chocolate. And so it's just better for them if they just don't have anything whatsoever. And do you know what? They might not even miss it that much, even if they are abstaining, you know, but they know it's better for them not to do it. Um, again, the old Pringles, once you pop, you can't stop. But, um, so I think there's a Mike, where does that come from abstainer and, uh, moderator? So good question. I, it's something related to discipline and the different types of discipline, but I can't remember precisely, but it's related to that. I think I can, I've, I think I've saved the podcast where I heard it so I can dig it up. I just wondered if, did they talk about encouraging abstainers to become more moderators? I think you, I imagine that you can educate and you can train yourself to do that for sure. Um, I was just thinking in the realm of food, I tend to be of that perspective where some people talk about their trigger foods. I'm not that person that's like, Hey, you should just never have that in your life then? Cause it's clearly a trigger. I'm like, no, we should have some exposure type therapy to this trigger food so you can control it and it's not controlling you. That's where I want to get someone to. So where you taught me through that, absolutely. I see people like that, but I think I'd like to encourage an abstainer to become a moderator if I could. Oh, I I'm definitely on you. I'm, you know, I'm aligned with you on, on that front. Um, but I think also if it's someone's first prep or their first season, sometimes you don't know what you don't know. And like you said, if it's a dog off the leash analogy and they have their first prep and there's no structural guidance from the coach and they go to like an all inclusive and, you know, for whatever reason they, maybe they do again, overeat or, you know, something not so great happens just because all of those things culminated. So it's, it's probably a combination of, you know, again, the client knowing themselves, the coach knowing the client, educating them, but then also trying to make sure that they're not put in a situation where something like that might happen. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So well said. Um, yeah, I couldn't have said it better myself. Should we get to the, that was all our questions from WhatsApp, right? Yeah, that was it. Let's go. Awesome. I will ask you the first from Barnaby B10 asks, I get seven hours, but trouble staying asleep, not dieting any tips. My largest meal is pre-bed, but I do avoid screen stimulation. Ooh, thanks for the question, Barnaby. Um, so I think a couple of things, um, I think one thing that can sometimes be helpful is not, um, again, sort of putting too much pressure on yourself to have this perfect night's sleep. So I was actually talking with a client about it today. I think some of the most important things are you create an environment where sleep can happen. So you think of that cool bedroom, you think of kind of like winding down, nothing crazy, stimulating before bed. Um, and then, you know, doing something relaxing, but then also you want to have an, an ideal, uh, opportunity of sleep. So maybe you do have an eight hour window where you can be asleep, but if during that eight hour window, you do get up to go to the loo or you do wake up, don't stress too much about it. Um, and I think, cause I think as long as you're creating the environment, you're creating the conditions for good sleep to happen, whatever it is will be what it will be. Um, and you tell me this a lot, Steve, but again, think about Barnaby where if you are awake for a prolonged period of time, maybe it's, maybe you're quite wide awake or maybe it's been like five, maybe it's been 10 minutes or more and you're kind of not really drifting back off. Then maybe you just get up out of bed and you just go downstairs or you go somewhere, do something super, super relaxing. Like you do some crochet, some knitting or you, or you read a book maybe. Um, but, uh, but yeah. And then like when you feel sleepy, go back to sleep. Um, so I think those would be the first things, but what I would say is you said your largest meal is pre-bed. Um, it would be good to, I think you do have to have a serious reflection and probably experiment. I would say, I think be courageous to experiment with a smaller meal before bed and just honestly reflect with yourself. Did that change things? Because I think sometimes we, and I'm one for this as well. I I'm very one for having, you know, being guilty with a big meal before bed. But again, you just got to honestly say to yourself, like, Hey, is this affecting things and then make a change? Very well answered. I think the, if I was to add on top of what you said there is, I'm guessing Barnaby is asking because he's not feeling like he's getting quality enough sleep. But if he isn't feeling that way, then I would be saying, what's the problem? Mm-hmm. Cause I think some people think I must be sleeping eight hours and sleep through the entire night. Otherwise my sleep is trash. It's like, well, no, everyone's a bit different in how much they need. And actually waking up through the night is very normal. So I would Google sated S A T A, sorry, S A T E D sated sleep questionnaire. And you can then go through that questionnaire and it will tell you basically out of 10, how good is your sleep? And if you're scoring well on that, then I wouldn't be concerned. And then the only other thing is back to my point of like, it's normal to wake up through the night. What's not normal is not being able to get back to sleep when relative speed. And like you said, I often recommend if you feel like you've been awake, like 15, 20 minutes, get out of bed, go into a dimly lit room, read a book, chill out. Once you feel sleepy, get back to bed because you don't want to associate your bed with being awake. Basically. I think a lot of people end up turning on lights, look at their phone, look at emails, starting work and then they're awake. Right. So I wouldn't do any of that. And then if you're still struggling, I think like you said, you just set up the, you can't force yourself to sleep. Like you, a lot of people, I think, unfortunately they're like, I'm awake. I must sleep. So you, you can't, it's not an on and off switch. You just have to set the environment up for sleep. So what can help some people? Cowing sheep is fine. That's one takes your mind off things. Another one, there are a few breathing techniques you can use. I can't remember the specifics, but I think it's essentially trying to breathe out for longer than you breathe in is quite like parasympathetic. So that helps. And then the other one is actually just trying to stay awake and paradoxically, sometimes that can lead to falling asleep faster than you otherwise might. So those are my additional tips on top of that. And then go listen to all the Greg Potter podcasts I've done with him because we've covered probably every question you could almost think of on sleep. Sure. I love it. So, so I'm mad. I smiled when I lost this. So I'm mad Lloyd Grossman, not to be confused with the tomato sauce company. So Lloyd asks, AJ Morris has posted by the importance of cardio and not just getting steps in. It would be good to know your thoughts on this. I was trying to see because did he say, Hey, posted, right? So I wanted to get the post up, but I was going to try and share my screen as I did. So I actually can't because I'm not signed in on this computer for some reason. I don't know what I did. I think it was when I, when did that happen? I don't know what my password is. Can I find my password quickly? Do you want me to try and dig it up or? I think I found my password, right? Let's see if this works. And then I can share my screen quite easily. Otherwise, yeah, I might get you to do it because I don't want to, because that enough, that information on its own is like, it's not enough. So I wanted to see what the post was specifically saying so I could get an idea of where AJ was coming from. Because we've talked about cardio quite a bit, I think. And our perspectives are generally like, Hey, as long as you're resistance training multiple times a week, three, four, I would say at least three upwards, you're getting like seven K steps every single day. On average, you've not got long times of the day. You're sedentary. You're basically doing everything you can from like a maximizing health perspective. So from like a more exercise on top of that isn't necessarily better is what I would say. So let me share my screen. Where is it? Share screen. Then go. Can you see my screen? Yes, I can. Okay, so I should have found this post ahead of time, shouldn't I? Because it'd be funny if I can't find it now. Best fat loss hack. Whilst you're just finding that I just also want to say, remember guys, there is the cardio roundtable in one of the revive stronger episodes. So definitely go back and listen to that revive stronger episode with the cardio roundtable because yeah, because obviously that is legit the go to resource, I would say. Yeah, I think that roundtable was fantastic because Menno and Eric just did a fantastic job on that. Have I, did I skip over it? I feel like I've, I think steps don't cut it. Here we go. This must be it, right? So he said for me and most of my athletes, minimum of 60 mins a week of 120 to 140 beats per minute. So that's just low intensity steady state. I don't really see that as very different to steps. I like to use stairs as it's easy to get high rate up. I like to do weekly 60 mins at 140, okay? And 20 minutes at 160 to 180. No longer are you gassed between sets. I've never really, people say that, right? Where it's like you get extra, you, if your cardiovascular system is better, you recover better between sets. And I think I'm skeptical of that. Like if you are generally cardiovascularly fit and also like what's the best way to build up your tolerance to recovery between sets is like your training, right? I kind of see it like that. What cardio is not specific to that form of training. So I'm, I kind of find it hard to get on board with that. I think that's also something that Eric and Menno said was like, Hey, the best way to improve like your, I guess, ability to tolerate volume or recover is doing the specific thing, just similar to like strength. Anyway, uh, I noticed, okay, so AJ, you can't argue with this. I noticed I can recover faster and perform higher volume sessions. Can't argue with that. Uh, but I again would say, I wonder if a lot of people could just do their weight training and find their volume tolerance could increase via that. Maybe I use our whoop. Okay. Then cardio isn't just to burn calories as much more than that. I just used to do steps, five minutes between every hard set on like day. Okay. Is there anything else in the real hard cardio, aerobic capacity, insulin sensitivity? Improve? Oh, uh, I don't know. It went too quick. AJ is encouraging us to watch it over and over again. Um, let's attack some of those one by one. So insulin sensitivity. I, again, I come back to Eric Trexler on that. He had that whole debate with Mike Isretel, right? Whereas like P ratios relating to body fat percentage was like, actually you can be pretty over fat and still have very good insulin sensitivity. So long as you exercise, I mean, that's part to AJ's point, right? But one of the largest determinants of insulin sensitivity is percentage body fat. And so like just being a bit leaner will improve that dramatically more than doing some cardio. And then I don't know your resistance training. I feel like you're already getting that. So I don't know if doing extra cardio on top is now improving it even more. I'm skeptical of that. And then aerobic capacity. We've kind of gone over insulin sensitivity, better appetite and digestion. I could see that being a case. I think there's been this discussion of like 10 minute walks after meals for like aiding digestion, how much of a significant impact. And if you're not doing it post meals, if you're just doing it at random times of the day, I don't know. It sounds like something that you maybe could experience, but it's very subjective digestion and better appetite. It's quite subjective and many things impact that outside of cardio. So, and then improve lipid profile. Again, I think just being a healthy body comp and just generally being active would achieve virtually all of that. Coming across as very anti-cardio. But I'm just skeptical that bodybuilders would benefit adding cardio and not benefit more from doing something specific to their sport of training volume. And, but I've got nothing against adding it. And I would add it for the individual who isn't getting sufficient activity outside of the gym in terms of total steps. But I do think just doing your steps and getting 7,000 plus. I say 7,000 because that's like the recent meta-analysis looked at that and found 7,000 to be like that's where you get your basically you get the biggest bang per buck. Much more than that, you don't seem to get many more benefits, cardiovascular health and that sort of thing. And then, yeah, you're doing sufficient total training and challenging your body and cardiovascular system by doing your high volume resistance training of at least three times a week, I would say. So, anyway, I tried to succinctly do that and I don't think I did. I don't know if you have any more thoughts, comments, Mike. I don't know if I did a good enough job. No, I think you did actually break that down really nicely. You went by it point by point. I think my summary and take home from that would be kind of it can be a tool but it's not a tool that everybody has to use straight away. It's not like a blanket thing that everyone needs to do. It's like, hey, get some good, you know, good behaviors, good kind of rocks in place first, like you said, with your steps, your training, you know, etc. And then, you know, if there are some individual issues or problems that are maybe difficult to navigate, hey, cardio could be one tool we could potentially lean on but it's not the tool. It's not a necessary tool. That would be my kind of take-home response from that. Yeah. Yeah, I just, I have a hard time being convinced that when people are already so time limited often, to then give them something else to do that's non-specific to their goals and then in my perspective is unlikely to help their goals as much as just doing more total specific hypertrophy work. I have a hard time prescribing that and then I, and I am so completely open-minded. I know you're the same, Mike. Like, I would be doing cardio if I thought it was going to be helping my body building but I think it would only, like, I, I, at best be net neutral. I mean, I just maybe would need to eat more but, um, yeah. And they found, um, obviously that they found that with cardio, what is it, the, um, energy compensation model where, like, hey, if you, you know, increase your cardio, um, you're probably going to be compensating elsewhere in the day for that. A calorie compensation, something. Um, but yeah, anyway, again, I think, um, cardio is a tool. I think I don't, it's not our best tool but it could be used but yeah, I, I, yeah, again, like, I'm totally with you there, Steve. I'm very open, like, I want, I'm always open-minded if, you know, but I don't, I definitely, I'm not convinced yet that it, we have to all be doing it for sure. Yeah, I have some clients that do it because they enjoy, like, running or whatever and I can't say that I can see clearly that they're, like, you know, things are better on their end versus someone else. I might, I don't know, certainly come from a biased perspective because I am cardiovascularly fit. Like, you could put me in, I could do a 5k time and it would be decent, like, as a run and there might be some people that don't have that. Do they then need to develop it? I don't know. Again, resistance training is the most specific thing so I just think if we want to get better adaptations to that, that's probably the thing we should be doing and then the most similar thing to that is, like, high intensity cardio and then that actually starts to potentially negatively impact your ability to recover and do more volume because it's so similar. So then we're doing something dissimilar. It's like we're a bodybuilder, not like a cardiovascular, like, endurance type of individual, which most of the cardio, like, AJ framed it as hard cardio but I'd still say that's, like, at best, like, medium intensity, like 120, 140, I guess, beats per minute starts getting into that slightly harder than just, like, a fast-paced walk. Anyway, nothing against AJ and if he's found that to be beneficial for himself and clients have at it, it's certainly nothing I'm against if a client was like, hey, I want to try this. I'm like, we could try it. I'm not going to say we need to do it, but yeah, anyway, I've rambled on enough about that. No, it was great. I will ask you the next question then, Mike. It is, let me get it because my phone always likes to get rid of the questions. What are your macros and step count? Nice, quick, easy one. Yeah, thanks, Pedro. So for me at the moment, my calories are between 3,500 and 3,600. My protein is between 2 and 210, I believe, or 190 and 210, I think. Yeah, 190 and 210. Fats are pretty much, like, 50 plus, like, 50 to 90 and then carbs are just the rest of what my calories allow. So it's normally between 500. It's around 500 carbs, I think, because I tend to have my fats normally fall around 65 to 70 or, like, between around 70 and then I have 500 grams of carbs and that normally falls within the ballpark. So that's me. I'm going to, I'm just getting up my weekly average on MyFitnessPal. So just to be different to you, my protein is averaging 238 grams. My carbs are 499, so pretty much the 500 that you're at. My fiber, someone asked me about my fiber recently and I was like, oh, I'm interested. 62, apparently, is where it's at. Yeah. And my fat is at 92, which is actually the highest fat I've ran for a while. But I just found myself wanting more fat, I guess. Been having quite a lot of, actually, I found, is it Little? Is it Little? Yeah, Little near me. They do these little tins of tuna that are, like, it's chili tuna, basically. Chili and garlic tuna. It's like 18 grams of protein, but it's in olive oil, extra virgin olive oil, actually. They are great. It's like a little additional bit of protein on, like, a salad or something. They're not that expensive. And I was just, I have some of those as, like, a, I've been enjoying those and salmon and eggs and nuts and, yeah, anyway, fats. Dark chocolate, I guess. Then what was my step? So I was actually going to bring up my steps here as well. If I, oh, no, my step, my, I haven't opened my step tracker in ages. What are your average steps? My average steps are around 9,000. Nine to 10. In my head, they're higher than that. But, yeah, maybe you actually do hit that. Just around there. Oh, it's asking me to update my app. I'm pretty certain my steps are around 12,000. That's, I typically hit, like, around 11,000 during the week. And then on the weekend, I typically go for a bit more walks. So, according to my Withings watch, anyway. Actually, on that note, I could, yeah, that's my step tracker on my wrist, at least. And then my phone tells me my average steps are, can I get a week? 12,000. Yeah. For this week. What was last week? 13,000. Oh, okay. So maybe my step count's nearer, like, 12 to 13. Oh, it was 15,000 that week. That must have been, like, around Christmas when I was walking around Beude. Nice. Cool. Right. So, Patrick Morris asks, I never feel lean enough to stop the cut because I can always be leaner. The goalposts always seem to shift. Have you got any tips on knowing when to stop? This is the problem of being self-coached, right? You can always convince yourself of things that you maybe don't necessarily, the goals can always shift. So I think maybe just setting yourself a goal and target at the start and then being comfortable with stopping it there or getting someone to be accountable to and they can tell you to stop. In regards to clients who don't have, like, a clear end goal. I have some general rules of thumb. So I don't really like to lose much more than 10% of someone's body weight in one run unless we're doing it very slowly just because after about 10% of your body weight, that's when you tend to see the diet fatigue really ramp up. You see more assertive adaptations in metabolism, things like this. That adaptive resistance starts to ramp up. That is supported by some literature. So that kind of tends to be a bit of a rule of thumb before taking a break. And then for others, it's like, well, like for you, Mike, we wouldn't, and me as well, we wouldn't diet below our lower end intervention point of body fat. And that basically is where diet fatigue just starts to ramp up. So hunger starts to bring higher, food focus, lower libido, lower energy levels, mood, motivation, potentially some performance drops. That's like, hey, they're red flags. When you start to see some of those accumulating, you can see someone has like their low teens of body fat, clear muscle separation. I'm like, cool, the brakes would lean enough. Let's kind of push up. So those would be mine at least. No, I like those a lot. Um, yeah, I don't really think I have much to add to that because I really just liked your thoughts of, cause it might be that you Patrick, that you set some objective markers that you're aiming for, whether that be visual leanness or, uh, yeah, I'd probably say visual leanness potentially, um, or it might be a potential body weight marker and just be cool with stopping it there. And even if you're like, Oh, should I, shouldn't I, I would just say, just stop. Um, you know, and maybe then the next time you go around to doing a cut again, if you think from your previous cut that, Oh, maybe I could have, maybe I wanted to be a bit leaner, then right. Make the goal the next time to be a bit leaner. But I think it's important that you don't break promises with yourself because, um, I think that kind of maybe isn't, I can't think of the exact word, but essentially you always want to stick with your word essentially. Um, so I think it's really important that you do that and just know there's always going to be a next time. So if you, if you do feel like, Oh, maybe I should have gone a bit further. Don't worry about it. There's always a next time. So you can always, you know, can always go with that. The great thing about what we're doing. And I really liked this term that, um, Zach Robinson used on the recent episode is it's like, or maybe it was Josh. Actually, I think it might've been Josh. It's like, Hey, we're lifers in this game. So it's always, we're just learning and we just get to apply that lesson next time. There's no win or lose pass or fail. You're not going to die because you didn't get to a certain level of leanness. It's like, Hey, just reflect and then adapt and adjust the next time around. Yeah. Perfectly said. I also think some people think of your diet tree goals as like an on and off switch. It's like, if you decided to stop dieting and then you're like, actually, I wanted to get a bit leaner. I feel really good. You can always start again. It's like, it's okay. You don't want to get into like a burge and binge, burge, burge, purge and binge type cycle, uh, combining words here. But, uh, yeah, anyway, next question is from Colin JT one. You're right. There is a lot of questions. Uh, we probably won't be able to get to all of them actually. I feel bad about that. Uh, nucleus overload can lots and lots of sub maximal volume results in substantial growth. And is this complimentary to traditional sets? Um, am I missing something with nucleus overload? Yeah, I am as well though. I've heard of it. I've never dove into it. I don't think it's substantive in terms of like an evidence-based term. So my take on this question, and I might be getting this wrong. So I'm essentially interpreting this question as, Hey, you can pull the volume lever or you could maybe pull the intensity lever, or you can do a little bit of a combination of both. So if you were to say, you know, do a bit more volume, but not as intensely, maybe you just capped things at two to three reps in reserve or yeah, three reps in reserve maybe, but you just did a lot more volume. My, to my knowledge, like, Hey, maybe would that bring the same as going to naught to one RL, but doing slightly less volume. Um, maybe if you had somewhere in the middle, my, to my knowledge, my feelings would be that it's equivocal. So that's how I'm kind of interpreting this question. So you could do that. And if it's a strategy that you call in or someone needs to use because of that's their preference or maybe an injury related thing, then cool. But essentially I don't think it's going to be better. It's just a different way of approaching things. Yeah. I wish I knew what nucleus overload is because I think this is probably quite important to, you know what, whilst you were saying that I should have been Googling nucleus overload training. Let me then read this to you and the listeners. No, don't apologize. It's my fault. Nucleus overload training is a specialized high frequency 30 day training protocol designed to rapidly increase muscle sizes, specific ladding, lagging body parts. It works by training a muscle group almost daily with high reps and moderate loads aimed at forcing satellite cells to donate nuclei to muscle fiber, thereby expanding its potential for growth, which would be great in theory, but I don't think there's any evidence within the literature to support the fact that we can get like satellite cells to donate their nuclei because if we could do that, that would absolutely help growth. Uh, but I am not convinced that that's a thing. No, no, unfortunately. It's like, if that was a thing, surely we would have like, surely someone else would have been mentioning it by now. But like you said, nothing in the research is suggesting that at all. So I'm not convinced either. And it's suggesting here sets a focus on achieving maximum metabolic stress, which we have a real lack of evidence to suggest that's a mechanism for hypertrophy rather than lifting to absolute failure with 15 to 30 reps often used. So yeah, I mean, like Mike said, you can lift a bit further from failure up to 30 repetitions and likely grow really well. And maybe you can pull a bit more on the volume lever, but I don't think it's a different mechanism. And I don't think we can bypass the micro and nuclear domain limit. That's kind of like we have our muscle fibers need a, as far as I remember, like a new cry to then grow from. So if you have more of those available, you can grow more. But yeah, this, it sounds like hopeful, wishful thinking. And, uh, probably if people have seen good growth that way, it's just, they are doing something that they haven't before and more of it volume. It did almost always comes back to they're doing more. Yeah, exactly. Right. Final question. Yeah. I think this could be a quick question. Okay. So our guy, Remy Sarka. Hey, Remy with the great questions. So Remy asks us, Greek yogurt post-workout. What are your thoughts? I feel like at, in the dieting phase, I want something sweet and high volume as I'm hungry after workout, hungry AF after workouts. So would Greek yogurt post-workout be a good thing? Yeah. I think the reason he's asking probably is because a lot of people are still under this impression that there's a bit of a window post-workout that we need to meet. And therefore you should have fast digesting carbohydrates and proteins to capitalize on that. But it's just not the case. It's absolutely a barn door. Yeah. Casein protein, which is what is going to be the major protein source within Greek yogurt is slow digesting, but I have no reason to believe that that's actually suboptimal for hypertrophy. So long as you're meeting your protein intake by the end of the day and you're getting at least three protein feedings relatively evenly spread through the day. I see only benefits of having casein over a kind of slower digesting, more filling protein over like having a protein shake, for example. No. Yeah. I can't add anything more. Like you said, it was going to be a quick, quick question. So maybe actually we can get to one more. Let's do one more. And then we know we're on this massive question from Darko. So underscore J underscore on a J A Ron. Why am I trying to just read out the whole damn Instagram? Any book slash audio book recommendations that you found useful, insightful, or just entertaining fitness or non-fitness related? I have got a massive, awesome recommendation that I've just recently been listening to and I'm obsessed and I can't get enough of it. Um, yeah. So it's called Chop Wood Carry Water by Joshua Metcalf. Okay. Um, and it's just, it's actually, I think it, they term it as a fable. Um, and it's just all about the process essentially. Um, and it's, it's the fable of this guy who goes to become a Zen archer or wants to learn to become a Zen archer, sorry, a Japanese archer. And he goes to, he meets this teacher and he just, it's about him and the lessons that he learns along the way. It's a really short book. The chapters are really short, which is nice because it, you don't feel like your attention span, like you're always kind of engrossed in it. And if you need to stop, it's like really easy to stop. Uh, and it's just really easy to listen to. Um, but it's also just so great and there's so many nuggets in it. So it was really up my alley and I think it just, we can apply it to bodybuilding and it also just applies to a lot of things in general. So Jay, I'd highly recommend chop wood, carry water by Joshua Metcalf. Nice. I also have one. This is, uh, wait, what's it? The name of the book is, uh, how champions think. And it's by Dr. Bob Ratella. It's mostly referencing golfers, but so many of the things in there apply to bodybuilders as well. So it's sports psychology basically is the book. Um, yeah, that's what I've been listening to. When do you listen to your audio book, Mike? When, uh, kind of varies really. Sometimes it will be in the morning, like as I'm getting up, cause I kind of do a little, I like to do like a little bit of stretching. Uh, so I kind of might do that as I kind of, I'm waking up. Uh, I, do you know what? I've actually started listening to an audio book as I'm going to bed. So I'll kind of like have dinner, might watch an anime. And then as I'm washing the dishes up, I just kind of listen to something and I don't know why, but it's just kind of like, I, it's quite relaxing as I, as I, you know, go into my bedtime routine as such. Um, so yeah, tends to be those kinds of points and maybe there might be like a transition point some other time of the day where maybe I might pop it on, but those two ends of the day generally. It doesn't encourage you to stay up later than you should. Nope. Cause no, it doesn't because I am, I am washing my dishes and I'm brushing my teeth as I'm, as I'm doing it. So it's kind of that thing that's just with me, relaxing me as I'm going along. My problem is I want to, when I'm listening to it, there's so many good nuggets. I want to make notes and I have this bad tendency, not to just listen to things for enjoyment and just like taking things because I know I will forget it if I don't make a note. So it becomes an enjoyable, enjoyable thing, but then also a bit of a thing where I need to make notes. So I couldn't listen to it like as a relaxing pre-bed. I listened to it when I'm take walking Ada basically. And I'm like making notes on my phone as it goes. Yeah. Maybe that's also why some people do this, but why it's also good to have a nonfiction book, but also a fiction book. So it's just something that you can get lost in a little bit. And, but it's not something that you have to make notes on. I use podcasts for that, like non fitness podcasts that I just enjoy. I was listening to one actually on Modern Wisdom. He's interviewing some guy that is like an Amazon conservationist and some of the stories he talks about on there in terms of like his experiences with animals and being nearly at death's door. And it's just like absolutely wild to hear some of the stories he's coming out with. But yeah, anyway, we should probably end it here, Mike. Yeah. Thank you guys for your questions. Sorry. What were you going to say? No, I was just actually going to do a little bit of house under me and I was just going to say like, Hey guys, just remember we're coaches in case you didn't know. So if you're ever interested in being coached by us, then please drop us an email, drop us an application form and we can get chatting. So I just wanted to throw that out there as well. Cause we haven't said that yet today. Yes, guys, you should know that by now, but if you don't, we are coaches. We love coaching our clients to the stage to photoshoot lean or just to getting as lean as what they should in reference to one of those questions, what they should like giving them clear goals and outcomes anyway. And in addition to that, do subscribe, give us a like, give us comments, let us know how you're feeling. If you want to ask a question, I'll link the hypertrophic, uh, always figure time chamber, my, uh, broadcast group on over on Instagram, that'll be linked in the description. You can come join. And if you're not part of that, then yeah, you can send us a message over on some platform to ask a question. I think Mark emailed me and I don't know how Benita got in touch with you, but she obviously found another way of getting a question across. So guys, uh, do all of that. We appreciate you and we'll answer the rest of those questions in a future episode. Yeah. Take care. See you later guys.