 y because I'm just going to throw this question at you and you don't know what's coming. If you could give one historical insight that every modern bodybuilder should know, what comes to mind? Oh, I like that. I thought you were going to ask me like my waist measurements, because I grew up in the 90s. So whenever they'd be like, what's your weight in your waist? Admittedly, I'm not a female superstar just yet. So for any bodybuilder listening, I think the most important thing to know is that exercises are made up. And that's it. Now, I'll give you an example of why that's important, right? So I've written previously on like the history of like the deadlift and the squat and the bench press and the pull down and the pull up and all of the different things. And what you find is that over the last 126 years, give or take, tracing back to our modern fitness environment, exercises, how we've performed them, the rep ranges, the form, the technique has shifted dramatically over time. Now, that mightn't seem like a huge revelation that's going to change people's training or how they think about fitness. But I would argue actually that it does. So like the back squat, okay? People used to do that without weight whatsoever. They would do it on their tippy toes. They'd hold their arms out to the side or overhead. Then they would squat on their tippy toes, holding like dumbbells. Then they began to squat on their tippy toes using barbells. And then they began to flip the barbells onto the back so they could squat flat-footed. And then you go into, well, you know, with powerlifting, we have to, you know, to a certain depth. With bodybuilding, we're going ass to grass a lot of the time. We have variations like the hack squat, the front squat. You know, we have the whole Karl Klein moral panic in the 1960s where you can't squat with your knees over your toes. So something as simple as the back squat doesn't actually have one agreed upon format or technique. That matters because if you think about your own training, your own training technique, your own like muscle movements and your mind-muscle connection, et cetera, it means that you're not wedded to anything. And I've trained and I've trained under and trained with people who have very set ideas about how they should train or very set ideas about, well, I'm only going to use free weights. I'm not going to use machines. Or I'm only going to use this machine. Or I'm only going to use this type of squat or this deadlift or deadlift or crap. I'm not going to do any of that. And what I would argue is if exercises themselves are made up, that actually gives you a free swing at bat to use whatever techniques, machines, equipment fit you and your goals. And this is important because, you know, having trained under coaches who are very regimented on the big three, we only squat, bench and deadlift, or very regimented on, you know, you're going to squat to parallel only, knees behind toes, et cetera, et cetera. That type of dogma, I would argue, leaves gains on the table. And it also does limit your ability to use what's best for you because what works best for Steve, for example, we're bringing up, you know, quad development mightn't work for me. And what works well for me might not work for you. So if you actually accept that there's no agreed upon way to bench, to do a pull up, to do a squat, to do a deadlift, you know, whatever the case may be, or even how to program it, high reps, low reps, middle reps, et cetera, that gives you a lot of more freedom than I think we typically consider in the fitness industry where we do tend to get stuck in these little silos of, I only use these movements, I only use these exercises, this technique, tooth or letter. And you actually get a chance to be more expressive, experiment more with different rep ranges, different movements, et cetera. So that'd be my first, you know, very simple ground of truth from the history, which is it's all made up, but that's okay. Yeah, I love that. That's brilliant. And I can think of so many ways that applies to lifters today and different camps that, like you said, like, hey, you must barbell, whatever, just use barbells. Machines are for losers, for weak people, whatever. It's like when you actually all put it back to like first principles, when I just think about, hey, muscle is just a dumb piece of meat on our body that we need to train and get close to failure for it to have a sufficient stress to be able to then respond and adapt. And that's what we're trying to do as a bodybuilder. Whether this is a bodybuilding specific podcast, that's always the route I go down. It helps a lot. And it even makes me think of, and we may come onto this sort of thing, like social media nowadays. And I don't know, Conor, are you on social media? Do you, or do you try and stay off it? When I say social media, I often mean Instagram, maybe TikTok. I'm a bit too old for TikTok though. Yeah. So I'm on Blue Sky. I'm debating my Twitter membership and I'm on LinkedIn because I'm old. Now I'm not on Instagram or TikTok because I come from a family with addictive tendencies and I understand that my dumb monkey mind will ignore my child and my employment if I go on Instagram or TikTok. Yeah. Yeah. I don't blame you, but I guess you get it on YouTube at least where people essentially invent an exercise. They're like, hey, I've found out a new way to train the rec fem from like A to B, get a good stretch on it. But people will see it and they're like, oh my God, that's different. And it can't possibly be good. And it's like, well, actually, I really liked the way you framed her. It's just like, hey, you can experiment and try things out. If they, again, come back to like principled thinking of the basic biomechanics of the human body and the anatomy, that's how they started in the first place. Exactly. And, you know, one of my favorite coaches historically is Vince Garanda, the kind of bodybuilding trainer to the stars in the 1960s, 1970s. He was a cranky man by anyone's estimation. He was crotchety, he was snarky, but he was also really interested in how to tweak movements, not for the sake of tweaking them, because, right, you can go the opposite extreme where suddenly I'm doing back squats on a BOSU ball while juggling, you know, and I have something in my mouth as well. But if you look up Vince Garanda's sternum chin-ups, so he kind of tweaked how to do a pull-up to target the middle back more. Preacher curls come from Vince Garanda and Larry Scott training together, Larry Scott being the first Mr. Olympia champion in 1965, 1966. And they invent, effectively, preacher curls to target the biceps in a different way. Sissy squats come from Monty Walford and Vince Garanda, again, a way of targeting the VMO. And it's all these tweaks. And he has, like, these interesting ways of doing upright rows, which I know for some people are completely verboten, and you mustn't do that because your shoulders will explode out from the rest of your skeleton. And different ways of doing lateral raises and all these different, interesting tweaks, triceps, quads, hamstring curls, all these things. And his entire point was, I'm not trying to get the strongest total, you know, because I'm a bodybuilding coach, right? I don't care if one of my athletes or one of my clients doesn't squat heavy. I care about how they look on stage. And if they look better on stage doing sissy squats as opposed to back squats, or I can see that their mid-back needs more development, we'll do some sternum chin-ups, or I see that their pecs need more development and you had a variation on dips. that's what we're going to do because we're in an aesthetic business as opposed to a performance business. So this is important because, you know, you can be clever, you can be targeted, you can be very specific. Obviously, don't take it to an absurd extreme, but also be curious. And I think that's the thing, and you're right to highlight it, Steve. You know, it just opens the playbook for you a lot more because for bodybuilding, like the strongest person on stage doesn't win. It's the one who's able to create that symmetry, create that taper, create the body ideal that they're looking for in that era. And that takes a lot of different forms. But I think oftentimes because bodybuilding is so objective, or subjective rather, we crave certainty. So, you know, I need to get stronger in my squat because that will make my quads stronger or bigger or more defined or whatever the case may be. We crave the certainty of, well, my numbers have gone up so my physique might have improved. That's not always the case, unfortunately. So that's where I think that exercise selection can be more open and tailored to the person once, you know, obviously you have the experience to be able to separate the wheat from the chaff and the, you know, the gimmick from the must-do. Very well said. I think that's actually a problem with, I mentioned, like evidence-based. I think some who deem themselves evidence-based end up becoming just like, I don't know, PubMed research-based versus evidence-based, which encompasses anecdote and your own personal experience. And those things are really important because the science isn't meant to give you answers. It just gives you kind of like, hey, bumpers to work with. And it's like, for example, volume is like 10 to 20 sets is often that reported like range to maybe try working in. People are like, oh no, I want like a more specific answer than this. But it's great that actually, and I think a lot of people and I've definitely been there, held myself back from not experimenting. So I think that initial, like what can evidence-based trainers like do to be aware of is like a lot of this stuff is made up. And actually, once you are intermediate trying to go advanced, often it means you have to do something a bit different from the textbook and the generic answers. There's probably multiple people listening that are like, yeah, I had to do something a bit different to what is generally recommended to actually finally see X muscle grow how I wanted it to. Yeah. Yeah. And I think, you know, when people talk about evidence-based and I don't think we have quite yet, but I hope we eventually overcome this tension between, you know, bro-science and evidence-based because if you look at some of the early important studies in the history of exercise science, so let's take Thomas de Lorme, who most people would see as kind of one of those forerunners for like three sets by 10 reps. So Thomas de Lorme in the 1940s, 1950s starts to do really interesting studies on muscle hyperbole, on muscle hypertrophy, on returning U.S. soldiers from the Second World War. And he's trying to improve, you know, their muscle strength, their muscle size, their coordination through weight training. Thomas de Lorme is tracking everything. He's using scientific method, evidence-based study, et cetera, and he comes up with a protocol of three sets by 10 reps, which is still used in a lot of physiotherapy and rehab settings. But Thomas de Lorme's knowledge of weight training came from his own experience as a teenager in 1930s and 1940s America using weight training to build his own physique and make himself stronger. Thomas de Lorme would read the muscle mags of the time, which was Bob Hoffman's Strength and Health magazine, and apply those techniques to his own training. He then becomes an early exercise scientist and takes what he learned from personal experience, the muscle magazines, and then the population that he's working with to create this new protocol, which still largely holds up today. Sometimes people don't adhere to it because he does push, you know, the need for progressive resistance training. But this is a really interesting example in which personal experience anecdotes are then battle-tested in an evidence-based setting and then a kind of synthesis or, you know, there's a joining together of those two rounds. And I often think that when people create that false split between like bro science and evidence-based training, what they ignore is that evidence-based training, and I'm just echoing what Eric Helm said a couple of weeks ago, but like they are adhering to some of the core tenets that people in a more bro or anti-science setting would say, which is, you know, training hard, progressive resistance training, et cetera. But then as you say, Steve, putting those bumpers up as well, where they're saying, you know, I'm going to bring this, you know, N of one or, you know, the stuff that I see in the gym or the stuff that I read in the magazines into that clinical setting, to then see how can I kind of squeeze even more juice out of that lemon. And it's important to note that like, that is the origins of exercise science. Like it wasn't people who didn't lift or strength science. It wasn't people who didn't lift, who'd never lifted a barbell, who suddenly said, oh, geez, this is really interesting. I'm going to move into this field. It was people with a lived experience of it and them then trying to improve their own training or improve other people's physiques, their muscle gain, their muscle strength, you know, strengthening different areas, et cetera. Yeah, very well said. And that's why I love actually this podcast. I get to talk to people who are like exercise scientists, PhDs, but also they are maybe even competitive bodybuilders like in Eric Helms or at least, well, actually with Brad Schoenfeld, he was a competitive bodybuilder and then obviously he was a trainer and then he was like, well, I want to like take this further and put it under more scrutiny. And so he became obviously the most prolific kind of exercise scientist looking at hypertrophy that there is. And so without that background, it does become a bit challenging. It's like, I don't know, trusting someone to take you through a particularly, I don't know, take you up Mount Everest and they've read all the textbooks, but they've never actually gone up there themselves and maybe haven't really done much in the terms of hiking. It's like, I don't know if I'm, I probably prefer the guy over here, the Sherpa, who's been up like 20 times, but is clueless when it was regards to all this kind of science stuff. And that meshing of the two, like you said, it's bringing it together because those who think they're anti-science actually use a lot of the science because actually they wouldn't be getting results if they weren't really. It's kind of like, you know, science and all but name. And like, listen, like bodybuilders have always attempted to quantify and make their training scientific. So if we look at, you know, Eugene Sandeux, right, the first modern bodybuilding superstar, he operates in the 1890s, early 1900s. He travels around the world doing physique shows. He sells bodybuilding courses and magazines and equipment and supplements. And Sandeux sends out a chart with all of his equipment. So if you buy a Sandeux course, and unfortunately, I have four or five, you know, there'll be this little illustration, this little drawing, and then there'll be little boxes all around the drawing of Sandeux's body where it has his measurements. And Sandeux says, right, here's my dumbbell. It's not going to work, but you know, here's my dumbbell. Lift this using concentration, not heavy weights, just concentration, and then track your measurements and see, do your measurements match up to my measurements, which my measurements are obviously the best because I'm the world's most perfectly developed specimen. So like, the very origins of bodybuilding have had an origin in scientific tracking and seeing, does this work? Now, Sandeux, for all the good that he did, and he got millions of people bodybuilding, and that's not, you know, an exaggeration. If you look at, say, my new book, When Fitness Went Global, I show that, you know, Sandeux's workout equipment is found in North America, South America, Africa, Asia, all over Europe. It's in parts of the world that he never even toured. So he brings thousands and, you know, eventually millions of people to exercise. But he is also trying to get them to be scientific, to track things. Now, he has no scientific background, but he is applying scientific principles. And, you know, even if you take it in its most rudimentary, when you look at muscle mags from the 1940s all the way up to, well, the 2000s and muscle mags effectively die away, apart from men's health, still flying the flag in some respects. There's, like, types of scientific methods. You know, there's before and after photographs, which have been used since the 1860s in fitness. There's tracking your measurements, which, again, have been used since the 1860s, 1870s. There's people using, I suppose, like, kind of first principle scientific thinking. You know, did this work? Whatever metric they're using to figure that out. Is my muscle bigger? Do I look leaner? You know, is the symmetry between one muscle group and the other? Does that look better? Am I more shredded, more lean, et cetera? They've always used that scientific approach. Now, they might not be doing it in a lab, but they're trying to use it, to use that, to address that question that I think all of us continually have, and if you don't, you have a much greater body confidence than the rest of us, which is, is this working? And you can't actually address is this working without using some form of scientific method of tracking before and after. Yeah, the saying that comes to mind is, you can't manage what you don't measure, what gets tracked gets improved, those kind of elementary elements of kind of the scientific method, and I always think, I mean, coaches have so many scientific studies themselves with all their clients, and you are like a body of work yourself, like an N equals 1 in that regard, so it's, yeah, really fascinating to know that, yeah, Eugene Sandow influenced so many people across the globe. Actually made me just think, I think I saw some of his equipment in Das Gym in Vienna, I think they have it, like, on show. Have you been to Das Gym? I imagine that's, like, a place you'd love. I would love to, I've not been, I've, I've lusted after it online, which, out of context, makes me sound very creepy, but, like, Sandow's equipment, it's really interesting, right, and I think this is maybe an interesting pivot point, because Sandow builds his body using heavy weight training. You know, he goes to a proper spit and sawdust gym, he's lifting heavy barbells, heavy dumbbells, heavy kettlebells, and then when he starts to sell his equipment to the general public, he says, you don't need weight training. He's like, you know, heavy weight training, that's dangerous, you know, you don't need to do it, you can do it if you want, but you don't need to. All you need is my super specific, Sandow patented, spring grip dumbbell. So, I actually have, like, a little teeny tiny Captain's Crush spring grip here, and, you know, you squeeze them as hard as you can. Oh, look at me, finally showing off online and I can't even do it. You know, you squeeze them as hard as you can and you bring the two ends together. Sandow sold dumbbells that weighed five pounds. He said, they have spring grips, you squeeze them as hard as you can to bring them together and that means you're fully concentrating. And if you're fully concentrating, you don't need heavy dumbbells. you can just use these lightweight dumbbells with full concentration and build a body like mine. Sandow knew that that was not the case. He knew that heavy weight training or progressive, and heavy is obviously a subjective term, right? What's heavy for me is light for someone else, as my experience in the gym has shown me over the years. But, Sandow knew that that would not really work for the general public. If someone wanted to build a body like his, they would have to engage in progressive resistance training. But he sold people the idea that they didn't need to train hard. They didn't need to lift heavy weights. They didn't need to do maybe what was necessary if they wanted to build that physique. And this actually, even for Sandow's time, created some controversy. There's a man, Alan Calvert. He creates the first kind of barbell manufacturer in America, Milo Barbell, 1902, 1903, because he wants to look like Sandow. He buys all the Sandow's equipment and then he realizes, this ain't working. Like, you know, listen, I'm maybe getting more toned if we're still allowed to use that term. But I'm not getting bigger, not getting leaner, not getting stronger. I need to lift heavy weights. And so it's really, like, Sandow's such a complicated figure, even for a historian like me, because he helps to promote physical activity. He helps to put bodybuilding on the map. You know, he hosts the world's first modern bodybuilding show in 1901. He spreads the message of bodybuilding all around the world. At the same time, he is like the worst form of TikTok influencer because he's selling people lies. He sues people on more than one occasion for calling him on his BS. And he will, you know, sell supplements saying, I consumed only this supplement for one month and I got stronger. I had more energy. I got leaner. You don't need to lift heavy weights. You just need to do, you know, this lightweight dumbbell course. So you kind of get in Sandow, but the best of the fitness industry, but also the worst of the fitness industry and the thing that makes us all pull our hair out if we have a heart, which is, you know, people preying on anxieties, selling half truths, selling the idea of fitness without necessarily the reality of it. So you get all of that in this one person and it just is important because it kind of snowballs from Sandow onwards, right? Like he lays down the script for later people who are selling fitness, for selling supplements, selling equipment. But also he's the physique ideal that people in the 1920s and 1930s and 1940s are saying, I want to look like Sandow. So I have a complicated relationship with Sandow. It sounds like everyone should actually because I don't think I've heard that side of the story so much, but it kind of makes sense. I think we can probably think of multiple people in the fitness industry who have kind of come from very kind of humble beginnings and then grown to a size where it's like money maybe makes a human not so good in their actions. And it actually let me, you've kind of answered the question here that I had and by talking us through this, but it might lead you on, was how can understanding fitness history prevent mistakes like chasing the next fad or getting demoralized by unrealistic standards? You essentially did it right there. No, but like, it's such an important question to ask, right? And this is why, listen, I'm a zealot for the history of fitness. I get that. But you know, sometimes the zealots are the ones that you need to listen to for five minutes and then forget all about. But maybe that little kernel will be in there. There's three kind of fundamental mistruths that we see replicated again and again within the fitness industry. You know, history never repeats itself, but it certainly does wrong. So the first is that there is some new cutting edge discovery, you know, and it might be this new supplement, it might be this new workout routine, it might be this new recovery tool. You know, in the 1920s, 1930s, people were selling electromagnetic belts as a way of improving your recovery and building muscle. There has always been this sense of this never before seen invention that's going to dramatically change the way we do anything. The sad reality is that fitness evolves incrementally. You know, it's small, slow, sometimes imperceptible changes. So like when I was talking about the history of the back squat, a fundamentally transformative sliding doors moment is people squatting on their tippy toes switching to flat footed. Wow. But that means that you can squat hundreds of pounds. That means that you can squat in a variety of different ways and using a variety of different techniques. But again, tippy toe, flat footed. There rarely tends to be this, you know, manna from the gods invention that's going to dramatically transform the way that we do everything. Even tippy toes to flat foot with squat took about a decade and a half for that to become the norm. So that's the first is that there is some invention that is never before seen. The second is that supplements are steroids. So bear with me on this one because some supplements obviously do have steroids in them. Yay for testing. The modern supplement industry emerges in the 1950s and 1960s, predominantly in the United States. At the same time that people are selling protein supplements and pre-workout supplements and all of these things, anabolic steroids begin to become used and popularized among strength athletes. And Dr. John Fair in Musseltown USA and also Mr. America, two wonderful books that are great for anyone. He actually tracks the manner in which the people selling fitness in the US, Bob Hoffman and Joe Weider predominantly at that time, were selling supplements, knowingly using athletes who are consuming anabolic steroids and attributing their gains in muscle mass and strength to the supplements. And if you think supplement ads are bad now, look at the 1950s and 1960s. I gained 30 pounds of muscle in one month using this supplement. My total, be it Olympic weightlifting or powerlifting, went up 60 pounds in two weeks using this supplement. They're using steroids attributing to supplements. And, you know, listen, some supplements obviously do work. I have cranky-ass elbows and knees. I need supplements to help with them. Creatine benefits me, et cetera, et cetera. You know, supplements work. But if you see a supplement attributed to this insane, out-of-proportion benefit, it's probably BS. So we have the supplements as steroids. We have the brand-new invention. And then we also have, I suppose, and this is maybe a trickier thing sometimes for people to navigate, but this idea of the perfect body. Because people will promote, you know, a certain physique and a certain ideal. And the reality is that there is no one agreed-upon body ideal. If we are looking at bodybuilding, look at a Mr. Olympia winner from the 1960s, 1970s versus the 1980s, 1990s versus the noughties and the 2010s and the 2020s. Likewise, with natural bodybuilding. Look at natural bodybuilders from the 1990s to the present day. You're going to see increased leanness. You're going to see increased muscle mass. You're going to see a completely different type of athlete. And again, this is not to stop or critique or diminish. I don't actually ascribe to the idea of, well, they're all muscle monsters or mass monsters now. We need to stop them. Now, from a public health concern, maybe we do need to have a different conversation. But body standards and ideals have always shifted over time. And that's actually important because then you start to see, especially for a bodybuilding base, that your body isn't your identity. Your body is your performance output for your sport. And that's an important thing, especially when you're in the doldrums of the post-contest phase, when, you know, the body fat's starting to creep back up, the hormones might be starting to, you know, knock on the door a little bit again. They're saying, listen, you know, we don't need to calorie restrict anymore. And you're starting to feel that sense of, I need to look a certain way. Well, the reality is you don't. If you're a bodybuilder, you need to look a certain way on stage because that is your sport. If that is your sport and that is your performance output, your performance is going to waver over a 12-month period or from show to show. And oftentimes in fitness, there is this kind of myth, which is repeated over time, which says there is a static, perfect body. 6% body fat year round. Or, you know, Sandeux case in the early 1900s, lean and muscular year round. The reality is that bodies change, as do the body standards. And again, it's just one way of, I think, uncoupling your emotions, your self-identity with your body and viewing the body actually in the same way that a powerlifter would view his or her total. Or an Olympic weightlifter would view his or her total. I'm not going to be able to hit, you know, my 1RM, SBD, squat bench deadlift year round. I'm not going to have a 600-pound deadlift year round. It's going to wax and when. Physique standards tend to be promoted as relatively static. You know, if you look at muscle mags in the 70s or 80s or TikTok, Instagram, YouTube, now people are deliberately showing this idea or giving this idea that, you know, you're lean year round or that you're going to have the same body from month to month. And the reality is obviously very different. But again, it pays to trick people into that idea that the body is static because, well, then you need to buy my supplement, buy my course, et cetera, et cetera. So I think there are three big things. I think, you know, the body changes because body standards change and, you know, your body is your performance output, especially for bodybuilders. Supplements are not steroids. Steroids are steroids. And also, you know, this idea then, excuse me, that I can't remember my first point. Jeez, and I was doing so well on those three points. Like a new invention or... New invention. There you go. Steve, you pay attention. My mind is, I just, you know, the Homer Simpson thing where it's like, you know, sometimes I remember. You can say here, but I'm leaving. Yeah, I mean, it's, as you're walking me through those, I was trying to think, like, what are some modern day examples? I mean, the biggest modern day example that I could think of that was immediately coming to mind was like the liver king and how he was espousing to be natural despite taking copable amounts of steroids. but a lot of people aren't aware of kind of what natural is, what it isn't. And then also seeing it within the changes over time within bodybuilding, immediately what comes to mind is like men's physique. If you know how that first looked, Connor, when they were doing it, it's like, well, they weren't that lean, they weren't that big. They're like, yeah, it kind of was like a really good beach body whereas now it's like, hey, they're bodybuilders in board shorts. It's completely transformed. And then also actors. I think of like many years ago like a Brad Pitt like in Fight Club. He was like the ideal physique, right? Whereas now people look at him and be like, this guy doesn't even lift. You look at the, like the rock or someone now who people still think is natural. It's just like the kind of unrealistic standard. Wait, Dwayne Johnson isn't natural? It's not just tilapia? I'm not going to burst your bubble here, Connor. What? It's not just fish? He, hey, well, he's downsized recently, right? And dramatically apparently so. But it's just so pervade over time. So it's, and I love that concept of kind of the ideal body is shifting and it's something that competitors have to really wrap their head around is like, hey, like the physique that develops like the physique you want on stage like looks different in that you can't perform well and develop the body you want to take to stage with the stage ready physique because you're under way too much fatigue. Like you said, hormones aren't in a good place. So they have to kind of accept that that is a short-term physique that's only meant for there. Just like a powerlifter isn't going to be able to perform their best one rep max like every day of the week. It's like, no, you're peaked purposely for that one specific moment in time or any athlete really, I guess, unless I guess there's the sport depends. Like there's not always the level of peaking which is found within powerlifting and bodybuilding there. But yeah, it's very interesting. I don't know if any modern day examples came to mind for you when you think about those. Yeah, I think, you know, for me, one of the most interesting, and it's not modern day, but I'll tie it back into modern day in a second, is Rish Gasparri. And it's a really interesting example, right? Because Rish Gasparri is one of the top three, I would say, bodybuilders in the 1980s, early 1990s. He has the misfortune alongside Lee Labrada of competing in the same era as Lee Haney. Lee Haney, you know, is a multiple time Mr. Olympia winner, does not get his flowers within bodybuilding spaces because his whole thing was stimulate, don't annihilate. Who comes after Lee Haney, which is Dorian Yates, which is like, you know, burn the villages while we train. But Rish Gasparri has a really big problem, which is he's very lean, but he's not as big. And, you know, Olympia judges would argue with various years not as symmetrical as Lee Haney. So what does he need to do? Okay, my leanness is my asset. So I'm going to get as lean as humanly possible. I'm going to count all my calories at a time when that's still not really the done thing. And I'm going to appear on stage with striated glutes. I've now created a new body standard for leanness because now we're going to understand leanness as striated glutes. You know, people can see the muscles of your ass. And then we start to see other bodybuilders playing catch-up and then we start to see increased leanness for both tested or natural bodybuilding and untested non-natural bodybuilding. So within a four-year period, the body standards dramatically change. Now to go back to a really good point, Steve, about men's physique, you know, and it's, Hester was the first year's winner, I'm pretty sure. But, you know, we have a certain standard, more people come to the sport, how do you distinguish yourself on stage? It's increasing your muscle mass, it's increasing your leanness, it's making sometimes imperceptible, near imperceptible changes to your symmetry. And that increases the standard on stage. And in much the same way that, you know, records are broken in competitive team sports, you know, a certain player scores more goals, creates more passes, more assists, whatever the case may be, you know, 100 meter time might go down, you know, and powerlifting a deadlift, one RM will be broken. For bodybuilding the body and pushing the body to its biological extreme is the way to actually distinguish yourself. And that's where we think then about, you know, sometimes the massive physique changes that we can see even within a bodybuilder's career, or even within a certain physique division, or a certain body division. And it's not, again, it's not something to be criticized as long as athletes are healthy. Let's not go down that kind of worms just yet. But it does show again that if there's a variability, in much same way that we talked about variability with exercise selection and exercise technique, you can kind of give yourself a little bit more grace with these things because it is that peak and like peaking is meant to be temporary. And bodybuilding is meant to be pushing yourself to a physiological extreme. Hell, that's the sport. And, you know, sometimes we can, I think, get too stodgy or too caught in this idea of, you know, it's meant to look a certain way. Like men's physique is meant to look a certain way. Or we love talking about, well, in the golden age of bodybuilding, you know, it looked like this. Like, okay, but you don't look at movies from the 1960s. You don't look at TV from the 1960s. Things change, things evolve, and they evolve with reference to that past history. So this is where, I suppose, that continual evolution, and you can take a stance on whether you think it's good or bad. Men's physique came about because the IFBB was worried that open bodybuilding was putting people off and that they were losing participation numbers, so they need to get more people in. And it worked. That's fine. You know, when Dorian Yates was the Mr. Olympia and reigning champion, Arnold Schwarzenegger would continually criticise him for being a mass monster and unsymmetrical. If any remembers when Kai Greene won the Arnold, and Arnold goes on stage, presents Kai Greene with his trophy in the 2010s, and then talks about how Cedric Macmillan looked so much better than him, or Cedric Greene, confusing names, looked so much better than Kai Greene because Kai Greene couldn't do a stomach vacuum. You can criticise what you don't like, but you also have to accept that things evolve and things change, and that it is really slippery talking about the perfect physique within bodybuilding. Very well said. I've been competing within bodybuilding for over 10 years now, and I've judged for the last few years, and that gave me an even greater perspective of just how much it is like, whilst we have some objective criteria of symmetry, conditioning, posing, these sort of elements, it is subjective to that judge because they are subjective things to some extent, and you have a judging panel because people interpret things slightly differently in your own preferences, and they average out across 7 to 10 judges. And so it was a great moment of just realisation of loads of competitors put their value in their placement, but that isn't where you should seek value at all. It's just like a panel of judges based off a judging criteria that at the end of the day someone made up, right, and has evolved over time completely. And it makes complete sense, especially on the enhanced side, how it's got more and more extreme because they can up the dose as it were. Whereas on the natural side, we can only take it so far, and there definitely has been criticisms of people taking it too far in terms of conditioning, but often comes this balancing act. So I think there isn't such room to progress things and push things. But it's definitely an interesting discussion. And something that it made me think of there, Connor, is often people talk about natty or not. You'd be a great person because you know the history of before steroids were even a thing. And I don't know if it's a thing you have many thoughts on. Like when you see some of the physiques that are espoused to be natural today, if you're like, man, I know what they look like before steroids, I'm kind considering we didn't have that much media coverage that we do have compared to today. It makes sense that there are freaks out there. I'd love to know your perspective on that, Connor. Hi, guys. Steve here. Just wanted to take a moment of your time to remind you of our online coaching service. At Revive Stronger, we pride ourselves on providing personalized service that will take your physique and knowledge to the next level. If you're interested, check the description and sign up. Man, Steve, bring them up. Bring up the photos right now. I'm not either or not. I'm not every single person. Anyone who's bigger or leaner straight away. Absolutely not. It's really funny. I think the fact that even now is such a contentious topic in fitness shows there's a great book by Randy Roach, Muscle Smoke and Mirrors. It does show how much mystique mystery, lies, exist within the fitness industry that we're like, well, they're saying they're naughty, but I don't trust that they're naughty. Sometimes they are. Certainly not naughty. So let's do the first thing. Anabolic steroids, people talk about the Nazis experimenting with testosterone and certain things during the 1930s and people writing letters asking doctors, can I take this? Let's say 1950, 1952, give or take, for Western steroid use. Let's just use that as a rough benchmark. Now let's talk about the uncomfortable truth. And this is a truth put to me by my own bodybuilding coach for my first show, that there are race horses and there are draft horses. There are certain people who are born with the right bone length, the right muscle density, the predisposition towards muscle gain, etc. and freaks have always existed. Eugene Sandow is incredibly lean, even in the modern age. He's able to do a backflip while holding dumbbells. There's other people like Bobby Pandor, P-A-N-D-O-R. People look him up, insanely shredded, supposedly didn't really train with weights. Everything was calisthenics based. And I tell no lies, putting his brother on his back and walking up flights of stairs. That was his adult brother and that must have been the weirdest sibling relationship. So freaks do exist. And I think it's important to accept that. And that is not just in a bodybuilding context. Paul Anderson was steroid free, an incredibly freakishly strong Olympic weightlifter who then also engaged in powerlifting feats in the 1950s. John Grimmick, who people may have seen this wonderful pose of John leaning back on this pedestal while doing a bicep pose. He was an Olympic weightlifter and a bodybuilder in the 1930s and 40s. People would talk about his incredible muscle density and his ability to just grow muscles seemingly from nowhere. So there's some things to consider. Now let's consider some other things that exist. More people now weight train. More people are now exposed to weight training than ever before in human history. There's a great book by Jan Todd, Terry Todd and Jason Shirley called The Invention of Strength Training and they say even irrespective of anabolic steroids, the popularization of weight training is the most dramatic input or influence that American sport has had. Weight training now happens in high schools and colleges for team sports. There are more gyms available. Gyms are cheaper. Access to information is largely democratized, both good and bad. More and more women now as well are being introduced to weight training. There's still a stigma and gendered barriers, but it's not as bad as it was even in the 90s and in the 2010s. So more people are weight training, which means that there's more opportunities for freaks to exist. We now also have more standardized equipment. If I'm training in the early 1900s or even the 1930s or 1940s, I might have to make my own equipment. JC Heiss, the man who popularizes 20 rep squats in the 1930s, he creates his own cambered bar at home on his farm. Bob Peoples, one of the first men to deadlift 700 pounds, he trains with a wooden barbell with two baskets of factory on the end of it, and he loads it up using rocks from a quarry. People can now go into any type of gym, and you have machines that are there, standardized barbells, dumbbells, kettlebells, TRX, the world's your oyster. So there's more equipment, and it's standardized, and it's easy to use. We also have more access to nutrition, and more access to coaching. There's a lot of great free online resources, including this one. There's a cheap plug. So both the knowledge base and the access to equipment and supplements and dietary regimes, et cetera, et cetera, has improved. So the chances for a freak to exist are much higher than at any point in human history. And then we're going to bring in the annoying bit of fitness if they're on Instagram or TikTok and they're using filters, they're using very specific angles, et cetera, et cetera. People can look great. So I oftentimes go from assumption of nattiness until proven otherwise. I also am 34 and I don't really care anymore. So that helps as well, right? Because I'm cynical about a lot of supplements and a lot of specified, this is the only way to train people. And like you, I don't necessarily judge myself compared to someone else because I'm like, well, there's only one Connor Heffernan with this genetic makeup. There's only one Steve Hall with that genetic makeup. There's only one insert name there with that genetic makeup. So I can't compare mine to them because I don't know if I'm at my limit and they're just starting out. You know, Ed Cohen, the great powerlifter, like pulled 400 pounds his first time in a gym in a deadlift. Like what the hell? You know what I mean? Yeah. Now the flip side of that is obviously the reason why natty or because people are saying I'm so proud of myself. This is how I looked two years ago. This is how I look now. Isn't fitness a wonderful thing? What they're saying is this is me now. This is me then. Buy my supplements. I'm available for coaching. I'm selling a workout routine. I'm doing a coaching clinic. I'm doing a workshop. And I think it's the additional step in which I'm selling you something under the illusion that I too am natural that causes and I would say rightly a lot of anger, mistrust, hurt, you know, and people feeling like they've been lied to or led astray because they have been lied to or led astray. If people are old enough to remember the Chris Bell documentary Bigger, Faster, Stronger, there's a great clip in that where he's interviewing one of the physique models and the guy is saying, yeah, listen, I'm advertising early 2000 supplements like Celltech or hydroxycut, but I also take steroids. And Chris Bell says, well, do not think that's a little bit disingenuous. And he goes, well, no, I presume people know that I'm taking steroids. Like, I also take hydroxycut or Celltech or whatever the case may be, but I presume that they know I'm taking steroids. And that got a lot of anger from the viewing public and I think he actually lost in sponsorship deals for telling the truth, which tells you everything you need to know about fitness. But that's where I think the natty or not thing is important. I think you have to accept that freaks exist. And sometimes the freaks in your gym are just the people who are more lean, stronger than you, look better, etc. But then I think the reason why the anger comes in is that people are selling. And one of the huge issues, which is so fascinating for me, is how fitness now appears everywhere online. It bleeds into other cultures. So I have friends who are nurses and they will show me nurse influencers who are selling their workout routines. Teaching influencers who are talking about their health regimens and oh my god, after a long day of teaching kids, I like to use this herbal supplement. I like to smash my head through a wall. I love my students. But fitness bleeds into everywhere and that gives people the opportunity to sell. And the last thing I'll say about this, which is an important anecdote, in the 1940s, Bob Hoffman, who is the founder of York Barbell, which still exists today, he is an early funder of the US Olympic weightlifting team. He's visited by a man called Paul Bragg. Paul Bragg is a nutritionist. He sells, and you still say today, Bragg's amino acids, which kind of taste like soy sauce, Bragg's apple cider vinegar. I'm not sponsored by Bragg's, just in case people are wondering. But Paul Bragg says to Bob Hoffman, let's work together to make a supplement. Because if someone buys a barbell from you, Bob, I'm sure he said Bob rather than Mr. Hoffman, that could last them a lifetime. But if you sell them a supplement, they have to come back to you month after month after month. And tying that back into the natty or not piece, it can create a dependency in which you're saying, I'm natural, I'll add the liver king, use ancestral tenants, my supplements, you'll look like me, and by the way, I'll happily take your $9.95, or with inflation now you're $99.95 every month and you can look like me. So there's so many ways of spinning off in that question. You know, non-natural chicanery, BS-ery, lying, I think rightly deserves to be called out. But we also cannot just assume that people are enhanced because freaks exist. And natural bodybuilding, I think, is such a wonderful thing, even for the passive observer of physique standards to look at. Because you are at an elite level, because obviously some natural bodybuilding shows that testing is terrible, but at an elite level, you will get a very good indication of what is possible naturally. And oftentimes what we think is possible naturally is much higher than we are led to believe. So buy my supplements, not my message. So well said. Yeah, I think I often think the elite bodybuilders today, they might not be that much better than the elite in history, but there's more elites and also, like you said, those thoroughbreds. So there's more thoroughbreds coming into natural bodybuilding or bodybuilding as a whole. And then there's better equipment, better supplements aren't really doing too much, but there's better nutritional advice, better training advice. They're getting all of that done. There's way more coaching available from actually good coaches available through the internet and everything there. So the chances of there being more freaks out there within this space, it makes sense. And then it's on the consumer side where we need to be ultra skeptical if they're trying to sell something to us. I think of someone like a Babacar, you probably know Nian Babacar, arguably the world's best bodybuilder. He, three-time WMBF world champion, I believe. And he's not, I don't look at his Instagram, he's like shilling supplements or trying to sell you on anything. So like, people will still doubt him and I understand it because he's really crazy, but it's like you said, kind of looked at as, well, innocent until proven guilty basically is the stance to take. And I think that's a great mindset just to have as someone who's interested in building their body because then it kind of opens your eyes to what could be possible and shoot for the stars type of mentality versus just thinking, like you said at the start, everyone bigger, leaner than me, they're clearly on the gear. And so unless I want, if I want to look like them, I'm going to have to hop on the source. Whereas actually you could look at him and be like, oh, maybe if I just like really give my all to this, who knows what might happen. And then with that skepticism at the same time, like you said, if people are selling, you can look at, okay, how do they like talk about their process? Like, do they really kind of talk about their training in an intellectual type of way? Do they explain things well? Do they have multiple clients, testimonials, or like the supplements, I mean, thankfully we have websites like examine.com now, so you can actually do your own research and get that kind of feedback so you don't have to just trust their word. But yeah, it's funny how it spawned many, many years ago and hasn't actually, it's evolved, but in some positive ways, but also some really negative ways. Something you wrote about on your website, which I recommend people check out actually, I'll have it linked in the description, physicalculturestudy.com. There you go. So he talked about kind of how it started in magazines and it moved then to social media and it sort of amplified the good and the bad in many ways. I'd love to talk about or hear your thoughts on how we move from magazines into, well, I guess it even makes me think of, you wrote an article, I didn't actually realize bodybuilding.com, the forums are dead. I didn't realize they closed down in 2024. and my beginnings in bodybuilding was learning on magazines, talking to kind of big guys in the gym and then the forums. So anyway, I don't know if I got a question there to you, but yeah, how did it evolve over time and give the listeners what they need to know? Yeah, the fact that the bodybuilding.com forums lasted until 2024 is wild because there was a lot of crime that was being discussed openly in those forums. Oh, wow, I didn't know that. There we go. It's fine. It's a happy podcast. It's good vibes only. No, but it's funny, right? Because, you know, the more that we talk, the more I'm like, geez, wouldn't it be amazing if when you joined a gym, instead of the like, you know, showers are there, do you need me to walk you through how the machines work? We were like, here's a quick education on like skepticism versus science. You know, let's talk about processes in terms of 12 years as opposed to 12 weeks, you know, all these different things. Because typically how we learn individually is ad hoc. You know, I think all of us come from different paths, but we share sometimes the same resources. So in the 1890s, which is when you have the first bodybuilding magazine emerging, arguably Sandow's magazine of physical culture published in 1897 or 1898, pardon me, and you have things like health and strength magazine and then physical culture magazine under Bernard McFadden in the US. Bodybuilding magazines become the shared script for everyone. You know, you go to the bodybuilding mags to learn about nutritional advice, to learn about workouts, to learn about body standards, to learn about general health advice or, you know, general health cultures or what's going on in your city or your town or your country, whatever the case may be. And bodybuilding magazines embed kind of certain techniques or certain attributes within fitness knowledge. So the first is obviously people interacting with one another. If I open up a bodybuilding magazine from the early 1900s, I'll see someone from South Africa corresponding with someone from Dublin. I'll see someone from Dublin corresponding with someone from the US. I'll see readers questions being answered by the editor. So this idea, like you're saying, Steve, of, you know, you ask the big guy in the gym, but then you also use the forums. That's what bodybuilding magazines used to be. Bodybuilding magazines also from 1898, 1899, have cover images, but also reader submissions. So photographs of men's and typically men's bodies, it's not really until the 1940s where women start to submit photographs of themselves to fitness magazines. Well, that's a lie, 1920s, certainly. But, you know, people submitting, here's my transformation, here's my image, here are my measurements, here are my, you know, lifts, you know, squat bench, deadlift. They'll give posing advice, they'll give all of these different, or serve all of these different functions. And bodybuilding magazines and fitness magazines begin to die away in the 1990s and 2000s to be replaced by individual blogs, message boards, forums, and they will serve the exact same purpose. Here's information on supplements, here's information on training regimes, here's, you know, my photograph, can people critique me? What do I need to work on? You know, am I ready to compete? Whatever the case may be. And then also, you know, who is the star of the day? And what's really interesting, and I would argue that it's a net good with a lot of bad attached to it, is magazines used to be centrally controlled. So the editor of Men's Health, or the editor of Sandeys Magazine of Physical Culture, or the editor of Strength and Health, or Muscular Development, or, you know, Strength and Fitness, whatever title we want to use, would decide what went into it, would decide who the cover image is, would decide what readers' photographs would be included, would have decided to Photoshop the reader's images. My very good friend Rachel Azurkovich, I always butcher her name, sorry, so sorry Rachel, looks at effectively early Photoshopping in fitness images from the early 1900s, where they would literally, visual medium, smudge the photographs to make the biceps, you know, look bigger, they'd use colour contrast to make themselves look leaner. So we've always had Photoshop, but the editor would decide, okay, that goes in, that doesn't, that reader's question goes in, that reader's question doesn't, okay, let's just copy and paste basically the same response from six magazines ago for this. What forums do, and forums then lead to social media, right, is they democratise it. So yeah, you have a forum, bodybuilding.com, there are mods, you know, moderators for that forum, but largely now anyone can ask a question. Anyone can now really put up a photograph of themselves and ask for feedback or critique. Anyone can question someone, and also anyone, because a lot of these forums, especially you'll remember this, the bodybuilding.com forums, there were a lot of active, competitive bodybuilders on them, and also early coaches who you could ask questions to. That was wild, you know, so you can now have more access to individuals. Now, when the forums begin to die away, I don't know, Reddit and 4chan and other things exist, and now we have Instagram, TikTok, private Discord servers, etc. But it's still basically the same thing. Like, anyone can put a photograph of themselves up now and ask for feedback. Anyone can ask a question about a supplement and get information. So we get this democratization of knowledge rather than the really strictly controlled knowledge. And I think that is ultimately a good thing because now anyone can have a voice within fitness. The problem of that is now anyone has a voice within fitness. And I don't know if you remember this, right, but my favorite discovery on the bodybuilding.com forums was in the sports training forum. And there was someone who was an expert in that forum. And he would always give people training programs to, like, increase their vertical jump, increase their 100-meter sprints, etc., etc. And eventually it was discovered that this person was a teenager who was effectively going to the library and getting sports science books and pretending that he was, like, some grizzled coach from, you know, in his 40s. And people were going to him and asking for expertise and asking for advice. So the wonderful thing about the shift from magazines to now social media is that anyone now has a voice. The bad part of that is now anyone has a voice within fitness. So expertise has been decentralized. Now anyone can be an expert. And sometimes that's really good. Listen, some of the people I follow on YouTube are Olympic weightlifting coaches who have, like, 20 subscribers. But their knowledge is bloody awesome. You know what I mean? Other times a friend will show me someone on TikTok and be like, what do you think of that? And I'm like, well, you know, people stopped doing that in the 50s when they realized it didn't work. So that's the danger of it. But the magazines used to be the TikTok, the Instagram, the YouTube, the social media of their day with the distinction that it was usually one person who decided what went on it. And that had ramifications, right? So Joe Weider, the man who co-founded Mr. Olympia magazine, was the bodybuilding mogul in the 50s and 60s and 70s and 80s and 90s. You know, and it's still the Mr. Olympia still has iconography or images and statues of Joe there. But there was a real pushback against Joe in the 70s and 80s from black and African American bodybuilders because they'd say, well, I'm not getting as many cover images as the white bodybuilders. And Joe would say, well, yeah, because when I put a black bodybuilder on my cover image, the, you know, I won't sell as many issues. And Robbie Robinson talks about this. But rather than saying, well, if I do that, you know, four or five times, people will become attuned to it and then it'll become, you know, NBD, no big deal. He says, well, no, we're not doing that anymore. Or there'll be instances in which, you know, readers' questions are being rejected from one magazine but accepted in a different magazine. And we know that because they'll say, you know, I asked, you know, not Perry Rader, he was a good one, but you know, I asked, insert name here. They never got back to me or the letter never got published. But now I want to ask you something else. So, you know, that death grip on knowledge has been completely eroded for better and for worse. Yeah, I can totally see that. And I do agree with you that the democratization is super important because being that heavily curated and almost like dogma in that sense and so centrally controlled, although you could argue, I guess, Instagram ultimately hold us all within that. Algorithms are destroying our lives. I was going to say, to some extent, because it's now algorithm, like it's, you're not, you don't have to submit something to someone to then accept or deny it. You are submitting it to Instagram to accept or deny in terms of, are you going to, is this, people are going to be interested in this in terms of the algorithm gods or what have you. And that's traveling so much faster, right? People are creating multiple pieces of content a day. And so it's just, I guess, it makes me think of like, people talk about the good old days, but it makes me think about not necessarily the good old days, but it's like, where do we, when we were first getting into the gym, there wasn't kind of really a very great resources and information. Like there were textbooks and things, but if it's bold, bodybuilding specific, hypertrophy, I mean, a lot of it was strength, kind of focused powerlifting, more so focused performance. And so it then was like, right, let's learn from the bros, like, what have they got? Let's look at forums. And then exercise science as a whole is very new, especially specifically towards hypertrophy. And so I think when textbooks started coming out and like Brad Schoenfeld released his textbook, I don't know how long ago now, probably a decade is one of his first textbooks or books in general. Those were gold mines of information. But now people don't even bother with that. They're just like, hey, I'll just listen maybe to podcasts, which I think are fine. But I would, I almost view podcasts as like the social media of the textbooks and like the actual kind of general fundamentals, like you said, go into the gym and they should give you this kind of grounding of knowledge and people just want the quick bites and the parroted pieces of information. And he said, she said. So, yeah, it's just a messy, messy field out there. And I don't know if it's actually improved from, obviously, it's better because it's not gatekept, but it's gatekept in a different way. I don't know if I've made any thoughts or you have any thoughts on what I've just said. I thought there was going to be an unraveling of the Revive Stronger podcast. Like a podcast, like what's the what's the point? What are we doing here? You know, I'm mad as hell and I won't take it anymore. No, but it's like, right. It's a really good point because magazines were gatekept. Books were gatekept, you know, in the sense of fitness publishers used to only publish. And this isn't about exercise science. It's about, you know, fitness writ large, you know, Arnold's Encyclopedia of Modern Bodybuilding type of books. We're only published by certain publishers. You know, only certain athletes were able to publish the books, et cetera, et cetera. It was slower, though. Right. A magazine was published every two weeks, every month. You know, you could have one book every couple of years from certain fitness writers or fitness coaches. So it was really slow. And that was important because a lot of the fitness magazines, one of my favorite books. Actually, I can see Dan John behind me. I love Dan John. But one of my favorite fitness books you can still buy is The Keys to Progress by John McCallum and who actually Dan John said inspired him. John McCallum is a wonderful writer. He was writing in the 60s and 70s for, I think, a strength and health magazine. But he would be like, you know, in this month's issue, here is your workout. Next month, we will do the progression on what we've just done. And, you know, you would follow that month by month by month. Or when I joined the gym, it was a really old school gym and they had posters up, the York Barbell course. So I was told, right, Connor, do York Barbell course number one for three months, then go on to number two, then go on to number three, then go on to number four. And then, you know, talk to Mick and that's his name was Mick and he was a natural body builder. He was the hardest working trainer I've ever seen. I'm not making an Irish joke when I say his name was Mick. His name happened to be... I'm going to just stop right now. Yes, he was Irish. Yes, he happened to be Mick. I'm called Connor. We're not all called Mick. So it was much slower in terms of progression, right? Versus the modern age, we talk about, you know, the algorithm, the gods, et cetera. But we are bombarded with workout routines and we are bombarded with new information the whole time. And I would argue that the manner in which we are consuming a lot of this information is largely the manner in which one would consume junk food. You know, in the sense of, you know, you're scrolling through Instagram, scrolling through TikTok, you're looking at YouTube shorts or, you know, YouTube video after YouTube video, how much that is going in. And like, it's fine if none of it is. Listen, I bloody love professional wrestling because it lets, you know, my academic brain just stop and I can see people do flips and slap each other. And I love it. Is it benefiting how I live my life? Well, yes, when I cut a promo on my students. But I mean, sometimes you just need chewing gum for the brain. That's fine. But it's when you let your training habits, your training techniques, your dietary strategies start to change and waver and you're jumping from one branch to the next branch because you're just continually dysregulated by the amount of information that you're consuming versus, you know, in the magazine era, the magazine periods, not to lean on era too much because I'm told that's what Taylor Swift does now, is, you know, it's slow. I'm probably going to follow this for 12 weeks because that's what the one magazine that I have access to is telling me to do. And there are pluses and minuses to that, obviously. But it's like slow food versus fast food, right? And listen, social media, the internet has fundamentally changed how I train and millions of people train. But because it is continually being bombarded, new, different, algorithmically sourced, etc., there's a tendency, I think, sometimes to throw the baby out with the bathwater. And the dirty secret of fitness is that it's slow. You know what I mean? Like for a select few, it's maybe a fast process, but even, hell, Ed Cohn, you know, the powerlifter pulls 400 the first time he's in the gym or whatever it was, something ridiculous. It does take him a long time to get up to a thousand pound deadlift. You know, like the standards are completely out of this world, but it's still a slow process. Whereas I think you are touching on something there, Steve, about, you know, when we're just flicking and flicking and flicking and flicking, it can actually, I think, create doubt, uncertainty, a need for a quick fix, you know, for example, because we are being bombarded with knowledge that some of it is useful, some of it is not useful, but it's hard to discern that, especially if you're starting off. Okay, I see one person saying that, you know, I can only train with machines because I'm a beginner, but someone else is saying I need to do five by five and I need to get really strong on the big three. What do I do? I don't know. You know, and it can create that kind of paralysis by analysis. And I know that from friends and like, what should I do? I'm like, just come with me and we'll just move. Like, we'll just, we'll lift away, you know, you'll figure it out. So I think that that is a consequence obviously of the knowledge environment that we now inhabit. But podcasts are good. Everything else is good. Podcasts are good. Podcasts, especially with you on, Connor. So paralysis by analysis was exactly the word I was thinking of. And it's one of the things I so often help my clients with. And I think having a coach is, but it has to be a good coach, of course. There are people that aren't great coaches out there. So doing a bit of your homework and doing some of that kind of broader research into an individual can be very helpful and they can help you kind of, I guess, get through these murky waters. You can ask them, hey, is this person full of rubbish? Because they've done this real saying this and then you can explain it hopefully in good kind of first principle thinking or the exercise principles and you can use the muscle and strength pyramids and take them through kind of priorities, calories through supplements and so on and so forth. But I think your description or analogy of or making social media almost analogous to junk food is, hey, a bit of junk food in your diet now and then isn't a problem so long as it's moderated by mostly wholesome minimally processed food. Similar to if you get all your learning about exercise science from TikTok, from Instagram, it's not going to be a good time. You're going to have a junk brain essentially. And so you want to have this nice wholesome kind of base and foundation of knowledge that might be through formal education. It might be through textbooks, might be through some adjunct podcasts as well. And that can also keep you adherent to the fundamental basics, right? Just like you have a bit of junk food in your diet keeps like it okay that you have most of your diet coming from relatively boring comparative stuff. But every now and again, you allow yourself to have a burger, fries, what have you. And it keeps you on track, in fact. And similarly, having a bit of excitement through, oh, like this guy throughout this new exercise, I'm going to try it out in my program, but everything else is staying the same. I think that's a good way of using it. So I definitely think social media as a whole, I think some people view it very negatively. And I think generally it can be very negative, but it's how you use it that is the right way to go about it. Probably similar to a lot of things in life. Connor, this has been a really interesting chat. I love kind of talking through the history and the background and you clearly absolutely know it. Do you have anything else you want to leave the listeners with that we didn't manage to touch on or and or where can people, if they want to kind of learn more about your work and you mentioned your book, where should they be heading? I'm going to because I'm Irish. I'm going to not talk about myself for like 10 seconds and then I'll slip it in at the end. Don't worry. Like, um, I thought the, and I don't know how you're sequencing this, but the podcast you had about, you know, coaching was really illustrative because the two guys on were talking about, you know, mentorship and investing in your own knowledge and investing in what you do and challenging your ideas and, you know, targeting your deficits. What are you not good at, et cetera. There's a ongoing quote that is recycled in fitness, which is if you want to learn something, open a book from 50 years ago. Now, it's not to say that, you know, they were doing it right and we're doing it wrong, but you can challenge your thinking by going back because people have always struggled with how do I make certain populations stronger, leaner, more muscular, recover better, et cetera. There has never been a point in human history where we have had as much free access to the history of fitness. If you go to the tight tan slacks of Desco Band, that is a website that's been run for 15 to 20 years. I have no connection with it apart from being a fanboy, which just has hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of articles that used to be in bodybuilding, powerlifting, Olympic weightlifting magazines, and they've transcribed them by hand. You know, they've typed out everything. So if you have 10 minutes, you can just go on to the tight tan slacks of Desco Band, click on any month from any year over the past 15 years and find a random fitness article. And it's not time intensive. It's not labor intensive. Something you could do while sitting on the bus. You have the strongmanproject.com, which is an online free library created by the Stark Center at the UT of Austin in collaboration with Rogue Fitness, where you can type in, you know, bodybuilding routine, diet, supplements, individual names, workouts. And there's decades and decades of free access to bodybuilding magazines and articles again. And there's also biographies of people from the history of bodybuilding, Olympic weightlifting, and powerlifting. The Stark Center has its own digital library where you can actually click into and get PDFs of an entire fitness magazines from the 1890s and early 1900s. You then also have Rogue Fitness documentaries that are freely available on YouTube and any number of things, you know, Barbell Films on Instagram. Marcus Coment does some really wonderful work there. And Golden Era Bookworm as well are some people who are giving you access to bodybuilding magazines, bodybuilding articles, bodybuilding biographies. And I think there's a real value in looking at how people have understood problems over time. Oftentimes in different ways, they didn't have the same access to knowledge, supplements, training, etc. But they're thinking and looking at how they think will help you to think. Why I'm a zealot for fitness. My own humble and meager contributions. I have my own website, Physical Culture Study, which has been running since 2014. It's freely available because I'm an idiot and an academic, which means I don't understand the profit principle. So if you click on to that website, you know, there's questions about who invented the squat, who invented the deadlift, who invented the assault bike, this workout routine, etc. I just want people to engage in history. And then the last point is I've recently published a book called When Fitness Went Global. It's available for 20 euro or 30 dollars, depending where you are in the world. For Australian listeners, I do not understand the Australian dollar, but I'm so sorry for whatever's happening. You have sun, I have rain. So, you know, there's a flip side of it. But that looks at, you know, when fitness became globalized. So in the 19th century, the 1800s, people started working out using the same routines, the same systems all over the world. So someone in Dublin used the same exercises as someone in Delhi, as someone in Detroit, as someone in a city beginning with D. The first time in human history. So I start to unpack that because that obviously has a ramification for how we train today. When I go to Disneyland Paris, as I want to do in a few days time with my son, there will be a hotel gym which has the same equipment that my gym in Dublin has. When I used to live in Texas, I travel all over the US. The gyms would have the same equipment. That has its origin point in the 1800s when people began moving in the same way. So my rallying call, Steve, for anyone is just to just dip your toes in the water of fitness history because you'll get some really interesting insights. If it's just John McCallum, the keys to progress, how do I write a really compelling fitness story? Because he wrote really compelling fitness stories. He used allegories to show people, you know, the need to weight train, etc. You know, how do I get people leaner? John, I'm going to look at how Rich Gasparri and Lila Bradded in the 1980s and see if I can even pick up an anecdote. You know what? Squats aren't building up my VMO. I want that teardrop. I'm going to look up Vince Garanda and what he did in the 1960s. I'm not saying that you should take it wholesale, unquestioningly, uncritically, but have a look because it will challenge you. And I think that's why the history of fitness is such a valuable tool. And I will stop talking now because I'm just, I'm like, I'm so close to the tip of my soapbox. I can feel the edge of the top, but I'm not going to do that. Well, really good resources there. And as I said already, I checked out your website and I read over lots of the articles over there and found it fascinating to kind of learn about all that history and talking to you here, Connor. I think it's fascinating and it really makes me think of a quote from Same as Ever by Morgan Hounsell. It's focused more on history, less on forecasts, which I think just really cements a lot of we just discussed there. Another thing I think about is like focus on what isn't changing. I often think about that with exercises, like which exercises have stood the test of time? Because they won't stick around for a reason. And so I think history can teach you an absolute ton. And especially in the day and age where, again, people are producing social media content for the algorithm. Often it isn't for our benefit, but history wasn't like that. People weren't kind of having to be so click baity as they were in the past. So, yeah, I think people should definitely check those out. Check out your book. And thank you so much for your time, Connor. I'll make sure everything that you described is linked in the description. And thank you all for listening. We'll catch you in the next one. Pleasure. Thanks so much.