 gelouqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqq So, yeah, it was nice, man. The best thing about going down to Butte, and for those who don't know Butte, Cornwall, as we were discussing last time, like it's actually pretty south. It takes, like when you plug it into the sat-nav from London, it's meant to take like five hours, but it always takes us like six. You always stop off and kind of Charlotte needs a break because I am a passenger princess. I don't do any of the driving. I just sit there and entertain and entertain myself. I should actually try driving though, because I think it's a skill that I am maybe slowly losing because I never drive. Anyway, that's another point in for itself. The main thing I like about it is because Cornwall and Butte is right on the coast. So literally I can walk 10 minutes with Ada and we're on the coast almost, just like looking over and you can just see the waves and the weather was quite nice, especially the day we left. We've had some nice days of weather over the last few days as well. But that's the main thing I love about going to Cornwall and to Butte itself is just like being out in nature and getting away from the sticks and giving Ada an opportunity just to like actually have a bit of a longer lead and not be just walking pavement pounding basically the whole time. So yeah, it was really nice out there. As a long time listeners will know, there's a little gym out there that I can basically purchase access to. And it's just like a warehouse. You plug in a code. So I managed to train there a couple of times. Trained on like the Saturday and Sunday. Normally Sunday would be a rest day, but I was just like traveling on Monday. Push that row. Like I felt like I could go and get that session done. For some reason, sessions feel more easy to do in a different gym environment. Like they just feel easier because I think it's, as we've discussed before, you don't have like numbers in your head to hit. And so you, I don't know, you can't quite push yourself to the same degree. It's still good, like quality sessions. I just don't think they're quite as good as productive as when I'm in my home gym. So anyway, yeah, it was great. How about yourself? You had a productive weekend, not kind of doing similar things to me, but what did you need to have done? Have you, is that new in your bedroom, in that spare bedroom, that light shade? No, that's not new. Okay. It's not new. Nothing's new. You were doing some house stuff though, DIY. Yes, that's true. So it was a success in some areas. So basically I, I accidentally made a hole in the wall, in a wall basically, which wasn't, which wasn't ideal. So, but, so I filled that in this weekend, which was a success. And that was like, you know, DIY tick. So that was good. And where I didn't do so well, I didn't do so well on the curtains front, but that could, could potentially happen this weekend. We'll see. It's always a surprise. You never know. Potentially happen. You literally, I bought these, like I've done, I, I even did it. You can't see it really on air, but this blackout blind, I did my whole, you've been in my office, right? So, you know, like I, because this is my room, I just took the DIY like head on. I got it painted, did the carpet. I did the whole like curtain, the curtain rail, the whole thing. But anyway, the thing I'm interested in, you accidentally made a hole in your wall. How did that happen? I'm picturing Mike getting super angry and be like, oh, screw these guys on social media. They're so annoying. And slam your door wide open. And it's smacking like the handle into the, the wall and creating a hole. Am I right? So you're not too far off the truth actually. Oh really? So I basically, it wasn't, but to be honest, it wasn't to do with social media. I, I got home from my day in the physio clinic and I was really tired and the door wasn't closing because at the time the lock was a bit funky. So I was trying to like get it sorted and it just wasn't locking and it wasn't turning. And I was getting so frustrated and I basically just went, fuck's sake, like that. And then I just felt my elbow sink into the wall. I was like, oh no. And then I took my elbow away and I was like, then there was a big hole and I was like, oh no. So yeah, that wasn't great. So I kind of did get angry just for like, didn't see a second? So yeah, it happens. You don't like Mike when he's angry guys. It's a Jekyll and Hyde scenario. Apart from that, did you get up to anything else fun or nice or interesting or different? You tried some of my recommendation. Yes. I still haven't had any hot crust buns for, I don't know, the last time I had a hot crust BUN, but how, I was, you rated them, I even remember the rating 6.5 out of 10. And I was like, oh, Mike's giving like a bit of a harsh rating on these. But I can't say I've eaten them any time recent, to be honest. So do you know what? They were really nice. So as a savory BUN, it's nice. But on the packaging, it says extra cheesy. They're definitely not extra cheesy. You get like a subtle hint of the cheese, but it's not like, like, oh, this is cheesy. I would liken it to a bit of a tame Jacob's cracker. Yeah, that sounds disappointing. You go into a mindset that it's going to be quite cheesy. So where were they from M&S? Yeah. Ah, surprising, right? Is your, you have a local M&S to you? No, no, I had to kind of walk a little bit further, kind of into town, but it's worth a walk. So, but no, it was some fruity ones as well. Yeah. Mike is a fruity guy, guys. And I learned that I'm not allowed to say this because apparently it has like connotations of like floating the other way. You must have known that to some degree. I didn't. Like fruity means like you're a bit like, if you're a fruity guy, surely you're not that out of the loop. It's one of those things. I thought, well, fruity, that, I thought it meant like you're more like a bit loopy, like you're a bit crazy. I thought it meant more that. It's like flamboyant, like a little bit like, yeah. I genuinely didn't know. So, yeah, I won't be, I'm awake. I won't be making that, yeah, little mistake again. I think it was on your story. I read it out and I was like, particularly the way you worded it on that story made it sound particularly. Oh no. Like you're interested in men. Yeah. It was when Nikias just said, I'll just be careful the way that you word this, Mike, because you could be getting a few invitations. I'm like, oh no, what have I done? Did you get any though? No. Oh, I know. How disappointing. Any other updates on your end? Anything else interesting happen over the weekend, the week you had a bit more time off. So, did you dive into more anime or anything or catch up on anything? Do you know what? Sorry, I've been really boring. No, basically. I, so we basically had the flip reverse. So I was working on Friday as normal and I think you kind of were traveling and then Monday I took off. So I kind of just spread the load of my stuff over the weekend a little bit. no, I just, Mike, what did I do? What did you do? So, specifics. So you didn't watch anime. You weren't working. You trained. Oh, you did. I was, so, okay. So Sunday, what did I do? I finished off the hole in the wall because I kind of, um, no, I did do the hole in the, I kind of filled in the hole in the wall on Sunday. I was setting up a new client. So I was kind of working as well on Sunday. And then I, what did I do? I had a hot, I had the hot cross buns. I went for a walk, came back, did a bit more of the hole stuff. And that day kind of went by really. That was it. I need to be on a fly on the wall to see what Mike gets up to. Cause I'm just like, I just imagine after you eat the hot cross buns in silence, you're just sat there eating them, just enjoying them. And then you sit there and like, just sit there and contemplate life for an hour. I do. I kind of do. I don't know. What are you doing with this time? I don't know. I need to like write down what I do like minute by minute, just to kind of. I've done that before actually. Have you? Yeah. For like a week, it was like a productivity thing where I'd have, it was like a tab. And I, every time I do a new task, I'd have to like stop and start a timer. And it like gave, basically gives you insights into how much you're fucking around on pointless tasks or whatever it is, you know, that could be happening a lot. Maybe. So not anime. I'm still on full mouth, full metal alchemist brotherhood, but it's getting to the good bits. Now where, where are we at? So, um, that father guy, he, um, basically tried to create this big, um, philosopher's stone and kill everybody in the town, but then they managed to like stop it and reverse it a little bit, I think. So it's kind of like that. But I'm going to have to rewatch full metal alchemist. It's one of those that there's some animes that really stick a little bit better than others, but I mean, a lot of animes are really long. Um, a question, Mike, are you an apprentice enjoyer? I used to be years ago when it first came out, but I haven't, as you might not be surprised, I probably haven't seen it in a long time. Yeah. I like the apprentice. Uh, I don't always find it interesting, but I did think it was like, like a lot of shows they go on for seasons and seasons and seasons. You're like, ah, you probably should have stopped it 10 seasons ago or whatever it is. Yeah. Uh, but I still enjoy it. I will still watch it. I don't know. I like Alan Sugar. I like the tasks and it's kind of quite fun, but this season has been really good. So that's what me and Charlotte have been watching. I think it's actually maybe, I think they've got like interviews, you know, they kind of like he fires someone or a couple of people every week and then they get to interviews eventually when it's like the final, final five, I think. So they've got that this week. Actually, that's today. Today it will be on. So we'll probably watch it tomorrow to be honest, because Charlotte will be probably home too late. Who are the, um, like Alan Sugar has like two assistants. Who are they? So it's Tim. And that was actually the person that won the first apprentice ever. Oh, okay. So they have Tim. And then why have I forgotten her name? Karen? Baroness Brady. Baroness Brady. Yeah. Yeah. Brady. Um, but her last name's Brady. And for some reason I'm blanky on the first name. Yeah. Anyway, she's a Baroness. Is she, does she have like blondish hair? No. No. Okay. Not the ones you're thinking of. Cause they may, well, I don't even know if they're alive. They were so old. No, when you were watching, I don't even know if they're still around. They probably are. I think. I remember the original, original OG apprentice with Donald Trump when he did, they did like the very first one in the U S I think that was before it came to the UK. Uh, I don't know if it was, was it? Was it actually American first? I thought, I think it was. I remember seeing it on, in the U S version with Donald Trump. And then I remember seeing it in the UK. But I can, annoyingly I enjoyed the U S once. He, I mean, actually it tells you it's not annoying. He's an entertainer. Yeah. Let's not get into politics, but he's an entertainer. And I think that's working in his favor in many ways. But yeah, let's not get down that rabbit hole. Yeah. Yeah. Actually on the note of finances, you'll never guess. Actually, I've given you a bit of a guess of what it might be. You'll never guess what I've just been doing. Like just before we got on live. Oh no. No, I gave you a clue. Cause I said it was finances. Uh, but we're in a new, uh, is it new tax year? Is that what it is? Yes. That's correct. I was just pushing all my money to my, like, what is it? My Lisa, my ISA, my SIP. So like private pension, just like, it feels, it's like quite large sums when you're putting them in initially. Like it's a lot of money, depending on obviously how much you have, but like 20 K is the limit for an ISA, for example. And I'm just like putting it in and just putting it in like, yeah, that looks like a good investment. I'll just put it in there and like, whatever it's, it looks like it's growing. Um, and like, I just leave it in hope and it's enough for when I eventually retire. Anyway. Well, something's better than nothing at least, hopefully. But on the note of the forearm, I forget what it's called now. Uh, but the, the forearm tool that I had last week, uh, I'm have built it into my day now because I cook oats. How many times a day am I cooking? Just twice. Yeah. Two times. Yeah. Two times a day. I'm using them in the microwave to cook croats. And on one of those, I use it. So whilst it's cooking one time, I am making my Ninja creamy for the like following day. And then the next time I'm like, okay, during this period of five and a half, whatever, five and a half minutes, I say, whatever. I know it's always five and a half. I'm doing the, the, the forearm tool. So they have like a general program they recommend of like 20 seconds on hard, 40 second rest, 20 seconds on repeat three times. So I'm going to do that. I think they, it says like do it three to four times a week or something, but I'm just going to do it basically every day. Cause I'm just, I might as well just see, see what it does. But it's nice having a pump. The first time I used it, I did much more than that. And I was like, I have a crazy pump. I like can't use my hands. So it's, it's a nice way to incorporate it into my day without it taking away from anything. Yeah. I assume you, it recovers really quickly as well. Yeah. I didn't notice in like, man, I just don't get sore Mike. It's just, but yeah, never. And I always use my Versa grips anyway. So even if grip was a bit tired, Versa grips just make, I've never had grip issues with Versa grips. So, and actually I forgot one of them for a upper body session this week. And I had to use some straps that were like in this, the bin, whatever the, whatever that bins are called. They're like, yeah. Lost property bin. Yeah. That's the one. And man, Versa grips is so much better than straps. I don't know why anyone would use straps when Versa grips exist. So, but yeah, no issues. Yeah. I'm, I am very tempted to get it, but it's, it's like 175 pounds, but even, but you've obviously got the discount code, which I think is 10%. But even then it would be like a hundred and it would still be in the hundreds. So it's like, ah, I will say it's probably a product you'll buy once and have for the rest of your life. I imagine, I can't imagine it. It's very high quality. Like it's heavy. It must weigh 500 grams at least. So like, it's a weighty thing. Uh, more than that, maybe, maybe more than, maybe a closer to a kilo actually. Uh, so it's quite hefty anyway. It's very good material. And yeah, anyway, I've only had it for a short period of time, but I don't imagine. I think it's like you buy once and you're set. Uh, it probably has a really good warranty on it. Uh, on the note of purchases, I don't, had I used my ink, spud ink belt, or we just spoke about it last time. I think you might've used it once, I think once or twice, but you'd only literally got it more or less then. So I know you've loaded it heavy, had I, I don't think I'd actually used it in the gym. So I got to do that this week, which I was excited for. And, uh, yeah, it removed all the issues. So it did exactly what I wanted to. So it's called for those that love a belt squat, but you always find the belt is a bit of a nuisance or limiting factor. I can highly recommend a spud ink pillow belt, but similar to the forearm tool, it will set you back a little bit, but it came really quick. Like I said, uh, so I was really pleased just, I don't know. It's always nice when you buy something and it comes within days versus like weeks. It's always like, Oh, I wanted this sooner, but so I'm excited to progress. It's the belt squat because that's the thing that feels the best on the knees quad compound wise. Do you still have room in terms of loading the belt squat machine? Is there still plenty of, I guess, room for you to add plates and stuff? Yeah. It's funny you say that because I did belt squat, uh, like RDLs today. And I, I do still have, like I'm doing over 300 kilos on those. So it's a lot of plates, but there's still probably room for another hundred. Okay. Total. So I still think I've got, and, uh, squat pattern. I'm not as strong on, so I'm doing like two 50 on the squats. Whereas yeah, the belts, the belt squats, the RDLs, I can do more load on, which makes sense. I think. It's, um, it's a shame because in the gym that I go to, they've got calibrated plates. So the 20 kilos, but they're like that thin. So it means you can actually put, you can put like a ton of plates on, but like in Yorkies, they just need some of those. So you could just fit in a few more plates. The issue I have is actually on the hip thrust. So I'm doing like over 300 kilograms on there and there is no room to add more weight. Uh, and actually, um, the owner came over to me and was like, you're using maybe too much weight on that machine. She was a bit like, she was like, be careful. Cause, uh, and then when you look up what the max nautilus glute drive, the load, that's the machine we have, the max load you can use on that. I think it says like 150 kilos, which is ridiculous. It's not much at all. Like a lot of people will be doing that. So anyway, um, I can find ways of making that harder. So, yeah, yeah, it's, it's a good problems to have as they say sometimes. Yeah. Yeah. And it's quite nice. Like I'm, I made a post about this not that long ago, but finally feeling like actually a strong individual. Like I'm, there are some machines I can, like I couldn't probably almost every machine put on the max load and do like a decent number of reps. Most machines, not all of them, which is quite a cool thing, situation to get into. And then. Oh, it's something set eight off. Um, Oh, the, so at 20 past four, Alexa will go off downstairs. We have one in the kitchen and it starts playing like, I don't know, chill music or some sort of music, uh, every day. Cause Charlotte set it up to do that because she was doing it for me somehow. Like just, just like a funny thing to do, but Ada, but now it used to come on quite quiet, but now it's coming on quite loud. So I think that's what setting Ada off. Cause it's like louder than when it came on quiet. It wasn't a problem, but now it's a bit louder. So actually it's really annoying because I can hear it quite a lot. It's sat here. Did you need to switch it off? Yeah. What I'm going to do is I'll mute myself for a moment and, uh, you can talk through some of your training. Well, I was also going to add, so a good segue onto what Steve was saying is I think a common problem in, not common problem, sorry, a question sometimes in bodybuilding is, do we need to chase strength? Do we need to kind of train for strength to almost increase the ceiling of our potential as a bodybuilder when actually it's not the case at all? So, um, you know, strength is always a by-product and just a natural outcome of just our natural progressions. So, whereas interestingly, if you're in the strength realm and you're say more of a powerlifter, hypertrophy in the longterm is going to give you a better potential for strength. And it was really, I really liked it. So I was listening to a little discussion slash podcast between Eric Helms and Ben Yanis and Eric Helms, just, I don't know why I'm saying Eric Helms, Eric, he was saying that, um, you know, uh, strength is essentially a performance, whereas hypertrophy is a physiological adaptation and it's just, they're just two distinct things. And I thought, yeah, that's right. And again, you know, when you, you know something, but you just, it's that little connection and that little kind of flick. So that was quite nice. Yeah. Yeah. It used to be people would view them as like, they help one another. I used to think of like, Hey, strength is the foundation. And then if you can make a muscle stronger, it can use more weight. And then if it can use more weight, that should lead to more mechanical tension and more growth. It's like, it sounds plausible and good on paper, but in fact, that's not how it works. Uh, but a bigger muscle can be made more skilled to be stronger, but a stronger muscle doesn't necessarily mean it's, going to be bigger than someone else's. It's really a skillset, which is why you get some power lifters who can be way lighter than us, but lift loads way more than we could, because they are just, obviously more than just skill goes into strength. Like there's a, your kind of leverages and everything like that. But yeah, I always just look at strength as a bonus of, of it. But having said all of that, there's a reason why the biggest natural bodybuilders are also very, very strong because we have to keep increasing reps or load to make sure that we're creating an overload to generate a response to grow, to create a stress response, to, to grow and adapt. So I think that's why people get confused because they're like, but you say strength isn't important, but all these guys are really strong. It's like, yes, but don't get it twisted. Don't set up your programming to get as strong as possible specific to like strength numbers, particularly like low reps, because that's going to lead to not the best muscle growth paradigm really. Yeah. And you kind of reminded me then, this is another really good reason why we shouldn't, or people shouldn't constantly change their technique all the time, because they're kind of constantly fine tuning, constantly trying to make their technique perfect. And it's like, oh, if you're constantly changing your technique, you're never giving yourself that time to progress and to get stronger in those lifts. So it's like, right, find your lift, just lock in the technique, find it, and then just lock it in and just focus on progression. Yeah. Yeah. It's a real tricky one. I don't know if it's just my feed and what I'm seeing, but this discussion surrounding log booking, not log booking, progressive overload, that sort of thing is just, I'm just seeing it all over the place now, which is just interesting, because I think it's probably like 10 years ago, it was talked about in regards to the fact that, hey, when you're able to add a rep or a small amount of load, that's a signal that you've grown. It's not the signal to grow. So, but that seems to have like come about a bit more recently. I don't know really why. And then similar, like the log book discussion, which I think is actually a really interesting discussion. Obviously we've talked about it multiple times on here as well. Yeah. So have you moved your money? Have you invested your money yet? Mike, have you put yourself, have you got, you got an ISA, right? And a private pension? I've got a LISA and ice. I've got all the ISAs, which is great. I just need to move it. I haven't moved it yet. So that's something also on my to-do list. I do, I need to, it's not something that I forget, but I just need to write it down and just be like, right, I'm sitting down and I'm doing it. Otherwise I just procrastinate. And as we know, I, time just goes for me. So yeah, I need to do it basically. And the saying goes, time in the market, not timing the market, not that you're trying to time it, but basically you want to put it in there. I'm always like, I want to put it in there as soon as possible, because that's where the better interest is. I've never heard that saying before, by the way. Hey, that's great. It applies to bodybuilding really well. It's like time doing the thing, not trying to find the special like silver ticket or whatever it is, magic bullet, silver bullet, that's going to kind of generate magic growth for you. So yeah, it's a nice saying. Did you just write it down or you were looking to? You love your quotes. That's what I do. I write it down. This is where my time goes. I just, I'm writing, I read quotes, write them down. Yeah. So it's funny because you talked about your notes and how like, you know, how many notes that you've got. You should see my notes with quotes on them. It's endless. But what happened? Like at least mine, I can search for them. Like they're in my Apple, whatever it is, my Apple notes, yours is fucking fluttered around all over the shop. I've got like quotes. I've got like most of my, you know, when you go into your pictures on your phone, mine aren't actually pictures. They're just pictures of quotes. Where do you get those, by the way? Is that from an email or? Just like various email newsletters. Okay. Google them. All of, all of those things. I tell you what, it is a great newsletter. If anybody's interested, James Clear's, uh, 321 newsletter. I thought I recognized some of them from James Clear. Yeah. Yeah. I love it. It's great. So, you know what? He gifted me his book, Atomic Habits, which is over there. I actually haven't read it. What? Steve. I mean, it's very common. People buy books and they never even read them. They just have the intention to, uh, but so, cause I've heard so much about Atomic Habits. I already feel like I almost know exactly what it's going to say. I do want to read it. I just, I don't like reading. So. So basically your reading books is like me buying curtains, essentially. Yeah. It's something that you're, you're going to do, but you haven't done it yet. I would say curtains are more of a functional. Yeah. I don't know. I don't put them in the same category somehow. Not reading a book that someone gave to you versus, uh, not letting sunlight in your house. I don't know. Maybe. It's, it's quite funny because, um, across the road, some new people have moved in and I, I think I can see they don't have curtains either. So I kind of feel half, a little bit better. How long have you been moved in for though, Mike? Nearly a year. Yeah. That's pretty bad. I would say. Yeah, it is bad, isn't it? They've also got blinds as well. So. Upstairs. Two are the same. Um, so then, so in your bedroom, can people see into your bedroom? Yeah, but it's upstairs. So technically you could, if someone was hovering at the same height as my, um, bedroom, but there's no houses like nearby. Okay. No one's overlooking that room. So if you were having fun in there doing something that people would be like, Oh my gosh, he's doing that in there. Yeah. No one would see. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. That makes it a little bit better. Yeah. Yeah. And, uh, yeah, the sunlight kind of, I've, like I said, I've got, um, what'd you call them? I've forgotten an eye mask. So if I did wake up when the sun comes up, it's like, I've got that. So it's not an issue at the moment. Clearly not a big enough deal for you. Um, any other updates? Anything interesting? I had a question for you, Steve. So the thing I wanted to ask, cause obviously you posted on your story, I think yesterday, some just, uh, physique updates. And I think if I didn't, if I didn't misread it, you would just, I think was it, you would kind of doubting yourself a little bit. And so you just took some progress photos. So yeah, be interested to know like what those doubts were. Yeah. I just, over the last cup, like month, my weight had jumped quite a bit. And so I'd been, I can't, I have the data somewhere on my phone, um, where it's been tracking, but I was seeing scale weight readings. I just hadn't seen before. And I was just like, Ooh, like that's, that's jumped up pretty quickly. Like I've been gaining really slowly. And then suddenly like a pound or two just jumped on. I had some like heavy wearings I'd never seen before. And like saying it to you now, it's like, well, that's kind of the goal. Like that's fine. But in the moment I was like, Ooh, that's a bit uncomfortable. Ooh. Like have I been being a bit too, like, I don't know, enjoying too much, too much food. And I was kind of feeling that way. And then I think I just took some photos under some like, not great flattering lighting. And I was like, Oh, I don't like how that looks at all. Like it just made me feel really a bit shit about some of it. So I was like, you know what? I'm going to go home, do it in my typical setup under my standardized lighting, standardized conditions, and just like actually get eyes on and see how I'm looking. And when I look back at that, I was like, okay, that kind of just took away all the concerns I had where I was like, that's the best I've looked at that way. No doubt about it. And I actually then took time. I wish I had this better organized. I'm like you with your post-it notes with my physique updates where I just like, I take screenshots. I like post them to Instagram, but then I don't, what I should do is share it to my desktop and then upload it to YouTube and then document it there. But it's like, it takes so much file size, like a memory. So anyway, I should do that, but I at least have it documented on Instagram because I do regular updates. So I compared back to being 15 pounds up from stage, this was September, 2025, I think September. Anyway, was it that? Yeah, I think it was anyway. I was 183 pounds at that point. So I'm three pounds up from that. And I just did some side by sides. And I was like, you know what? I don't look any softer than these. And I can see, I could suggest this slight improvements to some thickness in some areas. And I was like, just the fact that I don't look any softer in these is enough for me to be like, okay, like, I'm not going to say I've gained three pounds of muscle since then, but certainly if there was a pound there, there could certainly be at least a pound there. So that helped. So I do think as like a lesson to if people do have like self doubts and they're not sure and they're doubting themselves. Well, first of all, the easiest thing to do is just look at your process. Are you nailing the things you need to be nailing to cause muscle growth? And if you are doing that more than likely, you have improved, but then assessing. So actually look at some of your numbers, compare body weights, compare photos. If you're taking circumference measurements, compare those. And then that can give you just like the clear answer. So for me, the thing I know I'm hitting numbers in the gym that I haven't hit before, but as we talked about, like you can like, maybe it's some of its skill base. Maybe my technique is slightly changed. Like you can't always be like 100% certain that's down to muscle growth, although it's a good indication that it is, but then comparing like for like photos, it's hard to argue with that. And I kind of take a circumference measurement. This is my way of doing it without actually doing it is my belt. So basically if I'm still in the same, like I've been two holes away from the smallest hole for basically my entire offseason, once I was at like a healthy body weight and that hasn't shifted. So there was a point, actually, I remember, I can't remember whereabouts it was, but there was a point where I was almost thinking I was going to have to be three holes away. And that was like months and months ago, maybe six months ago. And then I don't know, my stomach settled and body fat moved in the right places, what have you. And I've just been at those two holes ever since. So that's at least a good indication that, Hey, I'm not gaining excessive amounts of fat around my waistline, which is where it often comes on. So yeah, that's kind of what happened. That's where I got in my head. And data bio is the thought that comes to mind. Like just continue to have self-belief and I'm back, got my head to set straight. I love it. Yeah. Believe it. Cause if you were to look back at say, well, three pounds from now to September last year, that's if you were to look at just that time span, like wouldn't you have thought like three pounds is normal? Like three pounds is kind of realistic in terms of a rate of gain. Oh, that was slow. Yeah. Yeah. It's just cause it had come on quickly in the last, like it hadn't really been going up. And then suddenly it just like shot up two pounds, but I've got enough experience with clients and myself to know that's sometimes how it happens. You just kind of get this growth spurt out of nowhere. And just my concern was, Oh, I have actually, cause that's been a short time. Was that just body fat that came on? Yeah. And it's, and it's good again, that you've just got a couple of things that can just set your head straight. Cause I think that again, it's the tough thing when you're coaching yourself essentially in the improvement season is sometimes you will have those moments where your head fucks with you a little bit or the, you know, you see yourself in the mirror and it's not great. And you're kind of like, ah, you get that little, your mind starts to mess with you a little bit. And it's like, no, right. Some standardized outcomes, some standardized markers. No, we're on track. We're good. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm really, it's making me more and more convinced the importance of having just like a standardized, uh, way of taking your photos. Because I've only just, I've only had that since moving here where it's been properly standardized because, and even actually I have some from the last time I was at this body weight, which is so interesting. I hadn't really thought about it till I was looking back at previous data. I was trying to see when was I last at 186 pounds. The last time was there, I was there was in my last offseason and that was after a mini cut. So I actually have hung out this offseason, like five pounds lighter than I typically would. And I hadn't really caught, like, I hadn't really recognized that until I looked at the data. I was like, Oh, interesting. I actually, I'm now at the like lower band of where I used to hang out. I used to hang out like 185 to 195. So that was interesting. Um, but yeah, I compared back, like I, I have a post that I'm probably going to share. I compared back, which was, I think it's been 17 months, but obviously a huge part of that was comp prep. So like a year out of that was comp prep, but comparing, the last time I was at this body weight to now, there's been some clear improvements. Um, but even my posing is better, which obviously is a great improvement, but that can even murky the waters a little bit, even if you're under the same conditions, if you're posing a little bit better, it just goes to show the power of posing. But, um, I think those were, especially in some areas like quite undeniable where there's been improvements, which is cool. Yeah, definitely. Without question. I, um, yeah, I was also just thinking just then of, in some ways it's kind of not surprising the, your digestive system has been feeling so good. If you have been hanging out lighter, it makes sense that digestion and appetite has been feeling as good as it has been, which is again, a positive. Yeah. I have no issues could still eat more. I finished meals. I, I never finished. I never feel stuffed. Like, so yeah, it's, it's where you want to be. Definitely. Would you also say that your proclivity to gain muscle is maybe slightly better for yourself than maybe, uh, hard to, hard to say, but for, yeah, for maybe someone else, I don't know. I was going to say average Joe, but that's hard to say. Do you know what I mean? As in my genetics for building muscle are better than average. Yeah. I think it's hard. It's really hard to know because it's, because people will say it this way, won't they? Where it's like, you'll know if you have good genetics within the first few years of lifting. And if you took me in my first few years of lifting, you would be like, you maybe have average to below average. Because I didn't really look like I lift. Like I look at some guys at the top. Um, and when they were like years into lifting, or even before they lifted, they looked like they had more muscle than I did after like five years. So it's tough. But then when I consider things like Mene Henselman's has his like, uh, like max, uh, muscle potential calculator. And a lot of the things that are used in that are like circumference measurements, this sort of thing. I do a big joints, which can indicate that you have a bigger, a bigger skeletal frame can hold more muscle. Basically similar to like foundations of a house, the bigger the foundations, the bigger that, that kind of house can be. I don't know how evidence-based some of that stuff is. I think there was something recently in the mass research review that came out. They kind of like questioned as like, bone total bone mass actually correlate with muscle gain potential. It's a bit tricky, but I come back to just the thought of, I know for symmetry purposes and like shape, I'm definitely not like genetically blessed in that department. So then when I think about the fact that I've been able to turn pro, can I argue that I don't have good genetics if I've been able to do that? I, I, I can't think, I'm sure there's many, many guys who have put in as much time and effort into the gym as I have, and haven't been able to take it to the point that I have. So I would tend to think that I have like above average muscle gain genetics. Yeah. I, but also on that note, I think some people might not pay attention to some of those other details because you mentioned about posing and, you know, even though it's the improvement season for the both of us, you're still fine tuning your posing. Like, I remember you sent me that story of you finding that better position for your delts, and it just makes your delts look rounder. And it's those little one percenters that might then add on to the pro card. And that might be the difference between someone who, you know, maybe you've got two people who gain muscle at similar rates, but if though that other person is making those other one percenters, that potentially leads to the pro card. Yeah. I think about, I'd be interested to see when I diet down next, if I hit a front double, like straight on, like, like you can, how does that look? Because I think without that tweak to my front double, it could be so detrimental when I hit it standard that I wouldn't be able to, like, it might turn the judge's head, be like, Oh, that pose is just that weak or that off. I just, they're looking, their eyes are going elsewhere. So yeah, posing, you can't understate how, especially when you are fighting for that pro card or that win or placings, it can be the difference between winning and coming second or whatever. Yeah. Yeah. And personally, I think that a person's only going to make those one percenters if they're passionate about what they do. And I think, again, it's because we love what we do. We love posing. You know, we love doing these things. So we don't mind bending those that one percenters. Maybe. I don't love posing. I don't love posing. I like seeing myself in the poses. I don't love the act of posing. I find it a bit laborious, to be honest, but you love posing and that's why you're good for classic. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It'll be, yeah, it'll just be exciting in terms of, yeah, classic and all of that kind of stuff. Yeah. It'll be, yeah. I'm looking forward to it. This is my first year having some guys doing classic. So we've got, um, Edo on this coming out. Uh, Ali will have competed. Oh, so be great to see how he enjoys that whole thing. He's, um, doing his first, like, uh, carve up day today. And then obviously we have, he's competing on Saturday. So we have tomorrow. So assess some shots today, tomorrow, and kind of make a judgment call how we want to go about Friday. So that'll be cool. And then, uh, Edo, is competing, um, not in with the WNBF. His first show is not, it's like an NPC show. I think, uh, he's doing, he'll be competing the week after. So he's in the final parts and, uh, you do, this isn't his first contest prep either. And he, but he's doing classic this time round. Um, and he looks, he's very shapely and he really enjoys the posing and is very classic. In fact, in many ways, reminds me of you in terms of like his like structure and shape and like, he's hitting some classic, classic shots. So anyway, like we said last time, the season's kind of getting underway now, which is cool. Definitely. And, uh, yeah, WNBF first timers will be coming up very soon as well. So that'll be, that'll be cool. I need to put down my actual calendar. Cause I haven't yet. It's the 6th of June. It's a Saturday, I think. Okay. It's still a few months. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So a couple of months actually. Yeah. It's not far at all. Yeah. But it's always, it's always a great show. It's a great kind of venue. I think it's in Luton and it's like super big. Uh, so yeah, it's, it's going to be great. Yeah. It'll be good. Should we get some questions? If this is anything else, let's have quite a lot of questions this time around. Have we not that? We don't always get a good amount, number of questions, but there is quite a lot. And on that note, because I always forget to say this earlier in the podcast, if you do want to ask questions, the best place is in the broadcast group, which is linked in the description of this YouTube video or on Spotify. And it's my broadcast group on Instagram. And I just request questions over there. And it'd be great to have you in there. We've got almost a thousand people in there, which is really cool. I know we get regularly a thousand views on YouTube and then we get similar, I think, numbers over on Spotify. So there's a good number of people listening. So I appreciate you guys, but yeah, let's get to, I'll ask you the first question if that's all right, Mike. I haven't read it, so I don't know if it's for you or not, but Mr. G Fern, you guys discuss your optimal day as a bodybuilder. How would you answer that for the busy professional non-compensator with physique goals? Okay. So again, really good question. If I was to maybe, maybe backtrack, my head went first to, well, we know for someone who's a busy professional and a non-competitor, you've just got to know that probably bodybuilding isn't going to be your number one priority. It might be that, you know, family or, again, your, your work that might come first ahead of those things. So if say, you know, an emergency came up and whatever, it's like, right, okay, we've got to put that on the back burner. But with that aside, I think you've also got to know yourself a little bit in terms of what's your work schedule? When do you prefer to train, you know, in the day? What I'm getting to is, do you train in the morning versus the evening? Uh, I know for myself that I just function a little bit better in the morning. So I'd always, if I say had my work from, let's just say nine to five or nine to seven or whatever, um, I'd always prefer to train in the morning if I could. So if I was Mr. G Fern, I would probably write, right. However, whatever my frequency is, I'm going to try to get my workouts done in the morning. That way I can then do my work, do my family abilities, and then go, go from there. Um, and then I think a big part of that would be, so how would you, an optimal day. So then it might be, um, that again, you'd kind of go about your work, you'd go about your family. Do you, so I kind of, and I think the only other thing that I would add to this is that, um, you know, make sure that you've kind of prepared some meals so that you can, you've got that ready throughout the day. And I know I probably haven't answered this from a perspective of an optimal day, but I think it's just so individual dependent, to be honest with you. I think if, if, if your physique goals is a goal, but it's not your number one goal and you're not a competitor, it's just going to be a little bit lower down the ladder. So I think it's maybe a case of working around those other higher priorities. So sorry, that's been a bit rambly, but I don't know if that's triggered anything. Yeah. Your final comment there was the immediate thought that came to my mind was context is everything here. It's also understanding what optimal means. I think a lot of people think about optimal in terms of like the best possible result, regardless of anything else, but actually optimal is what's optimal is individual to the person and the situation that they're under. And I would say, uh, the thing that I think we invest into above what someone else might is probably time into the, like the amount of volume that we do in the gym. Uh, we can also maybe get a bit better recovery because we haven't got kids and dependents, like a busy professional father might. And so we can maybe have slightly better sleep again, that can lead to us being able to recover from more work, but obviously it's diminishing returns. And I think optimal and max muscle growth is, it sounds great like max muscle growth, but I think it's overrated because the, like the amount of extra work and time that you have to put into to invest, to get max is so much. And actually the kind of law of Pareto sort of applies here where you get almost like 80% of the results from 20% of your efforts. Obviously those specific percentages can't apply necessarily. I'd have to look into the research to know precisely, but just knowing there's massively diminishing returns and not stressing out about not being optimal as like someone who can't necessarily kind of copy our lifestyle and just know you're doing really, really well and you're getting great gains despite not being able to do like another like 25% more volume, for example, because you just don't have the time. So I think it's just kind of understanding that and that it's totally acceptable and being happy for the situation that you're in. And maybe actually it's better and it makes it mean that you can be sustainable because if you try to really push for the max, it wouldn't be sustainable for you. You'd end up dropping plates in terms of like other responsibilities. So I think the biggest difference for depends again, context is for a busy professional. It's like, do they get called into a meeting that means that they miss a meal or do they have to shuffle around their work schedule because of business and stuff like this? Whereas actually in my calendar, I have a two hour block that I wouldn't like people can't book in meetings. I will not work during that time. That is my time for the gym. And I treat it like a job for me. Whereas you might not be able to do that as someone who's like very, very business, busy with their business and a non-competitor. And then I think it's just being flexible with it then and just recognizing, Oh, I might not have the best session on this day because I had to go to a meeting here. And it's just recognizing and accepting that situation that you're in. And I think not stressing about it would just make it worse. Something else you mentioned, Mike, that I think is would really help in these situations is planning. So having meals available to eat. So you don't have to make them on, like you don't have to pick something up on the go and you don't have to make something at a time that you don't have time available. So where there is an opportunity to eat, you can always hit your macros. Because when I think about what's optimal for muscle growth is hitting nutritional numbers and being able to do as much volume as you can recover from. And so diet wise should be easy to be as optimal as what we are in that regard, I think. And then it's just your recovery is going to be maybe a little bit hampered. And then you have to be a bit more flexible with your training, use time-saving techniques in the gym, antagonistic supersets, this sort of thing. And then, I mean, you can, we do stuff that like you can cut a lot of fluff within like someone who's trying to grow maximally, like abductor, adductor work, direct glute work, like direct rear delt work. Like you can just start focusing on the things that really matter to you in that sense. And get very close to what might otherwise be optimal results. Hopefully that helped add to your already spoken segment. You blew it out of the water, basically. And I, you made me think of Rob actually, when you said about planning, because Rob, in some senses, Rob's slightly different in the sense that Rob's got very high aspirations of wanting to be a pro. So, but he is a busy father and he does, he is, he works shifts. And as everyone will know from listening to our prior episode, like he does a lot, but the one thing that he does extremely well is he plans, like he preps all his meals, he has his schedule, but I think that's what allows him to be as successful as he is. So, yeah, I think planning is that old saying, isn't it? It's like fail to plan, plan to fail. And on, on that, just as a tangent to it or a segment of it, we will periodize some of his training around life for that reason. So we'll specifically try and deload at a time that means he can prioritize those more important aspects versus buying his head against a wall, trying to get his training done, trying to do these life things where he's too busy. So it kind of just, when you, again, plan for that sort of thing, that can help a lot. Yeah. I've seen it where he's gone on, on a family holiday when he's been deloading and, and stuff like that. So absolutely. But shall we go to the next question? Yeah. So Aurora dot Matteson asks, my new gym doesn't have any good squat patterns beside a leg press. I have hip arthritis. So back squats are not possible. Is leg press enough? So his leg press enough for what? My, that would be my thought. Uh, is it enough for, um, it's presuming someone's using leg press mostly just for quad development. As we know from some of the research, you want to combine a squat pattern with a, um, I don't know what the pattern would be, but a quad isolation movement, like a leg extension or a, um, sissy squat pattern where you can more effectively train the rectus femoris. You will not max or get close to the max growth from just squat patterns for that. So certainly leg press plus a leg extension, sissy squat reverse Nordic. Then you're doing really, really well. And then is it enough to leg press or would I want more variation? I think for like quote unquote optimal, it would be having other variations. You can obviously vary the leg press a lot within itself as a movement. You can do different stances, uh, to bias different tissues slightly. You can vary rep range. You can vary tempo. You can do single leg leg press. So there's a lot that you can already get done to vary things within the leg press itself. But then I would say lunge patterns are a go for you. So like a dumbbell Bulgarian split squat as a like go-to for me would be a really good one to use. Um, so yeah, that's where my thoughts go. I don't know if you've got any other comments surrounding the arthritis and back squats. Yeah. Cause, um, yeah, Aurora mentioned about hip arthritis. So if our main concern is more towards quad development, then making obviously a movement knee biased is going to take pressure off of the hip. So, so again, like you mentioned about Bulgarian split squats, making that very knee dominant, making leg presses very knee dominant, minimizing that movement coming from the hip. So you're not aggravating any arthritis at all. Um, you mentioned about the leg extension. That would be completely fine. Um, it should totally offload the hip. So that wouldn't be a problem. And then, then, yeah, you know, and if you're worried about maybe glute development because of you're not having a squat pattern, you wanted that. I don't know. Some of those, that indirect work from a, just a general compound movement, it just might have to be a bit more isolating. So it might be that you use your, uh, lunge and leg press for your quad dominant, um, development, but then you look more towards your hip thrusts, hip abduction movements to isolate the hip, hip musculature a little bit, and you just break it down a little bit like that. Beautiful. Mike, Barnaby V has asked us, 10, I should say, what foods do you need to be extra vigilant of, not overindulging? And he said, except for pizza, Steve. And I will say, pizza's really easy because it's just one pizza. So you can't overindulge really. As long as you pick a pizza that you're going to intend to eat the whole pizza off. I don't know about you, Steve, but I sometimes struggle with questions like this because I kind of just don't overindulge. You know, I plan for what I'm going to have and then I have it and I just don't have anything different. So it's not like I have, uh, you know, I don't know. So for me, I love cereal, you know, I love cereal. Uh, I love chocolate. Um, but, I plan for what I'm going to have and then I have it and then I'm done. And I don't know. It's just a non-issue for me. So I just, and I know very other people are different, but yeah, I just struggle with this question a little bit. So I don't really have any foods to be honest with you. Yeah. I'm trying to make this helpful or give an actual answer because I'm the same as you. I don't struggle to, I don't struggle with not overindulging. It's not a struggle for me. I, Steve does not overindulge. Like, it's just, it's part of my makeup. Like I could, and I can like, I can see why people would want to, but my why for not is strong enough that it's not a struggle for me to be like that. It's fine. Don't need it. Uh, I will say I sometimes struggle to not overindulge on caffeine. So I do regularly get tempted to have, I have two servings of caffeine a day. I get regularly tempted to have another serving. So, uh, I've been good though. I haven't indulged, but there have been times of which I've had like my coffee in the morning, a monster. And then I'm like, I just really want something else. And I'll have another monster. And then I always regret it because it hurts my sleep. And then, yeah, you know, the story. So I do struggle on that. And then I did struggle also for a time in comp prep. I think it was the, my 2017 prep. I had a lot of chewing gum. So I'd end up eating a whole packet of gum a day. I struggled not to, cause it was like, what are the downsides? Like there's not clear, obvious downsides to some of these things. Like there is obviously a downside to having too many calories. Uh, but I just didn't enjoy doing that. So I just removed, I don't have chewing gum anymore. Just don't, don't include him. And if I do, it's very sparingly and like, it's a one-off so I can manage that a bit better. So yeah, I guess, I don't know if there's anything like that that comes to mind for you. Mike. Yeah. You've really helped me there actually. So similar to you, caffeine's another one. Like I could just monsters and coffee, like that could be easy, but something else actually more specific to me is I could quite easily have, or just live off of protein bars and protein oats. Like, and it'd be very easy for all my meals just to consist of that. But I just need, I need to make a conscious effort to go, no, come on. We're going to have, you know, some proper, like not, proper, but you know, like more of a whole foods protein source and just make sure that I'm more diligent with that. Otherwise it would be just protein bars and protein powder. I, you say it's specific to you, but I also have that tendency where like, I'll, I remember there were times of which in prep I'd have a refeed day and I'd make like every meal protein oats basically. So yeah, they get exacerbated under those conditions, but two is enough for me. That's, that's, that's enough. Nice. There we go. Next question. So great. So my man, Aaron, who is competing this year, he asks, how do you manage post-show nutrition when there are other shows after that? After the first one? Yeah. So it's very individual. I would say, I would say the easy answer is back to plan, back to numbers. There's no issue there. And if you don't, because obviously show days are a bit funny. You don't know if you're like how long you're going to be until you're on stage, you might eat more or eat less, but typically show days are not a ton of food before going on stage because you should already be loaded. Hopefully, unless you're a bit flat in the morning and you're on later in the day, then you might eat quite a bit, but assuming you're kind of full, then show day is normally quite a low day. And then if numbers, you could give numbers for like an evening dinner, for example, or just be like, Hey, just have your typical, like a typical meal you'd have of an evening. So sometimes I would just like go home and have like protein oats, basically. What Cliff did with me was he was just like, go out and have like a responsible meal, which I think for someone like me is enough direction for me to not go off track. And I could give that to like Rob, for example, or even yourself, Mike, and you'd be like, yeah, got it. Like I can just have like a burger and fries and that's it. And I won't over go myself, like overdo it. Whereas some people that would throw them through a loop and they'd be off track. I also would say it's somewhat dependent on when those next shows are. Like if they're not for weeks and you're already in a really good spot, then that sort of advice is fine. But if they are like the next week, then I'm like, that's a plan. We can't like have any fucking up here. And actually we just need things to be consistent. Or if you're a bit behind schedule, again, a bit more seriousness to being very, very diligent there. So that's how I would like tend to think about it. On the most flexible side, it's like go out and have a responsible meal. Like don't go overboard, just have like a main that you're going to go and enjoy. And that can look a bit different depending on the person. If they're like calorie intake is less, lower, like their maintenance basically is lower. Then it might be like, go out and have like a steak and veg meal with family. Or if they're on a higher expenditure side, like a lot of like larger males, like, okay, you can go out and have like a Neapolitan, like pizza without all the toppings. Or you can go out and have a burger and fries, more like a thousand calories, say just like a reasonable thing. But the closer those shows and the further behind you are, the more just back to typical macros you want to be, I would say. And then the other extra layer is that person's level of experience and trust you have in them as a coach and trust they have in themselves as a client to adhere and not go overboard. And it set them off track by having something maybe more palatable or something slightly off, off plan. I think that's everything, but you might have some bit of cover. You cover that. Well, I actually, Aaron asked this to me in our check-in. So I kind of already answered it to him. What are you guys doing? So he's, so he's got two shows. So Aaron's got the WNBF first timers, and then he, we've got a week break. And then there's the PCA first timers, I think in Derby, like natural first timers on the 28th of June. So my, our plan is essentially kind of, it depends how he is looking on at the WNBF first timers, because I said there could be a really realistic chance that we are great condition. And actually we don't need to dig any deeper. Your conditioning is sufficient. And maybe we just look to hold you at maintenance. And in that perma peak state up until the 28th, it's not, not, it's again, two weeks probably. So that could be a really realistic option for you. And in some respects, ideal, because it would mean that one, Aaron can fail, feel a little bit more recovered, but then also it eliminates some of the complications in terms of peak week and stuff, because you don't really need to do anything. So that might be kind of, I guess, plan A, so to speak, but then plan B would be, okay, we haven't quite nailed the conditioning. Maybe, maybe there is just something we can just get a little bit more out of. If Aaron feels that he's got the headspace and the willingness to do that, then it might be just that we have a little one week where we kind of dig a little bit and then go into the peak week after that. Yeah. Nice. Yeah. I could see, I haven't seen him fully, but I've seen some glimpses of his physique and he's looking pretty dialed in terms of condition. So yeah, in my head, I'm like, I could see you guys doing a linear load into that first show and then basically holding that. And like, maybe it'd be small bits up or down through like quite frequent monitoring of the physique. He'd be in a great spot and yeah, it should be a good look for him. I'm excited. Yeah. Yeah. That's pretty much what I've got planned, Steve. Nice. Nice. Good. Great minds. Shall I ask you the next one then? Yeah. Go for it. Lloyd Grossman 41. Can you get, oh, sorry. It might be for me. Can you get Eric Helms on more frequently than monthly would be good. Perhaps fortnightly. I appreciate he's busy, but his episodes are great. Lloyd, I'm also busy. Although I do a weekly episode, right? Um, I think that would be a little bit too heavy on the Helms. Personally. It's, uh, the revive stronger podcast. It isn't the Eric Helms podcast. After all, he's already, uh, gained 25% of the episodes this year, probably so long as all things go planned. So no, I don't plan that unfortunately. Um, but there's a lot of Eric Helms podcasts out there, so you can enjoy him elsewhere as well. And also part of the master research review. So he does a monthly kind of, you can hear him talking through his part on there too. Shall I see you the next one, Mike? Go on, go for it. Val Delamura, some hip thrust cues. Any cues you use hip thrust, Mike? Ah, okay. Yeah. So a couple of things. Sounds a bit weird, but have your weight forwards slightly. Cause I think sometimes depending on the hip thrust machine, sometimes you can feel like your, your weight's back a little bit, but actually just having your weight forwards a tiny, a little bit. Sounds really strange, but just kind of try it. Just try like kind of almost positioning your weight forwards a little bit over your feet. Maybe that might work. Maybe it doesn't. The other thing that this is more of a personal thing for me. I, um, I actually feel a better connection and stimulus in my glutes. If I posterially tilt my pelvis a little bit more, and I have to just consciously do that to kind of feel it in my glutes. Otherwise I can just really use my back to extend up. So for me personally, just having that little cue of, right, just tuck under a little bit. And then what I'll do is I'll think squeeze and drive through my heels. And that's kind of basically things that I cue myself and I'd maybe kind of offer to Val here. Cool. Yeah. I think it does depend on if you're doing like, it depends on the machine or if you're doing like a barbell, some of these things. Um, so I have some other ones that I think most of mine are a bit more like generalized. So I like to cue more hinging. So think about an RDL. So hinging versus, uh, something I did try was to like, uh, what's it called? Uh, more just like, Oh, um, twerking almost. Yeah. I think is what the term for it is. But I think scooping is okay. But I think a lot of people ended up feeling that in their lower back and they end up using their lower back a lot. So I like just thinking about a hinge. So like just opening and closing, uh, the, the, the hips essentially, I think that could work well, like almost thinking RDLing down to the ground and then thrusting up. And then I like to cue like strong drive from the bottom, almost to then use a bit of momentum to help you get short. Cause it is a harder in the short position. So I like that to be like aggressive on the concentric from the bottom and then similar to you, but I don't cue and it might depend on the machine you're using. I like to cue through my whole foot versus just my heel. I tend to find full foot pressure for me, uh, just works better for that lift. But, um, again, I think that could depend on the foot plate because I've used different hip thrust machines. Maybe I've used like three different ones at this point. They're quite different. Very. Yeah. The, um, the hip thrust in my gym is very different to the one in Yorkies. Um, you always feel like you're just in a hole. And so it's, it feels much more vertical in a way. Whereas I feel like the one in Yorkies, I don't know, you just don't feel quite as deep down. Um, yeah, my, I think my, the hip thrust machine in the gym that I go to just feels very different to a lot of others that I've tried. Yeah. Interesting. There you go. Yeah. So Tristan's young asks on TRT like treatment. How do I handle losing my quote unquote natural identity and feeling like a fraud if I must use banned substances for medical use? Uh, yeah, that's a great question. It's hard. Because there's also, and I don't know if we've had this discussion on here, but I've had this discussion with someone around like the menopause for females and then them being on HRT. And then that being a banned substance, it's like they've lived their life as a natural athlete and they maybe even want to continue to compete, but for their health, they need to be on HRT. But with TRT and with HRT, there is currently no medical exemption available. And so it's recognizing that naturally is subjective to some degree. I think as far as me and Mike are concerned and as a competitor is concerned, it's whatever that federation determines as natural. But there will be people out there that will say creatine is not natural because it's a supplement. And then where do we draw the line between supplement and like performance enhancing drugs? Like what makes it like caffeine is a drug and it's performance enhancing, but that's not banned. So like it's basically whatever WADA defines as like natural and tested and then what the federation defines. So I think it's just recognizing that that's to some extent arbitrary. And ultimately, does it matter? Like if you're not competing and you don't need to go like shouting about the fact you're natural or what other people think, you know in yourself, like who you are and like your ethics and morals. And if you're just on this TRT like treatment for health reasons, then you just know you're doing it for your own good. And I think that's completely legitimate. I don't know if you have more than that, Mike. Yeah, very just kind of similar themes in a sense like there's obviously a really important reason why you needed to go on that treatment, which ultimately does come down to health and that has to come first. And you've just got to keep reminding yourself of that health. Health comes on, you know, ahead of competing and anything like that. And as you said, Steve, you know, whether or not you're on this kind of treatment has no reflection on you, your character, who you are as a person. So just really just try to lean into those as much as possible. And to be honest, to a large extent, remember, a lot of the joy comes from the process anyway. So just keep leaning into the process. Enjoy just the process of bodybuilding and being the best that you can be. And that's all that matters. Yeah. Yeah. I think mostly just that your self-worth should be from self and not determined by like what outside people are thinking and seeing. I think we often can put those thoughts and feelings that others, we assume they might think or feel a certain way and they maybe not even feel or think that way. Anyway, I'm rambling. I don't know what I'm trying to say. I'll ask you the next question, Mike. We have quite a lot to get through. So let's see if we can do these a bit speedier. Tudor Bin Dilla asks, do you find most bodybuilders deal with some mental health issue? I think everybody deals with mental health issues, to be honest with you, whether you're a bodybuilder or not. I think just that, you know, bodybuilding just probably brings that a little bit to the fore. Maybe a lot of us have had maybe some sort of self-esteem kind of issues, maybe some kind of history with maybe eating, whether we've been kind of like overweight or whether we've struggled to be skinny and put on muscle or whatever, or maybe we've had some disordered eating behaviors around food, something else. And I think everybody deals with those sorts of things. And again, there's like a saying which goes, you know, it's something like everyone's fighting a battle you know nothing about. And I think it goes for all of us. Yeah, I have nothing to add to that, Mike. Very well said. All right. So Raul.KDB17 asks, is it advisable to, as frequent as possible, do a post-workout nutrition to trigger mTOR easily on a growth phase? I think the, I think what he's asking is like, is it important to have your post-workout as soon as possible after your workout to maximize like the hypertrophic response? And this is outdated advice. There is a barn door, certainly not an anabolic window. So rushing to get in a post-workout meal is absolutely not important or post-workout protein to maximize results. So yeah, don't stress about it. And I can remember my times having my protein shake pre-made in my locker and downing that after my workouts when I was like 20 years old or even younger than that. And I'm glad that that isn't necessary. I remember that I had before, so after school, I'd have like a JD sports bag and I'd have my shake in my bag. I remember once I dropped the bag and the shake exploded on the floor. I was like, oh no, my post-workout shake. No. I got so messed up about it. So funny. Yeah, it is funny. Oh, but yeah, that nutrient timing for a time was like the thing. Actually, I've got a book on nutrient timing. Like it was a really heavily referenced book. No, I have read that one, Mike. It's just very old. I was hoping I could look over and see it and tell, say, the author's name, but I can't see it striking. Anyway, I'll get to the next question. Another one from Remy Sarka. When on holiday, I enjoy all the food and tend to gain four kilograms if I weigh three weeks. I'm not crazy fat or a competitor, but is it bad to do so? Is it bad? Yes and no, I would say. A bit of a maybe in this. Mainly because I'd say, I guess, because if you've got no, it comes back down to moderation and having some sort of, I think, element of control. Because if you've got no control whatsoever, I'm not sure if that's an entirely good thing. However, equally, if you know like, hey, I'm going to be going on holiday and I'm planning to gain X amount maybe, fine, you do you, I would say. I don't think it's necessary. So I think I'm erring more on the side of if I was coaching you, Remy, I would try to help teach you and get you to practice a bit more moderation because I think that's a slightly more healthier behavior pattern. But hey, if it's something that you love to do and you can manage it and in the grand scheme of the long term, hey, you do you. Yeah, I'm thinking along the same lines. It's very dependent and it makes me want to ask Remy questions. Like, why is that? Why does he feel the need to have all the food? And is that disordered at all or coming from something that is, quote unquote, bad or unhealthy? And then how does Remy feel coming home knowing that he's gained that much body fat? And does he feel resentful or guilty or just he's completely chill with that? And holiday, he just doesn't really track. He just eats and enjoys like some delicious, like calorie dense food that's available. And that's it. I'm like, oh, like that's not really an issue. It's only an issue if you aren't accepting of that and that it's driven through needless restriction at other times or what have you. So I think we're on the same page with that sort of thing. Yeah, absolutely. Okay. So your guy, William underscore Warner, he asks, do either of you have any other fitness related endeavors that you are interested in pursuing at some point outside of typical bodybuilding? At this current moment, no. In future, I'm sure that will change. I will say I have had some clients do Hirox. And I've spoken to when I did a like a supplement event with PhD, they had a Hirox like champion there. And I spoke to her about what it involves and everything. And I did think it sounded right up my street. So I'm not saying it's happening anytime soon, but I could see a Hirox in my future because it sounds just super fun. So, yeah, but imminently nothing. Bodybuilding is all and ever, I think. Yeah. Me neither, to be honest with you. Nothing on the cards anytime soon. But similarly, I think similar to yourself, just trying something like a Hirox or doing some running and just some other stuff maybe later down the line. But I'd never know when that is because I can see myself bodybuilding till the day I drop. So, you know, it's kind of like maybe, I don't know. Yeah. When I'm not as serious about it and wanting to maximize it, that's when I'd think about incorporating some other things. Hiking also comes to mind. Holidays and doing some amazing hikes would be pretty high up on my list, I think. Definitely. Yeah. That'd be awesome. Right. Fit as hell. My man Jake has asked for you both. Music preferences during workout. No music versus high energy beats per minute versus slow focus. Same playlist every workout. Go to hype song. What are you listening to, Mike? Is it a podcast? Are you listening to an audio book? No, I don't do that anymore. It is all kind of music at the moment. It kind of tends to vary a little bit. So it might be a little bit slower to begin with. But then when it gets to like some key lifts, it's definitely a little bit faster paced. But it does vary. But it will be on the more faster paced side of things. You know, you just can't sometimes when you just like, say if you've got, you know, a heavy hit pinch or, you know, heavy compound movement, just something like, you know, Papa Roach, Last Resort. You just can't beat that kind of stuff sometimes. But again, for me personally, it really just varies heavily. Sometimes it'll be. Do you know what? Sometimes I love Attack on Titan music. That fucking gets me amped sometimes when I hear that come on. So I'm buzzing. So yeah, it varies basically. Mine varies as well. It is all music. And I mostly listen to music throughout my entire workout. Sometimes it's just to drain out surroundings and keep me focused. But particularly for some big compound lifts, I'll tend to have like heavy drum and bass type music. And the beats tend to match the like tempo that I'm trying to lift. So if I'm like lifting a bit faster, a bit more aggressively, maybe higher rep, then it will be a bit of a faster beat. But if I'm trying to be a bit more slow and controlled, I will still... And I just found this naturally as I'm like trying to find the song. I'm like, that feels like the right song for this lift. And I'll just go with a song that seems to match a bit more. But I don't overthink it. I'm just trying to find the one that feels like it's going to give me that like ergogenic like aid, as it were. Yeah, I'm very similar. I very much just go with like, I'm vibing with this right now. It would just kind of pop on and it's like, right, I'm vibing with it. Let's go. Yeah, nice. All right. So Built After 50 Life asks, are you a fan of training abs for aesthetics? And if so, load or no load? Yes, I am. If someone has underdeveloped abs and they need them to be thicker. I think a lot of people actually think that they need to lose body fat, but they actually have underdeveloped abs because they want to see a six pack. So I do think it's a little bit underrated actually training like true spinal like flexion. And load or no load is completely dependent on if you need it. If you need to load it, then definitely use load. If you don't, then don't. And how do you know if you need it? You want to be proximal to failure and I wouldn't really go above typically 20 reps for most ab work. So if you need load for that, which you might on some things, you might not on others. And I will say generally my favorite ab movements are loaded and they are like if I like the machine I would like to have is the Nautilus ab crunch. It's unreal. So I've only been able to access that once at Le Coach in, is that in Oxford? No, Cambridge. No, Cambridge. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, cool. I'm curious about that now. I'd love to try it because typically ab machines are very hit and miss in terms of how good they are. So I have nothing different to kind of add to that other than I love my go-to ab movements at the moment are just a basic ab sit-up that I do in a Smith machine and then kind of a lying leg raise kind of with the bench slightly elevated. Those are my go-tos and they're both loaded at the moment. We've got Phil, your client has asked, oh, actually asked me, but also you. So Steve, how did you come to accept your hair loss versus starting hair loss interventions? Mike, how would you deal or respond with hair loss? So I never wanted to, I am typically just quite risk averse is the word to use. So like I've never smoked a cigarette, for example, as a lot of people would just do it just to try it and to say they have. I've never done any like drugs. Like I've just, apart from like caffeine, you know, it's just not part of my personality as it were. So I don't like using things like those hair loss interventions because there are some potential costs in regards to like maybe a slight drop in testosterone or even a drop in libido. And it was just like also another thing to have to do. And I just never wanted to invest into those, to be honest. It wasn't worth it to me. The costs were greater than the potential gain. I never even tried it. So I'm ignorant to that gain, which also helped me accept it, to be honest. So that was for me, just the interventions were never a go. I tried, my mom bought me like this. What was it like? Rosemary oil or something like that to put in my hair. And it did, unfortunately, fuck all. But it was like branded to help with hair. Like there's loads of different oils and things you can do. But the actual evidence-based ones are like true medications like finasteride and bidoxanil. They're the ones to use. And both of those can come with downsides. And I just didn't want to. So how about you, Mike? Have you even thought about it? Because you have shitloads of hair. I don't have a problem with hair. Yeah, it's thick like Bermuda grass. I feel like I wouldn't have much of a problem with it because I've shaved my head like buzz cut in the past. So I think to just go a tiny, tiny bit step further and go like, you know, lower than that, I don't feel would bother me too much. So I think I would just go and do it. But you touched on the best thing as well. If anyone is thinking like, should I, Shana, like hair loss treatments or like a hair transplant, shave your head, see how you feel with it. And if you're good with it, you've got your answer. If you're not good with it, you've got your answer, really. So, yeah, that's cool. Exactly. All right. So our guy, Jared underscore Blythe asks, Mike and Steve, for those looking to compete for the first time, what general advice can you give related to posing trunks, fit, style, etc? Good question. I actually want to consider getting some tailored ones in future. I don't know the process of that. I don't know who supplies that. But I absolutely think getting the right fitting pair of posing trunks makes a difference because I own four pairs, four or five different pairs. And my blue ones, the ones that I most often wear, I most often wear them for a reason because they suit my muscle bellies, insertions, my hip structure. Like they're the ones that make me look most pleasing on stage. They help enhance my physique. And you can find some that if you wear them, like I got some, actually, I got some that Dirk Emmerich has because I saw him wearing them. I was like, they look great on him. I tried them for myself and they don't look good on me at all. They just, for whatever reason, they harm my flow and the kind of how I look. So I will say some general advice is try a number of different ones out. And apart from that, I don't have much more than that. You kind of have to try, unfortunately, which is why I want to see if I send, I don't know how the tailoring process works. Like if they can see your physique and you can send them that and they can be like, oh, this would look good. Or you have to go somewhere and they actually have to like do it in person. I don't know. But I have heard of like professional IFBB pros, like getting them tailored. And I think that is a step I would be interested in taking. Yeah, absolutely. I think the only other thought that comes to my mind in addition to that is you might be limited a little bit by your class. So, for example, some federations might have specific requirements for classic posing trunks versus open bodybuilding, where it's more of kind of just a kind of super thin cut type thing. So that might limit you a little bit. But outside of that, it kind of just exactly what you said, Steve, where just try and do a little bit of research, maybe try a few pairs. I always think it's worth having black, like maybe getting a couple of colors. But just because, again, some federations, they like you must wear black. So I think having one black pair plus maybe, you know, one or two others, I think is a safe bet to have. Yeah, definitely good advice in regards to looking at the criteria, like the judging criteria, basically, and what they require from you, because that could count against you, potentially. And then maybe looking at, again, actually it's hard because you have to look at if you can find similar physiques to you and see what they're wearing, that can be helpful. Or see what people who are doing well are wearing, that can give you some insights. But ultimately, you have to see how they look on your own physique. So Christopher Alm, my guy, has asked, if you were given the choice to be as jacked as Mr. Olympia, Andrew Jacked. Oh, no, wait, it's not Andrew Jacked at the moment. It's Derek Lunsford. But we'll see if this year stays the same. Or stay as jacked as you are now, but with no more progress to be made. What would you pick? Oh. So, hmm. As jacked as Mr. Olympia, or stay as jacked as you are now, but with no progress to be made, what do you pick? I know where I'm going. Yeah, I kind of want to err on the side of Mr. Olympia, maybe. Interesting. I would stay as I am. Yeah. Yeah. I'm, yeah, I think I would probably stay as I am as well, to be honest with you. No, no, no. You're Mr. Olympia, Mike. Okay. Fine. Can I go for Chris Bumstead instead? Can I just talk for that, even though he's no longer Mr. Olympia? I'd go for classic Mr. Olympia, not the open Mr. Olympia. Yeah, if it was classic, that might change where I would go. Yeah. Why have I forgotten his name? The Dinosaur. Hmm? I'm trying to think of who won classic Mr. Olympia. His name's not coming to my head, but I know he's... Dino. Ramon. Yeah, yeah, Dino. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Huge forearms. Ridiculous. He does not need that forearm trainer, but you do. Use code REVIVE10. Next question. All right. So, underscore mangy machine asks, I think I know the answer, but are you still experimenting with training slash nutrition strategies personally on yourself? Every day, to some extent. Every day is a bit of an experiment to some extent. Like at the moment, when I think about my training, like training is forever an experiment, to be honest. Like how it's just how long you run in the experiment. How often does do things change? So, I guess I could say like that forearm trainer is a bit of an experiment I've got going on. I've never isolated my glutes to this extent. I've never done seated abduction. I've never done cable kickbacks before. I've never actually done the machine Mike hates the adduction, which I'm not doing like tons of work through it, but I'm doing some my reps on the seated adduction just to see what that does. I experimented with foot positioning not that long ago, which kind of fell on its face and caused me problems. But I experimented with that. So, training is constantly a bit of an experiment and learning. Nutrition, I guess, as an experiment, is this slower rate of gain and seeing what that brings. But in terms of pushing a slightly higher protein intake, like that is something that we're experimenting a little bit with, both of us. Outside of that, I'm not doing any like clever nutrient timing strategies or anything along those lines. Because I could say it's an experiment. I regularly, every day, basically eat a portion of spinach and beetroot to try and elevate my nitrate intake. But also, it's just great vegetables to have. But a lot of these things, it's like, I'm not going to know, like I'm not like trying to isolate a single variable and know if it's working. It's just like, I know there's data to suggest this works and so on and so forth. So anyway, that's my ramble to say yes. How about yourself, Mike? And kind of, again, very similar to yourself. There will always be things that I'm sort of looking at. But I think maybe the biggest thing that's pertinent to me at the moment, which we're kind of working with, is with regards to particularly my chest training, is I might have one week where I progress, one week where I kind of match performance a little bit. And then again, one week where I progress just as a means of keeping recovery the goal for me in terms of my shoulder and making sure that, you know, my, yeah, again, that I'm not necessarily aggravating anything, that I'm just allowing my shoulder to adapt to that stimulus. And something which I mentioned this week to you, Steve, is that I feel like as my shoulder is getting stronger with both pulling and pressing movements, my, the quality of the movement and the range of movement feels better. And so that I've kind of felt that recently my, my actual numbers in terms of performance has gone down a little bit, but the actual quality of the movement has improved. So it's almost like a subconscious, you know, technique progression, you might call it. So, which is really interesting. Um, so I don't know if you'd call that an experiment, but it's just this ongoing thing that I'm experiencing as I'm going through my kind of shoulder rehab recovery process. Yeah. And I would say the specialization of upper body is a bit of an experiment. We've never done that for you. Uh, so yeah, it's, it's like, that's why I kind of referred to it as like, we are an ongoing experiment kind of even keeping things the same is still a bit of an experiment. Um, I think sometimes people want extreme examples, like Dave McConey only trained one of his calves for like a year, something like that. I'm not doing anything outlandish, like a Dave McConey style. Um, nice. Last question then. We did it. Last question. Oh, sorry. Yeah. Well, we haven't done it yet. We've got one more. All right. Do you want me to ask it? Yeah. Uh, wait, did you just ask that one? I clearly you did. So lifting Lewis asked topic, uh, which is unfortunate because we're right at the end of the podcast. So, uh, Joe Jeffrey, he talks about peptides a lot, but recent research from mass, et cetera, show them overrated would be good to, would be good to put that to him. Um, yes, maybe I'm not super interested in doing podcasts on performance enhancing drugs, basically. Um, like specific episodes diving into, I'm just not interested. Like if peptides are banned as a natural athlete, I don't want to learn about them. None of my clients are using them and I'm not using them apart from obviously the GPL one agonists. I have had some clients use those. I am aware of that research. That's more of a general, uh, kind of peptide. I think a lot of the peptides that mass are suggesting are overrated on those they're referring to. I don't know if the other ones that I'm not interested in at all. So unfortunately the revised journal podcast is not the podcast for that. I don't think I have had Joe on, but I don't bring him on to talk about like in-depth drug chat. It just isn't something that interests me and it's not who I serve as an audience as far as I'm concerned. No, totally. And I was actually listening to, uh, a podcast episode from Lawrence Greave, General Muscle who, and he interviewed, uh, Ebony Rio, Ebony Rio, who's a very well-recognized physiotherapist on tendons. I would highly recommend it. And they, the, the sort of question about peptides for tendons, et cetera, came up and essentially Ebony said, there's just not enough research for it yet. And we just don't know if it's efficacious. So I know that's not with regards to muscle growth, but again, it's just, yeah, something that's, uh, need more research for. Yeah. Cool. We did it. Now I can say that or you can say that, or I can say that. And, uh, guys, thank you so much as always for your questions. They're fantastic. We really appreciate it. We appreciate hanging out with you for this hour and a half or so. And, uh, we look forward to your future questions. If you are interested in coaching at all, obviously, as I say, every week, we're online coaches. That's what we do. We want to help you with your goals, fat loss, muscle gain, looking better, feeling better, understanding things more. Uh, we want to help you through that process in the most optimal way for you and your goals. So if you are interested in that, you can get a consultation with one of us, if you apply, or you can get a video overview of your application, which is completely free and there's nothing to lose by doing so. If you are interested in learning a little bit about how the coaching process works and what we might do for you based off your kind of answers to that questionnaire, uh, that'll be linked in the description. Otherwise, if you're at this point, uh, you better be subscribed. You better have given us a nice little comment and a thumbs up and, uh, we'll catch you in the next episode. Thank you so much. See you later.