 naringint, sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn And I mean, the stances that I had, you know, seven, eight years ago when I first started are, there's a lot of similarities, but there's a lot of views that I had back then that are different from what I have now. And so I think part of the reason for my success and honestly, what's kept me like super passionate about doing what I do is just having an open mind, changing my views on things as I gain more experience and also as new research comes up. So I think it's just like refining your stance over time and just not being super attached to just one idea. Yeah, I think that's clear to why you've been as successful as you are and have continued to grow because I think being dogmatic, you serve a certain audience that are also dogmatic and they'll stick with you. But if you want to grow to the size you have and reach more people, they need to see someone who's keeping themselves up to date with the latest evidence and willing to change their mind because it can be tough too. I'm sure there's been times in which you've done things where you look back, you're like, now you're like, oh, like facepalm. By the time you were so invested in that one way of doing it. Yeah, for sure. And I think science is a great thing. There's a lot that we can learn from. But I think if you get too attached and in the weeds with the science and you forget about everything else, especially about the practical, how it actually applies and like the real world people in the gym, the average person in the gym who this advice is going to be going to, at least from my channel, you lose a lot of the good that comes from it. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. I've certainly been too far. Like, I don't know what the pill would be. There's so many pills nowadays. I don't know what the pill would be for science pilled. Let's just call it that one. I've definitely been that way, but I've also been the other way. And like you find yourself hopefully spack bang in the middle. And probably I imagine you're like me where I don't really like if someone was to think of this podcast as science based, especially nowadays. That's not a term I love. And I view you more as an evidence based individual where that takes into consideration like the bro stuff almost, the anecdote, your own personal experience and how things have gone. So I love that. What's been your, I actually don't know your individual kind of, I know we spoke off air and we both come from kind of skinny backgrounds as it were, kind of struggled to grow muscle. What got you interested in kind of the gym, lifting as far as in where you haven't competed before? Am I right? No, and that's why I view myself not as like, I wouldn't really call myself a bodybuilder. Like I, I obsess over the research and I just like to optimize my time in the gym, but I've never been like personally, like had ambitions to, to be a pro bodybuilder or step on stage or anything like that. Um, but I've always just been obsessed with, with both, with both fitness and science. And I think a lot of it just came from insecurity when I was younger. Like I was a really thin, um, kid growing up and had a hard time, you know, defending myself and, and I'd be bullied in high school and stuff like that. And, um, so that's initially what got me in the gym is I just wanted to pack on some more size and build some strength. And then from there, um, you know, I've always been athletic into fitness. And, uh, once I got into the gym, I was kind of hooked. I was just, you know, seeing these changes and I was like, okay, like this is fun. This, this progression is really exciting. And what got me into science is, uh, my mom's actually a doctor. She, she's a GP. And so Asian mom, I'm half Filipino. So she's Filipino. And, um, you know, every Asian mom was like, okay, you are destined to be a doctor, especially if, if, if she's a doctor. Right. And so my whole childhood, I was like, I'm going to be a doctor. And so that's what initially got me into science. And, um, I, uh, got into kinesiology in university and did all the pre-med requirements, planning to go to med school. And I think that's where like, I first stumbled across science and studies, uh, that had to do with fitness. You know what I mean? And back then, like science-based training wasn't even really a thing, but here I was like reading some of the earliest Schoenfeld studies where it was like, literally, you know, they tested different variables to see what's, what's optimal for both fitness and nutrition. I had no idea this literature even existed. And so as soon as I stumbled across that, I was just like hooked. You know what I mean? I needed more. And so I just started reading more and more. And I was like, okay, I am way more passionate about this than I am, you know, reading literature on medicine and the idea of just like going to be a doctor. So I, I, I was destined to like find a way that I could, you know, somehow do this. Um, and at the time I got my personal training certification and, um, I graduated with a kinesiology degree. And I just knew like, this is what I wanted to continue doing. I was testing some of the results of clients, seeing really good results. And that eventually led me to creating a YouTube channel, um, which is where I felt like, you know, I just had to share this information with the world. And as soon as I did, it started picking up really quickly. And that eventually grew to where I am today. So, um, my mom is, is proud of me. She's, she's proud of the decision. It was, it was, it was tough at first. She didn't understand it. Um, but now she does thankfully. And, you know, I'm technically, you know, still in a, in a similar field. So yeah, it worked out. I totally feel you on. Yeah. Kind of taking a bit of a leap of faith when I first kind of decided I graduated and then I got an office job and I then qualified as a personal trainer on the side as like, uh, I kind of love the gym and helping people in this sort of thing, but I don't know if that career is for me and my parents weren't fond of the idea of me becoming a personal trainer. Cause I don't know. You look at personal trainers, then not that many are successful, actually a large amount aren't. And then I moved online and online coaching a decade ago. It wasn't really a thing. Like there wasn't that many people doing it. 3dmj were. And I'm thankful for them to be able to kind of model what Revive Stronger has become off a lot of what they were doing. But yeah, my parents were not certain about that at all. Whereas now like kids coming up, like they could be an online coach. They put it in their bio or loads of people are YouTubers. So credit to you for taking a big leap of faith and probably doing it at a time where you also weren't certain, but you just had that underlying passion for kind of spreading great information and going through it yourself. Obviously you mentioned you haven't competed. I always think it's fine. In my eyes, if you do everything a bodybuilder does, you don't step on stage. I still, I refer you to as a bodybuilder. So you're a competitive bodybuilder if you take it to the stage, but you don't like that. That's like, it's fun, but also for a lot of people, not fun. So I totally get it. It's not the most optimal for kind of growing your muscles. But yeah, I mean, actually looking at your physique, you've developed a fantastic physique. Like I've seen your upper body. Like I'm like, I could get you in men's physique shape. You could step on stage and do very, very well. You've got some killer delts as well, my man. Thank you, man. I appreciate it. That means a lot coming from you, dude. That means a lot. You're starting to change my mind about stepping on stage. I'm a judge. So I do have an eye for this thing. And yeah, I've been doing it a long time. But yeah, and I guess that kind of segues quite nicely into our next subject, which is why I reached out to you to bring you on. And I was super chuffed that you said that you would come on. It's been a massive full circle moment for you. In many ways, I view that the same with my channel. I get to interview like an Eric Helms and the guys from 3DMJ. It's like, wow, that's crazy. These are guys I just looked up to. And you had a full on full circle moment where you were looking at the research, kind of getting your degree and everything. And now you've got to a point where you're able to run your own study. So I have a first critical question for you, Jeremy. Is stretching muscles under load really the key to growth? Or was this the muscle building myth everyone fell for? So I think this is a very tricky question to answer because I think what happened is that people misunderstood what the stretch means. When you say the stretch, like what are you referring to? Because in my head and what I found like through the study that we did is there's actually like three different definitions of the stretch, right? It can be, okay, are you actually lengthening the muscle more versus are you taking that muscle through, you know, full range of motion versus are you challenging the muscle more at a longer muscle length compared to a shorter muscle length? And so we had like studies that tested one variable, another study that tested another variable, another study that tested another variable, but people were lumping the results all together as like stretch. And so I would say in some ways the stretch is actually very beneficial, right? But in other ways, hinting at the results that we got from our study, it doesn't actually seem to matter much. So it depends on what exactly you mean when you're referring to the stretch. Yeah. No, I think that's so well said. I think it's like a lot of things within kind of the evidence-based space and science-based lifters, they run away with one study. You probably have had it actually where people have literally used your study to be like, hey, told you so. Stretch doesn't matter. And you're like, oh, God damn it. That's not really what it was about. So I guess you kind of covered this question potentially, but you might be able to expand on it. So what made you specifically want to run this study? I guess it was to kind of dive into that question deeper, right? Like specifically on the stretch versus kind of squeeze. Yeah. I mean, because like this was an area of research that like, it was pretty, it was pretty novel. Like some of the findings that we were getting, I remember first reading, you know, one of the early Mayo studies. Um, there was a triceps one, push downs versus overhead extensions. And then there was a hamstring one, seated leg curl versus lion leg curl. Um, and these were some pretty cool findings, you know, by simply, you know, modifying the exercise, using different exercise, they were getting like substantially more growth. And all of them seemed to point towards, hey, there's something about the stretch that is really powerful. Um, but then as I dug deeper, I found that, you know, there's, there's some holes here. It's like some studies, you know, they test the resistance profile where the tension is the hardest. Some studies are actually lengthening the muscle. Um, and also what about the type of muscle that is, is being tested? Some of them are biarticulate, right? The hamstrings, the calves, the long head of the triceps, those cross two joints. So those can actually be stretched a lot more than monoarticulate muscles. And so what I found is there's so many like different variables. And I kind of wanted to do just like a study that would try to attempt to answer one question in the best way possible, which is, okay, uh, you take, you take a muscle and you challenge it the most at the stretch position versus challenging the most in the squeeze position, right? So that, that's the question I wanted to answer. And so how do you design a study that controls all the other variables, right? And that's why we had to order, uh, custom machines from, from prime, which is where with just you're doing the same exercise. So for example, a pec fly, but just with a switch of a knob, you're making it harder in the stretch versus, uh, sorry, harder on the stretch versus harder in the squeeze. And so we did that with three different machines and then, okay, that controls for stability that controls for range of motion and the actual exercise that you're doing. And then next, okay, what's the best way that we can measure these muscles? Ultrasound is, is good, but it limits you to certain muscles and it doesn't really give you the full picture that you need to. And so that's where we're like, okay, I think we should just go for MRI. If we're going to do this, right, let's just go for, you know, the gold standard. And with MRI too, it enables you to measure muscles that, um, can typically be measured by ultrasound. So the pecs were one, uh, side delts, rear delts, and then also the glutes. So those are muscles where it's really iffy to use ultrasound, uh, for. And so with MRI that enabled us to do that. And that was a huge gap in the research because a lot of the studies that we were leaning on for, you know, the stretch, they were done on only like most of them are done on three different muscles, right? It's the calves, usually the biceps and the triceps and the quads too, but there was pretty much nothing on rear delts, um, and side delts and chest. And so this enabled us to answer, you know, quite a few different questions, but all centered around, okay, how do we build the best possible study just to answer this question, um, of stretch versus squeeze. I love how you outline that because yeah, a lot of people do lump the kind of research into one area. And you're so right that in a lot of the research, they're comparing completely different exercises, which could have like loads of different impacts on things. Uh, you also did a within subject study design, which is really cool because that controls for loads of things, whereas many aren't doing that. So there's definitely holes. And with your research, I think you actually named it where it's basically comparing the same exercise with the different resistance challenge. And we have the preacher curl study where they did like a cable 45 degree preacher curl versus like a dumbbell. And then they had the dumbbell lateral raise versus the cable lateral raise. So we had, we have a small but growing body of literature looking at resistance challenge. And I think it's important that you positioned it like that. Like, Hey, now we have three research studies looking in this specific area of like resistance challenge at different muscle lengths and not say, Hey, you can use this to kind of then paint the whole picture for stretch versus like short muscle lengths type of thing. So I think that was really cool. Was there anything from the study overview that you think is important for the listeners to know? So I mentioned the kind of within subject design, uh, kind of what was your rationale for kind of picking that? And then you also chose an untrained population is, was that on purpose that you did that? Yeah. So within subject design, this is relatively, uh, I mean, I wouldn't say it's new, but it's becoming a lot more common to do within a training studies. Just because if you think about like you have two different people, right. And let's say you test, you know, method one on one person, method, uh, two on the other person, they have totally different genetics. And, you know, you as a coach, I'm sure you've seen the power of genetics just with the different clients, uh, that you've trained. Right. So that is a huge variable. And then you have nutrition. You can try to control the nutrition as best as possible, but you're not with them 24 hours of the day. Um, they'll, you know, they may tell you what, what you want, what they want you to hear. Um, but it's very difficult to control somebody's, uh, nutrition 24 hours of the day. And so by having a within subjects design, you basically control for all of that. So you become your own control. Um, and what we did is, is one side of their body would do the stretch focus training and the other side would do the squeeze focus training. And so that means that we actually don't need like a crazy amount of subjects to get a really powerful study. Um, and the second thing we did is we, we did offer untrained subjects and a lot of people will, you know, view that as a, as a big flaw limitation of the study, which, you know, in some ways you could argue that it is, but a lot of people also don't understand that most of the research that we refer to when it comes to, you know, training and specifically the stretch, those are actually done on untrained populations. And they still see in, in studies where it actually matters, they still see a difference, right? So the whole argument that, Hey, untrained people will grow from anything. Um, it's not entirely true because we clearly see differences in, in studies where the variable actually matters. And the good thing about untrained subjects is that they grow very quickly. And so, um, if you take, you know, somebody through a protocol and you're testing differences that are so small, like we did, which is literally just changing the tension at the stretch versus squeeze. Um, it enables us to get a better chance that if, if this was, you know, a powerful effect that we'd be able to see it because these guys are growing so much. And the other thing is just like from a recruitment standpoint, um, it's, it's a lot easier too, because if you're taking somebody who's trained, you basically have to tell them to stop lifting and just do what, um, what exercises you want them to in the study. And like, imagine if I told you, Steve, like, Hey, you got all your training, you're just going to do what we're doing here. And in ways that actually complicates things too, because like, imagine you, you're doing a specific set amount of volume that, you know, works for you. So what's going to happen if you just throw that all off the table and just do, you know, I don't know, five sets of this, you know, squeeze pec deck thing is all your, all your chess training. What's going to happen? We don't know. Um, you're coming from a different volume landmark than somebody else. And so now you're talking about like washout periods and stuff like that. So it does get pretty complex. And in my opinion, I think the way to do it is like, let's test it on untrained first. And if there is a difference, you're probably going to be able to see it. And then you would test it on a trained population next. Um, but I will say, you know, it's still, I still think there is a possibility. You can argue that the differences could be different with a trained population compared to untrained. Um, if I'm somebody who, you know, I'm very trained and I've only ever focused on squeeze focus training. What would happen if I've switched to some more stretch focus training? Would my response, would my muscles respond differently because they're not used to that? I'm not sure. Um, so yeah, it's, it's, it's a strength, but also a limitation for sure. Extremely well said. Yeah. I think kind of being a bit of a blank slate is a blessing. And that's actually a question I had for you. I'm assuming the training they did, they didn't do any, they were on train. So I'm guessing they didn't have like a program for their legs or like for other muscles that they were training. Cause obviously there might be synergistic muscle impacts. I'm guessing they were doing no other lifting outside of this program that you had them on. Correct. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and just kind of basic boring stuff for those who are very interested. It was 10 weeks, uh, two times a week, four to five sets, eight to 12. Uh, repetitions. Like you said, reverse fly, chest fly, multi-hip lateral raise, all prime machines. And I think that's a good thing because not a huge learning effect. Like they're not challenging those machines. Yeah. Uh, and like the isolating muscle groups, every set taken to a momentary muscular failure and you standardize tempos, right? Because that's something that I find interesting because some people might think, Hey, if I like for the short condition, if I'm like driving out of the bottom where it's easy to help and drive momentum to the top, like that might change things, but you standardized kind of, so they weren't like in effect doing that. Right. Yes. Correct. Because like you can modify tempo so that what was supposed to be a stretch versus squeeze emphasis can easily become the opposite. So that was a super important thing that we had to standardize as well as failure points, uh, as well. So yeah, we, we tried to, you know, control, I think exercise execution is, it's, it's something that people overlook when it comes to the quality of, of a study. Right. Because like, I mean, you're, you're, you know, this all too well with your own training. It's like, you can perform an exercise, the same exercise on paper, but you perform it two different ways. It's going to lead to totally different outcomes. And I think a gap in a lot of research is like you take scientists who understand the science, but don't really understand the nuance of, of training and, and biomechanics and exercise execution. And so that's where, um, it can kind of muddy the results a little bit. And so that, that's one big takeaway that I've had from this study and, um, you know, a view that has kind of, that has changed from, you know, seven, eight years ago when I first started here is like, okay, like we really need to just like look at the, the findings and the way that the study was conducted. And I'm hoping that more researchers are just going to take actual videos of exercise execution that should be part of the publication process so that you can literally see how things were executed. Cause that's a huge, a huge missing piece. And, and is arguably, you know, one of the biggest variables that can affect the, the outcome. Um, and luckily I did have, you know, some good help with, with our study. Um, I know a lot, but also there's people out there who, who know a lot more than I do. Coach Kassim, uh, Kassim Hanson. So I brought him on board just to make sure that, Hey, this is what we're planning. Do you have any recommendations for, you know, tempo, range of motion? And I worked back and forth with him taking videos of the participants, sending it to him for, to feedback. Um, and so it was a really collaborative experience here. And I really wanted to make sure that we got the best of the best, not just in terms of the science and the study, but also the execution. So they were literally just like as little gaps as possible, um, in the study. Dude, I have nothing but respect for you in that regard. Cause I know I've interviewed Kassim enough times where he's been critical of certain research or he's, I mean, he's put it publicly on his Instagram where he's just like, Hey, you guys haven't taken into consideration this, this, this. And I can clearly see from the way he, he's put that out there that he wants to be involved more. So the fact you brought him in shows that you're kind of keeping up to date with these sort of individuals and know that again, coming back to kind of, uh, one of the things people don't realize about running such a YouTube channels, you have to stay super open-minded and humble. Like you said, you know a lot, but you also know that there's people out there that maybe know more on certain things. And yeah, I can't think of someone better than Kassim to like look through everything and be like, Hey, you need to do this, this, this. Cause that did he change anything from your initials? Like did, is there anything that springs out to mind? I think it's just like, I mean, one, one of the things was tempo. So that was something that I didn't think too deeply about at first. Um, and I mean, he was involved, like even right from the beginning, even just like with the design, right. He's also somebody who helped guide me in terms of, Hey, like, cause we were just brainstorming the design. I remember him and I were just like, I did one of his practicals and then we went to, uh, we went to dinner together and we were just discussing research and we're like, Hey, it would be really cool. A study that did this. And so we just brainstormed the design and he's kind of the one that helped guide me as like, Hey Jeremy, like, I think, I think if you're going to do this, like you just really need to isolate one variable. And so I took that and, you know, help and ultimately put that into action and came back and forth with him. But yeah, there was a, there was a bunch of like minor tweaks. I, it's hard for me to remember exactly. I think tempo was definitely one of them. Um, execution and range of motion. Like one of the exercises we had to put some pads, I think was a lateral raise just to make sure at the bottom we were getting enough of a stretch. So he helped out with some little things like that, but biomechanics and exercise execution. Yeah. He was a huge, huge, huge help there. Love that. Yeah. Uh, it's funny actually, cause we mentioned the other studies and I saw this note from the Larson paper, which looked at the dumbbell laterals versus the cable laterals. And they said that they tried to maintain similar lifting tempo, but they saw that the people lifting with the dumbbells were starting to use driver momentum. And it's like, ah, like that can start to just, it just muddies the water of the results a little bit. So it's so great that you guys kind of really took control of everything there. Yeah. With that all said, oh, sorry, go for it. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. Just, just on that point, it's kind of like, it's, it's tricky too, because it's like, you can, you can do a study that that's the purpose is, which is in my opinion, like the purpose of research, but like you can, you can isolate the variable as best as possible. But your example of like the dumbbell versus cables, like, I mean, you could argue that that's the way that people will naturally do dumbbell laterals. Even if you publish a study and it came to this finding and in order to get that finding, you had to control for this, this, this, and we're super, you know, meticulous about that. If you tell somebody to do a dumbbell laterals in the gym, they're probably going to do it the way that these people were doing it as well. You know what I mean? So it's a tricky thing. It's like that, that's where, again, going back to our discussion earlier, like you have to understand the science versus the practical and how those two, uh, how those two combine and the nuance that comes with a lot of finance and research. Very well said. Yeah. The ecologically valid is the term that comes to mind in terms of like, that's more real world. Like that's what people are going to do in the gym. So actually the great thing is that Larson clarified that if they kept it to themselves and it's like, oh, now we're not able to see everything. So just complete honesty with the results is fantastic. Yeah. So with that preamble out of the way, uh, what were the results, Jarry? Yeah. So we looked at, um, side delts. We looked at rear delts. We looked at pec and we looked at glutes. And so we took, we did MRI and we looked at, um, the top, middle, bottom of each muscle. And we also did a volume analysis on the glutes. And the findings were the same growth for every single muscle. There was no statistical difference. Um, there was not even trends. And these subjects, it's not like they didn't grow much. Like they grew on average about 20%, uh, bigger muscles, uh, which is really solid. And so, yeah, I mean, it wasn't, it wasn't what I was expecting, but it does make sense after I did the time of, you know, reviewing the research and thinking about, okay, what does the stretch actually mean? So it's not something that when I first started designing the study, I was expecting, but now after doing it, it makes, it makes complete sense. Yeah. I think going into it, just if you were to tell me before you did it, I think, yeah, more tension at length, surely more growth. That's going to be it. But it's like you said, when you consider the other two papers that also saw no difference, it's kind of, it is starting to, and it's quite nice that it's all showing kind of similar in that regard. Uh, did you, some people have, I saw, I was like looking through your comments and there seemed to be a number of people that were concerned about the cross educational strength transfer between limbs, like one side impacting the other side. Is that something you guys ahead of time considered or after just did that kind of put any doubts in your mind with the results? Yeah. I mean, that, that is a true thing, the crossover effect. And I mean, we've especially see that if, if one limb is like totally untrained and the other one is being trained, you do see a strong crossover effect. To me, the fact that it's not like one of their, uh, one side of their body was just not being trained at all. They were both being trained. So if there was a crossover effect, I'm not exactly sure like how that, that would work. You know what I mean? Um, and I think the effect overall would be minimal. And I think the strength of a within subjects design would far outweigh any possible interference that you would get from the crossover, but it is something to note for sure. Yeah. From having looked into it myself, it's as you said, kind of when one limb isn't being trained yet really helps maintain the muscle of that side that's not being trained. But when both are like the kind of transferred hypertrophy of one side to the other is far less. And it seems to be more strength neurological. That seems to be the biggest thing that dog, dog's having fun in the background. My wife's just got home. Uh, I might have the same thing in a minute. Hi guys, Steve here. Just wanted to take a moment of your time to remind you of our online coaching service at Revive Stronger. We pride ourselves on providing personalized service that will take your physique and knowledge to the next level. If you're interested, check the description and sign up. Yeah. One question I had, I don't know if you guys have thought of this. I'm obviously when the group that are doing the short, uh, kind of the squeeze, sorry, kind of challenge, they probably failed in that short position. So that puts into question, they could have done some length and partials. If they'd done those length and partials, do you have a hypothesis? Cause obviously they didn't, but do you think they could have seen even more growth? I actually think so. I think it aligns with, you know, the research that we have out there, which is like, at least on the calves, right? If you take a shortened bias exercise to failure, you still have the potential to squeeze out a bunch more partials. And when you do, at least for the calves, we do actually see greater growth. And to me, that's just a volume game, right? Um, it doesn't necessarily mean that that's, you know, the better, the better exercise or way of doing it. It just means that, Hey, um, this is a way that you can accumulate more volume. But to me, it's, it doesn't really say that like, Hey, you know, the stretches is better than the squeeze or, or vice versa. I think the impact that you get there is, you know, more volume and you get a little bit more growth. Um, it would be interesting for sure though. And I think the other thing to keep in mind with our study is that we compared, uh, what was novel about our study is a lot of the research out there that I guess supports the, the stretch, they typically look at partial range of motion at the length, at the length in position versus the shortened position. Right. And what we did is we didn't, we didn't do partial reps. We did full range of motion the whole time. And so even though the people, uh, even though one of the conditions was the squeeze focus, they were still doing that stretch part of the rep. It's just that the tension was very little, but there was still some tension. And so I think what, what, what this shows is that like, as long as you're doing a full range of motion and that there's some tension in that stretch position, um, that it doesn't seem to be, you know, less effective for growth than something that's, that's the opposite. I will say, however, that like, even, you know, despite our studies findings, I think that the stretch part of the exercise is still the most important for growth. Like if you're cutting that out, prior research has consistently shown that you're missing out on some growth. And that's why I think like, um, the actual practical application of, of the stretch, like it's, it's really dependent. And I think you can check off a lot of the boxes and get a lot of the benefit just by taking your muscles, uh, through a full range of motion, specifically often the bottom part of the rep, you know, you do a bench press, you don't start halfway, you go all the way to get the full stretch. As long as you're doing that and controlling, um, controlling the eccentric, like I think you get a lot of the benefits, uh, that comes from the stretch. Yeah. I think that's really well said, particularly kind of reminding people of the studies on the calves. The calves, they're probably the most kind of studied muscle at this point. And there was actually just a new paper. I saw, uh, Daniel Plotkin posted it and it looked at, uh, four sets of full ROM failure versus two sets beyond failure. And the two sets equated to the four. Cause like you said, it seems that those extra partial repetitions they're getting once they failed at full ROM and then they come to neutral. So they're coming, doing length and partials. And once they failed at length and partials, it's like almost doubling. It seems like it's doubling your volume or it's like getting you in half. So if they equated, you'd see the beyond failure guys getting even more growth. But again, it seems to just like all trickle itself down. It's quite nice that it seems to be going this way. Obviously we don't want to jump to conclusions, but it seems like volume we're finding is very important for growth, huh? Yeah, not for sure. And I will say that like calves are one of those, it seems to be a unique outlier in terms of, um, like I, I would be curious if we did calves with, with our experiment, what the findings would be because calves are the one muscle, at least so far that actually seems, uh, to respond really, really well to the stretch specifically. Uh, there's one study, I can't remember the authors on it, but I believe that they did, they compared, um, partials in the stretch position, not just against, uh, partials in the shortened position, but against a full range of motion. And, you know, given the findings of our study, you would expect that the partials in the stretch position would be similar to the growth in the full, uh, full range of motion condition. But the partials in the stretch condition for this study, that actually outperformed the full range of motion, which tells me that for the calves, they might be unique in the way that they respond to the stretch. And so that's why, you know, even though what we found with our study, it's not like, you know, again, it's still one study and it was done on specific muscles. So I don't think we're at the point yet where we can be like, okay, stretch versus squeeze is, you know, every single muscle is going to respond the same way. Cause I think calves may be one, uh, one example where it may not. And again, just being more careful with, with how exactly, um, you know, we interpret and apply these findings because I don't want to make the same mistake that, that a lot of people did, including myself in terms of interpreting, you know, studies that we have and just assuming this is going to be the same for every single muscle on the body and different exercises. Yeah. I think that's well said. Yeah. I know Kassim, I've, the terminology he's used is like lengthened exposures. So it's almost like, Hey, if you cut out the short position, the squeeze, you remove that fatigue that maybe it generates, maybe by doing the length and partial, you get more lengthened exposures. And so maybe that just is a bit more hypertrophic than going through the full ROM and then going through partials at the end. So the cool thing is it's giving us, again, it's giving the real take home of like, yeah, taking your muscle through a stretch is really important, but the modality, you don't have to obsess about like, Hey, perpendicular angles for your cable work all the time. And again, when you consider like real world, if you use some momentum to help you get some of those, or you go into length and partials or you use momentum to help you get into that short position, it starts to wash out some of these things a little bit, which I guess makes sense. And also if you just want to regulate your volume, assuming you're trying to maximize growth, you might get a little bit less fatigue through some of the full ROM training or through the less kind of lengthened bias training. So it kind of washes itself out potentially. But I think it's really interesting. And something I always like to remind the listeners of, and I'm sure you're the same, is like the broad generalized kind of principles. So I always think about, Hey, you tend to get more growth from a like loaded, stretched position. It doesn't have to be the most load there, but it wants to be loaded, more growth. We get a bit closer to failure. You seem to get a bit more growth, more volume. You seem to get a bit more growth. Like those are the broad principles where you don't want to go too specific into things like you kind of already touched on. And then I want to talk about, I don't know if you have anything more you want to touch on that study in particular, but you mentioned at the end of your video, another study, which sounds incredibly interesting. And so I would be remiss not to talk about that one. Yeah. So, um, yeah, I mean, getting my feet wet with this study, it kind of just like, um, it got me, it got me really curious about like, Hey, there's a ton of other stuff that I would love to test. Let's just like continue this. And so, uh, one area in particular is, is back training. There has been, that's probably the biggest gap in the literature because, um, the back is just such a hard muscle to, to measure. Like you, you can't do it with, with ultrasound. And I think maybe like one study has tried to do an MRI back, uh, hypertrophy study. Um, but aside from that, like it's, it's pretty, it's pretty empty because it's so difficult. And so, uh, what we're trying to do is, is the first, the first back study out there using MRI. And we're going to look at the lats specifically. Basically, we're going to compare a pull down versus a row and just see, uh, how the growth differs in the lats. Can we actually grow upper lats versus lower lats and how do the traps and other muscles also respond to that as well? Um, and we're also going to be able to do like a two for one, well actually like a three for one study because we're also doing an MRI of the elbow flexors. So the biceps and, uh, brachioradialis and the brachialis so that we can also attempt to answer, Hey, like how much do your biceps actually grow from back training? Because we have like indirect measures using ultrasound. But the thing with ultrasound is it can't really distinguish the different elbow flexors very well. So basically you can report, uh, elbow flexors, but you don't know if it's the biceps or the brachialis, potentially even the brachioradialis. So with the MRI, we can be like, okay, you know, you're doing rows. How much did the biceps grow? How much did the brachialis grow? How much did the brachioradialis grow? So that's really interesting to me at least. And then the third thing we're just going to throw in there for fun is, uh, shoulder press versus lateral raise. And, uh, I mean, I'm sure you've seen, you know, a lot of the debates online about like, okay, how good is shoulder press for growing your side delts? So that's basically what we're, we're attempting to answer. But what we're trying to do is just like, we're going to use MRI. We're going to use within subject to design. We're going to do all this work. So why don't we just attempt to answer like as many different questions as we can while making sure that the different, um, variables don't, don't interfere with each other, which is why we chose those specifically. So yeah, that, that's something I'm, I'm really excited about. We've just started designing it, um, put it in, uh, ethics approval and we're just, we should be able to, to start the official study probably in a month or so. That's super cool. With the, uh, specifically the lat pull down and the row, I'm guessing that's like a neutral grip, single arm kind of D handle pull down. And then similarly, like a single arm cable row, or are you using like a machine chest support to like stabilize them or. It'll be, it'll be cable. And then we're still figuring out the different support, but yeah, pretty much. Very cool. Yeah. It'll be interesting to see that. And I guess that also, obviously it's a different, it's great that we have those, that outline of different categories almost, because that's comparing a different exercise. And for the lats, they're going to be a longer muscle length or so. Lots of the lats can be a longer muscle length with the lat pull down versus the row. But it's like, well, how, how well does it grow the lats? That's another debated one, right? It's like, do you even need to worry about doing rows for lats at all? And similarly, it's debated if you can bias certain areas of the lat. So I think that that's a really, really interesting question. And then yeah, with the overhead press versus the lateral raise, will that be a kind of volume equated as well? Like you'll do three sets of laterals versus three sets of overhead press. Yeah, yeah. We're still figuring out the finer details, but it'll most likely be volume equated and using dumbbell as well. Yeah. Brilliant. I just wanted to make sure, just to swing back to your study, maybe it'll be good for the listeners, because I'm not sure if I did it well enough to give your, do you have like the main conclusions from that study that you wanted people to take away from it? Oh, the stretch versus squeeze? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I think the main conclusions that we have is as long as you're taking your exercise through a full range of motion, it doesn't seem to matter if the tension is hardest in the stretch or the squeeze, at least for the muscles that we measured. And at least for me, like that was kind of the breath of fresh air because it was like, I don't know about you, but I was kind of getting to the point where, you know, with all this stretch research, it was like, I would do normal dumbbell lateral raises. Um, you know, let's say I was traveling or whatever. That's all, that's all that I had access to. And I would feel like, oh, this isn't really doing much. You know what I mean? Like I wish I had cables and I could do behind, behind the body, set the pin to hip height, make it super hard at the bottom. Um, and same with even like, I mean, we didn't test biceps, but it was the same with like other muscle groups too. If I was doing normal bicep curls, I'd be like, ah, this is just a waste of time. I can't do, you know, my optimal stretch focused exercise. So to me, it just kind of opened up, you know, um, the possibilities of like, Hey, these are all, these can all be effective exercises. Right. And I think the biggest takeaway is, I mean, I'm a nerd, so I obsessed with, with the science and the intricacies and, um, answering these research questions. But I think for like most people, you can get really, really far with the basics. And the most important thing at the end of the day is some of the stuff that you talked about earlier, Steve, which is, you know, putting in the effort and just being consistent and just nailing your exercise execution. And I think the subjects in our study, they showed that really well. It didn't matter if they were doing the stretch focus exercise, the squeeze focus exercise, and they were just doing, you know, some, some, you know, a few, a few machines that we bought for, for the study. But look what happened. Their muscles literally grew 20% bigger, which is, which is amazing. And even by the end of the study, some of them were like, Holy crap, given the results of this, like, I'm actually going to continue, continue working out. So it kind of kickstarted the momentum, uh, for them. And so all this to say that, like, the basics can get you very far. And, and I think like, you know, some of the details, they do really matter. But if you're not nailing the foundation of just like training hard, training consistent and using good form, then you're really overlooking the stuff that is really going to move the needle. Yeah, really well said. And I don't know why I keep having this thought of you put prime out of business. I'm like, we don't need to, the equipment didn't do what we hoped. I feel bad because like they, they, they gifted the machines and they were awesome throughout the process. I think, I think the machines are very cool. I'm still going to be using them at my gym. And I think again, there's, there's, there could be benefits to, you know, lengthen versus shortened, um, bias exercises, especially if you're really used to training one way. Um, and I don't know what you, but like there was a period where I really focused on lengthen bias training and just really focused on the stretch. And for some muscle groups, like my biceps and even my delts, my actual attendants, like they weren't used to that and they couldn't handle it. So I was actually getting injured more often. So I had to balance it out with more shortened, uh, bias exercises. And I think some exercises, like even the behind the body cable ones that I mentioned earlier, that one just feels a lot better, uh, in terms of mind to muscle connection for me than the dumbbells ever did. So yeah, I think, I think there's, there's pros and cons to, to different approaches, but yeah, it's very dependent and, uh, situational based. Yeah. Very well said. Yeah. I think it's, uh, and I have access to some prime kit and it's really good kit. Uh, for that, but also, uh, I like you for a time was very much like, okay, I'm always just going to put it. Is it number three? I think it's like beginning bias. So I was like, I'm always just going to put it there, but I've played around more of the last like six months with maybe a little bit more biased elsewhere. And I'm like, Oh, that feel it's just a different novel sort of stimulus. It feels good. And again, like you said, if you're training proximal to failure, you're challenging yourself, you're like trying to progress things over time. Like the differences, if they're there, I'm going to be very minute. And at the moment, research isn't indicating that resistance challenge matters too much. And so like we need, we want to take muscles to a stretch, but obsessing about trying to make that as hard as physically possible might not always be best. And actually you made me think of an example for myself, uh, doing like some people might be like, Oh no, I have to do my Bayesian curl with the cable at hand height type of thing. I can't do my incline dumbbell curls, but, uh, Bayesian curls, when I was doing them at that position, I got so much instability through the shoulder. And I was just like, man, this feels all sorts of wrong. So I just had to lower the cable anyway. So some of these things you kind of, you end up working them out and yeah, again, you have to prioritize like joint health, connective tissue health, all those things. Cause you can put yourself into a poor position. So I think it's definitely useful for the listeners to not feel bad if they haven't got access also to a certain piece of like equipment or machine. I do that too, where I'll see people like with their amazing setups where I'm like, Oh man, that'd be so good if I had that. Surely they're growing on a better set per set basis than I am. Yeah. I mean, for people like you and me, it keeps things interesting too. You know what I mean? It's like just trying new things and different setups. Um, it's just that I don't want to send the wrong message, which is like, Hey, you need the super fancy thing. Otherwise your gains are just going to be super slow, which is honestly the mindset that even I had after just like getting too obsessed with the stretch research. Um, and I think, I think another big takeaway from, from our study is it's not that again, the stretch, it's not that the stretch doesn't matter. A full range of motion, especially the bottom part, super, super important. And I think the other, um, way that the stretch can really benefit you is perhaps with these biarticulate muscles, right? Cause if you look at the biceps and even the side delts, like how much can they actually be stretched beyond, uh, how much typical exercises stretch them? I'm not sure of the answer, but it doesn't seem to be too much when you compare it to biarticulate muscles like the, um, like the calves and like some of the muscles of the hamstrings, long head, the triceps. And that's, you know, probably not coincidentally where we see muscles get the biggest benefit from the stretch. Right. And so I think for those muscles, potentially you could grow a lot faster if you just make, uh, some simple exercise selection adjustments. Like make sure you're doing an overhead extension for the triceps, make sure, you know, at least at some point could even just be, you know, some point within the year of your training, you're doing seated leg curls. Um, same with calves, we see a big effect for standing calf raises and specifically the bottom there. So I think these are possibly like low hanging fruit for people. And again, where the stretch really does matter. And then aside from that, like we talked about earlier, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, you know, what happens when you reach failure for a back exercise or calves exercise, any shortened bias exercise, you have a lot more to give before you've actually reached true muscular failure. And so I think like, even if it's just maybe the last set of each of those exercises, you're doing partials, um, rather than just stopping once you reach failure in the short position. I know that for me, like doing that to my back training, it seems to have made a big, a big difference. Um, so I think those are the two areas where you can still get a lot of the benefit, unique benefits from, from the stretch. Yeah. Yeah. Very, very well said. Yeah. It doesn't seem that range of motion. So long as you get to that stretch matters too, too much, especially if you go into some length and partials afterwards. And yeah, I've been doing length and partials for my back training for so, so long. Uh, trying to just be like, I'm staying ahead of the research. Finally, like it will come out to show that they're better. But, uh, I've also similarly, they're just been like, um, sometimes I'll go into full ROM into partials kind of almost doing what feels best. But that point on the biarticulate muscles completely agree. I thankfully abolished like seated calf raises a long time ago. Cause I was just like, Hey, like if I'm going to invest into one, I'll do the one that's stretching the chunk of the muscle, the soleus that seems to have more of an impressive look on a bodybuilding stage. And since throwing those in there more often and going to length and partials, my calves have certainly grown. I wish I actually took measurements cause they're the muscle that's probably benefit the absolute most from this research and from pushing them there. I tried some seated calf raises not long ago and it just, whenever I did them, Jeremy, they just always felt like, eh, I'm just not really getting anything much from them. So decided not to do those, but I don't have a seated leg curl. So I have to do lying leg curls and I'm just jacking up my Sertorius cause that seems to get to a longer muscle length when you're in a lying position. I'm in the exact same spot as you. I don't, I only have the lying leg curl and whenever I go to another gym, I always make it a point. Like, yeah, I gotta be the seated. And that's even the thing. I actually went to a gym there to see a leg curl and it was just awful. Like it was terrible. So even that, it's like, you don't need to stress about those small things, like try and get muscles to decent muscle lengths and it doesn't have to be the best piece of equipment. And there's so many variables at play for hypertrophy in and amongst this one that it's not kind of the be all and end all. For yourself, Jeremy, have you got any other projects on the go outside of this, these new exciting kind of research papers that you have going on? And do you have a timeline for those or it's, I don't actually know how long this one took you, like when you started everything going to when you got it published? Man, so this one took me like, I would say probably a year and a half from like ideation to actual like, and it's not even, it's not even published yet. We released a preprint. Well, that's going to be another little bit as well. So it's definitely longer than I expected. But I also, I also think people don't realize how much actual work and time is involved in studies. There's so much that, that I learned in terms of there's a process for ethics to make sure, you know, the way you designed it is, is actually ethical. You have to wait for their approval and then everything is just very slow. You know what I mean? Very slow moving. And hopefully what I can do being more involved in this is I can help, you know, improve some of the inefficiencies that, that I've seen and help just like push the research fields, fields forward. So it's definitely an area that I'm going to continue investing in. And one thing that we do, um, uh, my brand is called built with science and we have our fitness app, which is where we combine fitness and nutrition. So it's like, I don't know if you use notes or whatever to track your workouts. And then typically people would use my fitness pal or another tracker. We basically put both of those in one plus added some coaching. Um, and so what we do there is we take a percentage of the profits there and we put it towards funding studies, uh, like the ones that we've done because it's very expensive, especially when you're using MRI. So thankfully I'm in a position where, you know, I can build a product that I really believe in. Plus also use the funds, um, to fuel, you know, future research and put that new research back into the way that we designed the app. So it's a really powerful feedback loop and something that honestly, I'm just grateful I get to do. And I also just want to mention a big shout out to, uh, Brett Contreras as well. I'm not sure if you were aware, but he, um, he helped funds the first study we did. And he's also going to be part of the second study, uh, we're doing as well and funding that as well. He's somebody I really respect because, um, he is just, he's also a nerd, just like obsessed with the research and he's been in it for so long, but he's still just so obsessed. And he's somebody who I've grown to, to, um, know a lot better throughout the years. And one thing that I've always respected about him is he literally, he doesn't seem to have an ego. Like he's not attached to a specific outcome or result. And he's the one that, that despite all the incentives he had for like, um, having hip thrust be the best exercise, you know, in the world, he's the one that, I don't know if you remember he did the squat versus hip thrust study. He put his money there and he, you know, executed that study. And I was, uh, I know, you know, the publishers and the people that ran it and Brett was not like, there was no bias. He was not allowed to be, you know, even in the area when they did the sessions. And so for somebody, you know, to, to, to put their money down and, and, you know, not care about the actual result. And the result was, you know, squat and hip thrust were pretty similar for glute growth. Um, he's somebody to respect because, you know, you never know. Like some people, if they're super attached to a certain way of thinking or biased towards a result, it can be easy to, to tweak the numbers or whatever in your favor. And so, um, that's why I'm also very careful about like who I choose to, to have on these papers, because I just want people who are obsessed with the science and obsessed with curiosity and finding the truth, even that opposes, even if that opposes, um, whatever biases or, or view that they had prior to that. So very well said. Yeah. I really respect Brett for that reason. Like, I don't think he was, if you were to ask him, I don't think he was hoping for that outcome, but he accepts it and he takes it on board. And then, uh, I, you can see him being open-minded to the fact that, Hey, maybe hip thrusts aren't the, the be all and end all. And there are other things that we can be doing, but, uh, it also, it just allows it to shift his perspective. And I think that's exactly the way you described you at the start in terms of the thing that people don't necessarily understand with kind of science-based YouTube channels that you can't just have your own ways of doing things. You have to continue to update your beliefs. And the thing is, you're putting your money where your mouth is and investing into the science and the research, and then using that to support your products, which is fantastic. Uh, I think that's absolutely the right way to do it. So I have to thank you, Jeremy, for using your platform in such a kind of ethical and helpful way. Um, helping me become a more jacked human, helping me kind of also coach my clients here and also come on here to share it, uh, cause obviously, yeah, your platform's huge. Some tons of people have seen it, but, uh, hopefully we can reach some additional individuals listening to this and dug into some more nuance. And I can't wait to kind of see your new research published and we can dig into that and, uh, talk more or shop about everything. If people don't know where you're at, you mentioned your app and obviously your YouTube channel, we've mentioned you're over on Instagram as well. Uh, where should they head? Yeah, you can just search my name on YouTube and then, um, if you're interested in the app, you can just go to buildfluscience.com or just search it in the, in the app store. But YouTube is a platform I'm most active with, and that's where I post like a lot of the big projects that I'm doing. So that's probably the best, uh, place to go. But thank you, Steve. Yeah, I appreciate that. And it means a lot coming from you. I've been following you for quite some time and have massive respect for, for yourself, your attitude and what you've done for the community. So it's an honor to be on here. Seriously. Thank you so much. It means a lot coming from yourself as well. Uh, we can just blow smoke, continue to, uh, I try and bring in British banter, but I'm one of the worst banter that there is. I'm just like such a, I'm just like, no, I just want to be positive. Uh, I have to know someone really well to try and tear them down for some reason, but thank you so much. We'll get there. We'll get there. Yeah, we'll get there. There'll be a future podcast. Absolutely. And, uh, thank you guys for listening. Please show us your love and support on this episode and we'll catch you in the next one. I'll make sure all Jeremy's links are in the description. Take care.