 enjoy a lot. Exactly. In the words of if anyone has ever watched Blackadder, which is a famous English comedy, there is a character called Baldrick and he goes, I have a cunning plan, my lord. So I have a cunning plan. But anyway, with that ramble out the way. So like Steve said, we've got Rob and if any, if Steve, basically, if every male bodybuilder out there is envious of Steve for his biceps, every male bodybuilder out there is envious of Rob for his quads. This is, this is the branch warren of natural bodybuilding, basically. So if you guys are going to want to check him out. But we basically we wanted to bring Rob on the podcast because Rob has been, we've known Rob for, well, 2023. I think, I think around 2023, we kind of like first met each other because Rob competed in 2023 and he's also been competing there. And obviously, I'm spoiling Rob Thunder, but we, Rob's just a quite a special individual in all the right ways. And we wanted, we thought it'd be so nice to have someone different on the podcast for you guys to get to know, to also have, get an insight into the clients that we work with and just to get a different perspective as well. So we really hope you guys enjoy this and it's a nice change from just us talking about us, but with that out the way, and obviously Rob is a client of Steve's, hence why I'm going to be taking the lead a little bit with, with things, but to kind of get the ball rolling, Rob, I was rather than diving into the kind of talking about your background to begin with, I wanted to kind of just ask you, do you have, when it comes to food, do you have any weaknesses or in fact, actually, what's your favourite condiment to say, like, breakfast or to like a Saturday breakfast? That's the best way to start on that with food and bodybuilders. Yeah. Mike, thanks for the introduction. Do I get a special name? Mike, thanks for the introduction. So do you know what? It's so funny. You mentioned this because I'm all left out. Yeah. So there's Swole Steve, there's Magic Mike, but we were completely at a loss for like, what goes for the art. I like rambunctious Rob, but I just like the word rambunctious and it has an iteration. Rhino Rob. That's also like a bit of a rhino. I'll take over. I just want a name. I'll take over. The question, the question, Mike. So my favourite condiment with breakfast? Yes. As you said. It depends what I'm having. So every Sunday, I don't know if you've seen it on my stories, but every Sunday I've got a thing at the minute for having a BLT. I love having BLT Sunday morning. I get up, nice cup of coffee and a big BLT. So two big sandwiches, six bits of bacon. Obviously, at the minute, I can get away with it with the phase that I'm in. And with that, obviously, I'll just have mayo. But if I'm having a bacon sandwich, just normal bread, brown sauce. If I'm having eggs, red sauce. So I'm a pretty open book when it comes to condiments. Do you know what? Yeah, that would be my thing for breakfast, I think. I love how you call ketchup red sauce. Yeah, people always say that. Americans are the worst. Americans are like, what is red sauce? Do you know what's really interesting? So what would you typically have chips with? Like, would you have ketchup or would you have mayonnaise or what would you have? Ah, ketchup. It's got to be ketchup with chips. Yeah. In Europe? I do homemade burgers quite often, actually. Me and the girls. Because I try and, Steve knows this, I try and have my evening meals when I'm on early shifts. I try and prioritize that to have evening meals with Natalie and the girls. So I try and make the meals as, like, family-friendly as possible. So homemade burgers, chips, things like that, I can have. And if I'm having that, I always have ketchup with my chips. What about you, Mike? Is it the same? Ketchup? It is the same. I asked the question because, so my dad lives in Belgium and in Europe, on the continent, chips with mayonnaise is, like, is the thing. Like, they don't have it with ketchup. It's, like, mayonnaise is the one. So I'm like, oh, that's very different. Yeah. I have a quick question. Oh, I am red sauce all the way. I always find it funny when people, I don't know where, where is it? Somewhere in the country, people call it red sauce. I don't know. I don't know where that comes from, red and brown sauce. I do call brown sauce. It's like HP sauce is, like, what people refer to it as. Mike's more strange than that. Yeah, exactly. I mean, I grew up with red sauce. I guess, is ketchup, tomato ketchup? That's not branded. It's just Heinz. Anyway, I'm, yeah, I'm ketchup all over, basically. Mayo, I have a bit of a phobia with mayo. I had a bad incidence with mayonnaise when I was in Magaluf with the boys and, like, I don't know, when I was, like, 18 years old, one of them basically drowned me and it, like, just chucked loads of mayonnaise at me and I couldn't get it off. And I went in the shower, they chucked it all on me in the shower and I just have this, like, PTSD of mayonnaise. But it does go very well with some things. I just can't have a lot of it and know it's there, basically. I was going to ask Mike what condiments he even has in his house. Do you have ketchup? No. Oh, no. So, right. I don't have ketchup. I don't have the red sauce. But I have, they call it Kansas barbecue sauce. So it's like, I can't even think of the name, but basically barbecue sauce. But it's quite a smoky barbecue sauce and it's really good. I love barbecue sauce. See, now you're making me think. See, I could do barbecue sauce with chips. You'll get me going now, Mike, because I would say ketchup is standard, but barbecue sauce, I can do barbecue sauce with chips. Oh. I've really, Mike, I've got to come and visit you. I need to come up, stay at yours and we need to go for a gym session, don't we? 100%. I'll bring some ketchup with me. Bring the red sauce. Bring the condiments. Bring the red sauce. We'll have all the sauces. It's fine. We'll have a range of the sauce. We'll have a combo of sauces. It'll be great. But do you know what? So you mentioned about Natalie and the girls, and I think that kind of leads really nice onto something which I actually really admire a lot about you, Rob. And I think a lot of the listeners will be able to relate to you is that you've really got a lot of different aspects to you because you're not just a natural bodybuilder. Like, as you mentioned, you're a family man. What people don't know as well is that you work shifts. I think you work in a, and sorry if I'm getting this wrong, but you work in like a garage as well, which, you know, so, and, and not only that you work massively long shifts and have a family, but you're an online coach on the side as well. You work for physique, you're a coach at physique coaching. So, um, like you're spinning a lot of plates and, um, I, I would just be really fascinated to know, I guess, like at the moment, how, how do you balance that? I guess more than anything. I think the biggest thing is being prepared. And this is something that I always say to my clients and it's something Steve would say to all of his as well is when you've got a lot of things going on and it's funny enough, me and Steve spoke about it the other week where we was talking about training volume and how much you can recover from, et cetera. And we was talking about how different lifestyles that has the impact that has and how you different people have can recover different amounts because of what they've got going on. So I've got quite a lot going on. So we have to pull back quite a little, quite a lot. Um, as for managing it, I think it just, it does come down to just being prepared in advance down to having like your water prepared. So first thing in the morning, you've got the liter of water ready to go. I've got, you know, any vitamins, capsules, anything like that, that I'm taking in the morning is ready to go. The creatine's there. My coffee is in the machine ready for me to press the button. Everything is where it needs to be because I just haven't got the time to dilly dally or try and think of things on the spot. My food is all prepared and ready to go. That's a big one. And my days are just very, from the minute I get up until I go to bed, they're very like, it goes like that. It has to, everything has to form into place and click into place. Um, so for anyone in a similar position to me who is spinning a lot of wheels, that would be, if they are struggling, that would be the biggest thing I would say is looking at your, your time scales, um, through the day and really planning the day out. Um, even down to, you know, I know that I'm training at a certain time. So I know that I need to eat at a certain time at work, which takes into consideration my travel to and fro work to let the food digest, um, et cetera, et cetera. So I would say that's the biggest thing is being prepared, but yeah, working the shift works, doing the shifts has its like pluses and negatives. It means that I can move my, and this is another thing for, you know, anyone with families, et cetera, is making sure that you can try and prioritize the time with them and anything you can do to shift bodybuilding or anything like that outside of time that's going to impact them, move it. So I, for when I'm on a late shift, I start work at half past one in the afternoon. So I train in the mornings, which is perfect because Natalie's working and the girls are at school. So I would get up in the morning. I'll take my youngest one to school. The eldest is, she gets the train now. She's getting the train to school by herself. Um, and then, so I get up and I eat first thing in the morning, take rows to school, which lets that digest on my way back. I have a pre-workout. Then by the time I come in, I have about 20 minutes or whatever to let the food sell, et cetera. Then I'm straight in the gym, straight in the shower, straight to work. And, but the main thing is, is that time in the morning, it's not impacting my time with them. So I try to remove any training sessions from the weekends so that it doesn't impact my time. Um, and then when I'm on the opposite shift and early shift, I train in the afternoon. So I normally start training about four. That's probably the biggest impact it has on my time with them. Cause Natalie finishes work at about half five. I normally finish training about half six, but I think if you just do your best to try and minimize the time that it impacts, um, like Natalie, for example, is very tolerant of it. She's very supportive of it, but I don't think that would be the case if she could, if she could see me coming in or sitting around in the morning, for example, before I'm all before a late shift and then training when I could have time with her. How? So I was just going to say something just as a, like an addendum to that, uh, something Rob, I mean, Rob is for those that like, don't know, go check us out, check out his Instagram. I'll make sure that's tagged. So you can check out not only his amazing quads, but just his physique in general. He is a fantastic competitor and, uh, we're looking to take him to the highest level. And he is also committed to doing that acting in his offseason as a pro. And you can just hear it through the way he's spoken through it planning. Like Rob is unbelievably good at having a plan and, uh, having everything in place. So like mill prepping across the weekend. So you have everything sorted for the week, but what Rob is also fantastic at and what makes him able to be at the high level is he makes this sustainable for himself. Like, I think Rob is one of the best, like balanced bodybuilders I can speak to because, uh, he just really does prioritize family ahead of even the bodybuilding, uh, people I think who think, Oh, how do you have a pro mindset and also prioritize family ahead of bodybuilding? Hopefully a lot of listeners like, no, that still makes sense. Like family comes first and Rob absolutely does that. Make sure the bodybuilding complements life overall and doesn't take over because again, it wouldn't be sustainable. Uh, Natalie would not let that take place. Uh, you wouldn't feel good about it either. So when there is opportunities to be with family, like those are taken and I just, yeah, I, if I had a hat on, I would take it off to you, Rob for doing that. Cause it always impresses me how level headed you are with all of that. And yeah, it's easy to get very selfish with your bodybuilding, but you're not. So I just wanted to add that a little bit. Oh, thank you very much. I appreciate that. And I think, um, like it's just, I think it's a great example of what you will say, Steve. And what we say is like bodybuilding should enhance your life, not detract from it. And again, that's something that you've done so well, Rob. And, you know, when we're talking about you competing at the highest level, we're not joking. Like, so we'll get into this as well. Obviously you can last competed in 2023 and you qualified for the WMBF worlds and you came second in the lightweight class. Um, yeah. So like, yeah, we're not joking at all, but one question I actually had off the back of what you were just saying earlier is, um, what obviously sometimes things come up, uh, like in the day that might throw things off or whatever, like maybe the kids get sick or something like, how do you manage if some, if something kind of, if a spanner get throat gets thrown in the works, like, I guess, what's your kind of mindset in how you kind of manage that both mentally, but maybe also logistically as well? Yeah. Again, I think, um, my routine is so, uh, solid that it very rarely goes wrong to be honest, but obviously it does from time to time. Like you say, things come up with, with family, et cetera. And I think it's, again, it's just a case of looking at the day, look at, looking at the, the breakdown of the day and thinking, okay, okay, I've got to go and pick Summer up from school because she's ill. And I actually happened the other week actually, because all the trains were cancelled. So my oldest, Summer, couldn't get to school. So I had to drop her off to school. I picked a couple of her mates up because they couldn't get to school and I ended up getting back really late. Um, so essentially what I did, I just looked at my training session and some of the easier exercises, I moved and spread it out through the week. Um, so it, again, it's been, and this is, um, you know, again, something I've learned off of, of Steve and Mike, I know you do it as well. You've got to be adaptable. And when you spin it, like you said, at the beginning of the pod, spinning a lot of plates, you have to be adaptable. You have to be able to adapt to things coming up, um, move things around. And again, I, I think it's communication. So if something does come up, it might be a case that I do have to say to Natalie, look this week, which happens very rarely, I'm going to train Saturday because this has come up. I've had to move a session around and she understands that. And if she says, well, I know, hang on, we're doing this on Saturday. I say, okay, well, I'll move it. Maybe I'll do it Saturday afternoon or I can even do it Sunday. And sometimes it, it, it, it can interfere with things because it may mean I'm doing like a few sessions like crammed in or moving things around. But ultimately, if you, if you zoom out, you're still getting everything done that you need to do. Um, and for it to be sustainable longterm, um, you have to be able to do that. I think, um, like you said, I'm, I'm, I'm doing, um, my own coaching on the side. Um, and that, as you both know, you have to prioritize your clients. They're paying, um, they're, they're, they're of utmost importance. I'm very lucky with my clients. Um, I can, you know, if I give them enough notice, I can move their check-ins around. They understand that I'm working. They know, you know, my situation, they're very understanding of that. But again, being in a position where you're able to juggle things around, I think helps. And again, just having that, being able to look at days or weeks, even, you know, weeks in advance, if we've got, uh, Steve knows, I always try and move my deloads. For example, if we, if we're planning a day or not planning a day, if I, if I need a deload, I might even try and string one extra week out so that I can deload on my early shift. Because what that means is my sessions are shorter on that week, which means I get more time with Natalie and the kids in the evening. If I did it when I was on a late shift, they're not around anyway. So the time that I've gained back there is wasted. Um, or not wasted. I'd find something to do, but it's, it's time that I can claw back to try and give back to them. Yeah, definitely. It's always kind of like that zooming out and thinking of that bigger picture and yeah, planning. Definitely. Do you find that, that, that helps when you speak with your clients and that you're giving clients advice as well? Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. Because I, and I preach it. If any of my clients are watching this, they'll be like, yeah, he's always banging on about it. Because one thing, um, I'm always banging onto them about is doing a bit of planning preparation in advance. If they are busy, because if people are telling me they're busy, um, I'm, I'm kind of, I'm like, if you plan and prepare this, set some time aside, you could, there's no reason why you can't get this done. I know because without, you know, I, I do it, I manage it. And if I can manage it, then you can manage it. I think it's a case of how badly you want it. Actually. I think that's what it really comes down to. If you really, really want it, um, you'll be willing to invest the time, put the time aside, um, and, and get it done. I think. And do you know what? It's funny actually, because sometimes it's perfectly okay not to want it as well. Like I think sometimes you've got to know yourself and say like, Hey, I, you know, not us, but like someone else it's like, Hey, I'm not trying to be a, you know, elite natural bodybuilder. You know, I just want to look good naked type thing. And, you know, in that scenario, like, Hey, just be cool with that, you know, and you, maybe you don't have to be as, you know, sort of planned, but still like those, everything that you've just said, Rob, all of those things are still helpful. It's just, maybe it's just not quite as a priority as maybe it is maybe for us. No, absolutely. I think that's something as a coach, you have to understand, right? Sometimes you get lost in this. Well, I do it like this. So, um, but you have to be, uh, again, um, understand different people's goals. I think. It just reminded me of something I heard of recently, which I think links to what we're talking about here in regards to like, do you want it or not? A lot of people like want, they want a million pounds. They don't want to be a millionaire in that you don't want to do what is required to become a millionaire. Cause it's fricking a lot of work and horrible hours and so on and so forth. But you do want that million pounds, similar to like people want that elite natural bodybuilding physique, but they don't want to put the time effort and kind of the amount of degree of planning and that sort of thing into it. Cause it takes a lot. Yeah. I think sometimes it's easy to look at, sorry, Mike, I think it's easy to look at someone like you, Mike, like Steve or all like myself and, and think that it's a lot easier to do than what it actually is. And then when the reality of it sets in, what it, what it does actually take, you know, years and years and years, um, people don't always want to do that. And again, like you quite rightly said, Mike, that's absolutely fine. I think as long as they understand that, as long as they understand that to look like this, uh, naturally to, to progress like this, these are the things that you're going to have to do depending on how seriously you are out the results that you want. And if you're happy to accept that you, you don't necessarily want to put that amount of effort in, but you accept that that means the results might be not as great. Then that's fine. That's absolutely fine. Hmm. And just to kind of, um, not go on a tangent as such, but kind of go back in a way, how long have you, would you say that you've been bodybuilding or training for now, Rob? Oh, how far do we go back? Because I'm one of them that was training in my shed when I was a kid, uh, because my dad had stuff, you know, and I'd seen my, I think my dad had like a York bench, you know, the, um, with the attachments and that. Yeah. With the, the, the plates that will fill up with sand. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The plastic silver ones. Yeah. So I used to go and do a bit, you know, going back to that sort of age. Um, but I know I joined the gym properly, uh, when I was about 19 and I, I didn't really understand. I was, I always knew that I think the thing is, I always knew that I needed assistance. I needed guidance. I wanted to be taught and I wanted to learn. So I immediately got a personal trainer. Was he the best looking back now? Absolutely not. But he did give me a start. Um, and he pushed me, pushed me very hard. So I started off training very hard. And I think, as we all know, like that is one of the biggest things, are you training hard? Yes. Big green tick. And then I started to get more into nutrition. Um, and that was actually for another bodybuilder I met in the gym. I say bodybuilder, you know, he, he wasn't the greatest, but he knew more than me about nutrition. So he started saying, look, you need to really increase your protein. So all of a sudden I'm 19, 20 and I'm, you know, getting adequate amounts of protein in, but I'm also training hard and I'm very young. I'm very new to training. So progress came quite quickly. So I was quite lucky with that. And, um, then eventually I was like, I kind of wised up to the fact that the people around me didn't actually know, I just, not that they didn't know what they was doing. That's the wrong way of putting it, but I wanted to throw over my advancement. And I, so I moved then to a proper bodybuilding gym and then started training with, um, other bodybuilders. They were actually enhanced, um, these guys, but they, you know, they pushed me really hard. Um, so again, that big green tick of, was I training hard? Yes. Um, and I think, so that goes back to maybe like early twenties. And then it was about 20, 26, 27. I started to really take things here. I'm quite late actually to the game. I'm a lot later than, than a lot of people because I was 26, 27 when I, when I would say I really started following a proper program, logging my training about 26. And then it was 27, I, I got a coach, uh, who was, um, Luke from physique coaching. And that's when I decided I first wanted to compete was, uh, 2018. So yeah, I've been in the gym training, lifting weights for a long, long time. Rob, well, just 20 years. Most people, I don't actually know this about you either, Mike. Mo when I first started lifting, I was skinny as a rake. Were you skinnier or on the like chubbier side? So is that me or Mike? Oh, sorry. I actually wanted both of you to answer. So Rob, you go. Um, look, I mean, looking back now, uh, yeah, I was skinny. Um, definitely I've never been never in my life. Um, not that there's an issue with it at all, but I, you know, I've never in my life been like on the chubbier side or I've never, I've just never been like that. I've always been active. I've always played football when I was younger. I've got a physical job, not, not so much now I'm off the tools now, but, uh, but yeah, I've got, uh, uh, I've always had quite a physical job. So, and then I've always trained. So I've never, I've never been that like that. I was definitely the chubby kid for sure. I've never been skinny in my life, unfortunately, because I, uh, I wasn't very good at sports. So I never even, you know, football and stuff like that. I just wasn't great at it. So I just always, uh, you know, I'd be like playing video games or just in my own little world, you know, as I like, as I am. So, uh, yeah, I tended to be the chubby kid. Yeah. So you, yeah, I think, um, Steve, I think I've seen, you've posted pictures of you when you was younger, right? And most of them is funny thing is most of those pictures are when I'd already been lifting for a few years. So it's like still so skinny. Yeah. Uh, but yeah, I mean, it goes to show, like you said, when you give it a decade plus, you can take yourself to heights. I never could have imagined taking it as far as where I am now. So, but it's always interesting hearing about people's where they started. Cause yeah, they, you either tend to start like on the skinnier or like softer side. And a lot of people like yourself rocked it. Were you very competitive? Any sports you did? You said you played football. Was there any sports you like to take anything to a very competitive level? No, not really. I wouldn't say it was, it was nothing like, um, obviously I'm based in Kent. It was nothing like Kent league level or anything like that. We was a good squad. Don't get me wrong. We, you know, we was at the top end of, I suppose, what you would call like amateur. Um, so, and I played for the school and things like that. I think I was just very active. I did, I ran for the school and after that, you know, sprinted for the school, things like that. I would always won sports sports day races. I was just that quite, um, I guess, yeah, just quite sort of powerful, especially in the lower body. So I was quite quick, things like that. So yeah, just again, just always being active. Um, but no, I never took anything else to a really, I always, so I started off as a right back. Um, and then eventually the, where we used to play, I was like a, like a sweeper because I was quick at the back. So I used to be able to catch up with the fast strikers. What about you? Cause you played, didn't you Steve? Steve? Yeah, I, I was defense as well. Mostly I played midfield a little bit. I wasn't a glory hunter striker. That wasn't me too much pressure playing up front and trying to score goals. I much prefer trying to get the ball back than having the ball. Yeah. What about you, Mike? I played, uh, FIFA. I thought you were going to say chess for a moment. Yeah, exactly. Uh, I'm not, I, do you know what? I did quite well at darts the other weekend in that little social. So, you know, do you know what, actually that's a complete lie. Well, not a complete lie, but I, so the sport I played when I was younger was golf, which is obviously, you know, it's, uh, it's movement. It's a bit of physical activity. It's walking. Um, but that was actually the main sport that I got into because my parents are massive, massive golfers. So, uh, I kind of played that, but then when the iron bug and I got into the gym, then kind of golf has kind of gradually gone away. Um, so yeah, but I still, you know, still have a bit of, you know, golfing-ness in me as such, but nothing athletic like football. We should go play golf sometime. Come, come, come to Whitney, bring your sources, bring your sources. We'll go play golf. We'll go train. It'll be great. Um, do you know what? I'm going to just plan a weekend retreat and it's going to be great. Yeah. I'm terrible. I can tell you now that I'm terrible. I played a couple of times and I was like, this is not for me. Maybe, maybe as I get older, I take my hat off to anyone who playing, can play golf because, um, I know that it's really popular now, right? Like lots of people play it and it's a real skill to be able to do it well. So, uh, you know, I definitely, maybe when I'm a little bit older, I think maybe when I give up body, if I take on any more hobbies, uh, then, um, Natalie will just, yeah, she will, she will not be too happy with that. Oh, I did used to play the drums. Not that that's a sport, but I played the drums for a long time. Nice. I used to love doing that. Yeah. That was one of my hobbies. Mike, you played the, what was it? Not, was it saxophone? Cornet. Cornet. Yeah. I knew it was some weird instrument. Yeah. I think I've heard that before. Yeah. What did, did you play a musical instrument, Steve? I was, I'm not musical in this. Oh yeah. I haven't got a musical bone in my body. I like, I hear beats. I can't even hear the lyrics. I just hear beats going. But, uh, I tell you what, just to bring things back a little bit to Europe. So you obviously first season was 2018, right? Yep. So, uh, and then, then you next competed 2023. Yeah. Yeah. So I started in, in 2018. I, I, like I said, at this point, sort of 26, 27, I started taking it a little bit more seriously. I was training with a guy who competed at a good level on, on the enhanced side in the UK. And, um, he kept saying to me, why don't you compete? Why don't you compete? We compete. And I, I kept on umming and ahhing about, and then I looked into it more and more and I found, um, cause I really didn't want to go down the enhanced route. And I found luckily for me, um, I started to discover like the NPA, uh, the UK DFJ with, and were the first ones that I found. And I thought, oh, I can do this without taking that. This is, this is good. And then it started to make me think, okay, this is what I want to do. It clicked for me. Um, and, but again, the same as when I started, when I was 19, I knew that I wanted to know more and I didn't have that, that knowledge, which is why I reached out to my coach at the time, which was, which was Luke. And he, and again, that was a smart move on my half because he introduced me then to 3DMJ, blah, blah, blah. And actually that 2017, 2018 was probably when I first started watching Steve because I thought, okay, I'm going to go into these competitions. I looked up the NPA and I think Steve, one of your first competitions was NPA. I think, and I found it, but one of your vlogs, um, and I was- Oh, those old ones. Yeah. Yeah. But I mean, we're going back some time now, but they're the ones that I watched first and that kind of introduced me to what it was all about. And I thought, yeah, okay, I'm going to have a go at this. And then that's when I got Luke. I was, Steve, I was 95 kilo. I thought I looked jack, jacked. I was 95 kilo. Now, you know what I looked like at 82 kilo. So you can imagine what I looked like at 95 kilo. I was carrying way too much body fat. Um, and I dieted down to 72 kilo, um, for, for, for my first competitive season. So it was a rough diet, but I, I managed it and I just kind of thought, well, this is, you know, this is what it is. Um, so, and I, you know, I, I, I think I compete with the UK, the FBA, uh, they did a, uh, a novice class at the Ben Hall, just a novice, USN classic. It was. And, um, I got third and as soon as I did it, um, I, I loved it. I loved the process of dieting. I loved how hard it was. Um, I loved the challenge of it. And I'm quite a shy sort of person. Like if I went to a party or you will never, ever catch me on a dance or anything like that. I'm more than confident to talk to people and things like that, but I'm not that guy that's going to get up and dance. That's just not me, but put me in a pair of pants, put me on a stage. I'm more than happy. It just, as soon as I got up there, I was like, yeah, this is, this is great. I love this. And the feeling when you come off and I placed as well, I got a top, I got third in my first show and I was just completely like over the moon with it. I loved it. I fell in love with it then. And then I think that year I did four, four competitions. I qualified for both of the nationals, um, and did okay at the nationals as well. I think I got third at the NPA nationals in the novice class. And from then it was just like, yeah, okay, this is what I want to do. I now want to invest my time into this. Um, and, uh, stayed with my coach at the time, Luke. Uh, and then eventually that's how I started coaching with Luke because I just learned quite a lot off him, got a good base of knowledge, done my own, um, uh, learning and, uh, started coaching people myself. And, um, and then, yeah, I ended up doing a bit of an offseason myself, but again, I knew I wanted to take it to that next level of, and that's when I reached out for Steve then in 23. Cause I'd, I'd run a bit of a diet myself and, um, and then reached out to Steve and said, look, this is where I'm at. These is, this is the sort of shows that I will, would want to do. Would you be willing to take me on at this point? And, and luckily for me, he took me on. Was it just literally that case of like, after you'd run that diet yourself, you were kind of like, I, I know I need help with this. Or was there anything that particularly tipped you over the edge to thinking, no, I'm definitely going to get a coach rather than almost like self-coaching potentially? I knew that I would want to coach through my prep. Um, I, I don't think I'll ever prep without a coach. I take my hat off to like Steve to do it yourself. I just, as you said, again, it comes back to the spinning plates, right? The last thing I need is that, that added stress or pressure of making decisions for myself. Like, should I pull food or whatever it may be? And plus it's recognizing your own, uh, your own amount of knowledge and experience, I think is knowing, okay, I need someone else with that extra bit of knowledge and experience to, to get me to where I want to be. Otherwise it, not that it's a waste of time, but you can spend a lot of time, um, and then not quite get the results that you want. So I'd rather invest, uh, learn and have guidance. Um, and that's exactly what I did with Steve. I love it. I think, and again, this is something which I respect about you so much, Rob, is that you kind of, you're, I think you're very humble. Like you, you know, you don't, you know what you don't know in a sense. And, you know, I, you know, I love a quote. It's like, he is wise who knows he does not know. And, uh, you know, and also, uh, Steve, who you had on the Revive Stronger podcast, you had, ah, can't remember their, their names. Um, but they said like, Hey, if you, you know, if you respect the coaching process, you will have a coach yourself. And I think that's it. Propane fitness, Johnny and Youssef. Yeah. Yeah. Johnny and Youssef. Like they, they were the ones that said, you know, like if you, you know, if you respect the coaching process, you have a coach. And again, I like, you totally brought that to my head when you mentioned that. Yeah. Yeah. Rob, go on. Sorry. I was just going to say, it's so cool hearing you talk through even your experience of like getting help initially with, uh, Luke from physique coaching, just like the fact that you're that open-minded and it just speaks to our coaching kind of relationship in that sense. I'm always so happy that you're so open-minded to being coach, very coachable. We'll put it in that way. But, um, always on the other side of that, isn't just, Hey, give me orders, tell me what to do, and then not give me any feedback. It's very much like a dynamic relationship where we can talk to one another. And I appreciate that massively about you. Cause I think it's one thing to get a coach in your corner, but it's another thing to actually allow yourself to be coached. Yeah. I think most coaches have had a coach or will have a coach at some point. Uh, you know, there's things that I pick up from Steve. I learned from Steve, even in, in his approach to his check-ins, et cetera, because he's done it for a long time. He's coached a lot of people and had a lot of success. So why wouldn't I use that? I, I see it as it's an investment in, into myself for my own bodybuilding, but it's also an investment into my own education. And then I can pass that onto my own clients as well. And eventually what I would like to do, similar to you, both of you guys, is use my own experiences, but as a bodybuilder, um, to coach bodybuilders myself as well. Eventually that's, that's the end goal for me is, is to get, move into that kind of niche. Um, but it's very hard to do when I'm spinning all these plates. Yeah. And, uh, yeah, I, um, do this, I could go down the right direction. I think one thing I wanted to ask you though, Rob is kind of to kind of walk us through your 2023 season. Um, what, um, yeah, walk us through that. How did you, what was your kind of experience of 2023? 2023 was great. It was a great, great year. It was awesome. I loved it. Um, it was tough. Don't get me wrong. Um, I look back at actually, I had a, um, you know, like, um, Instagram, Facebook do two years ago or three years ago, whatever it was. And I looked back at what I looked like in January, 23. So probably before I, just before I reached out to Steve and I looked just completely different. Um, so the, my starting point was completely different, but dieting down, um, we don't, I started with Steve, I think in March. Um, and I was around 81 kilo ish, somewhere around there. So we dieted right through the summer and then we went into, I think the first show we did the UK DFBA Southern. And I'd said to Steve that I, I hadn't competed since 2018. So I, I didn't really know where I was gonna, what I was going to look like or how I was going to fare against other competitors, because this sport moves very quick. It's getting better and better. The better you get, the better the others get. And that's just something I've learned is you get better and everyone else gets better. So, um, so, but I, I went and my goal for the UK DFBA, Steve had already planned out for me that we wasn't going to be at a hundred percent at that show. It was my first show back, dust the cobwebs off and see where we, we, we stack up. And it was a quite a competitive class. It was, um, who was the top three, me, um, Finn, and Charlie, uh, uh, can't remember his second name, Neil. Anyway, it was a good, it was, it was a good, it was a solid, you know, a solid top three. And I certainly looked competitive and I, I got third and I, and that really gave me like a confident boost of, okay, you're still competitive. You're still, you can still do the business. And then we continued to diet down, um, from there. And I would just looked better and better the leaner that I got basically. Um, and then we went into, Ooh, I think I did the UK DFBA obviously qualified for the nationals. I think I did the nationals and didn't place, which I was really disappointed with. It's, it really, it hurts, doesn't it? When you don't place, it really hurts. Um, so yeah, I was, I don't know where I placed, but I placed outside of the top five there, but again, it's an international show. The, the, the standard of competitors in the UK is so high, especially at a national competition. You have to go in there knowing that if you come out of there as a top three, I think you're going to be a competitive pro. I think if you're placing winning classes in the UK at a national, um, standard, then you're going to be a very high standard pro at some point for sure. So yeah, I didn't place there, but then we went on. Yeah. We went on to the, then the supernaturals and that was the first WMBF show that I did. Absolutely loved it. And that was a funny show actually, because I think I placed, they placed me third, uh, Finn was second. And then there was another guy that was first, but it was purely accidental, but the guy didn't quite, he was foreign. He didn't quite understand that it was, uh, an amateur show and he was a pro. Um, and I'm glad he was a pro because he was very good. So he, um, so yeah, so then they moved it and I ended up, I was second at the supernaturals and Finn got first. Imagine if he didn't win, that would have been like, people would have been like, well, it could have happened though quite easily coming to a UK amateur show, like as a non-UK competitor. It's that competitive. Anyway, yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Um, then that's, that's when I got the invite to Wells and I sort of sat back and it was a bit of a shock because I never expected to, like I said, it was kind of like, okay, I haven't competed since 2018. Let's just see how I fare. I did really well at the supernaturals and then got the invite out. Um, and yeah, it was kind of like a last minute, like, right, we need to get the money together, plan to go and, and, and all of that, you know, which I did. And I'm so glad that the experience was just great. It was honestly so, so good. I just loved it. Um, you know, flying out to America, being part of a team out there, um, meeting other people, um, being around people, you know, like from 3DMJ, all of that, you know, these are people that I've watched. Like I said, I started watching them since 2017, 2018. All of a sudden you're standing next to these people, they're competing, you're competing. Um, and then, yeah, that was a big clip. We went out and I, um, me and Steve, we, we, I was kind of on the cusp of middles to lights and we was trying to, we know that I look better when I had like sort of, um, carb load up through the week. So we just taper it up through the week. Um, so we know that we, we can push the carbs and I look better and better to a certain point, but we didn't want to, when I weighed in, we didn't want to be too heavy because I, ideally I didn't want to be at the bottom end of the middles. We wanted to, look, and you know, you go in looking the best. And if I'd have landed in the middles, that would have been absolutely fine. But as it happened, I managed to get in at the top of the lights, which worked out perfectly. And that was a big class. There was 17 people in that class. It was a big, big class. And, um, yeah, I remember standing there and, um, I knew that I looked good. And Natalie, bless her. She's always, she's always backstage with me. She always comes backstage with me and she's very good. She, Steve, you should put her on a judging panel. I can sit there. I can say, I think they're going to place there, there, there, and there, and she gets it right every time. So I know if I'm backstage and she says to me, you're looking good. I know that I'm on point because she also won't lie. She, you know, if I look at her and she's a bit like, oh, I know that I'm probably in trouble. If she says, I'm looking good, I know that I'm on. And she said, and because she also looks around everyone else. So I just, I knew backstage, I was probably looking okay. I had the confidence and the backing from Steve as well. And then, yeah, I got second. And I remember standing and getting in the top five and thinking, this is crazy. Like I did not expect to make the team. I didn't expect to go to America. And then to them get called top five, because it's only the top five that get to go and do their routine. Right. So, yeah, I got called back to do the routine, which is really cool. And I remember just standing there and just, they're calling these names out. I'm looking around, I think it was only two of us left. And funny enough, the guy that beat me, I thought the guy that had come third was better than me. And also better than the guy that had come, that had placed first. So by the time there was the two of us stood there, I thought for a minute, I thought, I think I've, I think I've got this, you know, which was an amazing feeling. Obviously, I was not disappointed one bit to get second, because I was just sort of ecstatic to just be there, you know, and fair play to the guy as well, because he looked great. And he deserved the first place. But, but yeah, it was just a really awesome experience. Just great. And, you know, anyone who wants to get into natural bodybuilding, wants to push them, so it's just so worth it. The, the, the process of it, it teaches you a lot, teaches you a lot about yourself, how dig you how hard you can dig. And if you do manage to go to a show, even just doing, you know, a local amateur show, they're great. They're so enjoyable, you meet different people, there's a lot of camaraderie. And there's just something about it that I love it. And I would, if anyone said, I'm thinking of doing it, I would encourage them to do it. But get, but get a coach, get a good coach as well to help you. I think something that came to mind there as well, the other thing is you, you might some, you might make mistakes, but there might even be small things which you might not necessarily say are mistakes, but you know, you can do some parts of the process a little bit better. And you think, ah, if not only if I come back and improve, but if I just can handle that little element a little bit better, that's going to just, you know, all of those little one percenters, et cetera, like add up. And it just really stokes your fire to come back again, like in the next season or whenever. Yeah. I mean, this, um, sorry, Steve, go on. No, sorry. I was just going to say something I wanted to touch on there was obviously you kind of talked about being at the UK at FBA finals and not placing in that top five, but then going to Supernaturals coming third and then going to world coming second. I think it's one that just shows people that like, Hey, it's not like you're a football team and you're just better than other people. And you're going to just win it. Who turns up on the day. You can also improve through the season, but also allowing yourself to have that acceptance. Like Rob didn't place in the top five, but he didn't sulk. He didn't give up. He didn't throw out like throughout the towel. He improved when we went to the Supernaturals and you took it on as a challenge. And I think that's just a great lesson for people and for myself too. Like I saw you go through that and also just be like, wow, like this is awesome. It motivates me as a competitor to be like, Hey, like, don't let your losses drag you down. Just like, don't let the winds get to your head too much. Rob Yeah. Well, again, Steve, something I've learned and watched and been inspired by from you over the years is, you know, when you first started off, you wasn't doing so well, but you just kept going and now just look at the physique that you've got. And this is something I've said it to you before. I've, I've, I've, you know, I've told you this before that I think, um, the progress that you, that you've made and the fact that you keep on making progress is just so impressive. And it makes other people believe that they can do it too. Right. Um, and the same as Mike, like how, how far Mike has come. Oh, I know Mike, Mike's not like me. He doesn't share his physique every other day. Um, but when I do sit, no, that's not true at all. Mike, when I do see it, I'm like, like it, the progress is really, really like, it's huge. And that's actually something else I wanted to touch on because obviously lots of other people will be listening to this. And there used to be this thing about like, obviously your progress does slow down, but one thing I've learned or found is that if you just keep on going, just keep on ticking along, it just happens over a period of time. It really does. It doesn't happen overnight. Of course we know that, but another thing is I've, I've sort of learned and watched myself go through it over the years is okay. So maybe now, I mean, I'm 35, I've been training, like we said, for like 20 years. So probably I'm on that end of, it's kind of hard to continue to progress like I did back then, but life changes and things change in favor of growth as well. So although you're getting older and perhaps things are set against you, there's also other things that are going in your favor now. So when I was younger, when I was 20, I was less educated on it. Um, I would push myself for injuries unnecessarily and cause my, keep myself out of the gym for two or three years. Um, I would make silly mistakes or stress over things that I didn't need to stress about. Um, probably back then when the girls were much younger, um, and, um, Natalie wasn't earning as much money as she does now, I had to work more hours. Now I work less hours. I've got my coaching now, which subsidizes me a little bit so I have, I can work less hours. So I've got more time available over here. So I think the point I'm making is, is that I hate hearing people say that they're just not like that. They, they, they think they're not going to continue to progress because without taking things without going down the enhancer, you can continue to progress. And people like Mike, Steve, um, Eric as well, I've seen recently, Eric Helms, cause he'd made lots of progression over the last year or so. Right. And I think a lot of that is because he's just changed his training approach, right? Cause he used to dip in and out of power lifting. So it comes back to the point of, okay, I had things going for me when I was 20 because I was younger. I was, uh, what you would call like a novice and gains were easier to come by. So they're harder now, but I've got things going for me now. I've got more education, et cetera. So you can use things and take things to your advantage that you didn't have back then that, and you may have lost certain things that were an advantage back then, but you can continue to progress. And the proof is in a pudding when you look at, you know, Steve, Mike, myself, if you want to look at my story. And that's very inspiring for me because it means that even, you know, the plan is to compete this year. Even after that, I know that I can continue to push and I can still make progress and that won't stop. Yeah. Yeah. The results don't stop unless you stop is the way I always think about it. They just, they keep coming. And I think, uh, the best bodybuilders are just so unbelievably in love with the process because it is all process driven. You tick those box daily boxes day in, day out. And suddenly a year down the line, you look back and reflect, you're like, oh, shit. Like I'm actually much further than I thought. But if you keep checking, am I there yet every week, which is where maybe taking too many physique shots can sometimes harm you. If you, if you're, uh, if you do read into them too much, you can't treat it like a fat loss phase and see the scale go down every week, but those investments add up and yeah, the payoff in the long run is evident. So yeah, you couldn't have said it better myself, Rob. Well said. Yeah. Yeah. So, and that's another thing as well is I hope that at some point, like Steve does and like Mike does and will, um, that you can inspire others because I do generally, Steve knows this cause I've suggested a few things, few ideas about how we can make natural bodybuilding better and it's very hard to do. Um, but, uh, but yeah, I love the, I love the sport of natural bodybuilding and I want to encourage people to not only go down that route, but continue to go down that route. Yeah. I loved, I honestly, I love it so much. And, and you, you made me think of there, Steve, in a way we came kind of full circle. Cause it's like, you know, you, some people want the outcome, but do they want the lifestyle? Do they want the process? You know? And we all know that the outcome follows the process. So, um, and you just got to stick with it. Um, but Rob, I would be really interested to know, like, like, cause you said that you're competing this year. It might be too early, but what would you say that you've, what's kind of like your, I guess, mindset or I guess like, do you have like a mindset as you kind of approach the season? Because obviously we haven't spoken about it, but a big goal for you coming into this season or that next big goal for you is to turn pro to be a WMBF pro. And yeah, I'd, I'd love to know, like, if you've got a particular mindset or how you're kind of approaching this particular season. Um, mindset wise, I would say my goal is to turn pro. That's my goal. But at the same time, um, I'm also, I'll be, I won't be dis, it's hard to say I won't be disappointed, but I will be disappointed. But I also understand how tough this is. And I also understand I'm not a genetic, like freak, like some of them are out there. So, um, I've got my, my qualities the same as anyone else has, but it's not an easy thing to do. And as you said, I mean, I'm, I'm working in a big garage. I'm, um, you know, there's a lot going on there. It's a stressful job. You know, I've, we've, me and Steve have spoken about that. Uh, it's heavy haulage vehicles that we maintain in repairing. And it's, you know, there's a lot of, it's a big place. There's a lot of technicians there to look after. So that's, that can be quite stressful. Um, but my, my, so my mindset towards it is, I have a goal. I will do everything that I can to reach that goal. Um, I've got, I've aligned everything the best I can, even down to, um, speaking to my company and saying, look, I want to move some of my annual leave to next year if possible. So I've had less annual leave over the last year to allow myself to have extra time off if I need it. I've saved money for it. Um, I've got Steve in my corner. When I finished in 23, I've stayed with Steve for an offseason. The progress has been more than I've ever made, um, since being with Steve. So I think I can not be, I will be disappointed, but I can accept it knowing that I've done not the best job in the world because I can't, because as we spared, it comes back to spinning lots of different plates, but I've done everything within reason that I can to try and give myself the best chance possible. And I think I can come off stage at the end of the year, pro card, no pro card, head held high. And I love that so much. And again, it comes back to what we were saying about Steve and Eric Helms. Like, so Eric, I can't remember how Eric's 40. Is that right? In his 40s, I think. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, he's only just turned pro and he's been competing for multiple seasons and it's like, Hey, it might not be this year, but you just never ever know if you just stay in it and you keep grinding and you keep making progress. Don't ever count yourself out. It could happen. Yeah. I think the other thing to remember is that we do this because we enjoy it. Yeah. We love the process of it and we love the competition, right? So I'm doing it because I want to do it. I'm doing it because I enjoy doing it. So it's kind of like a win-win in lots of ways. Listen, I'm not going to sit here and say, I don't want to turn pro. I don't want to win. Of course I do. I've put a lot of effort into it, you know? And another thing I want to say about being like, because we spoke about being a family man or the rest of it. I think that sometimes you do, you do have to look at yourself in a mirror and understand that you are, I do take time away from them. That is part and parcel. I do my best to limit it, but that is a conscious decision of myself. I've consciously made that decision. We all know bodybuilding comes with sacrifices and that is one of the sacrifices. It is time. It doesn't matter how hard you try, it is going to impact it. But I think to be able to look at yourself and say, that is the truth of the matter is that I do sacrifice time and that. But I'm okay with that because this is something that I want to do. I also think that it inspires the girls heavily and I think it sets a very good example for them as well. Like you both saw, I think they did their cheerleading competitions last weekend. It was great. I absolutely loved it. To see them go and, you know, to train and do something and prepare for something and go and do that. And I'm not saying that because I bodybuild, they did that. But I think it it gives, it sets them an example and it's something, you know, whatever it is they decide to do, they've seen me work, come in tired, still train and still do the things that I need to do. And I think, you know, set an example for your kids or inspiring your kids is great as well. Yeah. I love that so much, Rob. And, you know, I'm kind of conscious of time because I could, I could literally talk with you for like hours and hours and hours. But, um, like one thing that I thought of saying, but I kind of think you've already answered it was kind of, I was wondering about, you know, even after this season, you know, if you have any like, you know, long-term goals, both like inside bodybuilding, outside bodybuilding. But I think in a way, like you've kind of answered it because it's like, Hey, you want to, you want to pass on your knowledge and experience to others. You want to, you want to coach, you want to eventually hopefully coach bodybuilders to stage. Um, and like, yeah, I just, and I think it's, it's, it's just so inspiring and fascinating. Steve, I don't know if you've, you've got any questions at all that you wanted to ask Rob. Uh, probably I was just thinking, Hey, we've been here almost an hour. We could just make this episode all about Rob. I'm quite happy about doing that rather than trying to, I don't know. I don't know what I thought my thoughts were somehow this would be a segment and we turn, uh, the episode into half this and half Q and a, but I think the listeners and just, it's better for a continuity and everything just to make this a great chat. So I think we can kind of keep going, but I did want to mention at least a thought, uh, in regards to everything Rob was saying there in terms of, I think that's a really healthy mindset to have about competition is of course you go in there and you'd be silly not to be disappointed if you have a goal and don't reach it, but it's not dwelling on it. And it's just being like, Hey, did I do everything in my power to get that? And I think I would hope a lot of bodybuilders rather than kind of taking their, uh, their self-worth from their wins. It's a case of taking your self-worth from your ability to adhere to the process, doing things that others wouldn't do, doing what you said you would do. And so more so focusing on like the effort that you placed in that versus the outcome. I think if you have that in mind, you kind of can't be dissatisfied. It's like, Hey, did I win? No, but did I do everything in my power to do so? Yes. So what's there to be upset about? Let's get back to work. I think that is just a powerful mindset to have. And, uh, the fact that you do that, Rob, and your daughter see you do it definitely will influence them. Just like we learn and we apply it to other areas in our lives. Like other people can see us doing it and it can influence their kind of approach to what they're doing. So, uh, the passion and love you have for bodybuilding is contagious too. Like just hearing you talk about it, Rob, it's, it's awesome. So I imagine you've probably inspired a number of people kind of on that edge of thinking about, should I compete? Sounds pretty good. Yeah. I just think that whole, like I said, the whole process teaches you a lot. It teaches you a lot about yourself and these are skills that you can, you can just put into other things as well. You can put it into work, you can put it into business, even if you come away with nothing else, but learning that high protein is good. Resistance training is good. Getting out and moving around every day is good. You take some of these practices that, that natural bodybuilding promotes and it's going to enhance your life, right? It's only, I think when we take it to extremes. So when we come towards the extreme ends of competition, that it can negatively impact. And I think, and, and, and again, Steve, this is something that we've, we've, we've spoken about quite a lot is, you know, I will be much more flexible. I still hit my goals in my offseason and I've treated this offseason pretty much like a competitive season because I've, I've got this goal, but there's times when I'll say to Steve, look, I'm going away or we're doing this or we're doing that. And Steve is just encouraging of it. He's like, take this time to make the most of it because there will come a time when you can't do that or it will be, you'll be less able to do it. It will be less practical to do it. So I think making the most of them times as well is important. And again, I think if you have got a family, if you are, even I'm, I'm quite lucky at work, like even the people at work, because I'm, I'm former now, right? So I can be in charge of quite a lot of people and they know when I'm dieting because my attitude changes, but they're very understanding of it. They're very, I think they all get the help of me for sure, but they, they are very understanding of it and they're all very supportive of it. And I think that comes back to another thing is having a supportive family background, all of that. Um, Natalie's very supportive. I'm really, really lucky. The girls are very supportive. I remember being competing and having them when they, in 2018, someone would have, I can't work it out, but she, well, she would have been very young and I had my nieces there and had little signs for me in the, in the, in the crowd and all that. It's great. It was great. You know, I loved, I loved, I loved it and I still love it now. And they're all, and they're still very supportive of it now. You know, the girls, if I, if we go out to worlds, they want to come, obviously it depends on money and things like that, but to have that support and also not just that, but brothers, sisters, friends, family, all of that, you have, I think a support network is, is very useful. Um, and then also having the support of your coach. So the coach isn't just telling you what to do. It's having that, that support network there, having people like you, Mike, that I can talk to or, or Andrew, you know, these other people that have been through it, they've walked the walk, all of that, having that support network is, is really important. Yeah. I think it's just your point of me kind of encouraging you to take the time for family. It's sort of similar to you banking holiday for the competitive season. It's like you're banking. Hey, I've given you time here because I know I'm going to need to put on my selfish lever during prep, or I'm not going to be able to give you that time. And again, if you weren't finding that balance, I know people don't love that word, but, and it looks different person to person, but then you wouldn't have that support network. Cause it'd be like, I'm why would I support you doing this thing that I fundamentally find like just great grinds my gears when you are so selfish about it, but you don't do that. It comes back to what Mike said, like it enhances your life. It doesn't take over. And like you said, it's a very healthy endeavor, apart from the extreme of stepping on the stages. And when you're in that kind of short time zone. Yeah. To that point as well, like, I think you've got to recognize the season that you're in and going with the flow. So it's like, Hey, enjoy where you're at right now. It's like, right, right now we are in the improvement season. So it's like, yeah, enjoy that flexibility, recognize the season that you're in. And, but likewise, it's like, right. Okay. We're, we're, we're prepping. So we do have to be a little bit more diligent, a bit more on it. We can't be as flexible as we were, but that's okay too, because there are other, you know, benefits to that as well. So I think it's, it's lends itself to that as well. And one thing that I was, that I thought of as well, I think that the just amazing thing about having a family such as yours, Rob, is that, like you said, whether you get a pro card or whether you don't get a pro card, whether you win or come last, your family are always going to love you. And so you will always have them no matter what, like you said, they are going to be waving. They're going to be cheering you no matter what. So actually who gives a if you don't win a pro card because they are all that matter at the end of the day. Yeah. Yeah. And that's a great way to, I'm smiling because it, one of the things, my daughter, my youngest daughter Rose, um, in, I remember in 23, cause I sort of explained to her that, look, daddy's going to do these competitions, but I may not win. Like, don't, I'm not, it's very likely I won't win. And she'd done this, um, poster thing, right. Saying, um, come to my daddy's competition. He may win, but he may not win. You never know. So she's understood at that young age, understanding that, okay, he may not win. So it's, it's, it's, it's great. And it's great to have that. And the other thing as well, I mean, sitting in it now, having the home gym makes a huge difference. And again, that was about, um, that was about minimizing time, maximizing time. And it comes back to, like I say, preparing in advance and, and saving as much time as possible. Even if it's a 10 minute gym journey, that's 20 minutes that you get back. Um, you know, and this is, this has turned into something more than what I thought it would. I was quite lucky, um, with the space that we had and being able to do it at the time, but having the gym at home is, is a huge benefit, you know? And you don't, one thing that's taught me is you don't need a huge amount of stuff. You do not need a huge amount of stuff. I see so many people on the, on Instagram and that now, and they've, they want this particular machine and blah, blah, blah. And I get it to a certain extent, and there's definitely benefits to it, but you do not need it. You just don't need it. I've trained in here for the whole time that Steve has coached me and, you know, I, we've made plenty of progressions. So I've gone off on a bit of a tangent there, but, um, I think my point with that one is, is that you don't need to, to be at the best gym in the world with the best top line equipment, you know? Um, look at Jeff Alberts. How are you for time, by the way, Rob? Because I know we said to you it was going to be like 45 minutes and it's gone. No, no, I'm fine as long as you guys are. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. No problem. I am glad you brought up the home gym because I was going to say, uh, was that a calculated decision based off the fact that again, you know, you don't have a lot of time. So if you can save time commuting so on and so forth, it's going to be of a benefit. And I also wondered, was it just a happy consequence of lockdown and you went that way? I don't know if you had it before the lockdowns kicked in. No, it was a happy consequence of the lockdown. If we hadn't have had lockdown, I don't think I would have ever even contemplated it, um, until I'd have had the space or time become a real restraint, um, which it was starting to become. I mean, I look back now and there was times when I was, you know, because I had to wait, I'd finish work, pick the girls up, take them home, cook them dinner. I'd wait for Natalie to come in. Then I would go to the gym and I'd be getting in from the gym at half nine, 10. And up Steve knows I get up at four in the morning to start my morning shift. You know, looking back now, it was not great. Anyway, during the lockdown, I got really lucky. So my, I could not, not train. So I needed to train. And my uncle put me in touch with a guy who runs his own business, really clever guy. And, um, he had to basically stop running his business, but he's, he's so clever that he, he basically started building squat racks himself. Mike, you see my rack, right? Yeah. You've trained all right. So that rack was built by a local guy here and he started selling them. And, um, I got in contact with him and he's also well into his training. So we just kind of clicked and he said, look, I'm, I'm just going to, have you got a space for a rack? And I said, well, no, but I can get one. So I phoned my uncle up and I said, I need your garage. So this is the type of family I've got. Right. So he emptied his garage out. This is my uncle so that I could put my squat rack into his garage. And I trained there for a year. Uh, yeah. My aunt and uncle, my aunt used to be in there baking her cakes and I'd be up the other end of the garage. Yeah. So I've got, I got really lucky. He gave me that squat rack, Mike, um, with the pull down tower and that on it. I've got all of that. And that's all I had to begin with. And then when the gym started reopening, I thought, you know, I don't want to go back to a gym. So I carried on training in my uncle's garage and then I bought the house that I'm in now. We had the space. So we then built the extension on him and decided that that would be the way that I would go. It tied him with me pushing my coaching and perhaps doing some PT work as well. Um, and it just kind of grew from there. And then in 23, when I was competing, I knew I needed a certain amount of bits and pieces and I got it to that point just before we started competing in 23. And then it's just kind of developed from there, but I'm maxed out now. I've got no more room in here and Natalie will kill me if I buy any more gym equipment. To be fair, I call your gym the Maidstone Mecca because, and people might be able to see in the background, but you've got Kevin Levrone, you've got Dorian Yates, you've got Phil Heath, Arnold. No, is that Frank Zane? I've got Arnold there, Dorian and Kevin Levrone. Yeah, I've got them all the way around. Phil Heath, like it's just literally, it's almost like you're walking into a mini Bev Francis gym. That's what it's like. Yeah. I kind of love that, that, that style of gym. So, and that's the other thing. I wanted this to be a bodybuilding gym. I didn't want it to feel like part of the house. This is when I come in here, I'm training. This is, this is the gym. You know, the girls use it quite regular, which is quite cool. They've got their own programs, so they can get their own programs up and do their own little training sessions and stuff. So that's cool. And yeah, and also it gives me a spot to do my coaching. Because I haven't got like a little office set up. This is where I do it in here. So, so yeah, it works really well. And then of course it just saves so much time. And I remember when I was competing in 23, if I had to get up and train really early in the morning, you know, when you're competing and stuff, as you know, you've got to travel, all of that. If I had to get up and do like a session, it's just there, you know, Christmas, if I want to train, I know Steve loves training at Christmas. I still don't train Christmas day, but if I needed to, I could, and it just makes it that much more. And like I say, if anyone has got the space, you can, you can do it without going to a big, a big gym. That's my experience anyway. Definitely. I think it, it makes me think of what you said, Rob. It's like, if you want it, you'll make it happen. Like you've like the bits of it is maybe luck in terms of how things laid out. But if you didn't find it that way, you would have found it another way. You'd have made it work. So I think if you do love like your endeavor of bodybuilding enough, you'll find a way to fit it in. And it's just about again, finding your balance with it too. And you're completely right. Like the physique you've built and in your offseason, just that we've had over this, the past years is the progress speaks for itself. And that's based off what is, I mean, it's a pretty comprehensive gym at this point. You've got your leg press, you've got the cables, you've got, like you said, the lat pull down, barbells, dumbbells. We've got like, now we've got leg extension, leg curls. You got what you need, but you don't, people are like, I need this specific, I don't know, nautilus, slap pull down, like prime, whatever it is. It's like, you don't need it. It's a nice to have. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's the thing is it is nice to have. And if I went and trained at one of these gyms, I might be like, Oh, I feel like I'm missing out a little bit. But the truth is you don't need it, I think is my point. And I feel like I need to ask you two a question. Because I want to know this anyway. Do you have one? Mike, you're 20, 27, Mike, right? Is when you're, is that still the goal for you? Well, I really want to see how much progress I can make with my upper body this year. So, like I'm, do you know what, I'm really not far away. This week has been one of the best weeks I can remember to the point where again, like today, I was quite emotional because I was like, fuck my, my shoulder feels really good. And, and it's like, it's just been such a, it's these last few months have felt so long. And so hopefully we're not too far away from, you know, specializing in upper body. But then I really want to see like, right, it's been roughly eight months where I've not been able to train my upper body properly, or to the extent that I want. So actually right now, when I get the opportunity, I want to spend eight months specializing in the upper body. And it really just depends on how much progress I can make there. Um, but if you know, if, if that's the case, then, uh, yeah, 2027 will definitely be on the cards for sure. And talk about inspiration, watching you recover from that injury, the way you've handled it and been positive about it, completely take my hat off to you for that. Because I don't know how I would handle that. Um, not being able to train properly. And, but the way, again, like I said earlier about adaptability, uh, the way you've adapted to it and still managed to progress in areas where you can, uh, I think is, is the way you've managed it, recovered from it and all that is inspirational as well. Cause other people would have just gone, uh, because of, you know, the knockback and all of that. So. Yeah. I think I, I appreciate that so much, Rob. I think it's, but do you know what, it's really important, I think to, to go through challenges and do you know what some, and do you know what often they often say, you know, sometimes you hear people talking about like, you know, trying to seek out adversity. It's like, no, you don't need to do that at all because it's going to find you either way. And it might not be physical. It might be something else. It might be personal or whatever, but it's going to find you. And that's where you, you grow as a person. And I think we can't help other people if we haven't been through some shit and life experience ourself. So ultimately it's only going to help us be better people and better coaches. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Um, I guess just stoic controlling what you can control and making the most out of it. Um, I don't know if this is going to be like an exclusive, Steve, but what about you for what you want to do moving with the competitive side? Yeah. So my ultimate ambition is, uh, you mentioned the word competitive. I want to feel like I'm a competitive pro. That's what I want to feel. I don't feel that currently based off that season in a, in a weird way, I would have much preferred to have won the pro card, the last show versus like the first, I'd like to have won some shows and then won the pro card. Maybe that would have been quite nice, but it was like winning the pro card and then bottom of the ranks within pro shows. It's a, it's a bitter pill to swallow. Like you said, not placing, it doesn't matter if you're competing as a pro or an amateur, not placing feels freaking awful. And I, what I didn't ever want to do is get that card because I never wanted to pro card hunt. That wasn't ever the ambition going to the Netherlands was just, Hey, it's like a chance to get the cobwebs off. It's cool to go out to the Netherlands. I was there or Ireland was the two hours. It was just chance. It all landed in its place. And then, yeah, I think for myself, I feel like I need to kind of feel like a competitive pro. That's the main thing and make the outcome I want. Obviously you want to look better than last time, but I want to compete. And so if I don't get that for my next season, I'm, I'm open to being like, Hey, I want to compete. So let's become an amateur again and earn that pro card when maybe I can actually be a competitive pro. Cause yeah, I don't want to be making up numbers. Competing as a pro costs more. So to just have that horrible feeling of not placing, it doesn't matter if I know I'm competing against better competition. It doesn't really, I don't know. It doesn't quite do it for me. So that's, that's my main objective. And I don't want to wait longer than doing it to 2027. I don't want to wait longer. I just have the enthusiasm for it. Life is in a place where it kind of results can come well. So I think I've given it enough time by taking the last year and this year has an improvement. And I feel confident that I'm going to go up there and be competitive, but it's, as you said, Rob, like, as you get better, other people get better. They're not standing still either. So the level of competition keeps rising, but, uh, I definitely know if I was, if, if the competition was the same and I bring about this physique in 2027 that I competed in 2024, like I'd be placing higher. So that's nice to know, uh, just needs to be enough, but yeah, becoming a competitive pro, I don't have ambitions. Like I think, um, it'll be lovely. Like Eric Helms had the goal of going to world and placing in a top five. If I was to give it that, I'd be, if I could place like top five in any pro show, I'd feel competitive. I think that's kind of my goal. Yeah. That that's, that's pretty, I think he's there for you, Steve, because of the way that you just continue to progress. Yeah. I hope so. I, I say, I I've told you this before, Steve, but I, I genuinely don't know another bodybuilder who has improved as much as you from like day nought to now. There is nobody like show me someone, you know, and you know, I appreciate that. Yeah. And, but one thing that you did miss out Steve is you did forgot to mention about men's physique. Cause that is your other goal. I've semi joked about competing in men's physique, but the more I hit the poses and think about it, the more I just like, this is just not, it's just not the one for me, especially with the shaved head. Now I'm just like, I'm not sure it's men's physique worthy. I'm not beautiful enough. I needed the, I need a wig or a toupee or something. I dunno. Not that Rob's not attractive, but look at me, he's a bodybuilder. Yeah. This is what the beard's about. It's to distract from the bald head. Yeah. Uh, so yeah, I mean, I'm still, it's not completely off the cards. Classic for me is completely off the cards. I hit some side shots that can look semi nice and classic side big arms, but the more I hear about the way classics going for natural bodybuilding is very structure based and you need really beautiful structure to do classic. Like you have Mike, you have nice, small waist sweeping quads, like broad shoulders. You love the posing too. I think I could get the posing down, but do not have the rib cage and the wide clavicles. I have a wider waist. Like I'm the more I do this more, I realize actually my potential for hypertrophy is decent because actually I have big joints and that helps put lots of muscle on it. And that's really, my mindset is still, it might to some sound like, Hey, you're capping your potential. If you just want to be a competitive pro, that's me kind of being realistic. I still am putting in effort to be unbounded. Like I am not like ruling out the fact that I might be able to place like top three at worlds at some stage as a pro that I'd love to win worlds, uh, like to win my class at worlds. I mean, that feels a bit unrealistic, but again, I'm, it's not going to stop me trying. You never know. And it never, and it never should. Um, but I think, cause it's interesting. You mentioned also about Eric Helms because he, cause I think if I'm remembering rightly, so when he competed in worlds in 2024, I think, no, uh, I can't remember the last time he, so he competed in worlds when he first turned pro and I think he came fifth, 23, 23, sorry. Uh, but then this last most recent season, he actually came sixth. And so technically on paper, like this is a worst result, but he looked better and he was probably in a more competitive class. And I think that was like, again, a great example of pro again, probably the most important thing at the end of the day is have you improved in some way? And like, again, I was just like, great example there. And again, Eric's fired up and he's going to be making more progress. Yeah. One is very well said. One just, um, there was a question I wanted to ask you, Rob, um, if we had the time to get to any, we kind of stumbled upon it a little bit, but cause you asked me about my injury, but you've definitely had your fair share of injuries as well. Like with your back injury, I can't remember you've had other injuries as well. I want to say your shoulder as well, maybe. Um, but so like, is there, is there any lessons that you've learned from those injuries that either that like you talk about or that you advise to others as well? Yeah, absolutely. My, so I kept, I kept on having a reoccurring injury with my lower back. Um, and the only time I've ever gone long, long times without having that injury is since training with Steve. Um, and I think that's having someone say, Hey, it's okay not to squat and not to deadlift and not to bench press every week and then do barbell bent over rows and do all the hardcore stuff. You can do these other things that are actually supporting, um, supporting the back, but still allowing you to get a stimulus where you want to get it. And I think also having a control of the amount of volume you're doing. I think sometimes, because I could never pinpoint what was causing the injury. I could never say, oh, is that deadlift? It was the squat. It was the bench. And I think looking back now at the past sort of 10 years and the amount of times I had that injury, I think it was the sheer amount I was doing plus spinning all the plates, um, not probably being able to recover as well as, as other people, other people can do it. Not a problem. Like I look at AJ Morris and people like that and you know, the weights, uh, the, the weights, they're shifting and, and all that. I just can't do that and recover from it. And that's the truth of it. And I think I was trying to do that. Uh, and that's what was, was causing me the problems. I don't think it was, um, yeah, I think it was just the amount I was doing and that was perhaps a weak point for me. And that was the first thing to give out because realistically, Steve, I think I felt my back once, Steve, haven't I? Since working with you maybe. Um, but that's it. Whereas before it would, I'd get to a six, the end of a six week meso and be like, oh, my back's gone again. It's time to de-load. And then I'd have, you know, then it'd be another six weeks. And, and I was just pushing myself too hard doing exercises that probably didn't fit, but, but I felt like I had to do at the time. Um, and I don't, I don't do them anymore. I don't miss them. And I don't need them. And I know that I don't need them now because I've progressed more than what I've ever progressed, probably because I've been able to stay more consistent in the gym through just being sensible. Um, and then being able to recover from, from what I'm doing. And, um, um, the, yeah, the other injury in my shoulder, that was a motorbike accident when I was like 17, but she'd never, they told me then they told me you'd never lift anything heavy. So I've become a lorry mechanic and a bodybuilder. Yeah. Literally proved them wrong. Yeah. So apart from that, no, I've been quite lucky. Um, but I've never shifted huge amounts of weight. Like, like, like you see some people do. Um, not that I'm saying that that's, you know, that's going to make everyone get injured. I think that I'm just one of them that I don't need to do that. Uh, and two, if I do try and do it too often, it, it messes me up. Definitely. And that's another, another thing I would say to maybe someone coming up younger is you, you, you know, you don't have to stick to certain exercises. If it's just causing you problems and just remove it, don't be stubborn, just take it out, try something different. And the other exercises that me and Steve have, have put in of, if anything, they've given me a better stimulus, less fatigue, uh, and kept me in the gym more consistently. So good. Um, I did the same with squats the longest time, just stubbornly loving barbell back squats and actually being reasonably strong at them, but just beating me up in all the wrong places and give me stimulus in the places I didn't need it either. Remove those. And I don't miss them. Like I actually don't miss them. You can find passion and love with the process within any lift. So absolutely kind of managing Rob's, uh, volume has been absolutely key. And then it seems like the barbell RDL is just not a lift that love your body loves. And it's interesting that it's such a, just like, Hey, shift to dumbbells seems just fine. Um, but I think accepting that sometimes we hard where we were like, Oh, maybe it's gone. We'll try that lift again. And straight, it almost came back immediately. And it's just like, Hey, let's, that's, that lift is no longer serving us. Yeah. That's a really good point. I forgot about that stage. Yeah. I'm glad you brought up because it was, we've been doing dumbbell RDL, right. Um, and that's given me no issues at all. And, um, I wanted to go back to barbell because I've, I've only got fifth up to 50 kg dumbbells and we're getting up to silly amounts of reps now. Uh, it's becoming cardio. So we said, okay, let's try to go back to barbell. And I did it one week and it was okay. And then the next week I was like, Steve, I can't do it. Like my back was, was, was, um, it did, that did cause me a bit of an issue there. So again, what is it that particular movement? I don't know, but I know that perhaps the injury that's been caused in the past there, the RDL now aggravates it. Your barbell RDL aggravates it. And I don't know if it's just a fixed bar path because I can do an RDL no problem with dumbbells because, um, um, Steve knows I'm trying to find a, uh, open trap bar that's got handles that can swivel. So then I can replicate the movement of the dumbbell. Cause what I found with the dumbbells, as I go down, obviously my hands move. Um, but you can't do that with barbell obviously it's fixed. Um, not entirely, you'd have a much better idea than me might, but I'm not entirely sure how that works, but I know for a fact that with dumbbells, I can go and go and go with barbells. It's a no go at the minute. I find similar when I use a belt squat and I do an RDL on it, it feels beautiful. Like I get no like lower back discomfort, no like hip discomfort. And I feel all hamstrings and glutes. I go to a barbell, especially when I get stronger at them. The next day I'm like, oh man, I'm stiff through my lumbar spine. It's just like, just feels off. There's probably some biomechanical explanation for it. It's like, practically, I don't need to know. Like I can, I can do barbell RDLs, but I'm probably better served more often using the belt squat. That just reminded me just then again. So we spoke last week about, is it going to change what you do? We talked about blood tests and scans. Is it going to change what you do? And it's like, hey, even if we did know like, ah, okay, if the barbell flares your back up because of this biomechanical reason, uh, but it's not going to change anything because it's, you're still just not going to do barbell RDLs potentially. So, um, it's just nice to know sometimes, but I think, um, yeah, it's just sometimes not being rigid to a particular exercise. If your goal is hypertrophy, for sure. Yeah. There's no wrap it up, Mike stubborn. I have you got a final question for us? Is that me? Sorry. Yeah. Have you prepared a final question? You know what? So why don't we? It's another food question, not food question. So no, it doesn't have to be. I'm just joking. Well, my, so my kind of final question was going to be, we've, there was, there's basically been so many good take home points from this, but maybe if I was just going to say, if you were to kind of maybe summarize some of the points that we've made, if you were to maybe just give one takeaway from everything that we've discussed, what might that be that kind of just resonates the most? I think one thing is Steve said it, and that is that if you talk into, you know, competitive natural bodybuilders or anyone who wants to do it, if you do want to do it, you will find a way. Um, I think the planning and preparing in advance, if you are busy is key. And I think, um, cultivating a bit of a lifestyle as best as you can to enable bodybuilding to, to slot in as opposed to like forcing it in because that's just not going to work. That's going to allow you to be sustainable. And natural bodybuilding is all about the amount of time you're doing it for. Right. And I think if you just keep consistent, um, and keep going and keep ticking the boxes, you're going to go through periods of time. You might even go for a couple of years that the training is not optimal. There may be things going on, but if you just keep ticking away and plugging away, um, you, you can continue to progress and I'm excited to see, you know, what Steve looks like at 50. I'm excited to see what you look like at 50, Michael, what I look like at 50. And I, it's really exciting because I remember, I'm dragging this out now, sorry, fellas, but you know, going back to when I was like 20, I remember eating this food and training. I remember the older blokes at work saying, oh, you're going to be knackered by the time you're 30. And I used to, sometimes I used to think that. I used to think, oh man, when I get 30, that's it. I'm 35 and I'm probably, I'm in the best shape, the better shape than what I've ever been. And I also feel better than what I've ever felt as in, you know, I'm like I said, going back to the back injury. I don't get that no more. I'm making more progress than what I've probably ever made. So what I'm, what it's exciting, right? As a natural bodybuilder to think, well, what, okay, so I might not turn pro in 26. I might not turn pro this year, but with every, all my experience, all my knowledge and everything that I've learned, what can I do with that in five years time? Um, so I guess the take home message is that it doesn't really matter what your situation is. I think bodybuilding is something that you can, like I say, if you really want to do it, you can cultivate your life to make it, to make it slot in and make it work. Whether that's, you know, like you guys training six times a week or me training four times a week. And you, if you've got a family, if you haven't got a family, you know, if you're training from home, you can make it work is what I'm saying. Your injury, Mike, you can get around it. You can be adaptable and you can continue to progress. And I think that's a really cool thing to, to know is that I can keep on going. I can keep making progress. And I think that's, um, I think that would be the take home from all of this is, you know, between all three of us. Jeff Bullas 100% fire emojis fire. Um, anything, or if you ever have watched cast away with Tom Hanks, anyway, um, references, Mike, I know that I was going to throw in a dodgeball reference earlier, but you know, I did like dodgeball. Yeah. Do you remember at the end when, uh, Ben Stiller's on the sofa and it's like, I should have won that tournament. I was, it was something related to that. But anyway, the time has passed and now that jokes kind of whistled in the way. But, uh, Steve, is there anything you would kind of summarize from everything that we've talked about? Oh, I just wanted to, I think Rob summed it up brilliantly. I just wanted to publicly just give Rob a massive shout out. Uh, I've obviously been in his corner the past years and seeing the effort that he's putting into things. And I don't see everything. Like I know how much behind the scenes is going on and talking about your background and hearing everything you're speaking here. It just makes me even more grateful to have, to be your coach and to have your trust. And you as an individual, like your open-mindedness and willing to willingness to work is just, uh, something I really appreciate you as a person, Rob. So, uh, I think communication is the absolute key to successful coaching or any relationship actually. And, uh, Rob has my full trust and I appreciate, I think I have his full trust and that is what it makes our coaching relationship so powerful. And I'm so excited for this season for him. Um, good things, good things, I think. But, uh, we'll make sure, I'll make sure to link Rob's Instagram handle in the description. Um, because, well, I don't know, you can say, Rob, what's your Instagram handle? Cause I'm going to forget it or I won't recite it properly. I've forgotten now. It's a Rob underscore. Yeah. Rob underscore physique coaching. Yeah. Rob underscore physique coaching. I think that's bad, isn't it? I don't even know my own thing. Hey, don't worry. I've done it as well. Yeah. Rob underscore physique coaching. Fantastic. Yeah. I make sure that's linked in the description so people can check you out, follow your journey and, uh, yeah. Thanks for that, Steve. I appreciate that. And I appreciate what you just said as well. And, uh, you know, it goes without saying, um, I've said it to you before that I appreciate everything you've done for me, everything you've taught me having my back and Mike for also having my back, you know, we've had a few conversations and, um, I've always got both of your support and I'm more than grateful for it. And I'm, I know that you two will continue to push me where I want to go. So I appreciate that. And I appreciate you having me on as well. I was excited for this. It's, you know, I've been watching this for a long time, so it's, it's, it's cool. You're a part of it now. There you go. You're part of the history, the movement. There you go. Making memories. And on that note, uh, if people are still listening, hopefully they are, do give us feedback. Uh, if you want Rob back on, if you've got questions for Rob, we can always bring them back on if Rob is open to it. And, uh, if you want to see more clients, I don't think this is something we're going to do every week, but maybe it'll be every other and once a month, whenever we can get a client that wants to come on and chat, I have a few people in mind that I think would enjoy this. Uh, do let us know how you're doing it. I had a lot of fun kind of chatting to you guys. So, uh, regardless, it was a good time. Even if people want to give us a thumbs down, I'm sure they won't though. Matt Massively. Like it's really, I'm really fired up. Like I, to be honest, Rob, like we always chat about bodybuilding and I'm always really fired up from all of our chats. So, and it's definitely been the same thing here. So, uh, yeah, it's been awesome. And, and I just want to have my selfish say and say, like, I, uh, like I respect and you inspire me as well. And, you know, we competed together in 2023 and, you know, we've been kind of friends ever since, and it's, it's just been awesome. So, and again, I'm just so excited for you this year and in the future as well. So, yeah, thanks, Rob. Thanks, Rob. Thank you. Thank you, Rob. Thank you guys for listening. We'll catch you next week. Take care. See you later, guys. Thanks, guys.