 lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim lim that he was just going to be, oh, yeah, it's cool. You can take your food through security. But then I learned my lesson and I lied a little bit because we then got taken through. So this was at customs in New York after we'd flown. And part of the kind of protocol I was on with the rapid backload requires me to be quite precise about lots of the things I'm eating. And I basically told him that I had like some meat or whatever. And he was like, okay, you're going to have to go over here. And they sectioned us off. And this woman did a bunch of like scans and things over our kind of the meat that we had and decided that I couldn't have. I think it was the steak or the chicken. I can't remember which one. But anyway, she asked me if I had any more. And I was like, oh, no, no, no, that's all of it. And I was like, okay, at least I managed to save some of my food. Yeah, I know. I think they took my apple as well. I had like an apple and they were like, no, you can't have that. I'm like, oh, man, I was looking forward to that. And then everyone else was just like, yeah, we just told them we didn't have any food. And they didn't even think twice. Oh, God. I was thinking it's going to be sniffer dogs and everything. They're going to be able to catch us out. And what happens? You get a massive fine or something. It's just us typical, yeah, bad boys. Can't even tell a lie. It's like, Mike, right, Mike, don't tell them we've got food in our suitcase. And we're like, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, cool, cool. Go up to them. And they're like, oh, so there's a few more of you bodybuilders have been through here. I was like, oh, okay. Have you got food in your suitcase? Just a little bit. And it was like, go over there. Oh, why can't we lie? And actually, I tried to be a bad boy when we went to see the basketball game. And I, because we had, they don't let you take food in or drink in or whatever. It's not a stupid law or rule, whatever it is. And I tried to like hide it under my puffer. And because the puff is just a big, like I look big in it. They're like, unzip your puffer. And I just had the bag of like food from GNC in there and some of those ghost cans that was amazing. And then they, as you know, Mike, I tried my best. I was like, this is caffeine in. I take my sleep very seriously. I'm not going to drink 200 milligrams of caffeine. It's like 7 p.m. Are you crazy? And they were just like, well, you can either drink it now or you can leave it. I was like, screw you. I also stuck in a protein bar. I know. That was very good, to be fair. It took me a half an hour to get over that, I think. I was gutted. Absolutely devastated. It was not good. Yeah, you had more to lose than I did as well. You had quite a bit of different things. Yeah, absolutely devastated. But, oh, well, you live and you learn, eh? What's been happening for you this week? Oh, I just, this week has flown by. And I think that's good because I think probably this time last month, I don't know if that's exactly when it was, but when you're self-employed, this sort of thing happens where I'll have busier weeks and less busy weeks. And there's multiple reasons for that. But for whatever reason, the last couple of weeks had lots of client inquiries, lots of consultations, even one-off consultations with people, plenty of podcasts booked in for me on certain podcasts. And then, like, other people obviously coming on to the Revive Stronger podcast. So, probably, again, a month ago, I probably had, like, almost a week or two where maybe I had one podcast. And that was just for this, like, the improvement season, then one for the Revive Stronger podcast. But, yeah, the past couple of weeks have just been full of, like, something every day, which is good. And it's great being busy and it's great seeing, like, time fly because that's a good thing. But sometimes I'm like, oh, it's feeling a little bit overwhelming. But we come back to Parkinson's Law where you get done whatever you need to get done in the time you've got. It's just maintaining the standard and quality that I want to and also not letting the stress and the overwhelm take away from my quality of life. It's definitely not at that point, trust me. Like, it's nowhere near that point. But it's just different where it was. And it's good. Like I said, it's good to be this busy. So, yeah, it's been a busy week, it feels like. I'm trying to think if there's anything specifically to highlight. But I don't think there is. It's just felt busy. Yeah. You've just got to kind of just one step at a time. Like, don't look too far ahead. Just like, right, what's next? What's next? And then also just have those, just really prioritize that bit of downtime sometimes in the evening or in the morning or whenever. It's like, just so you can have that little breather and reset. That's something I've realized I'm really bad at is I'm good in the evening of having that time. But I'm bad the rest of the day where, like, any opportunity to do something work-wise, I take it. So my dog walks with Ada are not, like, she's my priority and I just de-stress. There is, it would be a great opportunity to just switch off. But I'm constantly trying to, like, reply to a WhatsApp message or potentially watch a client check-in and make some notes. And, like, I'm always trying to be productive and use my time. And it's great that I can do that. But at the same time, I'm like, man, I should probably try and use one of those walks as just me, Ada, and the walk. Nothing else. The other thing you mentioned, taking one step at a time, it's freaking Easter next weekend, isn't it? Or on this being released this weekend. And that's always a stress for me because I'm, like, again, self-employed. I always forget about these things. I don't just get this time off, like, in my calendar. I have to plan, like, if I'm continuing to do check-ins as normal, I need to shift some people around or potentially delay them. And then that also makes my days busier and I have to plan around that, block out my calendar for, like, not letting podcasts or consults kind of come in in those times. And then, what was I going to say? Yeah, or I'm letting clients know ahead of time that, hey, this week we're going to do, like, set you up for two weeks. And it being Thursday, I haven't, I don't even know what I'm doing. Whereas it's easy for Charlotte because she's just like, I'm just off work. Yeah. So she doesn't, she just has to do the work ahead of time. But because our work is front-facing with other people, it's like you have to think, like, a step ahead. And it just crept up on me out of nowhere. I was like, oh, crap, it's bank holiday. It's Easter. And we, that would be a non-issue if I wasn't doing anything. But we always go down to Butte, Cornwall to see Charlotte's parents, which will be good. It's just, I'm just like, oh, God, I've got a lot to do now. And then I also have to think about how am I planning out that. And so that I still haven't come to terms with yet. I've got my laptop, so I can't, I'm going to have to do some work when I'm down there. But it's just how much. It's, it's kind of one of those things where you're kind of like, oh, that's a tomorrow problem. And then you're like, oh, shit, but I need to think about it a little bit. It's, it's such a tough one. And similarly, even though in the physio clinic, I'm self-employed, the clinic's just closed flat out on bank holidays. So again, it's just things like times like Christmas, the Easter bank holiday Monday, like, it's just not a thing. And I guess I'm quite not lucky, but the only circumstance that I'm in at the moment is because I'm single at the moment is that I don't have to think. So like one of my coaching days is Friday. So it's like, oh, if I don't think ahead, then it's not the biggest of issues because I probably haven't planned anything. Not that that's a good thing either. But yeah. Yeah, I think if I was single, lots of things in life would be easier. But I, like you said, I don't know if that's better, right, necessarily. It's just different. And you just adapt to the situation you're in. And by all means, like, just like being busy, it's, it's a good problem to have that, like, I'm blessed to be self-employed and I can be flexible. I can go to the gym basically when I want. It's just anyone listening who is also an online coach, which I imagine lots of people are, and they do it full time and they can't be so flexible. They know the pain, quote unquote, that I'm kind of talking about where it's like, oh, I have to think about back holidays. Damn it. Why couldn't Charlotte just be self-employed and work from home as well? That would be like, that would make life easy. She could just become an online coach. She could just work with all the women that come in to revive stronger, you know. But no, she does. Although she knows quite a bit. She doesn't, I wouldn't trust her to coach people. You know, it was quite funny because I think we said in New York, you said to her once, it's like, you know, so there's this person called Eric Helms and she was like, I know who Eric Helms is, Steve. She always bites at me for that. But then sometimes I'll say the person and she doesn't have a clue who there is. I'm like, well, this is why I tell you, like, I do like, do you know who? I didn't have to bite my head off. But yeah, she's good with names too. So like, there'll be people I'm like, you won't know who this person is. And then she just, she definitely does. She hears me ramble about it. I'm worse than that. You've got to, you've definitely got to tell me who it is. Yeah, depending for sure. How's your week been though? Yeah, it's been good. Kind of similar really. Times just flying by. And interestingly, on the Easter egg, on the Easter front, I was talking with a patient who has children and she was saying about the price of Easter eggs. Do you know how much an Easter egg costs? Well, it's highly varied. So I'm guessing you're talking about just like a basic Cadbury's, like, Easter egg. Because you can get like Hotel Chocolats for like 50, 75 pounds. Like there's very expensive Easter eggs available now where they're like top end luxury. But you're just talking like a Whisper or like a basic, like general size. Like a basic Easter egg. Yeah, I'm guessing. Yeah, I'm guessing they're maybe like between 10 and 15 pound. Yeah, you're right. She, so she said she was, she was looking at a Ferrero Rocher Easter egg. And she said it was like 16 pounds or something. And I was like, what for an Easter egg? Like, like, I, in my childhood memory, it was like four pounds, you know. Were you buying Easter eggs as a child? No, they got me. I was just getting given. Yeah. But I was like, man, that's mind blowing. And she said there was like a pistachio, half a pistachio egg in M&S. And that was like 14 pounds or something. And I was like, it's mind blowing. I'll stick with hot cross buns, I think. Have you had any hot cross buns? Do you know what? I haven't. So I need to get on that for sure. I have seen them. And as ever, there's a lot of variety. But it's always the ones I like tend to be like the apple cinnamon or like the triple chocolate or like a toffee caramel type of one. They always are good. I, for a while, bought the like luxury hot cross buns, like the fruity luxury ones from Tesco. But I haven't had any hot cross buns either. It's just, I've been boring, basic, just usual foods. What? Routine? You? Yeah, I know. It's like your vlog of, you were going through your like your MyFitness planner's like, oh, surprise, surprise, croats. Same again. Same again. And if you check the next however many days it's been since then, it doesn't change. It's like, oh, here we go, croats. Yeah. Ah. But yeah, maybe I'll have, I'll probably, Charlotte actually got me last year. You probably didn't see it, but maybe you did. So some supermarkets now do Easter eggs that aren't eggs. They do like weird other shapes. So like M&S do like a biscuit egg. So it's like, I don't know if it's custard cream, but it's big into like, and it's like an egg, but it's not an egg. It's just a big chocolate custard cream, basically. That's hollow. So, but Waitrose did this like luxury croissant, like Easter egg that was not like white chocolate. It was like a caramelized chocolate. You know, like Caramax. Do you remember that bar? It's like a red with like yellow writing on, you know, the one. It was kind of like that sort of chocolate. So I can't think what it's called. Anyway, it was delicious. No. No, not chocolate wafer. Yeah. No, it was like a white chocolate, but like caramelly white chocolate. Blondie, Blondie chocolate. That's the one. Anyway, that's the Charlotte got me that last year, but that costs like, I can't remember is like 20 quid or something for this like croissant. Thankfully for me, it lasts ages. So it's actually like quite good. Cause I buy, I have like to your post that you did today. And we've spoken about on here before, like abstain a moderator. I'm that person. You give me an Easter egg. It will last me like two months. Cause I'm just like, yeah, I'll just break off a little bit. Have 20 grams today. Whereas others are like, you give me an Easter egg. I eat that all in one go. Yeah, absolutely. I, uh, I, interestingly, not to go on a tangent and game, but with coming back to the hot cross buns for a second, actually. So I, me and my mom have come to the conclusion that sometimes some of those more different flavors, like even like maybe your triple chocolate, they taste more like a cake than they do an actual hot cross BUN. Cause like a traditional hot cross BUN is quite a bread type thing. Whereas the other ones, they've got more of a doughy cakey consist consistency. Would you say? Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. They start not really being a hot cross BUN anymore. And they start just being like, this is just, it's just a dessert. Literally what it is right now. The flavors. And to be fair, I mean, the variety of the flavors is amazing, but, uh, it is just cheesy ones as well. Cheesy ones are good. I've not tried it at least. Okay. Maybe that's what I'll do this time around. I'll try cheese cross BUN. Then it needs to be toasted and then you get the cheesy melted, but then it kind of like crisps up. I can't remember the last time I had one of those, but I have a memory of it being good. Okay. Probably an M&S one or something. It's got to be M&S. They, they're the top tier for hot cross buns. M&S. Waitrose. I don't really know what Waitrose do, but, uh, actually in Tooting, which is where I'm based if people don't know, we're getting, there's an M&S opening soon. Well, soon. I don't know. They've got like borders up and it's obviously becoming something. So I'm like, I'm excited for an M&S. Yeah. They always have the cool foods. Definitely. Not branded though. They, they don't like getting in much branded stuff. They'll do their own take on things. Most of their own brand. Yeah. Which is not a bad thing necessarily. No, no. If you need, if you want something quality, it's like M&S you go to. Yeah. Yeah. I'd say. So it sounds like neither of us, any, uh, other news outside of just been a pretty standard week for you? Well, one thing I actually, um, cause I, one thing I wanted to talk about, cause I thought the listeners would find it helpful is, um, so I, I, one of the things that came across kind of from last week to this week was I had a bit of, um, my shoulder got a little bit tight after a few of the sessions and I had some discomfort in it. Um, which thankfully all settled down by the time we checked in on Tuesday, it was like, I didn't even know it was there. And again, today it's feeling fantastic, I would say. Um, but something that you spoke about in the check-in, which was really resonated with me a little bit is you said about move from a range that you feel strong in. And I think, again, we kind of, the pendulum swings sometimes, doesn't it? Where it was kind of like maximum range of movement at all costs type thing, even if you're not feeling particularly strong, whereas actually now we're starting to understand things a bit better. And yeah, just that was something that just really stuck in my head. And again, it felt better for it. I don't know if you want to say anything on that at all. Yeah, I definitely have thoughts on it. It's funny. Someone commented on one of, I'm doing this like series of vlogs where I'm going over some of like first principles, bodybuilding and just taking like volume topic. I've got one that I've made on failure and someone asked for one on range of motion and where my thoughts are surrounding that at the moment. And I definitely, for a while, it makes me think of the passive tension versus active tension argument or sorry, active range of motion versus passive range of motion. And for a long time, there was this camp of people that were like, Hey, you should just work within a muscles like active range and don't go through passive ranges. And I was always of the opinion, like, no, you should just go full ROM, passive tension. You still get hypertrophy there. And that is true. But I found myself more and more siding with a bit more of the like, not that I think you should only take muscles for an active range of motion. That's how you should lift everything. But the more I train, the more I'm like, actually, that kind of active range often is coinciding with a range that I feel good, strong in. I feel like I maintain tension a lot within the target muscle. As an example, today I was actually doing pendulum squats and someone commented, I posted my pendulum squats that I did last week, yesterday. And they were like, are you like, like purposely like cutting range there for a reason, whatever. And I just find I did it today. I tested going deeper. I can go deeper. I can keep my knees straight forward and I can bring more of my hamstring to calf. But as I go through that like extra 25% of the range of motion, I'm just like, I don't feel the tension in my quads anymore. I just feel I'm just coming deeper and it feels like I'm actually losing tension in my quads. And it's just kind of distributing to potentially passive tissues. I'm just feeling as a general, I'm getting more range and I'm coming out of it. I'm like, it doesn't feel better. And actually when I cut before that and I maintain, I come as deep as I can whilst I've still got max, feels like max tension in that target muscle and it's not distributing to other areas. And I feel strong there. Like that just feels more productive. And sometimes that can even lead to me using less load or gain less reps because I like, I'm not using some of the passive like, like elements that are helping me like propel the weight up or get that, uh, those repetitions and use that load. So, uh, yeah, I've kind of jumbled my, my thoughts there, but same with, um, dumbbell pressing, which is mostly or pressing for you, which is what we're talking through. I was always like, yeah, you should bring the weights down to like touch your chest because why shouldn't, why wouldn't you like that? That range is available to you. And I was always like, oh, when people didn't do that, I was like, ah, you're just like ego lifting for more load. And actually quite often you can't always lift more when you kind of control it down into that range and then come up because you can't use that kind of almost stretch reflex and some of the passive tissues there. But that's something I've also found where I'm like, oh, actually the biofeedback in terms like pump disruption, that all feels better when I don't always go into the deepest range that I can. And actually maybe it is like a more active range of motion for that muscle. So yeah, those are my kind of jumbled thoughts when you brought this up to me. It was, it was coherent though, because it, in a way, so now I can go into that passive range, like you were saying, but it doesn't feel better. Like I don't get any more disruption or stimulus from it. And, you know, if you'd have said to me before, like, oh no, definitely go into as much stretch as you possibly can, I would, I would have done it and I would have said, yeah, of course. But it just feels natural now to take it to maybe not quite, not quite as deep into that passive stretch. And again, where I feel strong, it just, again, it just feels natural and it feels like, again, like I can generate more tension, more stimulus. So it was kind of like, again, like, ah, this is, this is nice. This is good. It's almost a bit similar, Mike, to like doing an RDL. Like I'd always just try and come as low as I could whilst I thought visibly I was maintaining like a good neutral spine, hips staying high, staying back. And I was always just chasing as much stretch, as much range as possible. But it's like, actually, once the hips aren't moving any further back, if you're coming down still, where, how are you coming down? Where's that coming from? Is it coming from the back rounding and you're now distributing tension away from where you wanted it, which was mostly the hamstrings, the glutes? You probably are. So I think, yeah, like you said, the pendulum swang a little bit too far into full range of motion, into getting to the longest muscle length possible. And it's like, well, maybe we don't even need to get to the longest range possible. Maybe there's a sweet spot just before that, where again, you are strong, able to like produce maximal force. I think this might actually be called something that a lot of the evidence-based space have poo-pooed. I can't think what it's called. There's probably someone who it's popping off in their head and they will put it in the comments. Oh, I'll be able to find it. Okay. Let me take, give me a moment. I'll find it. No, not at all. Yeah. Find it. But is there any other thoughts that come to your head? Well, not, not kind of on, on that, so to speak. It was, it was kind of still related to chest training, but something else that you said where I, because I mentioned as well that the angle of certain things. So if it's a quite a high incline, it does again, cause me a little bit more discomfort. Do you know what? A shoulder press feels okay, but just some, there's something about like an incline and particularly something like a Smith press where that bar is just, I can't alter my arm path quite as well. Um, it's just a bit more provocative on the shoulder. And you were saying to me that like, Hey, if you have to go a little bit lower, if you have to go flat, the chest muscle essentially isn't like the back where we do have to think about certain angles, et cetera. You know, if you're, even if you're going from flat, you're still going to be getting the vast majority of the fibers. So it's like, Hey, don't overstress if you're not getting lots and lots of different angles, which again, I thought we, a lot of people might get themselves into a tis about if they can't, Oh, I can't do incline or I can't do this particular specific angle. And it's like, Hey, don't stress about it. Yeah, absolutely. It's that idea that like the, the back is much more complex. And so you want to attack it from different angles for sure, because you just simply won't be training your lats very well if you're pulling and flaring out your elbows really far and retracting your scapula and not depressing at all. But the chest, if you're pressing flat because of the kind of chest muscle is a fan shape, like everything's getting pretty stretched. Everything is getting kind of hit to some extent. Unfortunately, I can't, I know it came up in my notes from a podcast that I do with Menno Henselman, sorry, Menno, I'm reading Menno, Brett Contreras, but it seems like I've deleted those. So I'm really frustrated with myself because I know it's a, there's a term for it that we're kind of talking about, uh, that I don't think is necessarily like fundamentally evidence-based yet. And some people argue one way or the other, but I can't remember the damn term. So someone will have to make the comment. It's not related to insufficiency, active and passive insufficiency, is it? No, that's not it. I'm really annoyed that I deleted the notes from that podcast. I don't know why I would have. And in fact, I believe I even used them recently somewhere else, but my, if you look to my Apple notes, they are like, there's just so flipping much. Like I have so many notes, like it's absolutely, I've nearly 3000 notes. So there's a lot in there. I'm blank. I've, uh, Yusuf from Propane Fitness is like, I told you obsidian, you need to get obsidian. It would have been, but I don't know if obsidian would have helped. I need the, I know what, where it is. I just can't think, uh, like, and I think someone like a, I think, uh, what's his name? Why is his name not coming to me now? The hypertrophy coach, Joe Bennett talks about this principle. I think he's quite fond of it. And then also, I think maybe a Paul Carter, um, Chris Beardsley, they're maybe somewhat fond of it. Uh, but anyway, I can't think what the thing is. So there's no point me trying to, I'm just frustrated because my head won't be settled until I can say what it is. Anyway, it's one of those things where it's like tomorrow or something, it's going to come to you and you're going to, yeah, I'll get a WhatsApp message saying it's this, it's this. I've done that to you before. Yeah, man. It's so frustrating. Uh, the only other thing, uh, so on the note of training and injuries, so my knees feel much, much better. They're definitely not a hundred percent. I was just, I was putting some socks on and kneeling on the ground. I trained legs today though, and they are like sore kneeling on them, like just that tendon sore. But during the lifts, nowhere near a three out of 10 pain, even kicking in belt squats, feeling really, really good. I'm to the point though, with belt squats where I'm reminding why I ended up cycling them out because the belt is just such a pain, man. Like I can pad it out and I can try and put like long shorts on, but I've got like my inner thighs are bruised from it, just rubbing and from it pressing against them. So I even need to try and find a way, a better way of doing it. And I never really found one from before. So I might have to invest in a belt squat belt. It's just, it's going to be a good a hundred, 200 pounds or something depending. So, but it's such a productive movement for me. It's very similar to like belt squat RDLs. They're just, they feel so good. I get like the SFR is just fantastic. So yeah, anyway, they felt really, really good and productive. So I'm happy about those. It's just that belt situation. And then, uh, yeah, pendulum has went really well today, managed to add another 10 kilos. And so that was very good. And PR those I've never done the amount of reps that I got with that load before. So that's great. So yeah, all in all, can't complain. And RDLs, you've smashed your previous PB, haven't you? Yeah, it's ridiculous. Like, um, belt squat squats are also massively up. Uh, but yeah, that was, it was a long time since I rotated because I went through like a phase of doing like barbells, straight deadlifts off the floor. Then I went to like barbell RDLs. And now it's like, it basically was a year and a half coming back to doing that. The belt squats there, but I'm surprised how much stronger I am versus before, which is exciting. That's like what you want. Right. Definitely. And just coming back to the belt squat again for a second is even though it's a bit of an investment now, at least, you know, like, Hey, even if you rotate it out for a little while, you're going to come back to it at some point. So I guess it's kind of like squat shoes where it's probably going to last you for a very long time. My concern is if it doesn't solve my problem. Yeah. Cause it will solve the spud ink do like a pillow one, which is like basically very percussioned around the hips, which will solve one part of the problem. But that's probably not the biggest problem. The biggest problem is the thigh rubbing actually. Uh, uh, why is his name? James steel. Uh, I've been talking to James steel a little bit through Instagram DMS and he has purchased the spud ink, I think pillow belt. So he's going to be my dummy. And so he'll, he said he'd review it for me. So if, if he says it works well, then I can be fairly certain it's going to work well. The only other thing to consider is cause he trains from home and he has like a makeshift belt squat. He's built basically the setups different. So that does concern me like different, you know, different machines. How does the dynamics of where it runs and whatever. But, uh, anyway, we'll have to see a bit of a random thought. Could you even just try putting a bit of Vaseline in the old inner thighs? No, it wouldn't really, no, I wouldn't do it. Cause part of the problem is like I have shorts on, so it's rubbing against the shorts. So it's not scraping my legs. Not the problem. The problem is it's like a lot of force pressing on my inner thighs. Okay. So it's like, it's now bruising them. So the rubbing isn't great, but it's solved by having undershorts on basically or doing like using jogging bottoms, but now it's yet rubbing. So I used to, if I got like a chain and it dangled and I, I'd maybe, I think I used to use maybe a different saying anyway, I'm rambling to the point belt squats feel great, but anyone who's used a belt squat often you can run into this problem of the belt rubbing on the thighs. And if you need a wide stance or a different setup with the belt or use a chain of some sort to stop it, but then you've run into issues with like range of motion and all of that sort of thing. So we'll have to see. I'll see what James says. Maybe I'll end up getting the Spudink pillow belt. We'll see. What about how's your hip and kind of TFL type thing? I think it's getting better. It's not getting worse. I still know it's there. It's definitely not gone. I'm almost trying to not think about it too much because I'm hoping it's one of those things where, I don't know, if you don't think about it, then it's suddenly it's just gone and it's no longer an issue. That's often what I find. Whereas if I really hyper-focus on something, it almost makes it a problem or makes it into something. So, but yeah, basically it's not getting worse. So that's really good news. The knees seem to be on the upwards trajectory. So that's really good. And yeah, I quite like to not need to wear knee sleeves. That would be a good step. So, but I'll, I'm only going to do that once the knees feel really, really good and healthy, but I'd like to not have to use those, but I did some sissy squats today and they managed, I handled those fine. So that was good. Hack sissy squats. No, I didn't do the hacks. Yeah. Yeah. I was like, that's a bit too much. I did the, I went back to the assisted ones where you kind of like hold onto a rope and lean back and then kind of almost glide a bit pendulum, like back and forward. And they, they felt great. I think they're one of those movements. It's like some ab movements. They feel really good and productive initially, like lying leg raises for me felt amazing for actually months. And then I got to a point with them where I was like, man, these are just like mentally draining me. They're so hard because you've got quite strong at them. You're progressing them and to continue to progress and they just, for me, the SFR kind of starts really dwindling. I think these got there, like reps got really high for them, but I did them today and I did them real slow controlled and they just, the stretch on the rec fem was just like, I was like, Ooh, I haven't had that for a while. So they feel really nice at the moment. Nice. I, um, yeah, I was going to, I can, I can relate to that. It's funny because with the leg raises, I got to that same point doing it on a flat bench, but then I'm since modifying it to doing it over an incline bench, I don't know what it was, but that just again, reset the technique to a certain degree that it still feels in a good sort of phase at the moment for me right now, which is good. Yeah. I did them flat. Then I went to an incline and then I started using cuffs to load weight on them. And then that's where I was like, Oh God, like this is just becoming a bit too much for me. I was like, abs are already a bit of a pain to train anyway. So let's, let's move to something else. So yeah. I don't know why, but there's been a couple of times where you've just said there, um, oh, it's such a pain and it's just, it's bringing me back to the Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood where there's this homunculus called Sloth. It's like this big muscly dude who digs a tunnel. Do you remember? No. This is because you watched four different, three to four different animes, Steve. Yeah. I can't remember. I know the homunculus, but I can't remember this one. There's, um, so there was all these different homunculus, but one of them is called Sloth. And he basically, he digs this tunnel and, uh, but one of the things that he says is such a pain, uh, such a pain. I don't know why, but yeah. He's the one who basically just eats. No, no, that's, um, what is it? What's that one called? It's called not lust. That's the one I'm thinking of. Oh, damn it. Um, not greed. Oh, come on. Now my brain's doing this. Come on, come on, come on brain. Um, it's going to come to me any minute now. No, it's not. But anyway, do you know what's really interesting? So the different homunculuses, they're named after the, like, I think it's the seven deadly sins or something like that. Like again, lust, greed, envy, wrath, like they're all the seven deadly sins. And it's like, oh, this is so interesting. Um, so yeah, that's what, that's what I geeked out on recently. Oh dear. Yeah. The, um, you have to watch the seven deadly sins now. That's also an anime. Is it? Oh, basically. And it has the seven deadly sins. Yeah. There's too much, Steve. There's just like, there's Free Wren, there's Baki, there's My Hero Academia. It's too much. Yeah. And then you can't blame me then when I forget things because there is, you know, and I'm bad with those sort of like recalls. Oh, there's probably, and I've only, I, it wasn't one I was super invested in. The Metal Alchemist. I'll be better with some Naruto names, but still, even then I'll probably forget some. Pokemon though. I know my Pokemon. You do. Much better than me. I'm useless at Pokemon. After Pikachu and some of the others, I'm just useless. Just quickly on, uh, I don't know what you term this. It's not current affairs, but anyway, I finished One Piece, the live action. So I finished season two. And, uh, yeah, so good. I really enjoy it. Uh, it's making me want to watch the anime, but some people have said they've even done characters better in the live action. So, uh, but anyway, I can't wait for the next season. And now I'm watching Witcher. Have you heard of the Witcher? I have. Is that with Henry Cavill? It was. They've replaced him with a new guy. I don't know who he is, which I was a bit like, it's a bit weird watching it without Henry. Cause Henry to me is the Witcher, but now I'm a few episodes in. And I'm like, it's fine. He's good. Does the job. How can you say yet whether this new season is better than the previous seasons or is it just different? Uh, if I was to try and say anything, it would be, it's not quite as good, but it's just different. I think. Um, yeah. Yeah. I, you just get attached to certain characters. Cause I remember the Batman dark night trilogy with Christian Bale, like that was just the height of Batman. And then when they brought in, um, Ben Affleck and the other guys, I was like, Oh no, like, Oh, just leave it or whatever. And it's like, nevermind. I think they're doing Harry Potter. Like they're doing like a remake of Harry Potter. So that's going to be weird, isn't it? Yeah. It's like, Oh, just leave it alone. Come on guys. Or at least leave it 50 years or something. Yeah. Um, should we get to questions? Let's get to questions, shall we? We've, I've, we've been rambling. Um, right. I'll ask you the first. I did not. I don't think we did. No. So we have actually quite a lot of questions and we have good time. So we have gourmet Paul. Thank you, Paul, for your question. In the last improvement season, you mentioned taking walks without socks yet wearing socks to bed. Who in their right mind wears socks to bed? I don't remember saying walks without socks. I don't remember that bit either. Um, but yeah, socks to bed is a legit thing. Like there's research on it where people actually get higher quality sleep. So, um, I, all, I pretty much always wear them to bed. And then I pretty much always end up taking them off because I get too hot. But yeah, look into it, Paul. Yeah. I, I've noticed that myself. I get super cold feet and just wearing, I haven't done it recently, but sometimes just wearing very warm socks. It's a, it really helps. Yeah. It's like literal, like it's a recommendation from some of the sleep researchers. Like, Hey, try wearing socks. And for whatever reason, it does something to your core body temperature and enhances sleep quality. So yeah, give it a shot, Paul. Don't, uh, don't, um, what's it called? Try it before you bin it. Whatever the right terminology for that is. Don't knock it before you try it. That's the one. There you go, Paul. Let us know. Send us a photo with you wearing your socks or not. Um, so Fusillo 11. What to do when weight loss stalls in a mini cut? I'm also finding calories post mini cut maintenance or right to small surplus bulk calories. In my opinion, a mini cut is so short and you're so aggressive that there shouldn't really be a situation where you have to make an adjustment. If body weight is stalling either something's changed in regards like your expenditure or whatever, or you didn't create a large enough deficit from the get go, or it's just stress or some fluid retention short term. So honestly, I would generally say you shouldn't need to make an adjustment. And then in regards to kind of calories post mini cut, uh, you're again, cause the mini cut is short. You're only maybe losing 5% of your body weight. You haven't seen the sort of metabolic down regulation that you'd see in a longer cut or losing more body weight. So actually your maintenance shouldn't be too far adjusted from where it once was. It might be 5, 10% lower, but basically I would just do a slow transition towards maintenance and then get into a surplus. But if you shoot for maintenance and ends up being a surplus, that's also okay because the goal is to just buy more time massing. So those are my thoughts there. I don't know if you have anything more, Mike. Not really. Would you, have you ever run a mini cut past six weeks? Uh, six to eight weeks is like, I used to say four to six is like mini cut. I think that's true mini cut territory, but then you're just, it's just terms, right? It's like what, what counts as mini? It's just, it doesn't really matter too much. So, um, maybe up to eight, but yeah, I try and if someone's, I like someone to commit to a mini cut if we're doing a mini cut and not continue it. Um, but yeah, if they're still feeling good and weight's coming off fine, like you can extend it. Yeah. Yeah. I think it was just cause again, everyone's sort of definition of a mini cut is maybe slightly different and therefore like the durations I've seen some people do it longer than six weeks. And I'm like, uh, it kind of, again, like that. I think sometimes that difference, you know, it's just interesting. So yeah, I wasn't sure. But yeah, if someone stalled, like just generally in a fat loss phase, I think like just make a small adjustment normally, like unless you have a deadline, just like sometimes just a little hundred calorie knock down in calories or an extra couple of thousand steps on average a day is enough to just seemingly see progress. And maybe you didn't need to make the adjustment at all, um, but sometimes it just reveals progress when you do like small adjustments, but like the adaptation when you've made a large cut in calories shouldn't be too assert like aggressive in a short period of time. So that's why I think shouldn't need to do too much. Yeah. And again, I think the, I guess there's an assumption that we're making as well as that adherence is completely on point. Cause I think from a coach's perspective, you might see a client hit a plateau or the same, the weight's not moving and it's like, ah, is, is adherence is, uh, and that's, and what was an interesting learning point for me, um, which was in the JPS physique contest prep courses, there's a different types of adherence, right? There's, uh, you know, there's maybe kind of like, um, you know, someone can't commit to whatever the plan is. Maybe someone is subconsciously not tracking things right. And there's something else, there's specific terms, which I'm kind of forgetting right now, but, you know, there's different types of adherence. And again, that's just as a coach, that's something that you've just got to make sure you're not assuming and glossing over first. I think. Yeah. I guess it's like someone might not know they're not adhering because they're not aware of the calories in something that they should be tracking, for example. Yeah. Or they might be tracking something incorrectly like raw versus cooked weight or something that can also happen. So sometimes you do have to like, and hopefully most of our clients, we, I haven't had to do this for ages because our clients are very, um, they understand how to track nutrition. Basically, that's probably the best way to put it. But sometimes I've had to dig into food diaries and like look at food logs and then ask for photos to be like, what does that match to what I'd expect to see? And then sometimes you just have to know, honest chat with someone, right? And just like, Hey, on these calories at your activity level, your body weight for the amount of time we've been dieting, there's no reason you shouldn't be dropping. Are you adhering to this? And then you could even go as far as to being like, Hey, like, not that I like doing this, but follow this meal plan. And if you follow that, like, then you can be confident if they've said they followed that to the T that they're hitting those numbers they should be hitting. And that sometimes can clear the way. Yeah, definitely. I think we got it. There was a point where maybe, you know, potentially meal, meal plans were demonized, but everything has pros and cons, you know, you know, calories, macros, meal plans. It's like they've all got their pros and cons. And there's a, there's a context and a, and a situation for when they could be useful. Yeah, for sure. The next question is asked to me. So I don't know if you want to ask me. I'll ask this next one. So Lucas dot froggy asks, Steve, what's your current body weight? You recently said that you increased your calories and your body comp seems amazing still. So thank you, Lucas. Body comp. I'm pretty happy with it. Uh, I am weighing my average weight is just over 185 pounds, which is that 84 kilos, something like that. I'm not sure. I think it's in around that amount. So yeah, I'm averaging there and I've not got much more to say on it. Really? It's creeping up though. Finally seems to be actually creeping up, which is good. So, uh, I then have to consider how far I want to take it. Like we said last time, part of me is thinking to do a little cleanup before going to Bali, but hey, we'll see, we'll see. See how you feel close to the time. But I'll ask you, the next one is straight to you as well. So I'll just quickly ask this as well, because the last one was quite quick. From our man, Lloyd Grossman. I won't make any jokes, Lloyd, I promise. And you obviously don't mind us because you keep coming back asking for questions. We appreciate it. Um, so Lloyd asks, Steve, do you have any future roundtables planned with Eric, Dr. Mike, et cetera? They're great. We need more if possible. So no, I have none planned. They are the hardest podcasts to organize, uh, just because of different people, different schedules, different, um, time zones, all of that sort of thing. And then it's also, they need a lot of planning to like ensure that I'm aware of different people's perspectives and opinions on things and what's a topic that is part of their expertise. So like, I, like people, it would be great to have Eric, Mike and Menno on and like talk about a topic, but it's like, I have to, as the host have like a structure and a format and think about good questions. So it's, it, they take a lot. And also for those people specifically, it's hard enough to get, well, actually Eric is pretty, um, manageable to kind of talk through. And obviously we're having our, um, monthly, uh, whatever name of the podcast it is, Iron Stronger, Stronger Culture, all of those good names. Uh, so we're, we're doing those regularly, but Mike is super busy. Menno, the last time I asked him to come on the podcast, he didn't have time for it either. So to try and bring them all together is going to be virtually impossible. I imagine at the moment, but, uh, if people have people and specific topics for round tables and like throw them my way, because that would be helpful to me. I do have people that come to mind to talk about things like I have, for example, potentially, uh, like Ben Yanis or Yanes. I always forget, I think it's Yanis and getting him on and maybe like a Jonathan Warren, who is like the ECM model he likes, which is like the expansion compression model, which I really don't know well at all. Um, considering bringing them on to talk about their differences, biomechanics, but even that, like, I don't have like clear questions I want to ask yet, but it's just an idea of bringing those guys on. I do want to get Jonathan on the podcast on his own first though, because I think that's a bit unfair to just bring him on for the round table. So that might help me actually think of some things to then bring up during the chat with Ben. But yeah, anyway, at the moment, no, but Lloyd, if you have ideas for what I just mentioned, please do let me know. Definitely. And obviously, given what we said at the start of how busy you are at the moment, and I think it's hard to see sometimes how much time goes into preparing these things. You are a one man band from that perspective. It's not like a Modern Wisdom or a Jay Shetty podcast where you've got teams of researchers and production crew handling all the bits. It's like, no, this is all you. True. Yeah. And actually, we're in a really good spot with the podcast. I'm actually talking to and sometimes it's nice. I had Ramon on the podcast. Limitcher, Limitcher, his last name. And it's a pronunciation. I'm not saying it right because he's from Switzerland. But anyway, I had him on yesterday to talk through his journey and particularly talking about why he's moved out of competitive bodybuilding. Because obviously, we got asked that question last week. And I was like, actually, it'd be good to just talk to him about it to get his perspective on it. So that'll be good. But that was an easier recording because it's like, we're both bodybuilders. I just need to do a bit of background research about his competitive history and stuff. And then I'm talking to Dr. Pack tomorrow. And I actually, the reason I wanted to talk to him was he went for a big transformation fat loss recently. So I want to dig into like how that was for him because he held a heavier, like softer body comfort a long, long time. So I just want to dive into like how that's been for him, lessons he's learned. But anyway, I'm rambling. But yeah, you're right. Like some podcasts take a lot more time and effort than those ones might. But we have, yeah, there's plenty in the works. And I'm always looking to expand and appreciate that people enjoy certain episodes. Anyway, I'll ask you the next question from our man Remy. He has asked, if you could be sponsored by any two companies and get their stuff for free, what would they be? Oh, my goodness. So I think within that, a nutritional company would be a good choice. So I don't, I can't think of what that might be. But I'm not sure. I feel like, yeah, if you got, I don't know, like a muscle foods, if that's the right name, because then you can get, you'd get, might get a lot of their stuff for free. And then you could combine that with like a clothing company, clothing company like Rascal. I think those would be two good choices. So either like a food supplement type sponsorship and then a clothing sponsorship. I think that would be pretty good. Yeah, I don't know if muscle works, muscle works, flipping heck. Muscle foods, that is the right name. I used to order from them semi frequently, but I don't eat that much meat anymore. So it kind of became not something I did. But yeah, I remember having like shed loads of chicken delivered and I'm like having to put it in the freezer and everything. So that's a great shout. I was thinking because we talked about it already, like Marks and Spencer's. I was like, imagine if they sponsored me. That's a great idea. Just get Marks and Spencer's food for free. But I'm imagining Remy's asking like, I don't know, a supplement sponsor or something like that potentially. Which I think muscle foods, maybe, maybe even do some supplements. I'm not sure, but more useful would be direct like food. That would actually be more helpful. I don't know if muscle foods do sponsor people or not. But the one company that always comes to mind, just because I think they're freaking cool in what they do. I think they're in kind of a bit of a league of their own is Ghost. I think with the flavors that they do, the packaging they get, the marketing, they've also got their own clothing as well. Yeah, so they're just kind of a bit cool and quirky and out there. But the thing I only ever would use from them really, they have some basic supplements now, I think. Like some multivits and omegas and stuff. But really, it's just their protein powders. That's the main supplement I end up getting through. Like, I'm not fucked about like pre-workouts or any fancy like pump products or anything like that, really. I just want kind of the basic cores, like, again, omegas, vitamin D, like multivitamin or like zinc and magnesium, these sort of things. Outside of that, it's like, yeah, a good protein powder that mixes in well, which actually Ghost didn't. Sorry, Ghost. Well, exactly. I feel like if we had the option of like three, maybe like two and a bit or something, that would be the close second, I think, where you can just get your, like you said, the weigh in, some cores and that's it. You know, but food and clothing, I think, would be the first two. And then Rascal, you can't be it, right? Of course. So, obviously, you can go with Rascal. So, yeah, I'll leave it at that. Always Rascal. And you got, not to go too much on a tangent, but you made a, just a post with your train. I think it was on Sunday, actually, your training with your notes. And I just noticed that a lot of the comments were, because you had your string vest on, and there was a lot of comments on your, about your physique. And I was just like, ah, yeah, which is great. And it's funny, someone commented saying like, first, like carousel, you doing bicep curls, that's clickbait, it's fine, it's something like that. And I was like, yep, and it works every time. Whenever I have upper body, I'm just like, I have to record my arm, like my arm training, and it has to be the first carousel, because it just draws eyes immediately. So, yeah, it's like the girls who film from the back in their first carousel's like glutes, right? It's like, it gets the attention and the clicks. Always from the guys on both sides, though, right? Absolutely. Yeah. But yeah, that pump covers, the stringer is very, like, when you think of a stringer, this is like the pump cover from Rascal. It's like, if you're going to get one, be prepared for it to be revealing, because it's a stringer. Like the straps over the shoulders, I was like, ooh, that looks like that could snap. It actually feels like it's actually good build quality, but I was like, ooh, that's risque. If you're worried about your nipples coming out, these aren't the tops for you. You have to shuffle it around a little bit. The other vests, though, the ones we've always really liked, more classic ones. Those ones, like nip slips and stuff, not a concern. They're more my preference, but yeah, I mean, the pump cover's got a time and place. Yeah, you can definitely pull them off. I cannot pull them off whatsoever, so I'm not going to be getting them anytime soon. Plenty of other choice, though, which is good. Exactly. Well, this will come out after it, but if there's still a sale on, there's like a huge dump cover sale, and they've got a restock of all the dump covers, which I still think my favorite, Mike, of the dump covers are the stripy ones and the classic cotton. And I think they're a bit baggier, a bit looser. I don't know what it is about those ones. They just, I don't know, I really like them, but yeah, they have all of them. The new ones with zips, all of that. But anyway, shall I ask you the next question? Because you asked me a bunch of questions. Yeah, go for it. So, Jared has asked. Our guy, Jared. Did you miss one? You missed one. Oh, sorry, did I click? I clicked it before I did it. Yeah, sorry. Koval Heidi has asked, working out through chronic inflammation and injuries to continue progress. She's talking to me as if she knows I'm doing that. Mm-hmm. I think the key things with, it's really hard dealing with, you know, a longer term issue such as inflammation and injuries. And as we talk about often, it's incredibly frustrating. I think the biggest things that you can sometimes do is try to monitor, if you can find gauges and monitorings for other things. So it might be that, because I think the biggest problem sometimes is dealing with the swings where you might have a good day and you do a lot. And then all of a sudden you've tipped yourself over the edge and then you have a really, really bad day and it's these kind of highs and lows. That is part of it anyway. Like, we will have good and bad days anyway. But we want to try to, we want to try and not exacerbate the highs and lows of those things by trying to keep a certain equilibrium of, I guess, activity and what we do. Um, understand, this can also sometimes take time, but understanding triggers or things that aggravate things can be so useful. Um, because if you can minimize them, we might not be able to totally eliminate them. But if we can minimize those triggers, that is just a game changer. Um, so I think if you have that understanding, then that will really help. And then if you've then got a relatively consistent and stable platform, you can build on that. So, you know, you can then, right, we can just focus on, right, continuing to exercise. And we just maybe just build that up very, very slowly or, or whatever. And it's, it's kind of taking it from there. So those are kind of like my initial thoughts. And Heidi, if you've got any more specific questions around that, then just let us know next time. Yeah, I think that was really well explained. And obviously I've been going through this journey myself really, and I've definitely been able to continue to progress despite kind of that chronic inflammation in the knees. But I think you get, the reason I've been able to is I'm managing to train muscles, obviously close to failure, but without making that situation worse. And that's the key. And it's just being honest with yourself and taking the kind of ego out of it and doing things that maybe you don't want to have to do, but you just have to do them in the short term. So if that's slower or eccentric, if that's slightly modified range of motion, if that's changing an exercise out, higher repetitions, things like this, if you really want to, you probably can. And then if you've done all those things though, and you're still getting problems, that's when I'm like, Hey, we might need a more kind of brutal, if that's the wrong terminology, but a stronger kind of way of managing this fatigue. And you just need to pull back. It reminds me of when my TFL was getting worse and worse, then it was just flaring up and it was just clear it wasn't getting better. And then we're just like, right, let's go to BFR. And that seemed to initially help. And then I don't know what ended up happening, but I just troubleshot and tried changing my stance. It was like, Oh, now I find a pain-free route to kind of get through things. So, uh, it might, I'd say, try some of those modifications, monitor it over time. If it's getting better than you're good. And like, I, like Mike said, just make sure not to suddenly jump ship and be like, Oh, my knees are better. They're like, I'm barely feeling any pain. Let's jump straight back into the hack squat and do whatever plates per side. It's like, no, you're going to get straight back to like ground zero again, better to like slowly modify things over time. And, um, yeah, if it isn't getting better over time, though, I think you probably agree, Mike, sometimes you just need to be like rest might be what you, you need or mostly rest, not, not overloading training, basically stay away from failure probably is what it needs. Definitely. I think something that you remind me of there as well, when you were saying is you've really got to not be stubborn because we sometimes are stubborn to keeping things in for longer than we should. And again, particularly with this, we've got, uh, got to not do that. If you're, if we're having a quote unquote, like a bad day from an inflammation or an injury perspective, maybe not today's not the day to maybe you had a, maybe Heidi had a strength training session planned and she was like, right, I'm going to do this strength training session. But then all of a sudden maybe she has a flare up, right? Maybe not. Now's not the day where we push the training. Maybe we go on the bike. Maybe we go for a walk instead and then, right, we feel better the next day. So right now we can get into that strength training session. So we've almost got to be more adaptable and not be set in our, not too rigid in our routines when we're dealing with those sorts of issues. Yeah. Yeah. And not do dumb things like I did. Mine really got set off. I think I told you, like I got, I had quite a painful rep in the hack squat and I was like, it's fine. It's fine. And then it's like, after that set, I was like, nope, not fine. Definitely shouldn't have done that. Uh, but yeah, you, you kind of live and learn as it were. Yeah. I, if, and if I can just wait, make one final point, there's two good people, Heidi, that I'd recommend that you follow on Instagram. Uh, one is called the gentle physio. Her name's Jasmine. She works specifically with hypermobility and chronic pain patients. And she sometimes has some really nice infographics on, you know, how to manage kind of chronic pain and things like that. So she might be a good person to follow. And then some, somebody that I'd recommend everybody follow, sorry, someone I'd recommend everybody to follow is, I think, I think he's called the injury psychologist. His name's Carl something. But again, injury is so, we cannot separate psychology from injury and he just has some really good stuff. So if anybody is managing particularly more of a longer term injury, or if they've been injured, I'd recommend you follow him because he has some really nice information that he sets out there. I think you recommended him to me at some point, at least I can follow him. I haven't consumed too much of his content. And I say it hasn't come up for me too much, but I would like to get some sports psychologists on the podcast because I think that is a really interesting area. And so if he's specific towards injury, I think that could be a really interesting podcast actually. Yeah. Yeah. I think have a look at some of his stuff because it is so, yeah. It's, I just think he's bang on the money with a lot of that kind of stuff. And I think it would be so insightful for people for sure. Yeah. Nice question. Yeah. Let me ask this. So our man, Jared. Oh, okay. So he says, Magic Mike and Steve, what are the top five items that are always in your gym bags? Good question. So I have Versagrips always in there. What else is always in there? Yoga blocks. Yoga blocks are almost always in there. But yeah, yoga blocks are very much like most sessions are in there. Then, oh, tripod. That's always in there. Tripod. I don't know if I can say this, but like a metal shaker, like my intro workout basically is always in there. And, but commonly I'll have like squat shoes, my knee sleeves and a weightlifting belt are the ones I have in there. And recently I know I've gone way over five, but really the, my top five or my top ones are Versagrips. And then my like intro workout shake is basically, and then my three would be the tripod. They're the three that are always in there. Basically. And then just as a bonus is recently I've been using a seatbelt. So I was actually gifted this seatbelt ages ago. I tried it out once on like a leg extension or something. I was like, man, it feels like more fast than it's worth. And I can just hold myself in to get that counter forced. So my hips aren't shooting up. But we got a leg curl in Yorkies recently. And I was like, man, I could really do with something, hold my hips down. Cause I can really feel my hips wanting to move. And I was like, I have a seatbelt. So then I started using my seatbelt and that's in my bag most sessions. And actually it comes in really handy to like hold things. Like I've actually been using it as a, cause I'm not using that much weight yet, but for pull-ups I'm using it as like a pull-up belt basically to add load. Cause I can just wrap it around and loop it through the hole. So that's working. So yeah, that's a new addition to my gym bag. How about you, Mike? Nice. So I pretty much, I'll always take my gym bag. I don't really take things in and out of my gym bag. So I've always got the same stuff in there, even if I don't use it in the session, which kind of sounds a bit stupid. But, um, so the things I'll, Versagrips, that's number one. That's the thing I use the most. But I have, I've got a belt in there, which I don't use. I only use for good mornings and for SL stiff-legged deadlifts. I don't really use it for anything else. I've got my yoga blocks in there. And then what else? I don't wear squat shoes for anything anymore at the, currently at the moment. Got my water bottle, got my tripod. That's it. I was going to say, if you were carrying your squat shoes in for like upper body days, that's just like a lot. And to be honest, I wish I didn't have to take them out because I have a nice little compartment for them in my gym bag, but there's a bit of a hassle taking them in and out. So sometimes I'm like, man, I could just take everything. But anyway, that's me complaining. Let me ask you the next question then from G Campson. They asked, if you do split stance unilateral high rows, which foot do you move forward? Also, how goes dating, Mike? Thanks, fellas. So split stance unilateral high rows. I think they're probably referring to like, you know, the, it's normally like a hammer strength and you de-handle it and then come down. Okay. So great question. So I would say I, so if I'm doing my right arm, I have my right knee forwards. I did experiment with having it back, but I don't know why I think whatever the same, having it on the same side as the arm that I'm doing it on felt better. Did that make sense? Yeah. So basically you're kneeling on the non-working side, if that makes sense. So if you're using your right arm, you're kneeling on your left leg. Yes, exactly. Yeah, that's what I do too. And I, I do it. I don't know if you sit off the machine, but it doesn't actually matter either way. I think, but basically you can kind of shove your hips into the machine for a bit of stability. That's what I find at least. But yeah, I think I could, I can already just feel it. Like if I didn't have that leg up the same working leg, the same side as the working arm, I just could already feel like I'm not stable at all. I couldn't pull. So yeah. I, I'm slightly off of the seat and I still feel super stable. I feel like locked in and that I can pull. So that works really well. How's the dating going? Oh, it's slow. I am. So I haven't been on any dates so far. Again, I'm like, I'm in conversations, but it's just a bit slow, shall we say. So, but I'll keep you posted. I promise. Is that you being slow or is it just, it's slow in general? To be fair, I did actually put, like I did ask, but it was just the people who I was talking to, it's like they're busy and blah, blah, blah, blah. So it just hasn't quite worked out just yet. Well, at least you're on there trying, which is trying to put yourself out there. We need to get you out there. I want to see the ladies see your dating outfit. I know. That we picked up for you. Nice. Right. Yeah. It's my turn now. So your turn for me. So our guy, Jake, fit underscore as hell asks, if you had a local workout partner who was really aligned with your goals and who you really clicked with, would you still prefer training solo? My immediate thoughts are solo, but I imagine I'm just thinking if it was like you and me, Mike, and we're both on like the same schedule. I could see that being better than just training on my own. But that's like the person that's most similar to me, but in lifestyle and also like what they want to achieve in the gym. The only problem is though, we'd have different probably workouts because they're individual to us, which then starts to become, we're not really training together. We're just in the gym together. And then it's like, well, so I think I'd still train solo because I want to do my own training. Yeah. I was just thinking of the same thing because you're obviously massively prioritizing your quads. Whereas I'm actually trying to almost deprioritize them at the moment to try and focus on my chest and arms and shoulders. So it just, it kind of wouldn't work. Yeah. You have to actually follow the same program for it to work properly. And then it's like, I think for a time that's fun. Like we talked about, we went to Das Gym and we did like a push pull legs or whatever when we're out there and we all did basically the same things for a short time. I think that's great. But long-term we want to follow our individualized plan. So yeah. Nice. From Manji Machine. Manji Machine. They asked how to assess if someone is metabolically ready to go into a cutting phase. So I think, I think with this, this one, you want to say like, Hey, are, are they reporting things like, is there energy back to normal? Are they, you know, do they, is there kind of activity, are they reporting their activity is kind of back up? And obviously you kind of keep steps and things relatively consistent, but maybe they're reporting or you're noticing that they're more bubbly, they're more social. And, and, you know, is there kind of sleep on point back to kind of like a baseline of where you'd normally expect it to be? Um, those are a couple of, some of the key things. Maybe I was kind of going to say it's not metabolic related, but, um, it's more kind of psychological. It's like, are they eager to go into a cutting phase? And I know that's not very accurate, but it might give you a kind of indication for like, Hey, how, you know, are they kind of recovered from, you know, a previous dieting phase? So those would be a couple of thoughts that I think about first. Yeah. My immediate head, uh, my head goes immediately to the same things you said. I just think about what, if you rate their diet fatigue on things like you said, like sleep, energy levels, performance in the gym, hunger, food, focus, those sorts of things like mood. Are they in, are they rating them? Like they're in a really good place with all of those, or are they rating them in a poor place? And then that kind of gives you a bit of an idea. I don't think thinking about that. I just have a feeling people might think, oh, wouldn't you look at like their activity levels, their body weight, and like how many calories they're maintaining on or whatever. And I'm like, I actually don't care too much about that side of things. Like that can vary person to person for a multitude of reasons. It's actually, are they in a healthy state? Like you said, like menstrual cycle functions there, like libido's there or those. And I think obviously you said the psychology, like, hey, are you excited to diet? I do think that's a good marker. Some people might convince themselves they're excited to diet, but they might not be ready to. But for a lot of people, I do think if you're like, hey, if I was to ask you, Mike, to start dieting tomorrow, would you be like, oh, sure, I can do that? Or would you be like, oh God, that like fills you with anxiety. If it fills you with anxiety, you don't like, you're not, even if you're metabolically healthy, potentially psychologically, you're not ready to go there. So I think that is a good question to ask. Yeah, definitely. Right. Lifting Lewis 5, are you the type to buy Easter eggs? Assuming, ah, we've talked about this. Yeah, it's so funny it came up though. I actually am in the market for an Easter egg because I need to get Charlotte one because I don't know if, I think maybe the last two years she's bought me one and then I'm like, shit, and I buy one after Easter and I buy her and give it to her and then it's always crap and she doesn't really eat it. So I need to actually go and find one. I know they've got some in Lidl and they actually looked relatively decent, but the vegan options are a bit limited. I was already, I actually, before we were on here, I looked on Amazon very quickly. I was like, man, they don't look particularly good. So I only buy one for Charlotte because she buys me one quite normally, but otherwise I don't buy myself Easter eggs. I've not done that in my life. There's a whole, like, there's someone I don't follow, but his reels pop up for me quite often. He does like food reviews and stuff, but he basically reviews like hundreds of Easter eggs. I don't know if it's hundreds, but he's reviewed a lot. So he'll do some really like exclusive expensive ones. That's how I know there's ones for like hundreds, close to hundreds of pounds for like these luxury, massive Easter eggs. There's ones with like fillings between layers. So like you imagine a wafer, but it's like there's one that has like, what's it called? Toffee cake. What's the toffee sponge? Sticky toffee pudding. That's the word I'm talking about. What? Yeah, like between two layers of chocolate of like this side of an egg. Whoa. Yeah, they've done a lot of different things. That sounds nuts. I'd, I just like to have curiosity. I'm like, oh, what? I'd, yeah, I'm so curious about that. Yeah. That's why I get like, I indulge his reels because I'm just like, I would never buy that. But how is it? What does it look like? Something I want to try, Mike, on this topic of food is a bertha cake. Search bertha cake after this or at some point. Okay. They look incredible. Like, and you can get them delivered. They're very expensive, but people might know of like big bertha. It's like a cake that has like layers and it looks super moist and just like loads of like lovely chocolate cream between layers. Like the chocolate icing. Anyway. Is it bertha as in birth and then a? Oh no. B-E-R-T-H-A. B-E-R-T-H-A. Okay. Bertha. Ah, okay. Right. I'll search it later. Bertha. I've made a note. I'm going to, I'm going to search it. Yeah. Like they just look, I'm just like, well, I don't know how many, I wouldn't even like to imagine how many calories in a slice. Probably like a thousand or something stupid. Oh gosh. Right. Next question is from Gerald, Gerald and Harder asks, what is the main reason you have started your fitness journeys? Ah, okay. I'll go. So, um, I guess to begin with, for me, it was all about, um, trying to give myself some self-esteem, I guess. Cause again, I started, um, I was very underconfident and lifting weights gave me confidence. And I just fell in love with bodybuilding, to be honest with you. Um, it made me feel good. I remember buying, I just remember falling in love with bodybuilding. I had, I literally, it was just the cliche thing of, I had pumping iron. I saw, I bought like a flex magazine and I saw like Ronnie Coleman on the cover and I was like, this is fucking amazing. And I just was hooked that way and it has genuinely changed my life. So, and it's just, it's just kind of, you know, snowballed from there. So, uh, that's pretty much my reason. Yeah. I find this a hard question to answer cause I don't know when I start, like when does, when was the start of my fitness journey? Like, I don't know. Like I used, I was a very active kid. I was playing football all the time, but I guess maybe I think about this is when did I start paying attention to what I was eating? And like specifically the exercise I was doing, maybe when I first got into the gym, maybe that's like the start of my fitness journey. I'm not entirely sure where I would put it, but I'll answer it that way. Cause then it's a bit of a different answer than yours. Cause I think mine was for many reasons, the same, especially when I got serious about things was very much confidence, that sort of thing. But when I just started going, I literally saw two of my friends, AJ and Steve Miller, uh, to say Steve Miller, cause it wasn't me. And, uh, they just, I was like, where have you been? And they're like, oh, we just went to the gym. We lifted some weights and stuff. And they were 15, we're 15 at the time. Well, they might've been a bit older. I'm not sure, but we're same year regardless. I was like, why didn't you invite me? I want to go and lift weights. And then from there, I was just, I don't know what it was. I just started really liking going and having the routine of going. And we used to go, uh, like after school many days. And even if my friends weren't going, I'd end up going just on my own anyway. And I, my first split, I always say it was like cables one day and then like free weights the next day. And I'd just go between the two. Uh, so yeah, I think it was my, I could say it was like, just like a bit of a social thing. And then it became a bit of a competitive thing with one another. Um, at least when I first just got exposed to the gym. So yeah, that I'll say that as my answer. Cause otherwise it's very similar to you in terms of the confidence and like, um, yeah, self-confidence, really building that up. It's funny how sometimes it can be just quite an organic thing. Like you're not, you just kind of almost fall into it a little bit and then the passion develops. Yeah. Yeah. And I, I weirdly, I can't even say, I don't think I was passionate. I don't even know when I was necessary. I just did it for a long time. I don't remember being passionate about going to the gym until after my accident and then many months down the line. And then I started actually, I think my passion really only began once I felt like I knew what I was doing before. I didn't know what I was doing. I didn't know how to eat. I didn't understand calories. I just knew like protein was important and like there's good and bad foods was like my reference and then push myself hard in the gym. But once I actually started to see through like the matrix as it were, and I was like, oh, there's calories and macros and, oh, I should be trying to like progressively overload. And then I was like, then I started to like, I think that comes down to what we're like anyway. Like we like seeing something laid out in front of us and a clear path and route. And it's not guessing. It's like there's clear purpose and reason behind our actions. And that for me, once I saw that, I was like, oh, now I'm invested. So I think it took that for it to actually become a passion. Yeah. So interesting. Yeah. Right. Okay. So Patrick Morris asks, I know it's individual, but how low in volume could one go if training four times per week, up a lower, up a lower, but not a competitor just lifting for health and aesthetics? Unfortunately, I can't tell you how low you could go because it is individual. So you actually answered your own question. But I wouldn't be surprised if you're just looking to maintain or grow very slowly. That per muscle per week being within set volumes of anywhere, probably from four to maybe six, I would say, is like that is the range of sets that comes to mind. Assume you're pushing them very hard. And then you could always try that and then see, are you progressing, maintaining, or are you regressing? Because then you get your answer, right? If you're able to progress, then, well, you know you're able to. But if you're regressing, then, you know, you probably need a bit more. Assuming you're recovering, fine. And then if you're maintaining, then, you know, you're maintaining. But obviously, Dr. Pack has done some research into this in terms of minimum effective volumes for, like, hypertrophy and for strength. But I think it's probably not too far off the region of four to six. But that's what comes to mind for me. Yeah. I don't really have anything to add in terms of specifics there. Yeah. I don't really have anything to add. The only thing I'd say, it does differ person to person. Probably someone who's got more muscle, they're going to need more. Yeah. And if you knew you needed a lot to build that, then you're going to need more. So it's probably like a bit of a percentage drop. So I know there's people talk about, hey, you can maintain your muscle on, like, one third of the volume that it took to grow it. That's based off some limited research. But that's probably not a bad rule of thumb, like, one third of what to grow it. Like, when I think about that for myself, I'm like, that's still a decent hit of volume. But I imagine I'd maintain or grow very slowly on that. Absolutely. Cool. I'll say it to you, Mike. Daniel says, hi, Steve. And magic, Mike. Thanks for your response in the last video. Sorry I left you out, Mike. Just keep smashing the podcast. Thanks, Daniel. That was nice. You know, I was only joking, my man. Mike was deadly serious. He was very annoyed. He told me after. Always. All right. So to finish off with our man BarnabyB10, clarifying my gamification question, it was how do you handle it when clients, Apple Watches, etc., prompt them to do more steps to continue their streak? Hmm. Hmm. I've never actually got into that situation. I don't own an Apple Watch. So, because my immediate thought goes to why don't you just, like, set your Apple Watch to the number of steps you want to achieve and then it's done. Like, you've just got it. Yeah. So I don't know if the Apple Watch encourages you to do more above that setting. But, yeah, if basically, I guess the question is, what if you've got a fitness device that's telling you to do more when I guess you don't need to? Then I guess it would just be a case of ignoring it. I'm actually struggling with this question. And I feel like I'd need to sit with Barnaby and, like, what do you mean exactly? Because I'm just like, either you need to do the steps or you don't. And if you don't need to do them because it's above what you think you kind of need, then don't do them. I don't know if you have any thoughts on it, Mike. I, so, you know, Garmin watches, I know that I've seen if someone is, say, sick and they're not able to do what they normally do, it will flash up saying you're deconditioning or something like that. And it's just not a helpful message. And, again, I don't know. Sorry, I'm laughing. I could just imagine having that. I'd be like, fuck you, Garmin. I know. That's what it does, though. That's what pretty much everyone wants. Anyone with a Garmin watch knows what we mean. And, but it's kind of like one of those things. Because I've never had a Garmin watch. I don't know if you can switch that bit off, but I imagine you probably can't. And it's just, it's stuff like that, which doesn't help, I think, which maybe is what Barnaby is also alluding to. Yeah, or I guess some fitness devices could be like, you've been sat for a long time. You should get up and move around. But I'm almost certain you can turn these notifications off. I'm almost like, it just doesn't make sense to me that you couldn't. I'm trying to think of something else. Like, oh, like, my fitness pal will, I think they used to do this at least, like message you being like, you haven't logged in for a few days or something. Or you haven't logged in yet. You're going to break your streak. And it's like, if you're not concerned about breaking your streak. I don't know. I don't know if my mindset's just this way. I'm just like, if it was telling me something that I didn't need to do, I'd just ignore it. Like, I don't know. I'm just, and then if it was causing a certain emotion, I'd just switch the notification off. I have very rarely, but I have got clients to remove their fitness device. So, like, our goal as a client and coach is not to do a certain number of steps, but they are seeing, like, the number on their watch. And they're so used to doing a certain number that they go out of their way to do them anyway. So then we'd like, hey, let's, we're not tracking steps at the moment. We're just looking at, like, your kind of calorie intake, your body weight. Take the watch off. It's not helping. I've also seen it with sleep because a lot of people pay attention to the sleep metrics. And there's been research on this where actually that kind of hypervigilance on sleep leads to worse sleep. So then sometimes it's worth just being like, hey, actually, even if you've got the fitness device, just leave it off when you go to bed. And then you're better off doing, like, the sated sleep questionnaire, which I've run through you before and told the listeners about. So I do think sometimes these fitness devices can end up harming you more than helping you in those situations. And it's just recognizing that and then removing the problem. Definitely. Yeah. Again, just want to emphasize. It's like, hey, if it's bothering, like, ignore it. If it's, but if it's bothering you and you can't get over it, take a bit of time out away from it and then try and come back to it. Try and reset the settings in some way. And yeah. And if you can't reset the settings, just get another watch. Fuck Garmin. Get like something else, whatever, a watch. Yeah. Just a normal Casio. I do want to get another. I just on the note of what you've never been into watches, Mike, have you? Not really. No, I don't really know. I can't think of anything that you are into that you invest. I don't know if invest is the right word, but you spend money on. I can't think of anything the way you're like, what's the word? Materialistic. You're not materialistic. Nah. I, there isn't anything where I'm like, oh, I'm going to fork out a little bit of money on that. The biggest thing that I just spend money on is food at the moment, but that's not difficult, to be honest with you, with prices the way they are. But anyway, we won't get down that rabbit hole. No. I was just thinking on watches. I was thinking there might be a time I get one as like, because people do them as like, I don't know, a wedding gift or when you're 21 or like 18, like it's a big moment. So I was like, the only time I was thinking I might buy myself a watch. I actually have said this to Charlotte. I was like, if I win a pro show and I get money, I'll put that all onto a watch. It probably won't buy me much of one, but I was like, that would be something that I'd be like, I could see myself like having a nice watch and a nice memory from like that win or something like that. So that excites me actually to think about that. Because you can get like, obviously like a Rolex is a well-known watch, but there's like Breitling or something. Have you heard of that? Breitling, yeah. Like that's a good watch make. And there's like a few others. So you could get, yeah, have a little research maybe. Yeah. I've never really been into them. I know some people are like super into watches. Like I've been wearing this before and someone's been like, what is that? I'm like, it's a shitty Withings watch. Like it's nothing special. They're like, oh, I just haven't seen anything like that before. This one actually doesn't really work. It works, but the handles, like whatever they're called, the clock face, they're not, it doesn't show the right time. So I have to press the button to see the time because it has like an analog face if I need it. But it does the job. That's the main thing. And it doesn't look like a fitness watch, which is why I got this specific watch. Any plans this weekend, Mike? We have five minutes. We can just chat shop because we got through all the questions in good time. We did amazing. And do you know what? So this weekend, I haven't got anything planned this weekend. It's kind of just a life admin weekend. The clocks in the UK do go forwards on Sunday, which is a big thing. So, no, I haven't got anything planned. I just need to do life admin stuff. So, yeah. But which is, do you know what? The nice thing is because I had a couple of weeks, a few weekends where every weekend I was like away. But it's nice sometimes where you don't need to be anywhere and you can just be at home and maybe sort a few things out, do little bits or even do nothing. It's like sometimes I just appreciate those times. Yeah. Yeah. It's just when you get string too many of those and then you're like, oh, I should really do something. Yeah. Then you're like, oh, okay. But I'm so comfortable just doing nothing or like life admin days. And then I'm like, oh, I haven't done anything in the last month. Anyway, on the sleep note, actually, or on the clock change, I was on a roll. I was going to send you a screenshot. I'd set alarms up on my phone 10 minutes earlier from like Monday to every day. So eventually it would be the time it would be six, but it would actually be seven, which is normally when I wake up. So I was slowly moving it. But what if the alarm wasn't going off? So like I'd set it all up and I was like taking my phone upstairs, which I never do. And then it just the alarm wasn't going off. I don't know why there's some sort of setting that it was not happy with. But this morning I actually woke up just before the alarm went off because I sorted it and the alarm did go off. And I woke up at 630. So I'm on track. Tomorrow could be 620 and then 610. And then I'm up at six, which will be seven. So I'm like, the only problem I'm having, Mike, is I'm not going to bed much earlier. So I'm just getting less sleep. I'm like, fuck, that hasn't quite worked out how I wanted it to. But hey, I tried to outsmart it. Do you know what? I'm so glad you said that because I was going to feel so bad. I was like, man, Steve is so good. I tried to be on it. No. Like just so good and on it. But that last little bit reassures me that you are human after all. Yeah. We're going to have to see. I blame Charlotte. She's up late and got home late a few nights. So I was like, I need to stay up and chat and see her. But yeah. I also wasn't that sleepy. It just the clock does what it wants. Anyway, I think now we've probably rounded things out. I've got, oh, I do have plans this weekend. Oh, tell us. Do you know, I need to remember what it's called. Fawlty Towers. That is right. That's what I had in my head. You know Fawlty Towers. So you know like the characters. Yeah, Basil. That's the one. I forgot his name. So I'd seen clips of it. I haven't watched a lot of it, but I have seen clips of it. And I watched a little bit last time I was imbued because Charlotte's parents like it and Charlotte watched it with them. But Charlotte's mum gifted us like this Fawlty Towers experience. So you basically go and get served by like the Fawlty Towers cast. It's not the actual cast, of course. It's people pretending to be them. So they do like, it's like an immersive experience type of thing. So that'll be interesting. Charlotte's not looking forward to it, which has made me not look forward to it because I don't even, she knows Fawlty Towers really well. Whereas I'm like, I kind of, I get the vibe and it's kind of funny, but we'll have to see how it goes. We hadn't, we had it for a while, but because Ada hadn't been well, we just hadn't been able to leave her. And it's like, it will be two hours there probably. It's an hour to get there. So it's four hours leaving Ada. But anyway, didn't need to explain that part, but I'll tell you how it goes. So is it in London or is it just outside? Okay. Yeah, it's still in London, but London's, you know what it's like. London's ridiculous. Get one side to the other. It can take you two hours. I cannot wait to hear. I'm yeah. I would. Yeah. I don't know what it would be like, but so I'm fascinated. Awkward probably. Right. We'll close things out there. Thank you guys for listening. We appreciate your questions as always. If you do have questions, I should have said this earlier, you know where to head. There's a link in the description, which will take you to the hypertrophic time chamber, which is my broadcast, which is my broadcast group on Instagram. I just request questions every week and sometimes spam you with some new research, which you might find interesting if I see it. And it's interesting to me. And we appreciate your time. Of course, we are online coaches here at Revive Stronger. So if you are interested in coaching, you've got lots of questions that could be helped through us answering them. You feel a bit lost or you've got paralysis by an over analysis. We're here to help you guide you to results. And that's what we do day in, day out. And we appreciate you as always. So we'll catch you in the next one. If you haven't subscribed by now, you should have already subscribed, liked, commented, given us a rating review over on Spotify. I'll leave it there. Thank you guys. We'll catch you in the next episode. See you later. bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye